 ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMCommunity
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armflix
en Abling innov Ation 
eve Ryw HeRe
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
our vision
  Operational highlights 2
  Financial highlights 3
  Chairman’s review 4
  Chief Executive’s statement 6
 o ur Performance
  Our marketplace 14
  Our business model 16
  Our global reach 18
  Strategy and key performance 
indicators 20
  Mobile computing 32
  Enterprise infrastructure 34
  Embedded computing 36
 o ur Commitment
 Governance 38
 Sustainability 44
  Risk Management and principal risks 47
o ur Financial Review
  Chief Financial Officer’s review 52
  Summary accounts 58
 Glossary 60
g overnance 
  Chairman’s introduction 
  Board of Directors 
  Corporate governance 
  Directors’ report 
  Directors remuneration report 
Financial Report
  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc 
  Consolidated income statement 
  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
  Consolidated balance sheet 
  Consolidated cash flow statement 
  Consolidated statement of changes  
in shareholders’ equity 
  Notes to the financial statements 
  Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 
  Notes to the financial statements/
UK GAAP 
  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
g lossary and g roup directory 
  Glossary 
  Group directory 
  Key shareholder information 
Front cover 
Most major population centres are covered 
by 3G or 4G networks, and there were 
more than two billion smartphones and 
tablets connecting to the internet in 2013. 
With some mobile computers now costing 
as little as $35, many more people can 
afford to buy a smart device. An entry-
level mobile computer may have up to 
four ARM
®
-based chips.
Downloads
More information about ARM and our 
end market opportunities are available 
on our web site.
Reports available online:
  Strategic Report
  Governance and Financial Report
  Corporate Responsibility Report
ARM’s Annual Report is in two parts. The Strategic Report contains 
information about the Group, how we make money and how we run 
the business. It includes our strategy, business model, markets and 
key performance indicators, as well as our approach to governance, 
sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our 
financial management.
A copy of the Governance and Financial Report can be downloaded 
from www.arm.com/reporting2013. 
The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about 
how we run the business and remunerate management, and how 
we organise ourselves financially.
Online you can find more information about our end markets, 
including case studies about how our technology is used in our 
customers’ products. A more detailed Corporate Responsibility 
report is also available online.
StRA tegi C  
RePo Rt
g ove RnAn Ce An D  
FinAn CiAl R ePo Rt
o nline  
RePo Rting
wel CoMe t o oUR  
StRA tegiC ReP oR t
www.arm.com/reporting2013
The auditors’ report on the financial statements and the auditors’ statement under section 
496 of the Companies Act on whether the information given in Strategic Report and 
Directors’ report (for the financial year ended 31 December 2013) is consistent with the 
Group financial statements were both unqualified and can be found on page 55 of the 
Governance and Financial Report.
If want to inform us of a change address 
or have lost your share certificate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
equiniti Shareholder Services
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK
Phone: 0871 384 2139
www.equiniti.com
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team:
ian t hornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 400796
E-mail: ian.thornton@arm.com
Phil Sparks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 405566
E-mail: philip.sparks@arm.com
l aura Faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead, SL6 8LT
Phone: +44 1628 427800
E-mail: laura.faid@arm.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and contains 100% recycled waste. The paper 
is Process Chlorine Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 
environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently 
audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process. 
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM 
Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
inve StoR Rel Ation S 
ContAC t D etA il S AUDito RS’ St AteM ent
  1
ARM technology now reaches around 75% of 
people in the world, with chips based on our 
technology driving billions of products every day. 
To date more than 50 billion ARM-based chips 
have been shipped, and our Partners are shipping 
more than 2.5 billion every quarter.
Our vision is to enable everyone to use 
technology to innovate and create new products 
and business models. From students to start-ups 
to thought-leading companies, we are enabling 
people and devices to connect in ways that have 
never been possible before. ARM works in 
partnership with global companies to develop 
products that will help to make the world a 
better place for everyone.
This report and my statement on pages 6-1 1  
help bring this vision to life.
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
1 ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
2
Operati Onal HigH ligH t S
a cHieving mOre 
10 billion ARM-based chips 
ARM’s customers reported that they had shipped more 
than 10 billion ARM-based chips into everything from 
phones and tablets to smart sensors and servers. This 
takes the cumulative total of ARM-based chips shipped 
to over 50 billion
400 million ARM-based chips with  
Mali
TM
 graphics 
ARM’s Mali graphics processor brings games and 
user interfaces to life with stunning 3D graphics
121 licences 
50 companies signed 121 licences. By the end of 2013 
ARM has signed more than 1,000 licences with 348 
companies.
1st ARMv8-based chip shipped 
The ARMv8-A architecture adds 64-bit computing, 
amongst other advances, and is suitable for a wide 
range of devices from mobile phones to servers.
1st ARM big.LITTLE
TM
 technology-based 
chip shipped 
big.LITTLE technology further improves performance in 
energy-efficient computing devices, and first shipped in 
the Samsung Exynos family of chips
ARM hired net 441 full-time employees in 2013 
More than 70% of these new employees joined 
our R&D teams
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm
10Bn
400M
121
1
st
1st
64
Bit
441
20nm Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
3
Financial HigH ligH t S
a pla tFOrm FOr gr OWtH
Revenues 
$1,1 18m 
+22%
Normalised Operating Margin
49%
Normalised EPS
20.6p
+40%
Cash Generation
£345m
+29%
Full Year Dividend
5.7p
+27%
IFRS Operating Margin
21%
 Includes exceptional items of £101 million.
IFRS EPS
7.4p
-35%
Includes exceptional items of £101 million.
Revenues
£715m
+24% ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
4
Overview of the year
2013 was another successful year for ARM. 
During 2013, Group revenue grew 22% to 
$1,117.7 million (£714.6 million). This growth 
enabled us to invest in both R&D and the 
business infrastructure that underpins future 
growth, at the same time as improving 
profitability and increasing returns to 
shareholders. By balancing increased long-term 
investment plans with improving profitability in 
the near term, we were able to increase the 
dividend by 27% to 5.7 pence per share.
The 121 licences that we signed in 2013 
demonstrate that we have a portfolio of 
processors and supporting technologies 
that enable companies to build their products 
for future electronic devices. From our 
customers’ royalty reports, we know that 
they shipped more than 10 billion ARM-
based chips in 2013 (a 20% increase over 
2012), as they see increasing demand for 
low-power smart products from consumers 
and enterprises.
2014 will bring exciting opportunities and 
challenges as ARM competes in new markets 
where we are well positioned to succeed with 
our leading technology, innovative business 
model and thriving ecosystem of Partners.
cH airman’ S revie W
innO v a ting FOr  
tHe Digit al W OrlD
Sir J OHn Buc Hanan
Chairman
Smart and connected digital devices are increasingly being used 
by billions of people all over the world, and ARM’s technology 
is at the heart of many of the chips used in today’s electronic 
products. Our strategy is to develop and license technology that 
leading semiconductor companies can then incorporate into 
their silicon chips. These chips go into a wide range of mobile, 
consumer and embedded electronics from sensors to servers.
We are committed to hiring and developing some of the most 
innovative and imaginative engineers who, together with 
supporting teams, can develop and deploy next generation 
processors and enabling technologies to our Partners.  5
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
ARM’s clear business strategy continues to 
serve the Group well, as demonstrated by 
the innovation and quality of our products, 
and also in the leadership, talent development 
and strong culture of the organisation. 
Whilst innovation thrives throughout the wide 
range of mutually beneficial partnerships that 
make up the ARM Connected Community, 
we must not underestimate the challenges of 
the wider economic environment, nor of the 
strength and quality of the competition in the 
markets we serve.
Success in a challenging environment
ARM is developing technology for the mobile 
and embedded computing applications and our 
latest products are opening up markets such 
as servers and enterprise networking. ARM is 
facing well-funded competition in both these 
new areas and also in the mobile computing 
market where ARM has a large share. 
ARM’s Partners are also amongst the 
companies developing technologies for the 
nascent Internet of Things, where there 
will be new competitive threats, from new 
technology and business models. ARM will 
remain vigilant, seeking to ensure that we 
are positioned competitively with suitable 
technology, an innovative business model 
and a diverse range of Partners.
the arm team
The knowledge and creativity of our people 
and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction 
in an increasingly demanding and competitive 
environment are the key determinants of our 
success. We continue to attract outstanding 
people and in 2013 we hired a net 441 
additional employees, the majority of them 
engineers working in processor design and 
software development. These new hires were 
a mix of new graduates and experienced 
talent from all over the world.
ceO succession
In March 2013 ARM announced that 
Warren East, ARM’s CEO since 2001, had 
decided to retire effective from 1 July 2013. 
Simon Segars, previously ARM’s President 
became the Group’s CEO from that date.
Warren helped to transform ARM during 
his time as CEO. In 2001, ARM had one 
processor product line, mainly used in 
mobile phones. He led the Group to create 
a broad portfolio of technologies in the 
industry, deployed in a wide range of markets. 
On behalf of the Board, and the wider ARM 
team, deep thanks are due to Warren for his 
passion, service and leadership.
Simon Segars has been with ARM since 1991 
and has held several executive roles including 
EVP Engineering, when he worked 
on many of the early ARM processors, 
as well as EVP Worldwide Sales and EVP 
Business Development. He joined the Board 
in January 2005, and as President of ARM had 
operational responsibility for the company’s 
IP divisions. Simon’s proven technology 
expertise and management skills across a 
range of senior executive roles made him 
an excellent choice for CEO and he is highly 
qualified to take the Group forward.
chairman succession
In January 2014, ARM announced my decision 
to step down from the ARM Board due to 
a medical condition. My successor is Stuart 
Chambers, who brings board and executive 
experience both in the UK and globally gained 
through his executive and non-executive roles 
with global companies. It has been a great 
privilege to serve as Chairman of ARM and I 
have greatly enjoyed my time on the Board of 
this fine company.
In conclusion, I would like to thank all of 
ARM’s employees for their effort and 
contribution in 2013, including the Board, 
Warren and Simon, and the leadership team. 
I look forward to seeing ARM’s technologies 
unlocking the potential of new opportunities 
for innovators across the mobile world and 
beyond and being ubiquitous in the products 
that we use today and in the future.
The knowledge and creativity of  
our people and the ability to deliver 
customer satisfaction in an increasingly 
demanding and competitive environment 
are the key determinants of our success. 6
This has been a successful year for ARM and 
an exciting year for me. On 1 July 2013, I 
succeeded Warren East to become ARM’s 
Chief Executive Officer and lead the Group 
through its next stage of development. In his 
12 years in charge, Warren oversaw:
  ARM’s strategy to transform mobile 
phones into smartphones and evolving 
into tablet computers.
  ARM technology being chosen for 
use beyond mobile devices, with our 
customers deploying ARM-based chips 
in everything from sensors to servers.
  More than 45 billion ARM-based chips 
shipped by 150 companies during 
his tenure.
  ARM broadening its technology offering to 
include a range of processors for different 
end markets, including graphics processors, 
and supporting physical IP technology and 
software tools.
2013 was my 23rd year at ARM, as I was 
one of ARM’s original handful of engineers 
embarking upon a new business designing 
processors. That small business has now 
grown into a global technology leader 
with 2,833 employees. ARM’s success over 
the years is in no small part down to our 
collaborative approach in how we manage 
ourselves internally and in how we work with 
our industry partners. 
As the new CEO of ARM, I know that 
retaining our leadership position is going to 
be, at times, both challenging and exciting. 
I am very grateful for the guidance and 
support I have received from our Chairmen 
(both retiring and incoming) and my 
colleagues on the Board since I took on the 
CEO role. The hard work and support of our 
executive team and all of ARM’s employees 
has also been significant to our continuing 
success, as is the trust of our Partners that 
ARM will continue to provide them with the 
best technology for their products. The future 
holds even more opportunity for ARM and 
for our Partners as they invest in innovation, 
and create technologies for decades to come.
cH ieF executive’ S Statement
viSiOn FOr tHe Future
ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013 7
From mobile phones to the internet 
of things
ARM technology can be found in billions of 
mobile and connected devices. In 2013 alone 
more than one billion smartphones shipped, 
growing the installed base to approximately 
two billion, and the smartphone market 
is forecast to grow at a 10% Compound 
Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) over the 
next five years. 
The impact of mobility and connectivity 
brings new levels of freedom to consumers 
to access their data, and much more besides. 
New products and services have been 
created, such as downloadable apps and 
content, and devices that can be wirelessly 
attached to or controlled by a smartphone. 
Expanded mobile networks are being 
deployed and new data centres are being 
developed as we download more content 
and generate more data. And now other 
products and devices are being connected 
to networks such as healthcare equipment, 
shipping containers, white goods in the 
home, industrial equipment and even light 
bulbs. T ogether, these factors are leading to 
the creation of a massive “Internet of Things”.
internet of thin gs
T o better understand the business drivers for 
the Internet of Things, we commissioned a 
report from the Economist Intelligence Unit. 
Go to www.arm.com/IOT to download 
the report.
Go to www.arm.com/IOT  
to download the report.
ARM is well positioned to take advantage 
of the growth in the mobile devices market, 
to benefit as new networks and data centres 
are built, and to be the primary technology 
within embedded computing and the 
Internet of Things.
meeting global challenges
Digital technology based on smarter 
electronics has played a huge role in making 
today’s society a better place for all of us. 
Technology has an even greater role in the 
challenges that lie ahead. Over the next few 
pages we look at some of those challenges 
and how technology is already helping to 
overcome them.
One of the best things about being 
CEO of ARM is seeing our 
technology used in many of the most 
innovative products available today. 
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
8
For more information on technology in health and wellness: 
Daniel Kraft, MD, presenting the “Future of T echnology in 
Health & Medicine” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
For more information on how ARM and HP are working together 
in this area: Martin Fink, CTO HP Labs, presenting on “The New 
Style of IT & HP’s Moonshot” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
For more information on how the internet of things can make 
the world a better and more efficient place: Nandini Ramani, 
VP Java Platform at Oracle presenting “Enabling Compelling 
Services for IoT” at ARM’s T echCon 2013
HP Moonshot: Based on chips using the 
ARMv7 and ARMv8 Architecture 
With nearly 10 billion devices connected to 
the internet and predictions for exponential 
growth, we’ve reached a point where the 
space, power , and cost demands of traditional 
technology are no longer sustainable. 
HP Moonshot marks the beginning of a new 
style of IT that will change the infrastructure 
economics and lay the foundation for the next 
20 billion devices.
Health and wellness 
Many of us are trying to improve our 
health and fitness by being more active. 
Some devices now monitor our activity 
and location, and measure how much we 
have exercised and how many calories we 
have burned. These devices can be a useful 
motivator to encourage us to go for a walk 
and get some exercise, especially if we have 
been sat in the office all day. Other devices 
can be used to provide security for those that 
are potentially vulnerable such as older people 
at risk of illness or falls, or young children.
energy efficiency in networks 
With smartphones and tablets growing 
rapidly and the introduction of new devices to 
connect to the internet, we are entering an age 
of hyper-connectivity . It is forecast that there 
will be a five-fold increase in data transferred 
globally between 2012 and 2017. This is 
reshaping the requirements for networking 
infrastructure and our data centres that must 
carry and store all this data. T o avoid an 
unsustainable increase in energy consumption 
and carbon footprint, it is no longer enough to 
just build “more performance”, operators and 
equipment must provide “more performance 
per watt”.
environment 
Managing and monitoring the use of natural 
resources becomes increasingly important 
as the world’s population grows, and the 
standard of living increases. Therefore it is 
important that we maximise the benefit from 
cultivated land and the use of water and 
energy, whilst minimising the harmful impact 
from pollution and waste. Smart electronics 
can be used to monitor and control the use 
of critical resources, and ensure that the right 
amount of water and nutrients is applied to 
crops. Using cloud-based computing, these 
sensors can be linked together across very 
large areas to maximise the productivity of 
farms and regions.
cH ieF executive’ S Statement CONTINUED
ARM-based Pebble Smartwatch
It was the Pebble that has made the world 
interested in Smartwatches, with its incredible 
innovation and great style. Wearers want 
a watch that connects seamlessly to their 
devices and can run for days so they can enjoy 
all the benefits of their smart watch without 
worrying about performance or battery life.
Intelligent Agriculture with OnFarm
OnFarm provides intelligence to farmers 
to improve their yields and reduce the use 
of consumables such as water , fertiliser and 
pesticide. This is achieved by gathering data 
from multiple sources, including sensors 
placed in and around crop fields and orchards. 
With the innovation taking place around 
ARM-based sensors and the emergence of 
low-cost and long-range wireless technologies, 
we see lower-cost devices being deployed in 
vast numbers to provide granular data to the 
agricultural industry. 9
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
For more information on how Streetline is making parking 
smarter near you download the Streetline’s Parker app
For more information on how the Scope tablet is being used 
in Thai schools: ARM technology is addressing many of the 
world’s challenges, including education
For more information on how ARM technology is encouraging 
innovation around the world: Simon Segars, ARM CEO, 
presenting his vision for transformative technology at ARM’s 
T echCon 2013
Smart Parking with Streetline Networks
Smart parking reduces traffic and pollution, 
making happier citizens and more cost- 
efficient cities. Dust Networks’ wireless 
mesh network solution, featuring the ARM 
Cortex
®
-M3 processor , enables Streetline 
Networks to reliably gather the real-time 
status of municipal metered parking spots, 
and use that data to reduce traffic congestion.
Improving education in Thailand with tablets
The “One T ablet Per Child” (OTPC) policy 
was launched by Prime Minister Yingluck’s 
government in 2012 in an attempt to improve 
Thai education. In 2013, OTPC tablets were 
provided to the Ministry of Education by firms 
including Shenzhen Scope, featuring Rockchip 
RK3066 with dual-core ARM Cortex-A9 
processor and quad-core ARM Mali-400 MP4 
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), with an 
average cost of around $80 per tablet.
t ransport 
In 2008, for the first time in history, over 
half of the world’s population lived in urban 
areas and by 2050 this will have risen to 
70%. Congestion is already a huge problem 
in many cities, especially in peak commute 
times. By building intelligence into transit 
systems and cars, we can make our public 
transport and private car travel much more 
efficient. With smarter infrastructure that 
knows the location of vehicles, and can 
communicate with them, we can increase the 
capacity of existing roads and railways, and 
predict and plan the best routes for travellers, 
directing vehicles away from accidents or 
overloaded intersections. 
productivity through education
Many parts of the education system haven’t 
changed for many years, and no longer match 
the needs and expectations of a modern 
child, leading to a lack of engagement. At the 
same time, a large number of children have 
very little access to information, leading to 
fewer opportunities for a good education. 
Some educations systems are looking 
to both reach a wider audience and to 
effectively engage with them through the 
use of technology.
productivity through lowering 
the barrier to entrepreneurship 
New products and services are created 
when entrepreneurs see an opportunity to 
enter a new market with the resources to do 
something about it. Over the last few years 
computing has become more accessible, so 
creating a new ARM-based product has never 
been easier for more people. This is helping 
to drive a new era of innovation.
Making (almost) anything with a 3D printer
Robox
®
 is CEL’s 3D printer. You can print 
with many materials to create solid, usable 
3D objects and prototypes. It contains an 
Atmel ATSAM3U2EA microcontroller, 
powered by an ARM Cortex-M3 processor. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
10
enabling innovation at arm
ARM employs some of the most creative and 
innovative people in the industry, who have 
the vision and drive to develop and deploy the 
best technology. T ogether with our partners 
we are developing some of the technology 
that can make the world a better place for 
everyone. The ARM team is bound together 
by a set of principles and behaviours by which 
we operate. These principles and behaviours 
have evolved as the Group has developed, 
and still hold true today. 
We consider the following as essential 
elements of the behaviour of an ARM 
employee in whatever discipline they work: 
teamwork and selflessness; constructive 
proactivity; partner and customer focus and 
responsiveness. In addition, we encourage all 
employees to take pride in innovation and in 
their own self-development. 
The focus of our business model is to create 
technologies that are well suited for many 
Partners to use in a diverse range of markets. 
The creativity of our employees therefore 
rests in our ability to listen to 
and understand the needs of our 
semiconductor and OEM Partners. We then 
combine their inputs with our own research 
to create the next generation of our 
technology designs. This close collaboration 
with our Partners requires the ARM team 
to be open to new ideas and suggestions. 
Internally we encourage managers to take 
a consensual approach to leading teams, 
and as those individuals become successful, 
so we are developing the leaders who will 
manage the Group within ARM’s broad and 
diverse ecosystem.
More than two-thirds of ARM’s employees 
are engineers, specifying and inventing 
new technology to be licensed. ARM’s 
non-engineering employees focus on the 
deployment of this technology; marketing and 
sales maintain the essential relationships with 
our Partners, legal and licensing teams support 
negotiations, infrastructure teams provide the 
delivery mechanisms, finance teams manage 
financial matters, and HR teams support the 
ongoing development of a high performance, 
high engagement organisation in which our 
people can innovate, collaborate and grow.
Many of our customers are global 
semiconductor companies, which clearly 
requires an international focus. T oday we 
have 31 offices in 15 countries, with R&D 
development sites in UK, US, China, France, 
Germany, T aiwan and India. We have 
a strong culture of encouraging internal 
communication and interworking between 
sites. We believe strongly in spending time 
with our customers and have established 
offices in the major regions where our 
customers develop ARM-based products. 
These shared principles and behaviours have 
evolved over the last 23 years, during which 
the ARM team has increased to provide 
technology to the growing ecosystem of 
Partners. These shared principles still guide 
us today and I am confident that they will help 
the ARM team to continue to develop, create 
and license technology for years to come.
  Delivery of results
  T eamwork and selflessness
  Constructive proactivity
  Partner and customer focus
  Responsiveness
  Innovation
  Personal development
We are  
Supp Orte D By 
  Families
  Communities
  Local government
  Suppliers
  Investors
We Supp Ort 
  100s Customers
  1,000s 
ecosystem partners
  1,000,000 Developers
  Listen and understand 
customer and Partner needs
  Partner and customer focus
  Responsiveness
  Being a good neighbour to 
local communities
  Increasing shareholder value
external
arm ’S SHare D principle S an D BeHavi Our S
2,833  
empl OyeeS
internal
Multi-discipline teams work 
together to determine strategy
Manage across diverse companies 
and ecosystem
cH ieF executive’ S Statement CONTINUED 11
Our vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
Enabling innovation everywhere
The use of digital technology and smarter 
electronics will continue to grow as we meet 
the increasing demands of society, and as 
previously unconnected devices become 
smarter and connected into the digital world. 
This is creating a huge opportunity for the 
semiconductor industry, and ARM is well 
positioned to benefit both from increasing 
sales of computer chips, and also increasing 
our market share with our smart, power 
efficient technologies. 
Mobile communications and mobile 
computers were just the first markets to 
need smart electronics, and almost all mobile 
devices sold today contain at least one 
ARM-based chip. The smartphone market 
grew by about half in 2013, with many 
consumers upgrading from voice-only phones. 
Over the next few years, the smartphone 
and mobile computer markets are expected 
to continue to grow strongly, especially in 
emerging markets where mobile computers 
can become an essential tool for education, 
business and supporting community projects.
As other devices become smarter and 
the need for power efficiency increases in 
other markets, so our opportunities grow. 
During 2013, we saw high numbers of chips 
containing our technology being sold into 
enterprise networking, and the first ARM-
based server chips sold. We expect these 
markets to become increasingly significant to 
us over the next few years.
ARM is also seeing strong growth in chips for 
embedded computing that go into a wide 
range of end applications, from washing 
machines to robotics. These chips are often 
very low cost, and sell into a very broad range 
of markets that add up to huge volumes. 
In 2013 more than three billion ARM-
based chips were sold into these products, 
an increase of 35% on the previous year . 
Many companies are investing in innovation 
into these categories of chips to meet the 
needs of the Internet of Things. In 2013, 
ARM licensed Cortex-M class processors to 
47 companies. This market could grow to 
30 billion chips by 2018.
Organising for an increasing opportunity
As ARM technology is increasingly deployed 
by more companies into more applications, 
we need to ensure that ARM is organised to 
meet the challenges of higher expectations 
from more customers and more end markets. 
At the beginning of 2014 I restructured 
the Group to create an organisation that 
is more scalable and more accountable; 
one that will offer our customers a more 
joined-up product portfolio, ensuring better 
integration of our technologies in our 
customers’ products. We therefore no longer 
have separate divisions, but instead a single 
product development team consisting of 
seven product groups, all reporting into Pete 
Hutton, EVP and President Product Groups. 
Pete will be responsible for the integrated 
product development and delivery of ARM’s 
business lines. In addition, he will manage two 
cross-functional teams that will help ensure 
alignment between the product groups’ 
roadmaps and execution.
These product groups will be further 
supported by Antonio Viana, EVP and 
President of Commercial and Global 
Development, who manages our commercial 
team, and Ian Drew, EVP and Chief Marketing 
Officer . T ogether Antonio and Ian will 
develop the ecosystem of companies that is 
so important to ARM’s long-term success.
Well positioned for the future
ARM’s expertise, technology, business 
model and ecosystem mean that we are well 
positioned to take advantage of the growing 
opportunity as technology meets some of 
the key challenges that face society. We are 
also continuing to investigate new markets 
and opportunities, as well as developing the 
skills and capability of ARM’s employees so 
that they can develop the next generation of 
technology that will enable our customers 
to create innovative products.
ARM gains share as our customers use more 
of our technology in their chips. We work 
very closely with leaders across the industry 
to ensure we are developing the right 
technology for their designs. This collaborative 
approach comes from ARM’s own internal 
culture and is something we carefully 
manage as we grow in size, both in terms of 
increased headcount and market influence 
and responsibility.
As the new CEO of ARM, I am excited by 
this opportunity. I am confident that ARM’s 
expertise, together with our Partners’ 
creativity and diversity, means that we will 
be at the forefront of the new products and 
services that will help to make the world a 
better place for everyone.
Simon Segars
Chief Executive Officer
  Architecture
  CPU
  Physical Design
  Media Processing
  Systems & Software
  Development Solutions
  Partner Enablement
cOmmercial OperatiOn S
t ec Hnical OperatiOn S ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
12
“Wearable” technology is helping to keep us fit and healthy. Many people 
use ARM-based digital pedometers to keep track of steps travelled and 
calories burned. These devices may be synchronised with a smartphone app 
that can record the calories consumed, and so give information to keep us 
healthy and motivated. Keep on running.
More information about embedded ARM-based devices can be found 
on pages 32–37 and also online.
www.arm.com/reporting2013
Helping
peOple perFO rm 13
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
Our mar Ketplace
WHere tHe marKet iS nOW
14
The semiconductor industry develops chips that efficiently 
manage all of the world’s electronic devices. PCs, mobile phones 
and even modern washing machines have some form of chip 
providing their intelligence. Each generation of chip is typically 
smarter than its predecessor , enabling more capable and more 
efficient consumer and embedded products.
Overview of a semiconductor
Semiconductors, or silicon chips, are the 
electronic controllers that manage many of 
the digital devices that we use every day. 
Computers, mobile phones, televisions, 
washing machines and cars can all contain 
many silicon chips. Also, many enterprise and 
industrial applications are made smarter and 
more efficient by silicon chips, from sensors 
to servers. 
In 2013, approximately 700 billion silicon 
chips were manufactured. Of these 
roughly 30 billion contained a processor . 
The processor is the brain of the chip, and 
controls not just the operation of the chip, 
but also the operation of the product that 
chip goes into. ARM processor designs were 
in over 10 billion chips, a 35% market share. 
The remaining market share mainly consists 
of our customers’ own processor designs. 
ARM gains share when our customers 
outsource their processor design to us.
Disaggregated industry
The semiconductor industry has disaggregated 
into specialist companies that focus on each 
stage in the creation, design and manufacture 
of a silicon chip (see the diagram below). 
This allows each company to invest and 
innovate in an area where they can add the 
most expertise in the value chain.
Some companies specialise in designing 
the chip; other companies specialise in 
designing critical IP components within the 
design; others in building the tools needed 
to manufacture the chips; others in the chip 
fabrication; and others in developing software, 
such as operating systems and apps. All of 
these companies work closely together as  
a single ecosystem of partners. 
In 2013, there were over 1,000 companies 
in ARM’s Connected Community. 
ARM shares knowledge, experience and 
innovations with these companies, enabling 
greater collaboration.
Where arm fits within the industry
ARM is the global leader in the design of 
semiconductor IP components that form 
some of the critical elements within System-
on-Chip designs. ARM is best known for its 
family of processor designs that are used in 
a range of applications from mobile phones 
to car braking systems. There are a handful 
of other IP component designers that 
mainly specialise in complementary areas. 
Their IP can often be found alongside an ARM 
processor in the same chip design.
ARM works closely with the semiconductor 
ecosystem to ensure that its technology 
works well with other companies’ products, 
that a silicon chip designer can quickly build a 
low-power and high-performance chip, and 
that an OEM can create complex programs 
using a combination of third-party and in-
house operating systems and applications. 
As silicon chip designs become more complex 
it is expected that the semiconductor industry 
will continue to license semiconductor IP . 
As the global leader , ARM is well-positioned 
to benefit from this trend.
100s of chip  
design companies
<10 IP  
specialists 
<10 T ools  
providers 
<10  
Fabricators 
<10  
Operating  
Systems 
1,000s of 
application developers 
1,000s  
of service  
providers 
1,000s  
of OEMs 
1,000,000,000s  
of consumers 
Our disaggregated industry  15
WHere tHe marKet iS HeaDing
mobile computing – connecting us to 
each other , and our data.
Mobile phones have been getting smarter and 
more capable. Smartphones have become 
the primary computer for increasing numbers 
of people; for sending emails, browsing the 
internet, and allowing us to engage with our 
friends on social networking sites. Meanwhile, 
PCs have been getting smaller and lighter , with 
a longer battery life and better connectivity. 
The mobile phone and PC markets are 
converging, enabling us to connect more 
easily to each other and to our personal and 
workplace data. This convergence is bringing 
new opportunities and threats to the industry.
The fastest growing markets are entry-level 
smartphones and tablets. These are forecast 
to grow at about a 20% CAGR over the 
next five years, as consumers in emerging 
economies buy their first smartphones. 
Although these are entry-level handsets, these 
devices can still contain multiple ARM-based 
chips, and the main applications processor 
will often have several ARM processors. 
An entry-level smartphone will typically 
generate four times the royalty revenue of a 
simple voice-only phone. The mid-range and 
premium markets will also grow, and in 2018 
it is estimated that the total mobile computing 
market will be more than 3 billion devices 
including smartphones, tablets and laptops. 
read more on page 32
* Footnote: Cisco Visual Networking Index May 2013
internet of things – connecting billions 
of smart sensors.
Advances in manufacturing technology are 
enabling the creation of new affordable smart 
sensors. These devices usually combine three 
main elements: 
  One or more environmental sensors 
(temperature, pressure, motion).
  A smart chip (microcontroller) to process 
the data gathered by the sensor .
  A wireless radio to connect the smart 
sensor to the internet.
Data gathered from these sensors can then 
be collated anywhere in the world enabling 
remote monitoring of the sensors for such 
applications as:
  Industrial automation: factory equipment 
in a region can be monitored from a 
head office.
  Home automation: appliances in the home 
can be monitored and controlled by the 
home owner wherever they are.
Collectively these technologies are referred to 
as the Internet of Things. These smart sensors 
need to be very low-cost (the chips within 
them often cost less than $1) and they are 
expected to be deployed in very high volume.
read more on page 36
efficient networking – moving more 
data, without using more energy.
With mobile computing connecting us to each 
other , and increased machine-to-machine 
communications between smart sensors, 
it is forecast that mobile internet traffic will 
increase 12-fold between 2012 and 2017*. 
As IT and communications equipment is 
using an increasing proportion of the world’s 
energy, such an increase is not sustainable.
Network operators and data centre 
managers are now looking for lower power 
technology to better transport, distribute, 
analyse and store data across the internet. 
This is leading to increased levels of 
experimentation and innovation as companies 
manage the increased demand for data 
throughput, without having to increase the 
energy required.
ARM technology-based System-on-Chip 
designs are well placed to provide lower 
power options for enterprise applications, 
such as servers and networking equipment. 
read more on page 34
Trends within the semiconductor industry and its marketplace 
are bringing new opportunities and new competitive threats.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
16
Our B u SineSS mODel
HO W anD WHere  
We maKe mOney
ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor intellectual property 
(IP) supplier . The technology we design is at the heart of many 
of the digital electronic products sold in the world. ARM has an 
innovative business model. We license our technology to a 
network of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor companies. 
Our Partners incorporate our designs alongside their own 
technology to create smart, energy-efficient chips.
ARM licenses technology 
to SemiCo Partner 
ARM designs technology 
for energy-efficient chips
1.  ARM designs technology to go into 
energy-efficient chips for a broad range of 
end markets. ARM licenses each design 
to multiple semiconductor companies. 
Every company pays an upfront licence fee 
to gain access to the design.
2.  The semiconductor company will 
incorporate the ARM technology design into 
their chip. It can take 2–3 years to build a 
chip and a further year for an OEM to build 
their product, such as a digital TV or mobile 
phone, containing the chip. When the chip 
starts to ship, ARM receives a royalty on 
every chip that uses the design. T ypically our 
royalty is based on the price of the chip.
Licence fee 17
Why semiconductor companies  
use arm technology
ARM designs technology that would be 
difficult and expensive for our Partners’ R&D 
teams to develop for themselves. It is more 
cost effective for our Partners to license 
the technology from ARM than to develop 
it internally. The design of a processor 
or a library of physical IP requires a large 
amount of R&D investment and expertise. 
We estimate that a major semiconductor 
company would need to spend over 
$100 million every year to develop their 
own architecture. This represents more than 
$20 billion of annual costs for the industry. 
By designing once and licensing many times, 
ARM spreads the R&D costs over the whole 
industry, making digital electronics affordable 
and therefore available to more and more 
people across the world.
t echnologies that are suitable  
for the arm business model
ARM’s licensing business started in the early 
1990s with the development of our first 
processor . The processor is like the brain of 
the chip; it is where the software runs and 
it controls the functionality of the product. 
ARM designs each processor to be applicable 
to a broad range of end markets to maximise 
the number of Partners that can license each 
processor and to maximise the number of 
markets in which the Partner can deploy 
that technology.
In most years ARM introduces 2–3 new 
processor designs. Over the past ten years, 
ARM has developed other technologies 
suitable for our licensing and royalty business 
model, such as graphics processors and 
physical IP components. Both of these 
technologies are now licensed widely and 
are generating royalty revenues. 
How arm creates value 
ARM endeavours to recover its costs from 
the licence revenues of each technology, 
leaving the majority of royalties to be 
reinvested back into the business or to 
be returned to shareholders. Over the 
medium term, we expect ARM to become 
more profitable as our partners design our 
technology into a broader range of end 
markets. As our customers include the 
world’s largest semiconductor companies, 
their regular royalty payments have become 
a reliable cash flow. 
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
ARM technology in the  
hands of millions
OEM customer builds 
consumer products
Partner develops chips 
using ARM’s designs
3.  Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range 
of end applications and so can be re-used 
in different chip families addressing multiple 
markets. Each new chip family generates a 
new stream of royalties. An ARM design 
may be used in many different chips and 
may ship for over 20 years. 
4.  ARM’s flexible business model has proven 
to be suitable for different technologies, 
end products, licensing strategies and a 
broad range of ecosystem Partners.
Business development
Per chip royalty ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
18
Our global markets
The majority of ARM’s revenues are earned from semiconductor 
companies that are based all over the world. These companies sell 
their ARM-based chips to OEMs building consumer electronics, which 
are also based in all major economies. The OEMs sell their products to 
consumers and enterprises in every country. ARM’s royalty revenues 
are derived from the chips in these OEM products, and ARM therefore 
benefits from the growth in all economies and countries around the 
world. Demand for consumer products has been growing rapidly, 
especially in emerging markets such as Brazil and China.
ARM has 31 offices in 15 countries. These offices both support local 
customers and also benefit from the skills and knowledge that have 
developed in certain regions. For example, our engineers in Scandinavia 
are specialists in multimedia technologies such as video and graphics 
processing. During 2013, ARM opened offices in Noida, India and 
Oulu, Finland.
Our gl OBal reacH
WHere We W OrK  
t OgetHer
nOrt H a merica
LOCATIONS
8
EMPLOYEES
669
u K
LOCATIONS
4
EMPLOYEES
1,185
31
OFFICES AROu ND 
THE WORLD
348 
PARTNERS IN  
18 COu NTRIES 19
r eSt OF eur Ope
LOCATIONS
10
EMPLOYEES
355
aS ia paci Fic
LOCATIONS
9
EMPLOYEES
624
 10bn
ARM-BASED CHIPS  
SOLD IN 2013
>
1,000 
COMPANIES FORM 
THE ARM ECOSYSTEM 
Bu ILDING PRODu CTS 
AROu ND A COMMON 
PLATFORM
2,833 
EMPLOYEES 
WORk ING ACROSS 
14 COu NTRIES
>
75% 
OF THE WORLD’S 
POPu LATION u SED AN 
ARM-BASED PRODu CT  
IN 2013
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
20
Strategy an D Key per FOrmance in Dicat Or S
Our Stra tegy FOr  
l Ong-term gr OWtH
ARM’s strategy is for our technology to continue to gain 
market share in long-term growth markets, to increase the 
value ARM receives from each device, and to develop new 
technologies that can generate additional royalty revenue.
Our three growth drivers:
Increase market  
penetration
ARM has achieved a more than 95% penetration of mobile 
handsets. As other end markets require smarter processors, 
we expect ARM technology to increase market share in  
other application areas.
  Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties.
  Growing the number of ARM-based chips.
  Increasing market penetration in target end markets.
Increase value per smart  
electronic device
As consumer products become smarter they often contain 
multiple ARM-based chips, increasing our royalty opportunity. 
Smarter phones and TVs can generate 5–20 times more royalty 
than a basic model.
  Increasing the value that ARM receives for every  
smart device sold. 
Generate additional royalties  
from complementary technology
ARM has introduced complementary technologies which we 
believe are suitable for R&D outsourcing and can command an 
upfront licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
  Developing and licensing new technology to generate additional 
royalty streams. 
Re-investment and  
shareholder return
ARM’s financial discipline balances the need for continued 
investment to generate long-term future growth, whilst increasing 
today’s profitability and shareholder returns.
  Investing in ARM’s product development and 
deployment capability.
  Growing normalised operating margins, EPS,  
cash generation and dividends. 
1
2
3
=
+
+
Read more on page 27
Read more on page 26
Read more on page 25
Read more on page 22 21
Kpis
Increase market  
penetration
ARM has achieved a more than 95% penetration of mobile 
handsets. As other end markets require smarter processors, 
we expect ARM technology to increase market share in  
other application areas.
  Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties.
  Growing the number of ARM-based chips.
  Increasing market penetration in target end markets.
Increase value per smart  
electronic device
As consumer products become smarter they often contain 
multiple ARM-based chips, increasing our royalty opportunity. 
Smarter phones and TVs can generate 5–20 times more royalty 
than a basic model.
  Increasing the value that ARM receives for every  
smart device sold. 
Generate additional royalties  
from complementary technology
ARM has introduced complementary technologies which we 
believe are suitable for R&D outsourcing and can command an 
upfront licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
  Developing and licensing new technology to generate additional 
royalty streams. 
Re-investment and  
shareholder return
ARM’s financial discipline balances the need for continued 
investment to generate long-term future growth, whilst increasing 
today’s profitability and shareholder returns.
  Investing in ARM’s product development and 
deployment capability.
  Growing normalised operating margins, EPS,  
cash generation and dividends. 
progress against strategy
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
22
Kpi
BuilDing tHe BaSe OF licenceS 
tHa t Will Drive Future 
r Oy al tieS
Every licence represents the opportunity for 
a future royalty stream. In recent years, ARM 
has added about 100 processor licences per 
year to its existing base of licences. In 2013, 
we signed 121 processor licences taking the 
licensing base to more than 1,000 licences. 
This growth in the number of licences signed 
is largely due to existing customers upgrading 
their ARM processor to the next generation; 
existing customers choosing to deploy ARM 
technology into another part of their product 
portfolio; and new customers taking their first 
ever ARM processor licence.
About a quarter of the deals signed in 2013 
were signed with companies taking their first 
ARM processor licence. The majority of these 
new Partners are established semiconductor 
companies choosing ARM technology for 
the first time. As the trend towards smarter 
products gains pace, so semiconductor 
companies are finding ARM technology 
instrumental in helping them gain share in an 
increasingly competitive marketplace.
Our Partners are planning to develop chips 
for a broad range of end markets from the 
simplest of microcontrollers to the most 
advanced servers. These include:
  internet connected consumer devices, 
such as digital TVs, mobile phones and 
mobile computers;
  deeply embedded products, such as 
microcontrollers, sensors and smartcards; 
  enterprise applications, such as networking 
equipment, carrier infrastructure 
and servers.
the future opportunity
ARM expects that its customers will continue 
to re-equip their R&D teams with the 
latest processors for existing product lines. 
In addition, ARM’s technology is becoming 
increasingly relevant to growing markets such 
as sensors, computers and servers, leading 
to more new customers acquiring their first 
ARM licence.
ARM licences
+87
+91
+121
+110
+121
09
10
11
12
13
ARM signed 121 processor licences in 2013,  taking the total number of processor licences signed to 1,062.
Number of licences signed by end market in 2013
Embedded  37%
Mobile  33%
Enterprise  12%
Home  9%
Multiple*  9%
*9% of licences were signed with companies intending 
 to use ARM technology in multiple end markets.
Number of licences signed by processor type in 2013
ARM7/9/11  5%
Cortex-A family  29%
Cortex-R family  7%
Cortex-M family  39%
Mali  16%
Other**  4%
**Other includes architecture and subscription licences.
The Samsung Chromebook delivers 
outstanding and hassle-free performance 
at an affordable price. As of May 2013, 
the Samsung ARM Chromebook has led 
Amazon’s list of best-selling laptops. It is 
based on the Samsung Exynos 5 Dual 
system-on-chip, which is powered by a 
dual-core ARM Cortex-A15 processor 
and a quad-core ARM Mali-T604 GPU.
1
Increase market 
penetration 23
In 2013, ARM’s customers reported more 
than 10 billion chips shipped, a 20% increase 
over 2012. By comparison, the industry 
grew 6% in the equivalent period.* This 
demonstrates ARM’s increasing relevance 
to equipment manufacturers as they choose 
ARM-based chips over chips containing 
proprietary processor designs. 
ARM’s total market share rose to 35%, up 
from 32% in the prior year . The mobile 
phone was the first consumer electronic 
device where ARM-based chips started to 
be widely deployed. In 2013, ARM-based 
chips could be found in more than 95% of the 
world’s mobile phones. ARM’s Partners sold 
4.8 billion chips into mobile devices, driven 
by the growth in the number of smartphones 
and mobile computers.
ARM has been seeing rapid adoption of its 
processor technology into markets such as 
digital TVs and microcontrollers. In 2013, for 
the first time, ARM’s Partners sold more chips 
into non-mobile markets than into mobile 
devices. Overall they sold 5.6 billion chips into 
non-mobile applications.
the future opportunity
ARM expects unit shipments and 
royalty revenues to grow faster than the 
semiconductor industry as ARM continues 
to gain market share. Shipments of 
ARM-based chips are growing most rapidly 
in microcontrollers as several major 
semiconductor vendors ramp into full 
production, and also in mobile computing 
products such as smartphones and tablets.
*  Source – WSTS, January 2014. Excludes memory  
and analog chips.
Kpi
gr O Wing tHe numBer  
OF arm-BaSeD cHipS 
Shipments of ARM processor-based chips (bn)
+3.9
+6.1
+7.9
+8.7
+10.4
ARM Partners reported the highest ever number of ARM-based chips shipped in 2013.
09
10
11
12
13
Chip shipments by end market in 2013
Mobile  49%
Embedded  28%
Enterprise  18%
Home  5% 
Chip shipments by processor type in 2013* 
ARM7  27%
ARM9/11 22%
Cortex-A Family  17%
Cortex-R Family  4%
Cortex-M Family  30%
*Nearly all Mali graphics processors were in chips 
 containing a Cortex-A family processor.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
24
ARM HAS SEEN 
INCREASED DESIGN 
ACTIv ITY IN ENTERPRISE 
NETWORkING , AND 
THE FIRST ARM-BASED 
LOW-POWER BASE 
STATIONS WERE 
ANNOu NCED IN 
FEBRuARY 2013.
Kpi
increaSing marKet 
penetra tiOn in t ar get  
enD marKet S
ARM has increased market penetration into 
each of its key end markets in mobile phones, 
set-top boxes and digital TVs, disk drive 
controllers and microcontrollers. ARM has 
announced new technology developments 
that will position our customers to enter 
markets such as computers, servers and 
medical devices.
mobile phones >95%
For many years, mobile phones have 
used ARM processor-based chips in 
most of the applications processors and 
baseband modems.
enterprise networking 5%
ARM has seen increased design activity 
in enterprise networking, and the first 
ARM-based low-power base-stations were 
announced by Huawei and NSN in February 
2013. Sales of ARM-based enterprise 
networking chips are expected to gradually 
ramp up over the next few years.
Digital tv s 50%
As digital TVs become smarter they are more 
likely to need an ARM processor-based 
chip. In a smart TV , these chips can run the 
operating system and applications.
microcontrollers 22%
The microcontroller and connected sensor 
market is highly fragmented and OEMs 
are increasingly requesting that their 
semiconductor suppliers use a common 
processor architecture. ARM is often the 
choice as it is a suitable architecture that is 
available to all semiconductor suppliers.
the future opportunity
All of these target end markets have 
promising long-term growth prospects 
and ARM’s market share gains look set to 
continue as many of ARM’s Partners have 
announced new products in these areas.
market penetration 
Y ear
Mobile phones  
(%)
Enterprise 
networking  
(%)
Digital TV s  
(%)
Microcontrollers  
(%)
09 >95 0 30 5
10 >95 0 35 8
11 >95 0 40 15
12 >95 1 45 18
13 >95 5 50 22
ARM has gained share in all its target end markets. Market share is calculated as the percentage  
of ARM-based chips as a proportion of chips estimated to contain some form of processor technology.  
Market data from Gartner, January 2014. 25
ARM value per mobile phone (indexed to 2009)
+1.00
+1.16
+1.32
+1.48
+1.69
09
10
11
12
13
ARM royalty per mobile phone has continued to increase.
Kpi
increaSing tHe v alue  
tHa t arm receiveS FOr every 
Smart Device SOlD
2
Increase value  
per smart  
electronic device
Sales of chips into smart devices such as 
smartphones and high-end digital TVs 
generate higher royalty revenue than basic 
phones and TVs.
T ypically, ARM’s royalty revenue per device 
can increase the smarter the device gets. 
Smarter devices may generate more royalty 
revenue because they may contain:
  more chips than basic models;
  more expensive chips than basic models; 
  more advanced ARM technology that 
commands a higher per-chip royalty.
During 2013, the total number of 
smartphones sold increased by about 50%.* 
We also saw sales of ARM-based mobile 
computers, such as tablets, grow to 
200 million. In this period, shipments of 
ARM’s advanced Cortex-A family of 
processor doubled to 1.8 billion. 
Cortex-A processors typically command 
a higher percentage per-chip royalty than 
previous ARM families, which helped ARM’s 
dollar processor royalty revenue to grow by 
19% despite the overall industry only growing 
by 1%.**
the future opportunity
ARM expects that as consumer electronic 
devices become smarter they will incorporate 
more chips that could be ARM technology-
based. Some of these chips may be based 
on the Cortex-A family of processors, 
thus generating higher royalty revenue per 
device. In 2014 ARM expects that multiple 
semiconductor companies will ship chips 
incorporating processors designed with 
its latest ARMv8 architecture. These chips 
typically generate a further increase in the 
royalty revenue per device.
* ARM estimates.
** WSTS, January 2014.
The Yulong Coolpad 7231 entry-level  
smartphone is promoting 3G uptake 
and dual sim cards in China by bringing 
consumers cost-effective mobiles that 
are comparable to the world’s top 
smartphones. The SoC is based on 
MediaTek MT6572, which brings one of 
the first dual-core SoC with integrated 
platform for the lower end of the 
midmarket smartphones featuring power-
efficient dual-core ARM Cortex-A7 CPU 
and ARM Mali-400 GPU.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
26
Physical IP revenues ($m)
35.9 36.2
41.3 43.8
49.2
52.2
48.7
56.2
63.7 65.3
09
10
11
12
13
Physical IP licensing Physical IP royalty
Mali graphics number of licences signed
20
+11
+19
+17
+19
09
10
11
12
13
Kpi
Devel Oping anD licenSing 
neW tecHnOl Og y t O genera te 
aDDitiOnal r Oy al ty StreamS
During 2013, ARM continued to develop new 
technologies that are suitable for licensing 
to leading semiconductor companies, and 
for generating additional royalty streams in 
the future. 
multimedia ip for 3D gaming and 
HD video
Many consumer electronic devices utilise 
3D graphics and High-Definition (HD) video 
to improve the visual experience and make 
games more engaging. Mobile phones, digital 
TVs and computers are familiar , and other 
applications such as cars, media players and 
navigation devices are emerging.
During 2013, ARM signed 19 Mali graphics IP 
licences, and leading technology companies 
such as MediaT ek and Samsung launched 
computing, mobile and consumer electronics 
devices incorporating chips based on ARM’s 
multimedia IP . During the year our Partners 
reported shipping 400 million chips containing 
a Mali graphics processor , more than double 
the number shipped during the previous year .
physical ip for advanced 
manufacturing processes
ARM develops physical IP for use by leading 
semiconductor companies that manufacture 
chips using advanced manufacturing 
processes. ARM is the leading physical IP 
provider and is well placed as semiconductor 
companies increasingly outsource 
manufacturing to ARM’s foundry Partners.
During 2013, ARM saw strong licensing, 
especially for advanced processes, signing 
three foundry platform licences for ARM’s 
physical IP that will drive future royalty 
revenues. In addition, ARM signed 16 
licences for POP IP (pre-configured physical 
IP components) which assist Partners in 
implementing ARM processors. We also 
received our first royalty revenue from 
physical IP used in 20nm manufacturing 
process, and we created test chips at 16nm 
and 14nm, which may yield royalty revenue 
in 2014 and beyond.
the future opportunity
With a growing base of customers just starting 
to sell their chips in high quantities, we expect 
that the number of chips enabled by ARM’s 
physical IP and Mali graphics technology will 
continue to grow in the future.
3
Generate additional 
royalties from 
complementary 
technology
The new Samsung Galaxy Note 3 has 
been developed as the ideal device to help 
you stay on top of your busy life. It is based 
on the Samsung Exynos 5 Octa (5420) 
system-on-chip, which is designed using 
the ARM big.LITTLE technology, featuring 
quad-core ARM Cortex-A15 processor 
running at 1.9GHz and quad-core 
Cortex-A7 processor at 1.3GHz,  
as well as ARM Mali-T628 MP6 GPU. 27
Number of employees at year-end
1,024 1,710
1,191 1,889
1,382
1,652
2,115
2,392
2,833 1,961
09
10
11
12
13
Number of engineers T otal employees
=
Reinvestment  
and shareholder  
return
ARM specialises in designing innovative 
technology and developing a sophisticated 
community of Partners to bring that 
technology to market. Our people are our 
strength for designing the next generation of 
technology, delivering it to our customers, 
and for growing and maintaining the ARM 
Partnership. ARM invests in our employees 
through hiring a mix of graduates and 
seasoned industry experts, developing 
them and providing a supportive culture 
to maximise their capability and potential.
In 2013, ARM hired a net additional 
441 people. The majority of our new 
hires were engineers, to increase our R&D 
capability. Most of this investment was in our 
processor and multimedia engineering teams 
to take advantage of the opportunities for 
new ARM technology in servers, computing 
and 3D graphics.
As a result of this investment, normalised 
expenditure on research and development 
rose to £148 million in 2013, representing 
21% of revenues and 11% growth year-
on-year . Expenditure on research and 
development under IFRS accounting was 
£203 million, representing 28% of revenues 
and 22% growth year-on-year .
ARM also invests in the infrastructure our 
engineers need to develop and test complex 
technology. In 2013 we started work on 
a new data centre in Austin, which will 
host some of our development tools and 
test software.
the future opportunity
ARM expects to continue to invest in its 
employees as we develop our engineering 
capability and operational execution. 
As ARM technology is designed into more 
end markets, we expect the business to 
become more profitable.
Kpi
inveSting in arm’S pr ODuct 
Devel Opment anD Depl O yment 
cap aBility
IN 2013, ARM HIRED 
A NET ADDITIONAL 
441 PEOPLE. THE 
MAjORITY OF Ou R 
NEW HIRES WERE 
ENGINEERS, TO 
INCREASE Ou R R&D 
CAPABILITY.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
28
ARM’s business model and its exposure to 
structural growth markets means that ARM 
is well positioned to grow its profitability, 
to generate cash and to support a growing 
dividend. ARM intends to cover most of its 
operational costs from the licence revenues of 
each new technology. This leaves the majority 
of royalty revenue as profits.
ARM’s financial discipline focuses investment 
in areas of maximum opportunity such 
as the recruitment of more engineers to 
develop the next generation of technology. 
As our customers include the world’s largest 
semiconductor companies, their regular 
royalty payments have become a reliable cash 
flow. Given our broad base of Partners and 
end markets, ARM is not overly reliant on any 
one company or consumer product for its 
future profits and cash.
During 2013, ARM generated £344.5 million 
of cash, up 29% over the prior year . 
The increase in cash generation is primarily 
due to the increase in revenue. Since 2004, 
ARM has returned £565 million of cash 
to shareholders through a combination 
of share buybacks and dividends. In 2013 
ARM increased the dividend by 27% to 
5.7 pence. 
the future opportunity
As royalty revenues become a greater 
proportion of ARM’s overall revenues, ARM’s 
profitability and cash generation is expected 
to increase.
15.0 31.2
26.3 40.4
30.3
36.1
45.1
45.6
49.1 21.5* 
09
10
11
12
13
Operating margin under IFRS Normalised** operating margin
Operating margin (%)
Normalised net cash generation
***
 (£m)
86.1
179.9
203.8
267.3
344.5
09
10
11
12
13
* Including exceptional items of £101.3 million.
** Normalised figures are based on IFRS, adjusted for acquisition-related charges and charges relating to amortisation of 
intangible assets (other than goodwill) that have arisen on acquisitions, share-based payment costs, profit or loss on disposal 
and impairment of available-for-sale investments, restructuring charges, share of results in joint venture, Linaro™-related 
charges and exceptional charges.
*** Normalised net cash generation is defined as movement on cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term deposits, 
adding back dividend payments, investment and acquisition consideration, other acquisition-related payments, share-based 
payroll taxes, payments to joint venture and Linaro, advance payment to the MIPS patent consortium and payments for IP 
indemnity and similar charges, and deducting inflows from share option exercises.
Kpi
gr OWing nOrmaliSeD Opera ting 
marginS, epS, caSH genera tiOn 
anD DiviDenDS
ARM’S FINANCIAL 
DISCIPLINE FOCu SES 
INv ESTMENT IN 
AREAS OF MAx IMu M 
OPPORTu NITY SuCH 
AS THE RECRu ITMENT 
OF MORE ENGINEERS 
TO DEv ELOP THE 
NEx T GENERATION 
OF TECHNOLOGY. 29
Full Year Dividend
5.7p
+27%
IFRS Operating Margin
21%
 Includes exceptional items of £101 million.
Earnings per share (pence)
3.1 5.5
6.4 9.3
8.2
11.5
12.5
14.7
20.6 7.4*
09
10
11
12
13
Diluted EPS under IFRS Normalised** diluted EPS
Dividend per share (pence)
2.42
2.90
3.48
4.50
 5.70
09
10
11
12
13
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report
Normalised net cash generation
£345m
+29%
IFRS EPS
7.4p
-35%
Includes exceptional items of £101 million. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
30 maximi Sing
pOtential
31
Keeping cows healthy makes them happier and more productive. Medical device companies are 
working on sensors that can monitor vital signs and create alerts if outside normal parameters. 
Some of these devices are implanted or ingested so they can monitor internal levels of 
chemicals and hormones. ARM-based chips can be small and energy-efficient and therefore can 
reduce the overall costs, power consumption and intrusiveness of such devices. These smart 
sensors are not just useful for valuable livestock, but can help people too.
More information about embedded ARM-based devices can be found  
on page 36 and also online.
www.arm.com/reporting2013
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
32
Smartphones and new mobile 
computing devices are creating 
opportunities for innovators and 
entrepreneurs
In many developed countries the penetration 
rate of smartphones and mobile computers 
is already very high, and replacement rates 
are typically 2–4 years. In many fast-growing 
and emerging economies the smartphone 
penetration rate is much lower and 
growing rapidly. 2013 was the first year that 
smartphones outsold feature phones, and 
there are now over 2 billion people using 
smart mobile devices.
Many of the next billion people to connect 
to the internet will live in Asia. Already  
entry-level smartphones, which includes all 
smartphones costing less than $150 without 
subsidy, have reached price points as low 
as $35, and tablets can be purchased for 
less than $50. Over the next five years, it is 
estimated that entry-level smartphones will 
grow at about a 20% CAGR with over  
one billion forecast to be sold in 2018. 
Lower cost handsets require lower cost 
components, so ARM has developed very 
small processors that balance the need for 
capability with cost.
Mid-range smartphones are also forecast to 
grow rapidly with a cumulative total of  
two billion devices sold over the next five 
years. A mid-range smartphone needs to have 
the same functionality as the most advanced 
devices launched 1-2 years previously. 
Premium mobile devices are still forecast 
to grow at about a 5% CAGR, and will still 
make up about 20% of the market in 2018. 
Here competition will be based on the most 
advanced technology, giving consumers 
amazing experiences with new features 
and capabilities.
T o meet the needs of such a diverse market, 
ARM has developed a family of processors 
and graphics technology that provides 
different levels of capability and performance, 
whilst minimising size which reduces chip cost 
and improves battery life.
ARM’s Cortex-A family of processors is 
used in almost every smartphone and tablet 
computer . This includes the tiny Cortex-A5, 
which is used in some Android phones and 
provides sufficient computing for entry-
level smartphones costing as little as $35. 
In premium mobile computers you may find 
a high-performance Cortex-A15 processor , 
which provides a complete computing 
experience in products such as the Samsung 
Galaxy Note 3 and the HP Chromebook.
mOBile c Omputing
Better mOBile  
experienceS
Jame S Bruce
Director of Mobile Solutions
James has led ARM’s Mobile Segment Marketing 
team since 2013. He and his team maintain 
relationships throughout the mobile value chain, 
including influential handset OEMs, network 
operators and major software developers for 
mobile devices.
Smart mobile devices are making the world a more connected 
place. Smartphones and tablets are becoming more affordable, 
and wireless high-speed networks are covering the majority of 
the global population, connecting us all to each other, to our 
lives at work, school and play, and to our digital lives. This is 
enabling innovation as entrepreneurs create new products 
and services, new ways of working and new business models. 
The mobile revolution is connecting a changing world. 33
In 2013 we saw the first mobile computing 
devices based on ARM’s next generation 
ARMv8 architecture. This introduces even 
higher performance and greater power-
efficiency, as well as adding faster multimedia 
and improved security. We also saw the first 
consumer products based on ARM’s new big.
LITTLE technology. In a big.LITTLE system 
we have combined a “big” high-performance 
processor with our most power-efficient 
“LITTLE” processor . By ensuring that each 
task or application is run on the correct 
processor , devices can deliver both improved 
performance and even lower power . In time 
we think that many smartphones and mobile 
computers will adopt both big.LITTLE 
technology and ARMv8-based processors. 
ARM’s Mali graphics and physical IP is also 
being used in many mobile computing 
devices. Semiconductor companies in China 
already use Mali graphics processors in 
about 75% of their chips for mobile devices. 
Beyond China, both Mediatek and Samsung 
announced that they were using Mali graphics 
in their chips for high-end mobile applications. 
As with ARM’s processor , Mali offers a 
range of scalable solutions that are being 
used in $35 smartphones all the way to 
$500+ smartphones and tablets. Many of 
the companies that license a Cortex-A class 
processor also use our physical IP 
technology to help create the most efficient 
implementation, and so get the most out of 
their processor investment.
The increasing penetration of smartphones 
and tablets is creating new opportunities for 
innovators and entrepreneurs. Other devices 
can now be connected and controlled via 
a smartphone. A fitness application such as 
the Fitbit or Pebble smart watch can connect 
to the internet via a smartphone. We can 
use our tablets to control the thermostat in 
rooms throughout the house, and check the 
performance of solar panels on the roof, 
even when travelling home. New businesses 
and business models are being created to 
offer us information whenever we need it. 
Streetline directs car drivers to the locations 
of available parking spaces across a city. 
Farmers and fishermen can get local market 
information to get the best price for their 
produce, which is especially useful in rural or 
developing regions. Smartphones and tablets 
are helping us effortlessly to connect and 
control the digital world around us.
The opportunities are huge, especially when 
mobile technology is combined with smart 
sensors embedded into the fabric of the 
world around us, creating an “Internet of 
Things”. These new businesses and business 
models will generate jobs and wealth, helping 
to make the world a more creative and 
productive place.
Mobile computing via smartphone and 
tablet is helping to connect everybody and 
everything together , which is generating 
new opportunities for businesses all over 
the world. ARM’s broad range of high-
performance and low-power technologies 
will provide a common platform for much 
of this innovation.
Yulong Coolpad 7231 
entry-level smartphone 
Entry-level smartphones, costing less 
than $150, are expected to grow to over 
half the market by 2018.
IN 2013 WE SAW 
THE FIRST MOBILE 
COMPu TING 
DEv ICES BASED 
ON ARM’S NEx T 
GENERATION ARMv8 
ARCHITECTu RE. 
THIS INTRODu CES 
Ev EN BETTER HIGH-
PERFORMANCE AND 
POWER EFFICIENCY.
Mix of smartphones in 2018
Entry-level 1,050
Mid-range 500
Premium 350
Source: Gartner, January 2014, and ARM forecasts
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
34
enterpri Se in Fra Structure
increaSing eFFiciency in 
netWOrK inFraStructure  
anD Da t a centreS 
increasing capability within the 
enterprise, without increasing 
energy use
When combined with the emergence 
of other intelligent devices (wearables 
computers and machine-to-machine 
communications) becoming connected to the 
network, we expect that the total amount 
of data transferred and stored will continue 
to grow.
An increase in data requires more networking 
capacity and more capable networking 
functionality across carriers, operators and 
enterprises. More data also requires more 
servers in data centres, especially cloud-
based providers for storage and social 
networking sites. 
If the technology used in current infrastructure 
were to remain the same, then an increase 
in capacity would require a similar increase 
in energy consumption. The electricity bill 
for carriers is already amongst their biggest 
costs. These companies are therefore not 
just looking for more performance but also 
improved energy efficiency. 
ARM’s Cortex-A9 was our first processor 
to offer the performance and sustained 
throughput to be suitable in networking 
equipment or servers. Platforms based on 
Cortex-A9 started shipping in 2012 and the 
momentum has continued with Cortex-A15 
based devices that started shipping in 
2013, demonstrating the performance, 
functionality and system reliability required 
for these markets. The arrival of chips based 
on the ARMv8 architecture broadens the 
use of ARM technology into even more 
enterprise applications.
Over the last few years, most of the major 
chip providers for enterprise networking 
and carrier equipment have announced 
ARM-based chips for this market, including 
Altera, Broadcom, Cavium, Freescale, IBM, 
HiSilicon, LSI, T exas Instruments and Xilinx. 
In February 2013 several leading carrier 
equipment providers announced ARM-based 
solutions for base stations including Huawei 
and Nokia Solutions Networks. In 2013 
ARM’s market share in carrier and enterprise 
networking was 5%, with two companies 
shipping in high volume. However , based on 
design wins and the plans of OEMs to ramp 
production of low-power equipment over 
the next few years, we estimate that ARM’s 
share in 2018 will be in the range of 25-35%, 
as outlined opposite.
cHarlene marini
v ice President of Embedded Segments
Charlene joined ARM in 2004 and has held multiple 
marketing roles in the Group. Today, Charlene 
leads a team that is focused on enabling the ARM 
partnership and ecosystem across multiple 
embedded verticals including networking, 
automotive, home, general embedded and the 
Internet of Things.
The growth of smart devices and the desire for users to access 
information anywhere at any time is increasing the amount and 
richness of content that is transmitted, processed and stored. 
Over the next five years we estimate a 12-fold increase in 
mobile data traffic.  35
2018 
opportunity
Chip T AM 
(m)
Chip value 
($bn)
T arget
penetration
Mobile 
Infrastructure 80 $4.5 60%
Wireline 
Infrastructure 60 $2.5 30%
Corporate 
Networks 940 $6.0 30%
Cable/
Broadband/
WLAN 260 $2.0 30%
Other 60 $3.0 20%
T otal 1,400 $18 25-35%
ARM-based chips for the server market are 
also in development. ARM and its Partners 
are initially focusing on companies with 
hyperscale deployments where the server 
is a critical business asset. For companies 
providing cloud infrastructure as a service 
and web services, the server can be both a 
revenue driver and a major source of costs. 
For many social networking sites, the server is 
just a cost; they make their revenues through 
advertising or other means. For both types 
of companies reducing the cost of owning a 
server is key to improving their profitability. 
As some of the servers within these 
companies have become dedicated to smaller 
set of workloads, it has enabled opportunities 
for semiconductor companies to develop 
workload-specific chips.
By identifying a specific server workload, it is 
possible to integrate many of the companion 
chips into a single chip, creating a System-on-
Chip (SoC) design. Replacing data transfers 
between different chips to transfers within 
an integrated chip and adding designed-for-
purpose hardware functions dramatically 
reduces power consumption and equipment 
footprint. In some applications more than 
90% of the energy can be saved. For the 
companies ARM is targeting, this approach 
delivers savings in terms of acquisition and 
running costs.
During 2013, Applied Micro Circuits 
Corporation announced that it had 
manufactured the first ARMv8 architecture-
based chip for servers, and Advanced Micro 
Devices and Cavium, Inc. announced that 
they would have ARMv8-based chips in 
2014. Baidu, Inc., a leading Chinese web 
services company, announced that they were 
deploying the first ARM-based storage server 
in their data centre, and that the low-energy 
chips would enable higher storage density and 
reduce their total running costs by 25%.
For ARM technology to gain share in the 
server market some critical software needs to 
be ported to support the ARM architecture. 
In several segments many of the applications 
run on Linux, or Java which ARM and its 
partners have already optimised. As ARM-
based chips become available, other software 
applications will be ported and optimised. 
Several leading OEMs who develop servers 
have already announced that they are working 
on ARM-based servers, including Dell and HP . 
This development will enable ARM Partners 
to start to gain share in 2014, and by 2018 we 
expect to have more than a 10% share of the 
server market.
Several leading OEMs who develop servers, 
have already announced that they are working 
on ARM-based servers including Dell and HP .
 15
LICENCES SIGNED BY 
ARM FOR ENTERPRISE 
NETWORk ING 
AND SERv ERS IN 2013.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
36
emBeDDeD cO mputing
emBeDDing intelligence 
everyWHere
embedded intelligence creating an 
internet of thin gs
In 2013, approximately 19 billion smart 
microcontrollers were sold globally. As these 
chips are used in a wide range of end 
markets they are general-purpose controllers 
developed to be usable in all sorts of devices. 
They can be very low cost, and in 2013, the 
average selling price of a microcontroller 
was about $1.
In 2013, there were about 3 billion ARM-
based microcontrollers and smart embedded 
chips sold. Over the last five years much of 
the growth in the embedded market can be 
attributed to ARM-based chips.
Many ARM-based microcontrollers used an 
ARM Cortex-M class processor , and ARM 
has now signed over 200 licences for this 
technology, mainly for use in microcontrollers 
and the new generation of Internet of Things 
devices. ARM signed 47 licences for Cortex-M 
class processors in 2013.
connecting intelligence to create 
an internet of thin gs
Smartphones and mobile devices are 
becoming the controller and the display for 
the digital world around us, which is creating 
opportunities for smart devices to connect 
and give us more information and more 
control than we have ever had before. ARM-
based smart sensors and controllers are being 
integrated into a wide range of applications 
from consumer electronics, to manufacturing, 
transportation and agriculture.
The market for embedded computing is very 
large. In 2013 there were about 16 billion 
microcontrollers and smartcards sold. 
Estimates for 2020 vary considerably, with 
some between 30 to 50 billion network 
connected devices, most of them based on 
smart sensors. 
Many of the products and services we use every day  
are enabled by a small smart microcontroller or smart 
card. For example, the control panel and electric motor  
in a washing machine or lift controller, the remote control  
for a Tv, and the chip in a passport or credit card.
gary a tK in SOn 
Director of Emerging Technologies, ARM
Gary is based in Cambridge, UK and spends his 
time travelling the world looking for new technology 
that already has or may have a use for ARM-based 
processors in disruptive, globally scalable and 
impactful applications.  37
Most Internet of Things devices will have 
an integrated SoC or package that contains 
a microcontroller , sensor(s), and wired or 
wireless connectivity. Integrating everything 
together into a single chip reduces costs and 
complexity. ARM is very well placed for the 
Internet of Things due to a high market share 
in both microcontrollers and connectivity 
chips, and also because ARM’s designs help 
reduce the overall development cost.
Many of these smart embedded devices 
will be connected to a network wirelessly. 
For example, most digital pedometers and 
smart watches use Bluetooth to connect to 
a smartphone. ARM-based chips operate 
the protocol stack in more than 75% of 
wireless devices including established 
wireless standards such as Bluetooth, WiFi 
and emerging standards such as WiGIG 
and Zigbee.
The applications for Internet of Things are 
highly diverse. If every application had multiple 
chip suppliers it would lead to a fragmented 
market for software developers and system 
designers. However , all chips that use an ARM 
processor benefit from a common underlying 
architecture making software and software 
tools reusable regardless of application, 
which makes it easier and cheaper to develop 
Internet of Things devices for different 
end markets. 
In 2013, ARM acquired Sensinode Oy 
based in Finland. The team from Sensinode 
is developing low-power protocol stacks 
necessary for wireless communications and 
control between remote tiny sensors and 
a hub that can collate data and manage the 
sensors. ARM believes that this technology 
will enable many new applications, and help 
accelerate the Internet of Things.
Consumer electronics Smart watches that display more than the time (weather , alerts, text messages, 
Facebook updates).
Digital pedometers that count calories burned, which can link to an app that  
also records the calories eaten. 
T ransportation T racking of luggage in an airport or shipping container around the world  
(or even locating car keys in the home).
Inter-vehicle communications, improving automotive safety and helping enable 
autonomously driven vehicles.
Infrastructure Identifying free parking spaces across a city .
More accurately tracking trains and trams to increase effectiveness of existing networks.
Smart meters, grids and appliances to use energy more efficiently.
Manufacturing T racking of critical equipment across a large site.
More efficiently controlling throughput across a manufacturing process.
Medical Implanted or ingested sensors to monitor vital signs and create alerts if outside  
normal parameters.
Implanted or ingested devices to monitor internal levels of chemicals and hormones.
Direct and accurate application of drugs when the patient needs them.
Agriculture Remote monitoring of water and nutrient levels in the soil to control water 
and fertiliser use.
Implanted medical devices for valuable livestock.
For embedded computing to achieve its 
potential to create an “Internet of Things” 
that numbers in the tens to hundreds of 
billions, the technology needs to get “out of 
the lab” and into the hands of designers to 
create smart wearables, industrial and civil 
engineering equipment suppliers to develop 
smarter infrastructure systems, medical 
specialists to invent smart devices to monitor 
our vital signs, and so on. Internet of Things 
systems need to become easy to innovate and 
deploy and manage. ARM and our Partners 
are working on making the Internet of Things 
building blocks that anyone can put together , 
and that can be taught at schools and colleges 
to help enable the next generation of 
digital entrepreneurs. 
in 2013
THE Av ERAGE PRICE OF 
A MICROCONTROLLER 
WAS ABOu T $1. THIS 
COu LD DECLINE AS 
vOLu MES INCREASE.
Our Vision Our performance Our Commitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
38
gO vernance
gO vernance a t arm
This year’s annual report is formed by two 
documents, this Strategic Report and a 
Governance and Financial Report which 
contains biographies of the Board and details 
on the Remuneration and other committees. 
We believe that creating two documents 
delivers a concise and understandable 
summary, whilst also providing more 
detailed information for those that want it. 
Both documents can be downloaded from 
www.arm.com/reporting2013 where you 
can also download a copy of our detailed 
Corporate Responsibility report.
The Board nurtures a working environment, 
throughout the organisation, where 
the highest standards of behaviour are 
established, demonstrated and maintained. 
This helps us to run the Group effectively 
and exercise judgement to manage the risks 
that we face to levels that are commensurate 
with the nature of our business. There are 
well-defined differences between the roles 
of the executive and non-executive directors; 
and their combined contributions as an 
experienced, but healthily diverse, Board add 
value to the debate, decision-making and 
development of strategy that are so crucial 
to the Group’s success.
The Board actively considers long-term 
strategy; monitors, challenges and supports 
the work of the Executive Committee; 
and is responsible for Board and executive 
management succession. The Board has 
ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
performance and for overseeing the 
management of risk. We seek to do this 
through a strong and effective governance 
system and by setting and following the 
standards that we expect from all our 
employees. These standards are enshrined 
in ARM’s values and in our approach to 
corporate governance which can be found in 
the Governance and Financial Report, starting 
on page 6.
risk and risk management
Under the guidance of Kathleen O’Donovan, 
who chairs the Audit Committee, during 
2013 management reviewed and improved 
our risk assessment and reporting framework, 
with assistance from external advisers. 
We need to ensure that our processes are fit 
for purpose and the information that comes 
to the Board focuses on the principal risks 
and appropriately informs our ongoing risk 
appetite discussions.
Our approach to risk management and 
principal risks are covered on pages 47 to 
49 of this document.
ARM is committed to good corporate governance, corporate 
responsibility and the highest ethical standards. We believe that 
effective governance is an essential contributor to our sustained 
improvement in business performance. Operating with integrity 
in all we do is vital to maintain the trust of investors, customers, 
employees and other stakeholders. This requires leadership, 
ethical behaviour and collaboration throughout the organisation. 39
Directors and succession planning
As part of our planned and continuing 
evolution of the Board, there were a number 
of changes in 2013 and there are some 
further changes planned in 2014. 
  Simon Segars succeeded Warren East as 
Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013.
  Sir John Buchanan has requested that he 
step down as Chairman of ARM, due to 
a medical condition. Stuart Chambers 
joined the Board as Chairman designate 
on 27 January 2014 and will become 
Chairman on 1 March 2014. John will 
continue as an independent non-executive 
director until the AGM on 1 May 2014 and 
then retire from the Board.
  Mike Inglis retired from the Board on 
31 March 2013.
  Eric Meurice joined the Board on 
1 July 2013.
  Philip Rowley retires from the Board in 
May 2014, following his nine years’ service.
Board biographies and changes are covered in 
detail in the Governance and Financial Report, 
starting on page 4.
employee engagement
ARM is a semiconductor IP company and the 
success of our R&D and our relationships 
with our customers are dependent upon 
the continuing efforts of our employees. 
We need our employees to be engaged 
across the organisation. It is therefore vital 
that all levels of staff are consulted and 
involved in decision making processes. 
T o this end, internal conferences and 
communications meetings are held regularly 
which involve employees from all parts of the 
Group in discussions on future strategy and 
developments. Furthermore, employee share 
ownership is encouraged and all employees 
are able to participate in one of the Group’s 
schemes to encourage share ownership. 
Diversity
After the changes referred to above, the 
Board will comprise three executive directors, 
the Chairman and five non-executive 
directors. Within this there are eight men 
(80%) and two women (20%) which is 
broadly in line with the gender diversity of 
ARM’s workforce as a whole.
ethics and values
All directors and employees are required 
to act fairly, honestly and with integrity and 
to demonstrate that they have read and 
understand ARM’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, a copy of which is published on 
the corporate website at www.arm.com. 
Our updated Human Rights Policy is now 
incorporated into our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics.
corporate responsibility
Full details of our CR strategy and achievements 
can be found in the main CR report 
www.arm.com/reporting2013 and a summary 
of highlights from the year are included in the 
CR section of this Strategic Report.
investor relations
The Board makes considerable efforts to 
establish and maintain good relationships 
with shareholders and the wider investment 
community. There is regular dialogue 
with institutional investors during the year 
other than during close periods. The main 
channel of communication is through the 
Chief Executive Officer , the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
Contact details for the investor relations team 
can be found on the inside back cover of 
this report.
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report
References: 
See Risk management and principal risks in this Strategic Report.
For more on ARM values see the CEO Vision in this Strategic Report.
Diversity of the Board
Men 80%
Women 20%
Diversity of the Company
Men 83%
Women 17%
Diversity of Senior Managers*
Men 90%
Women 10%
* Sta with job grades 7–12 
 consisting of 136 of 2,833 employees. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
40
t otal directors’ pay 
In line with ARM’s long-standing commitment to ethical values and culture, our aim is to ensure that remuneration policies and practices drive 
behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders. Pay for performance and no reward for failure continue to 
be key principles. At the same time, pay and benefits must be at a level that will attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people with the skills 
necessary to achieve our goal of sustained growth in corporate performance.
We operate in a global market, with the majority of our revenues being earned from companies located outside the UK and with more than 
half our employees being based outside the UK. The Group’s continuing strong performance is due principally to the proven abilities of our 
executive team.
Director
T otal amount  
of salary and fees  
£
All taxable  
benefits  
£*
Bonus payments  
£**
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
executive
Simon Segars**** 400,000  280,000  73,186  93,284  543,454  370,605 
Tim Score 415,000  400,000  26,031  25,178  599,374  529,436 
Mike Muller 285,000  275,000  14,940  15,087  403,718  349,428 
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 250,000  490,000 17,041 15,087 –  622,617 
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 71,250  280,000 11,293 14,692 –  355,781 
T udor Brown (retired 3 May 2012) –  77,586  – 9,741 –  – 
T otal 1,421,250  1,802,586 142,491 173,069 1,546,546  2,227,867 
non-executive
Sir John Buchanan (appointed 3 May 2012) 390,000  258,879  –  –  –  – 
Andy Green 55,000  52,000  –  –  –  – 
Larry Hirst 55,000  52,000  –  –  –  – 
Eric Meurice (appointed 1 July 2013) 27,500  –  –  –  –  – 
Kathleen O’Donovan 70,000  65,000  –  –  –  – 
Janice Roberts 61,399  58,314  –  –  –  – 
Philip Rowley 70,000  65,000  –  –  –  – 
Doug Dunn (retired 3 May 2012) –  62,069  –  –  –  – 
Y oung Sohn (retired 31 December 2012) –  59,906  –  –  –  – 
T otal 728,899  673,168  –  –  –  – 
t otal 2,150,149  2,475,754 142,491 173,069 1,546,546  2,227,867 
*   All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind. In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit and 
Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Mike Muller received a car and petrol allowance. Simon Segars receives living £61,283, transportation and other allowances as part of his 
placement in the US. Warren East, Mike Inglis and Tudor Brown received an additional cash allowance in place of Group pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a 
tax-efficient way. 
**   The bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2013. According to the terms of the DAB Plan, 50% of this bonus is not paid in cash, but is deferred and becomes payable 
in shares after three years. Details of the awards made in February 2012 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
***  These include gains made by Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Warren East on LTIP and DAB plans on their retirements.
****  For the first half of 2013, Simon Segars’ salary was £300,000. Following his appointment to CEO on 1 July 2013, his salary increased to £500,000, resulting in an average for the year  
of £400,000.
gO vernance
remunera tiOn Summary 41
Money and other assets receivable for 
periods of more than one financial year  
£***
All pension-  
related benefits  
£
T otal  
£
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
1,207,360 3,319,547 44,000  30,800 2,268,000 4,094,236
1,727,783 4,783,187 44,156  42,560 2,812,344 5,780,361
1,193,633 3,276,928 32,148  31,020 1,929,439 3,947,463
3,123,688 5,532,865 25,000 49,000 3,415,729 6,709,569
1,680,367 3,341,919 7,125 28,418 1,770,035 4,020,810
 – 1,380,904 – 10,167 – 1,478,398
8,932,831 21,635,350 152,429 191,965 12,195,547 26,030,837
 –  –  –  –  390,000  258,879 
 –  –  –  –  55,000  52,000 
 –  –  –  –  55,000  52,000 
 –  –  –  –  27,500  – 
 –  –  –  –  70,000  65,000 
 –  –  –  –  61,399  58,314 
 –  –  –  –  70,000  65,000 
 –  –  –  –  –  62,069 
 –  –  –  –  –  59,906 
 –  –  –  –  728,899  673,168 
8,932,831 21,635,350 152,429 191,965 12,924,446 26,704,005
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report 42
ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
ARM is working with Literacy Bridge to reach 40,000 mothers in 
Ghana to help improve maternal health (pre and post natal).
www.arm.com/reporting2013
SHaring
Kn OWle Dge 43
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
44
Su StainaB ility
Delivering a SOcial imp act: 
tHr OugH Our tecHnOl Og y ,  
Our cOmp any anD Our peOple
Our ambition is to address global challenges, 
achieve lasting impact and connect our 
charitable partnerships to our long-term 
business goals. Our approach is to:
  work on long-term, strategic partnerships 
with charities;
  use external expertise to define the areas 
of greatest potential;
  co-ordinate and drive collaboration 
between the projects we support; 
Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) are an important part of ARM’s 
business. Our products are focused on 
energy-efficiency and our business model 
is founded on partnership. We are one of 
a handful of companies whose technology 
reaches, from the billionaire to the subsistence 
farmer . T ogether , these factors add up to 
a great opportunity for ARM to achieve a 
positive global impact.
* World Bank report of 2012 on mobile phone use, Information and Communications for Development 2012: Maximizing Mobile.
There are four principal areas to ARM’s CR programme:
Our people across the world make the 
Company successful. Our Sustainability 
and CR activities help engage and support 
them around the broader benefits of ARM 
technology whilst providing volunteering 
opportunities that can really challenge 
their skills.
Responsible corporate behaviour starts 
with engagement and support from the 
most senior team. The Board sets the tone 
and receives an update on objectives and 
progress twice a year . The CR programme 
is then supported by processes, practices 
and individuals throughout the business.
We support innovative charitable projects 
that can help transform our future. 
These range from improving health 
or agriculture practices in developing 
economies to helping young children in the 
UK learn how to write computer code. 
We want to help our local communities. 
We are committed to encouraging our 
staff to put their skills to the service of 
the community, and for ARM to provide 
support to help strengthen the fabric of 
the societies in which it operates.
ARM technology now reaches around 75% of people in the 
world*, making our products amongst the most used, and 
useful, in the world. Now we are looking at how we can reach 
further, supporting projects where ARM technology and the 
ARM ecosystem can be transformative.  45
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report
Our people
ARM’s success relies upon a motivated, 
innovative and highly skilled workforce 
working in an efficient, friendly working 
environment. Maintaining this is our aim. 
Treating everyone equally is an important 
part of our approach, so we provide the 
same benefits to everyone globally.
We encourage a culture of open and 
honest communication at all levels of the 
organisation. There are regular opportunities 
for employees to provide feedback such 
as the Global Employee Survey and our 
open door policy for discussions with the 
executive team.
Emphasis is placed on continuous learning and 
development. We use a blend of education, 
reflection, feedback and direct experience as 
well as formal and on-the-job training. 
Our charity fundraising and volunteering 
programme, T eam ARM, encourages 
teamwork and engagement with ARM’s CR 
areas of interest and strategic charity partners.
We are investing more in T eam ARM in 2014 
to deliver a wider range of opportunities 
for employee engagement in everything 
from charity hackathons to mentoring 
young engineers.
ARM finished 2013 with 2,833 established 
employees, an increase of 18%, in 31 offices 
across 15 countries. Staff turnover dropped 
from 8.0% to 6.8%.
In 2013 we ran 38 internal conferences, 
bringing together a high percentage of our 
employees. We run a Global Graduate 
Conference and last year 88% of the year’s 
graduate intake took part in the week, 
supported by 70 senior staff from across 
the business. Maintaining a global culture 
and unity of purpose is critical and we 
invest accordingly.
Our responsible behaviour
ARM’s business model means that the impact 
of our operations on the environment, 
human rights issues and local communities 
is low. The scale and potential of our 
business ecosystem and technology to make 
a productive contribution to sustainability 
is high. We are committed to reducing 
any environmental impacts we have whilst 
maximising the beneficial aspects of our 
business model and products.
T o help us understand where our risks, 
responsibilities and opportunities lie, ARM 
is a member of United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC) LEAD. LEAD is a group 
of 53 multinationals working with the 
UN towards a more sustainable world by 
implementing their Blueprint for Corporate 
Sustainability Leadership. LEAD companies 
were chosen out of the 7,000 UNGC 
members because of their history of 
engagement with the UN and commitment 
to CR. ARM is represented on both the 
global LEAD and UK network’s advisory 
boards, keeping us in touch with our peers 
and informing how we can contribute to 
sustainability in our immediate operations, our 
ecosystem and more broadly. 
In 2013 we sponsored the creation of a UN 
Climate and Energy Action Hub to enable 
new business partnerships on environmental 
projects. The hub now has 43 organisations 
involved, working together to scale up climate 
and energy efforts. As part of the project, 
ARM is supporting research into the potential 
for smarter appliances to consume less energy 
and reduce peaks in power consumption.
Carbon reduction is an issue that affects 
everyone. Despite independent assessment 
of ARM as an environmentally low-impact 
business, ARM has taken part in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) for the past 
three years. We have been using the CDP 
framework to help us improve the reporting 
and management of our carbon impacts. 
We achieved a 42% improvement on our 
2012 score this year , placing us in Grade C. 
We have made steady progress towards 
our corporate environmental goal for 
energy use and remain committed to our 
carbon emission reduction targets for a 
30% reduction in intensity by headcount by 
2020. At the end of 2013 we had achieved 
a reduction of 18%.
Our energy intensity based on kWh per 
employee has decreased by 19% globally 
based on our 2009 baseline. This has been 
achieved through our commitment to better 
energy performance from our buildings 
alongside improved utility of our estate.
Please refer to the Governance and Financial 
Report page 24 for methodology and 
further data.
Human rights
There is growing interest worldwide in the 
issue of the impact of business on human 
rights. Reflecting this, ARM has worked 
this year with Shift, a specialist non-profit 
organisation working on business and human 
rights, to understand more about this agenda 
and its key guidelines, the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
We are confident that our risk in this area 
is low, but no company can afford to be 
complacent. We have therefore adopted 
a general Human Rights Policy, in addition 
to related existing policies including those 
on conflict minerals, business ethics and 
discrimination. The new Policy underlines 
our commitment to avoiding adverse impact 
on human rights in the way we conduct 
our operations. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
46
Our support for innovation
ARM believes that business has an important 
role to play in charitable work and addressing 
global sustainability issues. It is expected that, 
following the 2015 Millennium Development 
Goals, the post 2015 United Nations 
“Sustainable Development Goals” will 
include the role of business as a key enabler . 
We believe that the technology sector has a 
great deal to offer . 
When working with charities, companies 
are unencumbered by many of the 
constraints faced by charitable foundations 
and governments. We have an opportunity 
to bring charities and businesses together , 
looking at the bigger picture across multiple 
issue areas to develop new ideas that can 
deliver real benefits. Companies are able to 
take more risk and try out ideas that may not 
work; but this is a necessary part of research, 
development and entrepreneurship, subjects 
that are very close to ARM. 
In the past year , ARM has helped launch 
some exciting new initiatives. In early 2013, 
ARM became the first major sponsor of 
Code Club, a non-profit organisation helping 
primary school children learn computer 
coding. ARM’s early support, taking a leap 
of faith in the founders’ vision, led to the 
expansion of the team from two part-time 
founders to four full-time and two part-time 
members of staff. We saw the potential 
for the idea to scale and supported the 
entrepreneurial spirit of the two co-founders. 
ARM employees run 15 clubs and there are 
now a total of over 1,500 clubs across the UK 
supporting 22,000 children. At the time of 
writing, 100 new clubs are started each month 
and next year ARM will be helping Code Club 
deliver more regional support with a goal of 
reaching 25% of all primary schools by the 
end of 2015. We will also be working with the 
founders to help take the Code Club model 
worldwide, using ARM locations around the 
world to help start new Code Clubs.
Literacy Bridge uses “T alking Book” 
technology designed to provide those living 
in extreme poverty with education on health 
and agriculture that can reduce maternal 
and child mortality, hunger and chronic 
malnutrition. ARM has been working with 
Literacy Bridge to develop a long-term 
strategy aiming to empower the world’s 
poorest families. In 2013, we partnered with 
UNICEF in Ghana on a major 18-month 
project that will allow Literacy Bridge to prove 
their model at a scale of 40,000+ people. 
This is a critical milestone as the majority of 
projects fail after the pilot stage. 
UNICEF and ARM have delivered the funding 
for the maternal health component of the 
project. ARM suggested the inclusion of 
Literacy Bridge’s prior work on agriculture, 
which was outside the remit of the UNICEF’s 
project, and provided the additional support 
needed. This is an example of a company’s 
freedom to look at the big picture, and 
across different issue areas, something that 
is challenging for sector-focused charities 
and donors. 
Initial data suggests that educational 
information from Literacy Bridge can help 
people achieve a 48% increase in their crop 
yield. For a subsistence farmer this increase 
is life-changing. In a small health trial in Jirapa 
District, people adopted 90% of applicable 
health messages from the T alking Book.
In 2014, ARM will continue its support for 
Literacy Bridge, focusing on its R&D efforts 
to use ARM’s Cortex M0 within a new chip 
that will deliver a significant reduction in 
manufacturing costs and power consumption 
of the technology.
 
Helping our local communities
ARM’s approach to local community support 
is two-fold; to support activities that impact 
on our employees directly, and to help in 
areas of need that are often neglected. 
We work closely with local charities to advise 
us on where our support is most needed and 
can have the greatest impact.
ARM has been an active supporter of the 
community local to its Cambridge head office 
ever since its foundation. Now, as a global 
company, it is important that we are able 
to support our local communities in all of 
our locations. 
We recognise that the needs of every 
community are different and so we build 
relationships at a local level and encourage 
each office to allocate support to local 
charities or community outreach projects. 
Our aim is to help strengthen the fabric of 
society in the communities around our offices.
ARM is now working with community 
leaders to understand the most pressing local 
needs, whether this is one-off emergency 
support or long-term help for the areas of 
greatest deprivation. 
This is a programme that we will be focusing 
on in 2014. We are confident ARM can 
make as big a contribution to our local 
communities as we have in our strategic 
charitable partnerships.
There are more examples of our charitable 
partnerships, as well as data on all our material 
issues, in the full CR report. We have self-
assessed the CR report at GRI level B 
and it can be found at www.arm.com/
reporting2013.
Su StainaB ility CONTINUED
THERE WERE SO MANY 
THINGS WE DIDN’T k NOW 
ABOu T RAISING HEALTHY 
CHILDREN Bu T Du E TO THE 
TALk ING BOOk, WE LISTEN 
AND LEARN HEALTHY WAYS 
TO RAISE Ou R CHILDREN.
Nadowli Kuubataanono, traditional birth attendant in the 
Jirapa District, Ghana. 47
r iSK management an D principal ri SKS
iDentiFying anD  
managing riSKS
At a strategic level, our risk management 
objectives are to:
  identify ARM’s most significant strategic 
and operational risks;
  develop plans to manage the risks 
identified, with a clear owner assigned to 
each risk;
  ensure that business growth plans are 
properly supported by an effective 
risk infrastructure; 
  help executives improve the control and 
co-ordination of risk taking across the 
business; and
  ensure ARM’s assurance activities are 
focused on the organisation’s key risks.
Strategic risks are managed through a number 
of regular forums where key risks are 
discussed and existing management activities 
challenged. These include regular sessions 
with both the Holdings Board and the 
senior management. 
Operational risks are managed in accordance 
with the ARM Management System (AMS), 
which defines key policies and processes 
across the organisation. ARM has a number 
of sources in place to provide assurance over 
compliance with the AMS.
risk review process
Strategic and operational risks are identified, 
prioritised and reported on within the 
Corporate Risk Register (CRR). The CRR 
includes a description of the overall risk, the 
risk factors, the risk owner , the operational 
response and management activities including 
sources of assurance and the residual 
likelihood and impact.
Risks are identified through senior 
management discussion (top-down) and 
regular reporting from every part of the 
business (bottom-up). Relevant risks are 
entered onto the CRR and given an owner 
at senior management level. ARM’s ongoing 
operations and internal controls may mitigate 
the likelihood and/or the impact of the risk. 
The residual likelihood and impact of the risk 
is assessed to identify any further mitigating 
activities that may be required.
The CRR is monitored by the Risk Review 
Committee, chaired by Mike Muller , Chief 
T echnology Officer . The Risk Review 
Committee meets on a quarterly basis to 
review the CRR. Each risk owner is required 
to review and demonstrate that risks are 
being appropriately managed. A more detailed 
explanation of the Risk Review Committee’s 
activities is included in the Governance and 
Financial Report on pages 19 to 20. The Audit 
Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
risk management framework and ensuring 
that the risk management process is operating 
effectively. The Executive Committee and the 
Board review the CRR on a regular basis. 
internal audit assurance
ARM’s internal audit function develops an 
annual internal audit plan designed to provide 
assurance that the management activities 
for the key risks identified are designed and 
operating effectively.
ARM has a robust risk management process in place to 
identify key risks; assign ownership for each risk at a senior 
management level, identify both existing and planned 
management activities against each risk; assess the residual 
likelihood and impact of each risk; and to ensure ongoing 
monitoring and reporting of each key risk.
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
48
2. a competitor’s product or 
technology may lead to loss of 
market share
ARM faces competition both from large 
semiconductor companies and from smaller 
IP companies. Intel is developing x86-based 
processors for use in PCs and servers, and is 
looking to deploy these chips in markets such 
as tablets, mobile phones and embedded 
markets, including the Internet of Things. 
There are many small semiconductor IP 
companies competing with ARM, especially 
in emerging markets where there are 
lower barriers to entry. Any success by our 
competition would result in a reduction in 
royalty revenue to ARM.
Mitigation
ARM works closely with leading 
semiconductor companies who together have 
a long history of developing cost-efficient, 
low-power chips. T ogether we have created 
a highly competitive market and OEMs have 
enjoyed a wide choice of chips at different 
capabilities and pricing.
ARM’s established ecosystem includes many 
software and chip design engineers who 
understand how to build ARM-based chips 
and write software optimised for ARM 
processors. ARM has enabled thousands 
of companies to offer products that are 
compatible with and support other ARM- 
based technologies, reducing the complexity 
and cost of developing an SOC or product 
around an ARM processor . ARM invests in 
this ecosystem to help further reduce the total 
cost of developing and maintaining a portfolio 
of ARM-based chips.
3. arm may face challenges managing 
its business in new geographic markets
Chinese semiconductor companies have 
become responsible for an increasingly 
significant proportion of ARM’s revenues, 
and we expect that proportion to continue to 
grow. India has had a strong semiconductor 
presence for many years, although revenues 
from that region are smaller . ARM has little 
knowledge and experience of the markets in 
Russia, South America and Africa, which have 
different political cultures to the markets we 
are established in. In all these regions local 
governments are supporting and funding local 
technology companies, which could give rise 
to new competitors and new markets.
Mitigation
ARM has had offices in both China and India 
for many years, and 19% of our workforce is 
split between these two countries. We have 
regional development offices to support the 
other regions, and combined with regular 
visits by management, we track opportunities 
and meet local decision makers.
  See page 18 for a global overview of 
ARM’s business.
4. We could suffer significant damage 
to our brand and reputation
ARM’s technology is used in billions of 
consumer and enterprise products, many of 
which are depended on by individuals and 
businesses, and are used to store, manage 
or transmit huge amounts of personal, 
confidential or proprietary information. 
A fault or bug associated with one of ARM’s 
products could damage ARM’s corporate 
reputation and lead to a loss of brand value.
Mitigation
ARM has rigorous quality assurance, and 
verification and validation processes to reduce 
the risk of faults or bugs. ARM regularly 
gathers feedback from its customers 
and Partners to determine whether the 
perception of ARM is changing, and that 
corrective action can be taken early if 
customers are becoming less satisfied with 
our products or behaviour .
ARM’s principal risks and uncertainties are 
outlined below
1. a change in the industry business 
dynamic may lead to loss of market 
share and/or reduction in value of ip
We work in the highly competitive and fast 
moving semiconductor industry. Many of the 
other companies within this industry are well 
resourced and may consider processor and 
physical IP as attractive markets for them to 
enter with competitive products. Start-up 
and open source technology initiatives could 
develop competing or alternative ways for 
companies to design their chips. The cost 
of developing software in many end market 
applications is increasing, which may also 
result in new technologies that might not 
suit ARM’s current product portfolio or skill 
set. We may not be able to adapt to these 
changes, resulting in a loss of market share.
Mitigation
At the end of 2013 ARM had approximately 
350 Partners, and over 1,000 companies 
in the ARM Connected Community. 
These companies depend on ARM 
technology for part of their business, and 
we meet with thought leaders within our 
industry and related sectors to discuss their 
business context and strategy. ARM is well 
positioned to detect any change within the 
semiconductor industry, and react accordingly. 
ARM’s management team reviews our 
strategy and our long-term product 
development plans to test that we are 
developing the technology to meet the future 
needs of the industry.
  See pages 14–17 for an overview of 
the industry and ARM’s market position.
r iSK management an D principal ri SKS CONTINUED
vi SiOn FO r t He Future 49
7. arm may have to defend itself 
against third-parties who claim that we 
have infringed their proprietary rights
Whilst we take great care to establish and 
maintain the integrity of our products, we 
may have to protect our intellectual property 
or defend our technology against claims that 
we have infringed others’ proprietary rights.
From time to time, third-parties, including 
our competitors, may assert patent, 
copyright and other intellectual property 
rights to technologies that are important 
to our business. Any infringement claim 
brought against us or our Partners, could 
result in substantial costs and divert 
management’s attention.
Any assertion of intellectual property rights 
by a third-party against our technology could 
result in our licensees becoming the target of 
litigation and we may be bound to indemnify 
such licensees under the terms of our 
licence agreements.
Mitigation
We focus on designing and implementing 
our products without the use of intellectual 
property belonging to third-parties, except 
under strictly maintained procedures and with 
the benefit of appropriate licence rights. In the 
event that a third-party successfully proves 
that it has intellectual property rights covering 
a product that we have licensed to customers, 
we will take steps to either purchase a licence 
to use the relevant technology or work 
around the technology by developing our 
own solution so as to avoid infringement of 
that third-party’s intellectual property rights.
From time to time ARM enters into 
cross-licensing agreements and non-assert 
agreements with leading technology 
companies. In 2013, ARM was part of a 
consortium of companies that acquired rights 
to the patent portfolio of MIPS T echnologies 
Inc., which removes the potential risk 
of future litigation from those patents. 
In early 2014, ARM acquired the patent 
portfolio outright.
  See page 55 on the financial impact 
of ARM acquiring the patent portfolio 
of MIPS.
8. Significant concentration in our 
customer base may increase the risk 
to arm’s growth ambitions
Changes in technology trends and/ or economic 
conditions may cause companies within the 
semiconductor industry to consolidate further , 
thereby reducing the number of customers 
that ARM may sell its technology to and 
potentially making ARM more dependent on 
a smaller number of customers. Any change 
to the product plans of a major customer may 
have an impact on the technology that ARM 
was developing, and so result in both additional 
costs, and a delay in revenues.
Mitigation
We have licensed our processor technology 
to approximately 350 Partners, about half 
of which are now paying royalty revenues. 
Much of our royalty and licence revenues 
are generated by the top 20 semiconductor 
companies. ARM typically develops 2–3 new 
processors each year , reducing the impact of a 
customer asking us to change the specification 
of a product.
9. assumptions that fundamentally 
underpin arm’s valuation may be 
undermined, leading to a sudden 
depreciation of share price
ARM’s valuation is based on the financial 
markets’ view of our growth opportunity 
and the value of ARM’s assets. Revisions to 
assessments of our future markets could 
impact estimated cash flows. Changes to 
assumptions about the value of ARM’s assets, 
including goodwill, could lead to the 
impairment of certain of ARM’s assets.
Mitigation
At least once every year , we present to the 
financial markets the latest forecasts on the 
growth of the semiconductor industry and 
ARM’s view of our opportunity to win share 
within that market.
5. arm’s technology may not meet 
customer requirements in the future
The technology industry is characterised 
by rapid change, as new innovation 
continually improves the way that chipsets 
are designed and manufactured, and how 
they are deployed by OEMs and used by 
consumers. A change in the end market 
that does not favour ARM or our business 
model could occur , requiring ARM to either 
change its investment approach or risk losing 
share. Either way, ARM could become less 
profitable in the future as a result of such a 
market change.
Mitigation
ARM has well-established product 
specification and development processes, 
and we work with thought leaders within 
various industries to ensure our technology 
is suitable for next generation digital products. 
We spend some of our R&D budget on 
longer term programmes to investigate 
how new scientific developments might 
impact the industry, and how technologies 
in adjacent markets might impact ARM and 
our ecosystem.
6. arm’s current people, processes 
and/or infrastructure may not be 
adequately scalable to meet our 
growth ambitions
We have grown our headcount rapidly over 
the last few years, as we have hired more 
engineers to develop the next generation of 
processors and the supporting technology our 
customers need. If this growth rate continues 
we may find our existing organisational 
structure, culture and infrastructure cannot be 
adapted to meet the greater number of staff.
Mitigation
Our multi-year planning process includes 
product development reviews alongside 
long-term investment plans for recruitment, 
training, facilities and IT . We also hold regular 
surveys of employees to measure job 
satisfaction and engagement levels across the 
organisation, and in sufficient detail to identify 
early problems with specific teams, locations 
or departments.
Our Vision Our Performance Our c ommitment Our Financial Report
See pages 32 to 37 for an overview 
of ARM’s main markets. ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
50 51
maD e 
t O mea Sure
3D printers, and other advanced manufacturing techniques, are enabling the creation of 
bespoke, solid and usable 3D objects. This reinvention of manufacturing is enabling new types 
of products and prototypes to be efficiently created. 3D printers need smart electronics to 
control them, and ARM-based chips are an ideal choice.
www.arm.com/reporting2013
Our Vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial r eview 52
ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
ARM’s goals are to build a business that will 
grow revenues over an extended period 
and balance increasing investment in product 
development with growth in earnings and 
cash generation. In 2013, we achieved these 
objectives once again, further strengthening 
the platform for future growth.
Figures referred to as “normalised” in 
this narrative, exclude charges relating to 
amortisation of intangible assets (other than 
goodwill) that have arisen on acquisitions; 
share-based payment charges relating to the 
issuance of ARM share-based remuneration 
to employees of the Group; acquisition-
related charges; Linaro-related charges; ARM’s 
share of the results in joint venture; changes 
in the value of and profit on disposal of 
available-for-sale investments; and exceptional 
items. Reconciliations of normalised costs 
and expenses to IFRS costs and expenses are 
shown in tables accompanying this narrative. 
We believe that normalised figures allow for 
clearer comparisons of performance from 
year to year , and enable users of the accounts 
to better assess the underlying financial 
performance of the Group.
Selected financial data/IFRS
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Revenues 714.6 576.9 491.8 406.6 305.0
Cost of revenues (39.3) (31.9) (27.7) (26.1) (25.5)
Gross profit 675.3 545.0 464.1 380.5 279.5
T otal operating expenses before exceptional items (420.5) (336.9) (315.2) (273.5) (233.9)
Exceptional items (101.3) – – – –
T otal operating expenses after exceptional items (521.8) (336.9) (315.2) (273.5) (233.9)
Profit from operations 153.5 208.1 148.9 107.0 45.6
Operating margin 21.5% 36.1% 30.3% 26.3% 15.0%
Investment income, net 13.1 13.6 8.0 3.1 1.6
Share of results in joint venture (4.0) (0.7) – – –
Profit before tax 162.6 221.0 156.9 110.1 47.2
Tax (57.8) (60.3) (44.3) (24.1) (6.8)
Profit for the year 104.8 160.7 112.6 86.0 40.4
Dividends paid 68.9 51.8 42.2 34.3 29.0
Capital expenditure 17.0 33.2 13.0 7.4 6.9
Research and development expenditure 202.9 166.3 165.4 139.7 112.2
Cash, short- and long-term deposits 713.5 527.6 429.0 291.8 141.8
Shareholders’ funds 1,311.4 1,206.1 1,061.2 894.9 738.7
Employees at end of year (number) 2,833 2,392 2,116 1,889 1,710
c HieF Financial OFFicer ’S revie W FOr t He Future  
Our Financial Stra tegy
This review discusses the Group’s results against our key 
financial performance indicators and provides an overview of our 
financial strategy, including how we intend to grow shareholder 
returns over the medium term and our approach to treasury 
and tax planning. 53
Normalised costs and expenses reconciled to IFRS costs and expenses
normalised 
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Intangible 
amortisation  
and acquisition-
related charges
£m
Impairment  
of investments  
net of profit  
on disposals
£m
Exceptional  
items
£m
Linaro-related 
charges
£m
IFRS
£m
2013
Cost of revenues 37.2 2.1 – – – – 39.3
Research and development expenses 148.3 45.1 9.5 – – – 202.9
Sales and marketing expenses 76.7 12.1 0.6 – – – 89.4
General and administrative expenses 101.5 14.7 1.5 3.5 – 7.0 128.2
T otal operating expenses before exceptional items 326.5 71.9 11.6 3.5 – 7.0 420.5
Exceptional items – – – – 101.3 – 101.3
T otal operating expenses after exceptional items 326.5 71.9 11.6 3.5 101.3 7.0 521.8
2012
Cost of revenues 29.8 2.1 – – – – 31.9
Research and development expenses 134.0 25.8 6.5 – – – 166.3
Sales and marketing expenses 64.3 7.7 0.9 – – – 72.9
General and administrative expenses 85.9 9.8 1.4 0.6 – – 97.7
T otal net operating expenses 284.2 43.3 8.8 0.6 – – 336.9
growing revenues
During 2013, ARM achieved record dollar 
revenues of $1,117.7 million, an increase of 
22% over the previous year . 2013 sterling 
revenues of £714.6 million were up 24% 
year-on-year.
Licensing revenues reached new highs as more 
semiconductor companies chose to deploy 
ARM technology in their chips. During the year 
we signed 121 licences with 72 semiconductor 
companies, with 30 companies acquiring their 
first-ever ARM processor licence. T otal dollar 
licensing revenues in 2013 were $447.9 million, 
up 32% year-on-year .
Since 2009, dollar licensing revenues have 
grown at a compound annual growth rate 
(CAGR) of 29%. This growth rate has been 
driven by ARM technology becoming suitable 
for a wider range of end markets, which has 
enabled existing customers to take ARM 
technology into new areas and encouraged 
new customers to select an ARM processor 
for their chip. We expect that ARM’s licensing 
revenue will continue to grow, albeit at a 
more moderate rate, over the medium term.
We also saw record royalty revenues in 2013, 
generated from the sale of more than 10 billion 
ARM-based chips. Since 2009, dollar royalty 
revenues have grown at a CAGR of 23%, 
outperforming the semiconductor industry by 
10-20% per annum. We expect our growth 
will continue to outpace the semiconductor 
industry , driven by market share gains and 
the trend for modern devices to use higher-
value ARM technology . In particular , we see 
opportunities coming from the continued 
adoption of smartphones around the world; 
growth in mobile computing; the deployment 
of ARM processors in servers and enterprise 
networking equipment; and the emergence of 
the Internet of Things.
A comparison of revenues by revenue stream 
between 2013 and 2012 is shown in note 2 to 
the financial statements.
Delivering efficiency
T o underpin growth in our revenues, we 
will continue to expand our employee base 
through increased investment in research and 
development, sales and marketing, and our 
business infrastructure. Over the years, ARM’s 
revenues have grown more quickly than 
costs, giving rise to an increase in normalised 
operating margin from 31.2% in 2009 to 
49.1% in 2013. Over the same period, IFRS 
operating margin rose from 15.0% to 21.5%.
Developing new technology
As semiconductor technology becomes more 
complex, the cost of designing chips and 
microprocessors increases. This trend benefits 
ARM in that it encourages our customers to 
outsource some of their technology needs; 
it also means that each generation of ARM 
technology requires more development effort 
than the last. At 31 December 2013, ARM 
employed 1,961 engineers, a 19% increase 
in the year (2012: 1,652). This represented 
69% of ARM’s total employees (2012: 69%). 
Normalised research and development 
expenditure in 2013 was £148.3 million (IFRS: 
£202.9 million), compared with £134.0 million 
in 2012 (IFRS: £166.3 million), with the 
increase reflecting our ongoing investment in 
new technology development.
In the year to 31 December 2013, ARM filed 
210 patent applications worldwide, bringing 
the total number of patents owned by ARM 
to approximately 3,500. 
Our Vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial r eview ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
54
c HieF Financial OFFicer ’S revie W CONTINUED FOr t He Future
The following table shows non-GAAP measures used in this report; including reconciliations from the IFRS measures. They exclude 
acquisition-related charges; share-based payment costs and related payroll taxes; restructuring charges; profit on disposal and impairment 
of available-for-sale investments; share of results in joint venture; Linaro-related costs; and exceptional items.
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
profit from operations  
(per income statement) 153.5 208.1 148.9 107.0 45.6
Intangible amortisation and acquisition-related charges 11.6 8.8 6.4 11.4 16.2
Share-based payment costs and related payroll taxes 74.0 45.4 57.7 41.9 24.7
Restructuring charges – – – (0.4) 8.4
Profit/loss on sale/impairment of investments 3.5 0.6 1.8 – 0.2
Linaro-related charges 7.0 – 6.9 4.4 –
Exceptional items 101.3 – – – –
normalised profit from operations 350.9 262.9 221.7 164.3 95.1
Normalised operating margin 49.1% 45.6% 45.1% 40.4% 31.2%
Investment income, net 13.1 13.6 8.0 3.1 1.6
Normalised profit before tax 364.0 276.5 229.7 167.4 96.7
T ax (per IFRS income statement) (57.8) (60.3) (44.3) (24.1) (6.8)
T ax impact of above charges (15.6) (11.0) (14.2) (17.0) (19.1)
Normalised profit after tax 290.6 205.2 171.2 126.3 70.8
normalised diluted epS (pence) 20.59 14.70 12.45 9.34 5.45
iFrS diluted epS (pence) 7.43 11.51 8.19 6.36 3.11
Supporting our growth 
ARM continues to invest in our finance, IT , 
HR and legal teams to ensure that we have 
a robust infrastructure to support growth. 
In the year to 31 December 2013, ARM’s 
normalised general and administrative costs 
were £101.5 million (IFRS: £128.2 million), 
compared with £85.9 million in 2012 (IFRS: 
£97.7 million). As well as increasing our 
research and development capacity, we 
invested in our teams that support the 
deployment of ARM’s technology and in the 
development of the organisation. 
paying our taxes
ARM’s tax strategy is to enhance shareholder 
value by minimising its tax liabilities through 
the use of legitimate tax exemptions and 
tax reliefs. Many governments encourage 
innovation by offering tax incentives to 
companies that develop new technologies.
ARM is committed to paying the correct 
taxes in each relevant jurisdiction and follows 
a policy of full disclosure in its dealings with 
the tax authorities worldwide. The Board has 
oversight of ARM’s tax strategy and regularly 
reviews key developments that may influence 
the Group’s global tax position.
This includes approximately 500 patents 
acquired from MIPS T echnologies, Inc in 
January 2014.
Nurturing the ecosystem
T o ensure that ARM’s products offer an 
attractive value proposition to our Partners, we 
are in continuous dialogue with semiconductor 
companies and OEMs. As part of this dialogue, 
we provide technical support to our licensees 
and promote awareness of our long-term 
product development roadmap. In October 
2013, ARM held its annual technology 
conference, where 5,000 engineers and 
developers, from across the ARM Partnership, 
came together to learn about ARM’s roadmap 
and to share their knowledge and experience 
of using ARM technology , whilst discussing 
their plans for developing future ARM-based 
products. This included companies such as 
semiconductor designers and manufacturers, 
OEMs and equipment developers, software 
and hardware tools vendors, and software and 
training providers. In the year to 31 December 
2013, ARM’s normalised sales and marketing 
spend was £76.7 million (IFRS: £89.4 million), 
compared with £64.3 million in 2012 (IFRS: 
£72.9 million). The year-on-year increase 
reflects the increased investment in customer 
support and marketing activities. 55
managing our financial assets
ARM’s business model is highly cash 
generative. Between 2009 and 2013, ARM 
paid out £226.2 million in dividends and 
our normalised net cash balance grew 
from £141.8 million at the end of 2009 to 
£706.3 million at the end of 2013.
Dividends 
The directors are recommending payment 
of a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 3.6 
pence per share which, taken together with 
the interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share 
paid in October 2013, gives a total dividend 
in respect of 2013 of 5.7 pence per share, an 
increase of 27% over 4.5 pence per share in 
2012. The total cash outflow from dividends 
paid in 2013 amounted to £68.9 million 
(2012: £51.8 million).
Since 2009, our dividend has grown at a 
CAGR of 24%. In 2013, the recommended 
dividend per share was equal to 28% of our 
normalised diluted earnings per share (77% 
of IFRS diluted earnings per share).
Subject to shareholder approval, the final 
dividend for 2013 will be paid on 16 May 
2014 to shareholders on the register on 
22 April 2014. 
Share buybacks 
Between 2005 and 2008, the Company 
bought back 213 million shares (being 16% 
of issued share capital) at a total cost of 
£261 million. No share buybacks have been 
undertaken since 2008. The rolling authority 
to buy back shares given by the shareholders 
at the 2013 AGM remains in place and a 
resolution to authorise the directors to make 
purchases in appropriate circumstances will be 
proposed at the 2014 AGM. 
At 1.4 billion shares, the total share count 
is similar to the level outstanding at the 
commencement of the 2005 to 2008 rolling 
share buyback programme. It is our intention 
to continue to maintain a flat share count over 
time by offsetting dilution from share-based 
remuneration with further share buybacks. 
A large proportion of ARM’s products 
are developed in the UK, where the 
government offers credits to companies 
with R&D commitments. In April 2013, the 
UK government provided further incentive 
for companies to invest in the UK with the 
introduction of the Patent Box tax legislation, 
which allows companies to apply for a lower 
rate of Corporation T ax on profits earned 
from patented technologies. The lower rate 
of tax is being phased-in between April 2013 
and April 2017.
ARM also develops technology in the US and 
France, where the respective governments 
also offer R&D tax credits. In 2013, ARM’s 
normalised effective tax rate was 20.2% (IFRS: 
35.5%), which reflects the benefit of the 
Patent Box legislation and other R&D credits.
ARM’s normalised profit before tax in 2013 
was £364.0 million (IFRS: £162.6 million). 
ARM’s total tax contribution worldwide 
in 2013 amounted to £162.5 million 
(2012: £152.4 million), of which £133.8 million 
(2012: £121.7 million) related to tax collected 
on behalf of the tax authorities for employee 
payroll taxes; £23.3 million (2012: £26.1 million) 
related to corporation taxes; £1.7 million 
(2012: £1.3 million) to property taxes; and 
£3.7 million (2012: £3.3 million) related to 
other taxes.
Acquisition strategy
The rapid pace of technological change 
in the semiconductor industry presents 
opportunities for ARM to apply its business 
model to new products or into new 
markets. On occasion, ARM has identified a 
strategic opportunity to buy-in IP rather than 
developing it internally. Such opportunities can 
take the form of an acquisition, an investment 
in a start-up company, or the acquisition or 
licensing of third-party patents. 
In 2013, ARM spent a total of £21.1 million 
on two acquisitions (2012: £nil): Sensinode, 
a Finnish company with expertise in low-
power radio communications software; and 
Geomerics, a 3D-graphics software business. 
More details on these acquisitions can be 
found in note 19 to the financial statements.
Acquisition of patent portfolios and 
indemnification costs
In late 2012, ARM became a participant in a 
consortium of major technology companies 
that formed Bridge Crossing LLC, to acquire 
rights to MIPS T echnologies, Inc’s portfolio of 
approximately 500 patents. In February 2013, 
the consortium acquired the patent rights 
for $350 million, of which ARM contributed 
$167.5 million. ARM’s contribution was 
classified within current assets as available-
for-sale ($100.5 million) and other intangibles 
($67.0 million) in the financial statements. 
The available-for-sale financial asset 
represented ARM’s right to receive cash 
from the Group’s financial interest in the 
consortium, as it was anticipated that a 
programme of licensing the patents to third- 
parties would be undertaken. The other 
intangible asset consists of intellectual 
property rights that are being amortised 
over a period of eight and a half years, 
being the average remaining life of the 
underlying patents.
Our Vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial r eview ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
56
c HieF Financial OFFicer ’S revie W CONTINUED FOr t He Future
Treasury policy
The Group has established treasury policies 
aimed both at mitigating the impact of foreign 
exchange fluctuations on reported profits 
and cash flows, and at ensuring appropriate 
returns are earned on the Group’s cash 
resources. The consolidated cash, cash 
equivalents, and deposits was £706.3 million 
net of accrued interest of £7.2 million as at 
31 December 2013 (2012: £520.2 million 
net of accrued interest of £7.4 million). 
Net investment 
income was £13.1 million for 2013 compared 
to £13.6 million in 2012. The decrease is due 
primarily to the lower interest rates available 
on cash deposits in 2013.
Further information on financial risk 
management, (including currency, interest 
rate, securities price, credit and liquidity risks) 
is provided in notes 1 (c), 11 and 17 to the 
financial statements on pages 77, 90 and 97.
Analysis of cash and normalised cash flow
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
2011 
£m
2010 
£m
2009 
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 46.3 26.8 29.4 34.5
Short-term deposits 544.1 340.0 319.1 247.4 105.5
Short-term marketable securities – – – – 1.8
Long-term deposits 125.6 141.3 83.1 15.0 –
Less: interest accrued (7.2) (7.4) (5.0) (1.7) –
normalised net cash, at end of year 706.3 520.2 424.0 290.1 141.8
Less:
Normalised net cash, at start of year (520.2) (424.0) (290.1) (141.8) (78.8)
Cash inflow from exercise of share options (6.0) (5.6) (8.5) (24.0) (19.1)
Cash inflow from sale of available-for -sale securities – – – (0.1) (0.7)
Add back:
Cash outflow from payment of dividends 68.9 51.8 42.2 34.3 29.0
Cash outflow from advance payment to the MIPS 
patent consortium – 104.5 – – –
Cash outflow/(inflow) from investments and 
acquisitions (net of cash acquired) 25.6 (8.8) 17.3 11.0 9.7
Cash outflow from investment in joint venture 3.7 7.5 – – –
Cash outflow from restructuring payments – – – 4.5 3.5
Cash outflow from other acquisition-related 
payments 4.6 3.8 3.1 – –
Cash outflow from share-based payroll taxes 16.3 14.4 12.4 3.2 0.7
Cash outflow from payments related to Linaro 3.5 3.5 3.4 2.7 –
Cash outflow from IP indemnity and similar charges 41.8 – – – –
normalised net cash generation 344.5 267.3 203.8 179.9 86.1
In the fourth quarter of 2013, the trust made 
a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing 
programme and ARM, believing there to be 
a significant long-term strategic advantage in 
owning this intellectual property, purchased 
the patents outright for $4m in the first 
quarter of 2014. As a result of this, there is 
no future cash to be received from Bridge 
Crossing and subsequently the available-for-
sale investment has been impaired, giving 
rise to a non-cash exceptional charge of 
£59.5 million.
In the second and third quarters of 2013, 
ARM acquired a patent portfolio and 
indemnified a licensee’s legal costs related 
to that patent portfolio for a total cost of 
£41.8 million. The cost of acquiring the patent 
portfolio and associated indemnification costs 
have been classified as exceptional items in 
the financial statements. More details on the 
exceptional items can be found in note 6 to 
the financial statements. 
Equity investments
ARM occasionally invests in innovative 
companies that operate in ARM’s key 
markets. Any such investments are made 
on commercial terms, usually alongside 
venture capital firms and other financial 
investors. At the end of December 2013, 
ARM’s investment portfolio was valued at 
£13.9 million (2012: £13.8 million).  57
principal risks and uncertainties
In line with the guidance for the preparation 
of an operating and financial review, the 
principal risk factors faced by the Group 
are identified in the “Risk Management and 
Principal Risks” section on pages 47 to 49. 
Details of other risks and uncertainties faced 
by the Group are noted within the Annual 
Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 
31 December 2013, which is available on 
ARM’s website at www.arm.com. 
Further details of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management procedures 
are included in the Governance and 
Financial Report.
Segmental reporting
Internally, up to 31 December 2013, ARM 
was organised on a worldwide basis into three 
main business segments, being the Processor 
Division (PD), the Physical IP Division (PIPD) 
and the System Design Division (SDD). 
Whilst revenues are also reported into four 
main revenue streams (namely licensing, 
royalties, software and tools and services), the 
costs, operating results and balance sheet are 
only analysed into these three divisions.
ARM’s strategy is to deploy this internal 
organisation to develop and license 
technology to semiconductor companies 
so that ARM-based products gain market 
share in long-term growth markets such as 
mobile phones, tablets, consumer electronics, 
enterprise applications and embedded digital 
devices. In communicating our progress 
against this strategy externally on an ongoing 
basis, we have developed key performance 
indicators which enable investors and analysts 
to track how ARM is performing in market 
share terms in these markets. Therefore, 
the commentary on strategy and KPIs in the 
Strategic Report focuses on our progress in 
penetrating these end markets as we believe 
this is the clearest way for investors and 
analysts to understand ARM’s progress against 
its long-term strategic objectives.
PD revenues (including revenues from 
services) in 2013 were £596.2 million  
($931.5 million), compared with 
£473.9 million ($749.8 million) in 2012. 
PD licensing revenues are driven by 
customers’ ongoing R&D programmes. 
Royalty revenues increased in 2013 as ARM 
technology continued to gain market share.
PIPD revenues in 2013 were £82.0 million 
($129.1 million), compared with £68.3 million 
($108.4 million) in 2012. PIPD revenues 
increased as a result of more companies 
choosing to outsource their physical IP 
development to ARM. SDD revenues in 2013 
were £36.4 million ($57.1 million), compared 
with £34.7 million ($54.9 million) in 2012.
Profit before tax in the year for PD was 
£169.6 million, compared to £230.6 million 
in 2012. Normalised profit before tax in 2013 
for PD was £345.5 million, compared to 
£266.7 million in 2012. The decrease in profit 
before tax reflects the exceptional items that 
were charged to the income statement in 
2013. Under the normalised measure, profit 
before tax in PD increased, mainly as a result 
of increased revenues. 
Loss before tax in the year for PIPD 
was £8.7 million, compared to a loss of 
£14.5 million in 2012. Normalised profit 
before tax in 2013 for PIPD was £5.4 million, 
compared to a normalised loss before tax 
of £3.4 million in 2012. Loss before tax 
in the period for SDD was £6.2 million, 
compared to £5.4 million in 2012. Normalised  
profit before tax in 2013 for SDD was 
£1.2 million, compared to £1.4 million 
in 2012. The improved results in both of 
these business segments are primarily due 
to increased revenues.
As part of the ongoing evolution of the 
business, the Group’s divisional structure was 
re-organised on 1 January 2014. As a result 
of this change, the Group’s business segments 
may change for future reporting periods in 
order to reflect this new organisation.
A more detailed segmental analysis is 
provided in note 2 to the financial statements.
This Strategic Report is approved by the 
board of directors.
By Order of the Board
t im Sc Ore
chief Financial Officer
Our Vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial r eview ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
58
For the year ended 31 December
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
revenues 714.6 576.9
Cost of revenues (39.3) (31.9)
gross profit 675.3 545.0
Operating expenses
Research and development (202.9) (166.3)
Sales and marketing (89.4) (72.9)
General and administrative (128.2) (97.7)
t otal operating expenses before exceptional items (420.5) (336.9)
exceptional items (101.3) –
t otal operating expenses after exceptional items (521.8) (336.9)
profit from operations 153.5 208.1
Investment income 13.3 13.9
Interest payable and similar charges (0.2) (0.3)
Share of results in joint venture (4.0) (0.7)
profit before tax 162.6 221.0
T ax (including £8.6 million in respect of exceptional items) (57.8) (60.3)
profit for the year 104.8 160.7
earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings 104.8 160.7
number of shares (millions)
Basic weighted average number of shares 1,396.4 1,375.1
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 15.4 20.7
Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,411.8 1,395.8
Basic EPS 7.5p 11.7p
Diluted EPS 7.4p 11.5p
All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations. 
Summary acc Ount S
cOnSOliD a teD 
incOme St a tement 59
Our Vision Our Performance Our Commitment Our Financial r eview
For the year ended 31 December
2013 
£m
2012 
£m
assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 46.3
Short-term deposits 544.1 340.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 5.1 1.4
Accounts receivable 136.2 124.5
Available-for-sale financial assets 1.2 –
Prepaid expenses and other assets 39.8 135.6
Current tax assets 6.9 13.9
Inventories 3.0 2.3
t otal current assets 780.1 664.0
Non-current assets:
Long-term deposits 125.6 141.3
Loans and receivables 3.0 2.1
Available-for-sale financial assets 13.9 13.8
Investment in joint venture 6.5 6.8
Prepaid expenses and other assets 1.6 2.0
Property , plant and equipment 33.6 36.1
Goodwill 525.9 519.4
Other intangible assets 82.9 11.2
Deferred tax assets 65.3 70.1
t otal non-current assets 858.3 802.8
t otal assets 1,638.4 1,466.8
liabilities 
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable 7.0 5.9
Embedded derivatives 7.0 2.5
Accrued and other liabilities 88.1 79.3
Finance lease liabilities 2.7 2.9
Current tax liabilities 18.8 16.6
Deferred revenue 156.7 126.4
t otal current liabilities 280.3 233.6
Non-current liabilities:
Accrued and other liabilities 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 1.5 2.9
Deferred tax liabilities 0.1 –
Deferred revenue 42.5 24.2
t otal non-current liabilities 46.7 27.1
t otal liabilities 327.0 260.7
net assets 1,311.4 1,206.1
capital and reserves attributable to owners of the company
Share capital 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 18.1 12.2
Capital reserve 354.3 354.3
Share option reserve 61.4 61.4
Retained earnings 820.6 703.3
Cumulative translation adjustment 56.3 74.2
t otal equity 1,311.4 1,206.1
Summary acc Ount S
cOnSOliD a teD 
Balance SHeet 60
ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARM7/9/11 ARM7 processor was one of ARM’s first commercial products. 
ARM9 and ARM11 processors followed later .
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip; one (big) that delivers high-performance when 
needed with the other (LITTLE) running most of the time enabling long battery-life.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Cortex ARM’ s latest family of processors.
DTV Digital TV .
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs and  
software providers.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips are typically manufactured by a foundry . 
For example Mediatek, NVIDIA and Qualcomm.
Foundry foundry is a specialist company that manufacturers computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor companies. 
For example TSMC and UMC.
Intellectual Property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general term for the products that are designs only , or are 
creations of the mind, is intellectual property .
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet either directly or indirectly via a 
smartphone. From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners. They pay an upfront free, which is reported 
as “licence revenue” .
LTE Long T erm Evolution (or 4G) is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones. It is optimised for data 
streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
Mali ARM’ s family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has/can be used in many applications. Most ARM 
processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) (OEM) An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. For example Apple, HTC or LG
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation a SoC design.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
POP IP Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a processor on a specific foundry’s 
manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling 
price of the chip and is reported as “royalty revenue” .
STB Set-top box.
System-on-Chip (SoC) A SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip. Most ARM processors 
are used in either an SoC or MCU.
g l OSSary
Key termS explaineD ARM Holdings plc
Strategic Report 2013
our vision
  Operational highlights 2
  Financial highlights 3
  Chairman’s review 4
  Chief Executive’s statement 6
 o ur Performance
  Our marketplace 14
  Our business model 16
  Our global reach 18
  Strategy and key performance 
indicators 20
  Mobile computing 32
  Enterprise infrastructure 34
  Embedded computing 36
 o ur Commitment
 Governance 38
 Sustainability 44
  Risk Management and principal risks 47
o ur Financial Review
  Chief Financial Officer’s review 52
  Summary accounts 58
 Glossary 60
g overnance 
  Chairman’s introduction 
  Board of Directors 
  Corporate governance 
  Directors’ report 
  Directors remuneration report 
Financial Report
  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc 
  Consolidated income statement 
  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
  Consolidated balance sheet 
  Consolidated cash flow statement 
  Consolidated statement of changes  
in shareholders’ equity 
  Notes to the financial statements 
  Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 
  Notes to the financial statements/
UK GAAP 
  Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of ARM Holdings plc
g lossary and g roup directory 
  Glossary 
  Group directory 
  Key shareholder information 
Front cover 
Most major population centres are covered 
by 3G or 4G networks, and there were 
more than two billion smartphones and 
tablets connecting to the internet in 2013. 
With some mobile computers now costing 
as little as $35, many more people can 
afford to buy a smart device. An entry-
level mobile computer may have up to 
four ARM
®
-based chips.
Downloads
More information about ARM and our 
end market opportunities are available 
on our web site.
Reports available online:
  Strategic Report
  Governance and Financial Report
  Corporate Responsibility Report
ARM’s Annual Report is in two parts. The Strategic Report contains 
information about the Group, how we make money and how we run 
the business. It includes our strategy, business model, markets and 
key performance indicators, as well as our approach to governance, 
sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our 
financial management.
A copy of the Governance and Financial Report can be downloaded 
from www.arm.com/reporting2013. 
The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about 
how we run the business and remunerate management, and how 
we organise ourselves financially.
Online you can find more information about our end markets, 
including case studies about how our technology is used in our 
customers’ products. A more detailed Corporate Responsibility 
report is also available online.
StRA tegi C  
RePo Rt
g ove RnAn Ce An D  
FinAn CiAl R ePo Rt
o nline  
RePo Rting
wel CoMe t o oUR  
StRA tegiC ReP oR t
www.arm.com/reporting2013
The auditors’ report on the financial statements and the auditors’ statement under section 
496 of the Companies Act on whether the information given in Strategic Report and 
Directors’ report (for the financial year ended 31 December 2013) is consistent with the 
Group financial statements were both unqualified and can be found on page 55 of the 
Governance and Financial Report.
If want to inform us of a change address 
or have lost your share certificate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
equiniti Shareholder Services
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK
Phone: 0871 384 2139
www.equiniti.com
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team:
ian t hornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 400796
E-mail: ian.thornton@arm.com
Phil Sparks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 405566
E-mail: philip.sparks@arm.com
l aura Faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead, SL6 8LT
Phone: +44 1628 427800
E-mail: laura.faid@arm.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and contains 100% recycled waste. The paper 
is Process Chlorine Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 
environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently 
audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process. 
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM 
Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
inve StoR Rel Ation S 
ContAC t D etA il S AUDito RS’ St AteM ent
  ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMCommunity
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armflix
en Abling innov Ation 
eve Ryw HeRe
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMCommunity
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armflix
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report
effective gove RnAnce  
And st Rong f inAnci Al 
pe Rfo RMAnce
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report g overnance 
  Chairman’s introduction 1
  Board of directors 4
  Corporate governance 6
  Directors’ report 23
  Directors’ remuneration report 29
f inancial Report
  Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of ARM Holdings plc 55
  Consolidated income statement 60
  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 60
  Consolidated balance sheet 61
  Consolidated cash flow statement 62
  Consolidated statement of changes  
in shareholders’ equity 63
  Notes to the financial statements 64
  Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 109
  Notes to the financial statements/ 
UK GAAP 110
  Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of ARM Holdings plc 115
g lossary and g roup directory
 Glossary 117
  Group directory 118
  Key shareholder information 120
o ur vision
  Operational highlights 
  Financial highlights 
  Chairman’s review 
  Chief Executive’s statement 
 o ur performance
  Our marketplace 
  Our business model 
  Our global reach 
  Strategy and key  
performance indicators 
  Mobile computing 
  Enterprise infrastructure 
  Embedded computing 
o ur c ommitment
  Governance 
  Sustainability 
  Risk management and principal risks
o ur f inancial Review
  Chief Financial Officer’s review 
  Summary accounts 
 Glossary  
f ront cover 
Most major population centres are now 
covered by 3G or 4G networks, and there 
were more than two billion smartphones 
and tablets connecting to the internet in 
2013. With some mobile computers now 
costing as little as $35, many more people 
can now afford to buy a smart device. 
An entry-level mobile computer may have 
up to four ARM
®
-based chips.
d ownloads
More information about ARM and our 
end market opportunities are available 
on our website.
Reports available online:
  Strategic Report
  Governance and Financial Report
  Corporate Responsibility Report
ARM’s annual report is in two parts. The Strategic Report contains 
information about the Group, how we make money and how we run 
the business. It includes our strategy, business model, markets and 
key performance indicators, as well as our approach to governance, 
sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our 
financial management.
The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about 
how we run the business and remunerate management, and how 
we organise ourselves financially.
Online you can find more information about our end markets, 
including case studies about how our technology is used in our 
customers’ products. A more detailed Corporate Responsibility 
report is also available online.
g ove RnAnce And  
f inAnci Al Repo Rt
  
s tRA tegic R epo Rt
  
o nline Repo Rting
WelcoMe to oUR goveRnAnce  
And finAnciAl RepoR t
www.arm.com/reporting2013
equiniti s hareholder s ervices
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK
Phone: 0871 384 2139
www.equiniti.com
ian t hornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 400796
E-mail: ian.thornton@arm.com
phil s parks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 405566
E-mail: philip.sparks@arm.com
l aura faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead, SL6 8LT
Phone: +44 1628 427800
E-mail: laura.faid@arm.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and contains 100% recycled waste. The paper 
is Process Chlorine Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 
environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently 
audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process. 
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM 
Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
investoR Rel Ations cont Act det Ails 
 
If want to inform us of a change address 
or have lost your share certificate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team: Governance Financial Report
1
Chairman’s i ntrodu Ction
a strong and effeCtive 
governanCe system
The Board’s aim is to nurture a working 
environment in which the highest standards 
of behaviour are established, demonstrated 
and maintained in all our activities. This helps 
us to run the Group effectively and exercise 
judgement to manage the risks that we face 
to levels that are commensurate with the 
nature of our business. There are 
well-defined differences in roles between the 
executive and non-executive directors and 
their combined contributions as an 
experienced, but healthily diverse, team add 
value to the debate, decision making and 
development of strategy that are so crucial 
to the Group’s success. 
The Board actively considers long-term 
strategy, monitors, challenges and supports 
the work of the Executive Committee, and 
is responsible for Board and executive 
management succession. My role as 
Chairman is to provide the leadership to 
ensure high quality decision making in all 
areas of strategy, performance, responsibility 
and accountability. 
As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility 
for the Group’s performance and for 
overseeing the management of risk. We seek 
to do this through a strong and effective 
governance system and by setting and 
following the standards that we expect from 
all our employees. These standards are 
enshrined in ARM’s seven shared values, 
which are listed below.
This part of the report explains how we 
comply with good corporate governance 
principles, describes how the Board 
and its Committees work to provide 
appropriate oversight, and our approach 
to risk management and internal control. 
Risk management and principal risks are also 
covered on pages 47 to 49 of the Strategic 
Report. During 2013, management reviewed 
and improved our risk assessment and 
reporting framework under the guidance 
of Kathleen O’Donovan, who chairs the 
Audit Committee, and with assistance from 
external advisers. We need to ensure that 
dear shareholder
Welcome to ARM’s 2013 Governance and 
Financial Report. This is the first year we have 
created the annual report as two documents: 
a Strategic Report containing an update on 
ARM’s progress during the year , a summary of 
our approach to governance, and our financial 
results; and a separate document giving more 
detail on governance at ARM and our full 
accounts. We believe that these two 
documents together fulfil the best practice 
guidelines given by the UK Government’s 
Department for Business Innovation and 
Skills. As ever we welcome your feedback, 
and you can contact us via the investor 
relations website at www.arm.com/ir .
s ir John Bu Chanan
Chairman
This report explains the Board’s commitment to good 
corporate governance, corporate responsibility and the 
highest ethical standards. We believe that effective governance 
is an essential contributor to our sustained improvement in 
business performance. 
“Operating with integrity in all we do is vital to maintain the trust 
of investors, customers, our employees and other stakeholders. 
This requires leadership, ethical behaviour and collaboration.”  ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
2
our processes are fit for purpose, and that the 
information that comes to the Board focuses 
on the principal risks and appropriately informs 
our ongoing risk appetite discussions. 
directors and succession planning 
As part of our planned and continuing 
evolution of the Board there were a number 
of changes in 2013, and further changes are 
planned in 2014.
Simon Segars succeeded Warren East as 
Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013 and 
the strong financial performance achieved for 
the full year demonstrates that the transition 
has been seamless and well executed. 
The Board was delighted to have a candidate 
of Simon’s experience and calibre within ARM 
to appoint to this role. Following an extensive 
externally conducted review of candidates 
worldwide, Simon’s proven technology 
expertise and management skills across a 
range of senior executive roles resulted in 
him being selected. His initiatives in the period 
since his appointment, including changes to 
the organisation structure to better address 
the needs of our customers, confirm that he 
is highly qualified to take the Group forward.
Warren retired after nearly 12 years as CEO 
and 19 outstanding years with the Group. 
He built a strong platform for growth and 
consistently created value for shareholders, 
even in a challenging external environment. 
On behalf of the Board and the wider ARM 
team, deep thanks are due to Warren for his 
passion, service and leadership. The Board 
was delighted to see Warren’s achievements 
acknowledged through the award of a CBE in 
the 2014 New Y ear’s Honours List. Mike Inglis 
also retired from the Board on 31 March 
2013 and left with our sincere thanks and 
good wishes.
In January 2014 we announced that, with 
much regret, I have requested that I step 
down as Chairman of ARM, due to a medical 
condition. The Board conducted a thorough 
search, led by the Senior Independent 
Director , and was pleased to welcome 
Stuart Chambers to the Board as Chairman 
designate on 27 January 2014. He took over 
as Chairman on 1 March 2014. Stuart is 
Chairman of Rexam plc and a non-executive 
director of T esco PLC. Up to 2009, he was 
the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet 
Glass Group which acquired Pilkington plc in 
2006, where he was Chief Executive. Prior to 
the glass industry, Stuart held a number 
of senior positions at Mars, Inc., having 
previously spent ten years in several European 
roles at Royal Dutch Shell plc. 
It has been a great privilege to serve as 
Chairman of ARM and I have greatly enjoyed 
my time on the Board of this fine company. 
Due to the medical uncertainties, it is right 
that I should step aside at this time and I wish 
the Group well under its new leadership. I will 
continue as an independent non-executive 
director until the AGM on 1 May 2014 and 
will then retire from the Board. 
Philip Rowley will also be retiring from the 
Board at the AGM, on the ninth anniversary 
of his election by shareholders. On behalf 
of the Board I want to express our deep 
appreciation to Philip for his excellent, wide 
ranging contributions during his tenure. 
He chaired the Remuneration Committee 
until 31 December 2013, before that was 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and he 
has also been a long-standing member of the 
Nomination Committee. We offer our deep 
thanks and wish him well for the future.
The Board reflects a balance between 
technology sector , commercial, financial 
and general business skills, with a highly 
experienced international team leading the 
business in both executive and non-executive 
roles. We were pleased to welcome Eric 
Meurice to the Board in July 2013. He brings 
a wealth of experience of the semiconductor 
industry having been President and CEO of 
ASML Holding NV (a leading provider of 
manufacturing equipment and technology 
to the semiconductor industry) from 2004 
until 2013. 
The Nomination Committee is seeking further 
candidates as independent non-executive 
directors with appropriate skills, experience 
and diversity to complement our existing 
Board members and maintain, collectively , 
an effective Board. 
Reports from the various Board Committees 
and details of their current composition are 
covered in more detail in the Corporate 
Governance and Remuneration reports below.
During 2013, the Board played an important 
role in successfully guiding ARM through 
the Chief Executive Officer transition and 
ensuring that the Group’s performance 
targets were achieved in the challenging 
and competitive economic environment. 
The Board also provided clear strategic 
direction and ensured that the Group’s 
standards of conduct met its expectations.
The roles and specific expertise of the current 
members of the Board are set out in the 
Biographies section on pages 4 to 5.
diversity
After the changes referred to above, the 
Board will comprise three executive directors, 
the Chairman, and five non-executive 
directors. At the year end there were eight 
men (80%) and two women (20%) which 
broadly reflects the gender diversity of ARM’s 
workforce as a whole.
Diversity of the Board
Men 80%
Women 20%
The Board noted the publication of Lord 
Davies’ Review into Women on Boards in 
February 2011 and the proposals published 
by the European Commission in November 
2012 (the latter of which includes an objective 
that 40% of non-executive directors should 
be women by 2020). We believe that diversity 
should be considered broadly, as well as 
focusing on gender . It is important to achieve 
the correct balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board. We will continue 
to make appointments on merit and also to 
value diversity in its broadest context.
Chairman’s i ntrodu Ction CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
3
development of strategy
The Board’s work on defining our short- and 
long-term strategic priorities at this important 
stage in the Group’s development is receiving 
increased focus. We undertook a detailed 
strategy review in September and the next in-
depth strategy meeting is scheduled for April 
2014. This meeting will focus on progress to 
date and future plans to take advantage of 
the significant opportunities that have been 
identified. These opportunities are in areas 
that include the evolving Internet of Things, 
efficient networking, ARM-powered servers 
and security applications. More details are 
included in the Strategic Report that forms the 
other part of ARM’s Annual Report 2013.
Corporate governance framework 
and role of the Board
The Group’s corporate governance 
framework is built around three pillars:
  Organisation, structure and processes.
  The internal control framework.
  Independent assurance.
ARM has its primary listing on the London 
Stock Exchange and is also listed on 
the NASDAQ Stock Market in the US. 
Throughout 2013, the Group complied 
fully with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (September 2012) and also with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US). The Board 
values good corporate governance and this 
is reflected in our governance principles, 
policies and practices, and our everyday 
working processes. This approach is backed 
by continuous improvement based on 
measurement against internal and external 
audits by both Lloyds Register Quality 
Assurance and the external auditors, 
benchmarking and a rigorous approach to 
risk management. 
remuneration
ARM’s remuneration policy seeks to 
align the interests of executive directors, 
senior management and shareholders, 
and is structured to enable the Group 
to attract, motivate and retain the talent 
required to deliver the business strategy. 
The Remuneration Committee, under Philip 
Rowley’s chairmanship, undertook a review 
of executive remuneration policy during 2012, 
which resulted in the approval of our new 
Long-T erm Incentive Plan by shareholders 
at the 2013 AGM. The changes, which take 
effect in 2014, reflect the latest guidelines and 
the desire of shareholders for: 
  the simplification of incentive plans 
for executives; 
  longer holding periods for shares; 
  increased share ownership requirements. 
Details of how these principles have been 
applied are included in the policy section of 
the Remuneration report. As was the case 
last year , we also include total remuneration 
figures for executive directors in the report.
The Board is cognisant of the general 
sensitivity relating to executive director 
remuneration. We are committed to the 
principle that there should be no reward for 
failure and believe that the increased emphasis 
on long-term performance-related pay, longer 
holding periods and increased shareholding 
requirements are appropriate and ensure 
that ARM’s remuneration policy does not 
encourage inappropriate risk taking. 
ethics and values
All directors and employees are required 
to act fairly, honestly and with integrity, and 
to demonstrate that they have read and 
understand the Group’s Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which is 
published on the corporate website at 
www.arm.com. Our Human Rights Policy is 
now incorporated in our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics.
As part of our commitment to the highest 
standards of business conduct and ethics, we 
have implemented enhanced communication 
and training programmes to ensure that 
all employees worldwide understand the 
requirements of all relevant legislation, 
including the UK Bribery Act 2010 (and 
its global reach) and the principles of and 
importance of compliance with competition 
law and anti-trust law. The Compliance 
Committee reviews a range of activities 
across the Group, sets appropriate policies 
and procedures, and takes the lead in 
ensuring compliance with them. It reports 
on its activities to the Board through 
the Committee.
Employee performance is measured each year 
against a set of seven shared values: 
  Delivery of results that benefit ARM
  T eamwork and selflessness
  Constructive pro-activity
  Partner and customer focus
  Responsiveness
  Innovation
  Personal development 
Corporate responsibility
Full details of our CR strategy and 
achievements can be found in the main CR 
report www.arm.com/reporting2013 and 
a summary of highlights from the year are 
included in the Sustainability section of the 
Strategic Report on page 44.
I hope the following reports demonstrate that 
setting the corporate governance framework 
continues to be a key focus for the Board. 
We must always be conscious of the fact 
that the Board’s primary responsibility is to 
promote the long-term success of the Group 
for the benefit of customers, employees and 
shareholders and I am confident that we are 
well positioned to continue to provide value 
to all our stakeholders.
sir John Buchanan
Chairman (until 1 March 2014)
5 March 2014 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
4
Board of d ire Ctors
the experienCe  
of the team
ARM’s Board has the breadth 
and depth of experience 
necessary to guide the Group 
as it seeks to take full 
advantage of new 
opportunities and contend 
with new challenges. 
Biographical details of the 
directors as at the date of 
this report are as follows:
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Chairman
(until 1 March 201 4)
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
s imon s egars 46
t im sC ore 53
s ir John Bu Chanan 70
a ndy g reen 58
Committees
Nomination Committee (Chairman) (from 1 March 2014)
Current directorships
Rexam plc (Chairman)
T esco plc (independent non-executive director)
Time on Board
1 month
Expertise
Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate on 
27 January 2014 and became Chairman on 1 March 2014. 
He brings a strong track record and a wealth of Board and 
executive experience both in the UK and globally. Up to 
2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet 
Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where he 
was Chief Executive. Prior to the glass industry, Stuart held 
a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc., having previously 
spent ten years in several European roles at Royal Dutch 
Shell plc. 
Committees
None
Current directorships
SOI Industry Consortium (director)
EDA Consortium (director)
Time on Board
9 years 2 months
Expertise
Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and 
was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013. 
His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions 
and representing them on the Board, EVP and General 
Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior 
to that, EVP , Engineering, EVP , Worldwide Sales and EVP , 
Business Development. He joined ARM in early 1991 and 
worked on many of the early ARM CPU products. He led the 
development of the ARM7
TM
 and ARM9
TM
 Thumb
®
 families. 
He holds a number of patents in the field of embedded 
CPU architectures.
Committees
Risk Review Committee
Compliance Committee
Current directorships
National Express Group plc (Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee) until 25 February 2014
Time on Board
12 years
Expertise
Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and director 
in March 2002. Before joining ARM, he was Finance Director 
of Rebus Group Limited. He was previously Group Finance 
Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity 
plc and Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
Committees
Nomination Committee (Chairman)  
(until 1 March 2014)
Current directorships
Smith & Nephew plc (Chairman)
BHP Billiton plc (Senior Independent Director)
International Chamber of Commerce (UK) (Chairman)
Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch 
Earthquake appeal
Time on Board
I year 10 months
Expertise
John Buchanan joined the Board as Chairman on 3 May 
2012. His intention to retire from the Board, due to a 
medical condition, was announced on 27 January 2014. 
He handed over the role of Chairman on 1 March 2014 
and will retire from the Board at the AGM on 1 May 2014. 
He has broad international experience gained in large and 
complex businesses. He has experience and knowledge of 
the international investor community and has held various 
leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and 
marketing positions, including executive experience in different 
countries. He is a former Chief Financial Officer of BP plc and 
a former Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
of Vodafone Group plc.
Committees
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
Dock On AG (Chairman)
Networking People (UK) Limited (Chairman)
UK Government Connected Digital Economy Catapult 
(CDEC) (Chairman)
ABESU (Trustee and director)
Time on Board
3 years 1 month
Expertise
Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011. He was 
CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012. He is a former CEO 
of BT Global Services and a former CEO of Group Strategy 
and Operations at BT plc and was CEO of BT Openworld. 
He is Chair of e-Skills UK (the UK Sector Skills Council for 
Business and Information T echnology), is on the Board and the 
President’s Committee of the CBI and is a Companion of the 
Chartered Management Institute.
Chairman
(from 1 March 201 4)
s tuart Cham Bers 57 Governance Financial Report
5
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Chief Technology Officer
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Larry h irst 62
Kath Leen o ’d onovan 56
eri C meuri Ce 57
Jani Ce r o Berts 58
miKe mu LLer 55
phiL ip r ow Ley 61
Committees
Remuneration Committee (Chairman from 1 January 2014)
Audit Committee (until 31 December 2013)
Current directorships
MITIE Group plc (non-executive director)
Time on Board
3 years 2 months
Expertise
Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011. He is the former 
Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa. He retired 
from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide range of senior 
positions since joining the company in 1977. He currently 
chairs the Imperial College Digital Cities Exchange. He is 
also an Ambassador to Monitise plc and on the International 
Advisory Board for British Airways. Former roles include 
being a UK Business Ambassador , a Commissioner for the 
Commission for Employment and Skills, and Chair of e-skills 
UK (the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information 
T echnology). He was awarded a CBE in 2006.
Committees
Audit Committee (Chairman)
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd (Chairman)
Trinity Mirror plc (Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee)
D S Smith Plc (Non-Executive Director)
Time on Board
7 years 3 months
Expertise
Kathleen O’Donovan joined the Board in December 2006. 
Previously she was a non-executive director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committees of the Court of the Bank of England, 
Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group plc and Prudential plc 
and a non-executive director of O2 plc. Prior to that, she was 
Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc, and before 
that she was a Partner at Ernst & Y oung.
Committees
Audit Committee (from 1 January 2014)
Current activities
ASML Holding NV (Chairman)
Time on Board
7 months
Expertise
Eric Meurice joined the Board in July 2013. He was President 
and Chief Executive Officer of ASML Holding NV from 
October 2004 until 30 June 2013 and will continue as 
their Chairman until 31 March 2014. Former roles include 
Executive Vice President of Thomson T elevision Worldwide 
and head of Dell Computers’ Western, Eastern Europe 
and EMEA emerging market businesses. He also gained 
extensive technology experience in the semiconductor 
industry between 1984 and 1994 at Intel and then at ITT 
Semiconductors Group.
Committees
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Current directorships
Mayfield Fund (Venture Adviser)
RealNetworks, Inc. (Non-Executive Director)
Zebra T echnologies Corporation (Non-Executive Director)
Time on Board
3 years 2 months
Expertise
Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 2011. She is a 
Venture Adviser at Mayfield Fund having been a Managing 
Director from 2000-2013. Mayfield is a Silicon Valley-based 
venture capital firm with approximately $3 billion under 
management, where her focus is on the mobile, wireless, 
communications and consumer technology industries. 
Prior to that, she held various executive positions at 3Com 
Corporation, including President Palm Computing, President 
3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business 
Development and Global Marketing. She is a director of 
several private technology companies in the US.
Committees
Risk Review Committee (Chairman)
Current directorships
Intelligent Energy Limited
Trustonic Limited
Time on Board
12 years 5 months
Expertise
Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM. Before joining 
the Group, he was responsible for hardware strategy and 
the development of portable products at Acorn Computers. 
He was previously at Orbis Computers. At ARM he was VP , 
Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP , Business Development 
until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief T echnology 
Officer . In October 2001, he was appointed to the Board.
Committees
Remuneration Committee (Chairman until 
31 December 2013)
Audit Committee
Nomination Committee
Current directorships
Promethean World plc (Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee)
Livestation Limited (Chairman)
Pouncer Media Limited (Chairman)
Time on Board
9 years 2 months
Expertise
Philip Rowley joined the Board in January 2005 and will be 
retiring at the 2014 AGM. He was Chairman and CEO of 
AOL Europe, the internet services and web brands provider 
until February 2007 and Chairman of HMV Group plc until 
early 2013. He is a qualified chartered accountant and was 
Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to 2000 
and Deputy CEO and CFO of the General Merchandise 
Division until 2001. Prior to that, his roles included EVP , Chief 
Financial Officer of EMI Music Worldwide. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
6
Corporate governan Ce
a BaLanCed  
 Bo ard str u C ture
This section and the Remuneration report detail how the Group 
has applied the principles of good governance contained in the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2012). 
Compliance statement 
The Group has complied with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
throughout 2013 and to the date of this 
document. The Group also achieved full 
compliance with the requirements of section 
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US) for 
the eighth successive year . The Company’s 
American Depositary Shares are listed on 
NASDAQ and we are therefore subject to 
and comply fully with NASDAQ rules, US 
Securities laws and Securities and Exchange 
Commission rules to the extent that they 
apply to foreign private issuers. We explain 
in the reports below how we applied the 
provisions and principles of the FCA Listing 
Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, 
and the UK Corporate Governance Code 
throughout the year .
Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
overall conduct of the Group’s business. 
The Board’s core activities include:
  providing leadership for the Group;
  active engagement in developing the 
Group’s long-term strategy;
  monitoring executive actions, standards 
of conduct, performance against business 
plans and budgets and ensuring that the 
necessary financial resources and people 
are in place for the Group to meet 
its objectives;
  obtaining assurance that material risks to 
the Group are identified, that appropriate 
systems of risk management and control 
exist to mitigate such risks and defining the 
Group’s appetite for risk; 
  Board and executive 
management succession;
  responsibility for the long-term success 
of the Group having regard to the interests 
of all stakeholders; 
  responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness 
of and reporting on our system of 
corporate governance.
The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters specifically reserved for its decision, 
which include:
  Group strategy and major 
business decisions;
  annual budgets and long-term plans;
  major capital expenditure, acquisitions, 
disposals and investments;
  financial reporting, controls and 
financial structure; 
  shareholder communications;
  key policies; 
  key advisers.
The schedule was reviewed in January 2014. 
Composition and operation of 
the Board
At the end of 2013, the Board comprised 
three executive directors (the Chief Executive 
Officer , the Chief Financial Officer and the 
Chief T echnology Officer), the Chairman, 
and six independent non-executive directors. 
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board 
as Chairman designate on 27 January 2014. 
Their biographies appear on pages 4 to 5. 
John Buchanan and Philip Rowley will be 
retiring from the Board at the 2014 AGM.  Governance Financial Report
7
Chairman
Stuart Chambers
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
leadership, operation and 
governance of the Board.
Board
11 directors – three executive directors, the Chairman  
and seven independent non-executive directors.
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
the overall conduct of the Group’s business and setting the Group’s strategy.
nomination  
Committee
Three independent  
non-executive directors, 
Chairman Stuart Chambers. 
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to make recommendations to the 
Board for future appointments to 
ensure that the Board comprises 
individuals with appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience  
to be effective in discharging 
its responsibilities.
r is K r eview Committee
Two executive directors, two other 
Executive Committee members and two 
senior executives, Chairman Mike Muller .
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to identify and evaluate risks which may impact  
the Group’s strategic and business objectives  
and to monitor the progress of actions  
designed to mitigate such risks.
exe Cutive Committee
14 members including the executive 
directors, key division and function 
heads, Chairman Simon Segars.
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to focus on strategy, the day-to-day running  
of the business, financial and competitive 
performance, organisational development, 
succession planning and implementation of policies.
d is CLosure Committee
Six members chaired by the Chief 
Executive Officer and including three 
other Executive Committee members.
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to ensure that disclosures made to  
shareholders and the investment community  
are accurate and complete.
audit  
Committee
Four independent  
non-executive directors, 
Chairman Kathleen 
O’Donovan.
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to monitor the integrity of the 
Group’s financial statements, to 
review the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal controls over 
financial reporting, and to provide 
oversight for the Group’s risk 
management systems.
r emuneration  
Committee
Four independent  
non-executive directors, 
Chairman Larry Hirst. 
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to review and make 
recommendations to the Board  
on executive remuneration.
Chief exe Cutive  
offi Cer
Simon Segars 
 
 
KEY OBJECTIVES:  
to manage the Group’s business 
and, with the Executive Committee, 
to implement Group strategy 
and policies.
Board and Committee stru Cture ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
8
Conflicts
The Board is fully aware of the other 
commitments of the former and current 
Chairman, and the executive and non-
executive directors. All directors have 
completed conflicts of interest questionnaires 
and any planned changes in their directorships 
outside the Group are subject to prior 
approval by the Board. No conflicts of 
interest arose in 2013 or to date in 2014, 
and no other situations have been identified 
that might lead to a conflict of interest. 
In circumstances where a potential conflict 
arises, the Board (excluding the director 
concerned) would consider the situation 
and either authorise the arrangement in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
and the articles of association or take other 
appropriate action.
independence 
The Board reviewed the independence of 
the non-executive directors on appointment 
and continues to do so on an ongoing 
basis. The independence of the longer 
serving non-executive directors, Kathleen 
O’Donovan and Philip Rowley, has been 
considered. Kathleen O’Donovan, who has 
now served for seven years, remains highly 
committed and continues to be regarded 
as independent. In her capacity as Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of 
the Audit Committee her independence 
is demonstrated on many occasions each 
year through her robust approach to 
questioning management. Philip Rowley, 
who will be retiring from the Board in May 
2014, has demonstrated his independence 
on many occasions during his tenure in 
both his interactions with management and 
shareholders on remuneration matters. 
The other non-executive directors have 
shorter service and are regarded as 
independent in character , judgement and 
behaviour , based on both participation and 
performance at Board and Committee 
meetings. There are no relationships or 
circumstances that are likely to affect the 
judgement of any of them. It is the policy 
of the Board to review the continued 
appointment of non-executive directors 
after six years’ service. Both Sir John 
Buchanan and Stuart Chambers were 
regarded as independent at the time of their 
respective appointments as Chairman and 
Chairman designate. 
non-executive directors’ expertise
Kathleen O’Donovan has been the Senior 
Independent Director since January 2011. 
In this capacity she acts as a sounding 
board for the Chairman and provides 
a communication channel between the 
Chairman and the non-executive directors. 
She is also available to discuss matters with 
shareholders, if required. During 2013 
and early 2014, she led the Nomination 
Committee through the process to identify 
and recommend the recruitment of the 
new Chairman. 
Janice Roberts (who is based in Silicon Valley), 
Larry Hirst, Andy Green and Eric Meurice all 
have a broad understanding of the Group’s 
technology and the practices of major US-
based technology companies. Philip Rowley 
and Kathleen O’Donovan are both financial 
experts with strong financial backgrounds. 
The beneficial interests of the directors in the 
share capital of the Company are set out in 
the Remuneration report. 
Board meetings 
Board and Committee papers are circulated 
electronically before each meeting. 
The business considered at each Board 
meeting includes the Chief Executive 
Officer’s report on the status of the business, 
(incorporating industry and strategic 
development) and the Chief Financial 
Officer’s report (incorporating financial, 
market and investor-related information). 
On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include 
detailed assessments of risk, governance, 
corporate responsibility, public affairs, 
performance by division and geographical 
area, competitive landscape, R&D and 
organisation/succession planning. 
Approximate allocation of Board agenda time in 2013
Strategy and risk 51%
Business updates/
ﬁnancial reporting 30%
Division and 
function updates 12%
Governance 7%
In the event that a director is unable to attend 
a meeting or participate by conference call, 
they receive and read the documents for 
consideration at that meeting, and have the 
opportunity to relay their comments and, if 
necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or 
the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting. 
The non-executive directors are encouraged 
to suggest matters for Board discussions, and 
in 2013 they were active in contributing to the 
agenda for the strategy review and ensuring 
the amount of time spent on strategic 
and operational issues was appropriately 
balanced. The independently conducted 
Board evaluation in 2013 confirmed that 
the September 2013 strategy meeting was 
considered to be thorough and informative. 
An additional strategy meeting has again 
been scheduled during 2014 and strategy will 
continue to be covered regularly at Board 
meetings during the year . 
Corporate governan Ce CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
9
During 2013, the non-executive directors 
encouraged the executive team to allocate 
resources to accelerate the development of 
technology in the Internet of Things arena. 
A new group was set up in 2013 to focus on 
the Internet of Things and has been enhanced 
by the acquisition in July 2013 of Sensinode, 
which has developed software for connecting 
wireless low-power , low-cost devices to 
the internet.
Key senior executives attend Board meetings 
throughout the year , which gives the non-
executive directors visibility of executive 
talent below executive director level, direct 
information about business developments, 
and informs them on potential management, 
succession. In particular , each year the general 
managers of the divisions present a review of 
past performance against key objectives and 
KPIs, and their proposals for the coming year .
During 2013, the Chairman held at least two 
meetings with the non-executive directors 
without the executives present, and the 
non-executive directors met on at least one 
occasion without the Chairman being present.
The table above shows directors’ attendance 
at scheduled Board meetings, conference calls 
and ad hoc meetings which they were eligible 
to attend during the 2013 financial year .
Scheduled  
Board meetings
Conference calls/ 
ad hoc meetings
number 6 6
Sir John Buchanan 6/6 5/6
Simon Segars 6/6 6/6
Andy Green 6/6 6/6
Larry Hirst 5/6 6/6
Eric Meurice 2/3 3/3
Mike Muller 6/6 5/6
Kathleen O’Donovan 6/6 5/6
Janice Roberts 6/6 5/6
Philip Rowley 6/6 6/6
Tim Score 6/6 5/6
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 3/3 3/3
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 2/2 1/1
Chairman 
As previously announced and also explained 
on page 2, Sir John Buchanan retired 
as Chairman on 1 March 2014 and will 
leave the Board at the close of the AGM 
on 1 May 2014. He is also Chairman of 
Smith & Nephew plc and the International 
Chamber of Commerce (UK), and is Senior 
Independent Director of BHP Billiton plc. 
He has attended all meetings and conference 
calls since the date of his appointment and 
also several induction sessions, meeting 
members of the executive team and a range 
of senior managers to increase his knowledge 
and understanding of the various parts of the 
business and its operations. 
Stuart Chambers joined the Board on 
27 January 2014 and took over from Sir 
John Buchanan as Chairman on 1 March 
2014. He is Chairman of Rexam plc and 
an independent non-executive director 
of T esco plc.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for 
running the Board and the Chief Executive 
Officer has executive responsibility for the 
operations and results of the Group, and 
also for making proposals to the Board in 
relation to the strategic development of the 
Group. The Board recognises that the roles 
of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
are distinct (as described below) and also 
the importance of establishing an excellent 
working relationship between them. 
During 2013, there were regular meetings 
and calls between the Chairman and the 
Chief Executive Officer outside Board 
meetings. These discussions provided and 
continue to provide opportunities for the 
exchange of information, mentoring and 
regular updates on the list of priorities that 
the Board set for the Chief Executive Officer 
on his appointment. These priorities include: 
development of the organisation and the next 
generation of executives, working effectively 
with the Board, ensuring appropriate strategic 
decisions are made on investments, employee 
motivation, and customer focus.  ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
10
Main responsibilities of the Chairman include:
  leadership of the Board and creating the 
conditions for overall Board and individual 
director effectiveness, and a constructive 
relationship with good communication 
between the executive and non-
executive directors;
  ensuring that the Board as a whole 
plays a full and constructive part in the 
development of strategy and overall 
commercial objectives;
  chairing the Nomination Committee, 
which initiates succession planning 
to retain and build an effective and 
complementary Board;
  ensuring that there is effective 
communication with shareholders and 
that members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of the major 
investors in the Group;
  promoting the highest standards 
of integrity, probity and corporate 
governance throughout the Group, 
particularly at Board level; 
  ensuring that the performance of the 
Board as a whole, its Committees 
and individual directors is formally and 
rigorously evaluated at least once a year .
Chief executive officer
Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive 
Officer include:
  proposing and developing the Group’s 
strategy and overall commercial 
objectives in conjunction with the 
Executive Committee;
  day-to-day management of the 
Group’s business;
  chairing the Executive Committee;
  maintaining a close working relationship 
with the Chairman; 
  meeting regularly with ARM’s leading 
customers for executive discussions on 
broad strategic and industry trends;
  hosting discussions with influential 
media outlets;
  fostering good relationships with 
ARM’s larger shareholders and major 
financial institutions; 
  representing the organisation in various 
industry organisation and professional 
associations, and activities within the local 
community and at international level.
Company secretary
Patricia Alsop acts as Secretary to the Board 
and Board Committees, and all Board 
members have individual access to her 
advice. She ensures that the Board receives 
all relevant information in a timely manner , 
organises induction and training programmes, 
and facilitates the Board evaluation in years 
when this is conducted internally. She is also 
responsible for ensuring that the correct 
Board and Committee procedures are 
followed and advises the Board on corporate 
governance matters. The established 
procedure under which directors can, where 
appropriate, obtain independent legal or 
other professional advice at the Group’s 
expense is also administered through her .
annual report, information and 
communication with shareholders 
and other stakeholders
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the Annual Report and the quarterly 
earnings releases, and for ensuring that they 
present a balanced assessment of the Group’s 
position, lies with the Board. 
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility 
for managing the Group to the Executive 
Committee and has a number of other 
Committees, details of which are set out on 
the following pages.
investor relations
The Board makes considerable efforts to 
establish and maintain good relationships 
with shareholders and the wider investment 
community. There is regular dialogue with 
institutional investors during the year , except 
during close periods. The main channel of 
communication continues to be through the 
Chief Executive Officer , the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP of Investor Relations. 
The Chairman, the Senior Independent 
Director and the other directors are 
available to engage in dialogue with major 
shareholders as appropriate. Beginning in 
2012, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and the Chairman consulted with 
shareholders on the terms of the new Long 
T erm Incentive Plan, which was approved at 
the 2013 AGM. Philip Rowley also consulted 
with major shareholders over incentive 
programmes in 2013 and early in 2014.
The Board encourages communication 
with private investors and part of the 
Group’s website is dedicated to providing 
information for all investors, including 
responses to frequently asked questions, 
the investment case, product information, 
press releases, RNS and Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) announcements, 
and an interactive online version of the 
Annual Report. 
Corporate governan Ce CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
11
At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write 
research reports on the Group and their 
details appear on the Group’s website. 
Shareholders can also obtain telephone 
numbers from the website, enabling them 
to listen to earnings presentations and audio 
conference calls with analysts. In addition, 
webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations 
are made available through the website. 
Members of the Board develop an 
understanding of the views of major 
shareholders through any direct contact 
that may be initiated by shareholders, or 
through analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. 
The Board also receives feedback from the 
Group’s brokers and financial PR advisers, 
who in turn obtain feedback from analysts 
and brokers following investor roadshows. 
All shareholders can register to receive the 
Group’s press releases via the internet.
agm
The Board actively encourages participation at 
the AGM, scheduled for 1 May 2014, which is 
the principal forum for dialogue with private 
shareholders. The Circular and Notice of AGM 
are being sent to shareholders concurrently 
with the distribution of this report, which is well 
in advance of the required 20 working days 
before the meeting. A presentation is made 
outlining recent developments in the business 
and an open question-and-answer session 
follows to enable shareholders to ask questions 
about the business in general. The Chairman, 
who chairs the Nomination Committee, 
will be present at the AGM. He will arrange 
for the respective chairs of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees to be available to 
answer questions and for all directors to attend.
All resolutions proposed at the 2014 AGM 
will be decided on a poll and the voting results 
will be published via RNS and the SEC, and 
will also be available on the Group’s website.
Board evaluation
The Board undertakes an annual review of its 
effectiveness. In order to provide the longest 
possible period in which to evaluate the 
performance of the Board following the change 
of Chief Executive Officer in July 2013, the 
Board evaluation was deferred until late 2013. 
This exercise was conducted by an external 
provider , Independent Audit, who had detailed 
individual discussions with all members of the 
Board, four senior executives and the external 
audit partner . The findings were reported 
to the Board in January 2014 and were the 
subject of detailed discussion by the Board in 
February 2014. Neither the Group nor any 
individual director has any connection with 
Independent Audit.
The 2013 evaluation covered:
  Board composition and dynamics;
  the Board’s role;
  the operation of the Board, which was 
observed first hand;
  the operation of each of the 
Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination Committees.
The overall conclusion was that individual 
Board members are satisfied that the Board 
works well and operates effectively in an 
environment where there is constructive 
challenge from the non-executive directors. 
They are also satisfied with the contribution 
made by their colleagues and that Board 
Committees operate properly and efficiently. 
There are a number of areas for further 
consideration and action in 2014 including:
  the size, composition and mix of the Board;
  succession planning both within 
the executive team and the non-
executive directors;
  providing improved visibility of the 
strategic planning and review process 
to the non-executive directors;
  the number and scheduling of 
Board meetings;
  increased focus on strategy which has been 
addressed by the Chief Executive Officer 
including a strategy update within each of 
his reports and scheduling an additional 
full-day meeting in April 2014;
  a continuing programme of development 
sessions/teach-ins for the non-executive 
directors in order to provide them with 
a more detailed appreciation of possible 
strategic and technological developments. 
The first of these, on the Internet of 
Things technology, was held in February 
2014 and further sessions are planned;
  continuing development and 
documentation of risk assessment 
and risk appetite. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
12
The non-executive directors will also meet 
with the Chairman outside Board meetings 
on a more frequent basis to discuss any issues 
and concerns, which will provide opportunities 
for greater sharing of views and understanding 
without impacting on the business of Board 
meetings themselves. An internally facilitated 
Board evaluation will take place during 2014 
and the Board intends to continue with a cycle 
of external evaluations every three years with 
internal evaluations in between. 
induction
A personalised induction programme is 
arranged for new directors, tailored to their 
specific requirements, the aim of which is to 
introduce them to key executives across the 
business and to enhance their knowledge and 
understanding of the Group and its activities. 
In 2013, this included continuation of the 
programme for Sir John Buchanan and a new 
programme, which will continue during 2014, 
for Eric Meurice who joined the Board in July 
2013. An induction programme is underway 
for Stuart Chambers, who was appointed 
to the Board on 27 January 2014 and took 
over the Chairman role on 1 March 2014. 
During the first three months this will include 
several days with the Chief Executive Officer 
in Silicon Valley to see the Group’s operations 
and meet senior executives based there, in 
addition to a series of individual meetings 
with Board members, senior executives and 
external advisers based in the UK.
All members of the Board are encouraged 
to spend time outside Board meetings with 
members of the Executive Committee 
and senior management and a number of 
individual meetings took place during 2013, 
which will continue during 2014. All Board 
members are invited to attend the annual 
ARM Partner Meeting in the UK, which 
is the Group’s key customer event of the 
year and/or the ARM T echCon in the US. 
Board members are also invited to attend the 
annual Analyst and Investor Day. These events 
offer the opportunity to understand more 
about the business, products, technology 
development roadmap, customer base and 
investor perspective.
t raining
Board members receive guidance on the 
regulatory regimes and corporate governance 
framework that the Group operates under . 
In particular , during 2013 the Board received 
an update from the Company Secretary on 
current governance topics including executive 
remuneration and Board diversity. The Group 
has a commitment to training and all directors, 
executive or non-executive, are encouraged 
to attend suitable training courses at the 
Group’s expense. 
t erms of reference
The terms of reference of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
are published on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com.
executive Committee
The Executive Committee is responsible for 
developing and implementing the strategy 
approved by the Board. In particular , the 
Committee is responsible for ensuring 
that the Group’s budget and forecasts are 
properly prepared, that targets are met, and 
for generally managing and developing the 
business within the overall budget. In addition, 
the Committee ensures that risks identified 
through the Operational Planning process, 
particularly corporate-level risks, are managed 
and mitigated to the greatest extent possible. 
Variations from the budget and changes in 
strategy require approval from the main Board 
of the Group. The Executive Committee, 
which meets monthly, now comprises the 
Chief Executive Officer , Chief Financial 
Officer , the Chief T echnology Officer , 
the Chief Operating Officer , the Chief 
Information Officer , the EVP and President 
Product Groups, the EVP and President of 
Commercial and Global Development, the 
EVP Strategy, the EVP and General Manager 
Physical Design Group, the General Manager 
of the Internet of Things business unit, the 
Chief Marketing Officer , the EVP People, the 
General Counsel and the Company Secretary. 
Executive Committee meetings are attended 
by other senior operational personnel, as 
appropriate. In recognition of the increasing 
importance of Asia as both a market and 
an engineering base, the President of ARM 
Greater China, who is based in China, was 
appointed as an Executive Committee 
observer on 1 January 2014 and now attends 
all meetings.
Biographies of the members of the Executive 
Committee appear on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com. 
management structure
The Group has a traditional UK Board 
structure with a unitary Board comprising 
the Chairman, executive and non-executive 
directors. The Audit and Remuneration 
Committees are made up of independent 
non-executive directors and they, together 
with the Nomination Committee, report to 
the Board. The divisions and functions report 
to the Executive Committee. The Risk Review 
Committee reports periodically to the 
Executive Committee, Audit Committee and 
the Board. The VP Business Assurance/Head 
of Internal Audit also has a separate reporting 
line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Corporate governan Ce CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
13
g o v ernance re view t eams operational review meetings
Committees
Board
Remuneration  
Committee
Business 
Review Meeting
KPI Financial 
Sign Off Meeting
Sales 
Commission Meeting
Nomination  
Committee
Travel 
Policy Committee
Energy Use and  
Climate Change  
Committee
Corporate  
Responsibility 
 Committee
Operations  
Committee
Risk 
Review Committee
IT Committee
Compliance  
Committee
Operations  
Review T eam
Management  
System T eam
Customer 
Satisfaction T eam
Corporate Product 
Approval T eam
Security  
Review T eam
Business 
Continuity T eam
Health, Safety and 
Environment T eam
Executive Committee
Disclosure Committee
Holdings Board Audit Committee
Business  
Assurance / 
Internal Audit
management stru Cture ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
14
audit Committee
  
 
Committee composition and meeting 
attendance during 2013
Name of director Position Meetings attended
Kathleen O’Donovan Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 6/6
Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director 5/6
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 6/6
Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 6/6
Kathleen O’Donovan has chaired the 
Committee since January 2011. She is 
qualified as the Committee financial expert 
as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 
(US). Philip Rowley is also qualified to fulfil this 
role. Both have recent and relevant financial 
expertise in compliance with the Code 
provision C3.1. The external auditors, Chief 
Executive Officer , Chief Financial Officer , the 
VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the Head 
of T ax, and the Company Secretary attend 
all meetings in order to ensure that all the 
information required by the Committee for it 
to operate effectively is available. The Group 
Chairman and other Board members also 
attend Committee meetings from time to time. 
Kath Leen o ’d onovan
Committee Chairman
“The Committee’s key objectives are to provide effective 
financial governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial reporting. The Committee 
oversees the external and internal audit processes, and reviews 
the risk management framework, the effectiveness of the risk 
management processes, and the system of internal control. 
The Committee will continue to evolve its activities in the light 
of guidance from regulators and prevailing economic conditions.”
The Chairman of the Audit Committee 
reports to the Board on how the Committee 
has discharged its responsibilities.
On 1 January 2014, Eric Meurice joined the 
Committee and Larry Hirst stepped down as 
a member , on his appointment as Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee.
Representatives of the Group’s external 
auditors have a private session with the 
Committee at the start of each meeting, 
without other management being present. 
The Chairman of the Committee also has 
separate meetings with the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit, the 
Chairman of the Risk Review Committee, 
the external auditors, the Chief Financial 
Officer and the VP Finance, ARM Group 
during the year to discuss their ongoing work 
and any areas of concern, and also to invite 
certain members of management to report 
on key areas of risk and control.
During 2013, the Chairman of the 
Committee and the external audit partner 
again organised a meeting for the UK-based 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP audit and 
tax teams and the ARM finance and tax 
teams to discuss the audit approach, and to 
understand the planning for the year end, and 
to gain insights into the corporate governance 
environment and the Group’s expectations 
from the internal and external audit processes. Governance Financial Report
15
In line with the requirement in the UK 
Corporate Governance Code applicable 
to financial years commencing on or after 
1 October 2012, based on both internal and 
external audit reviews and confirmations from 
management, the Committee and the Board 
believe that the Annual Report taken as a 
whole is fair , balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
principal activities of the Committee 
during 2013:
  in conjunction with management and the 
Risk Review Committee, the Committee 
undertook an in-depth review of the 
Group’s risk assessment and reporting 
framework, with assistance and guidance 
from external advisers. This work has 
resulted in the development of a new 
format for the Corporate Risk Register , 
Risk Assurance Matrix and Risk Heatmap. 
These documents are expected to continue 
to evolve during 2014, with feedback from 
the Board being provided through the 
ongoing risk appetite discussions. 
  reviewing a detailed response from 
management to the questions raised by 
the Conduct Committee of the Financial 
Reporting Council on the Annual Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
The Group’s response was accepted with 
no further questions being raised. We have 
included certain additional disclosures 
relating to goodwill impairment testing in 
this Annual Report.
  reviewing the work and results of Business 
Assurance and Internal Audit in relation 
to the 2013 Audit Plan and approving the 
Audit Plan for the 2014 year .
  reviewing the 2013 external audit 
plans and reports, including those of 
overseas subsidiaries.
  considering and approving the assumptions 
in the annual goodwill impairment review, 
prior to approval by the full Board.
  reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley 
compliance and testing.
  considering any whistleblowing reports (of 
which there were none in 2013).
  implementing our policy on the 
engagement of the external auditors to 
supply non-audit services and assessing 
their nature, extent and cost effectiveness. 
  assessing the external auditors’ 
independence and objectivity, the 
effectiveness of the audit process and fees. 
  undertaking an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the Committee (which 
took place early in 2014 and concluded 
that its performance was effective).
  monitoring the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance and reviewing any 
significant financial reporting judgements 
and the clarity of disclosures.
  reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls over financial reporting.
  providing oversight of the Group’s risk 
management framework and process.
  making recommendations to the Board in 
relation to the appointment, remuneration 
and resignation or dismissal of the Group’s 
external auditors.
  considering compliance with legal 
requirements, accounting standards, the 
Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
  monitoring the assessment of going 
concern, in advance of its consideration 
by the Board.
financial reporting judgements:
Each quarter , the Committee reviewed 
accounting papers prepared by management 
on areas of financial reporting judgement 
and matters giving rise to exceptional items. 
These included:
  Consideration of the accounting treatment 
of substantial transactions, including any 
judgemental matters in relation to revenue 
recognition for major licence contracts 
with customers.
  Consideration of the judgements 
surrounding the goodwill impairment 
review performed in the fourth quarter 
of 2013. In light of the strong performance 
of the Physical IP Division business in 
the year and a robust order backlog, 
the Committee was comfortable with 
management’s assessment that no 
reasonable variation in key assumptions 
would affect the conclusion that no 
impairment in carrying value was required. 
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee 
considered the detailed work and sensitivity 
analyses presented by the external auditors.
  In connection with the Group’s participation 
in a consortium of technology companies 
that acquired rights to MIPS T echnologies 
Inc’s portfolio of patents in February 
2013, consideration of the impairment 
of the value of $100.5 million, which was 
classified as an available-for-sale (AFS) 
financial asset. In Q4 2013, the trust made 
a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing 
programme, which resulted in a decision 
that the asset had been impaired, giving 
rise to a non-cash exceptional charge of 
£59.5 million. The Committee reviewed 
the situation in detail and concurred with 
management’s view that this impairment 
was necessary . More details are contained 
in note 6 on page 85.
  Consideration of management’s 
judgement of the level of provision 
required to be carried in relation to 
ongoing litigation involving either the 
Group or its licensees, and in particular 
where the Group may be required to 
indemnify its licensees, including receiving 
regular updates from the Group’s 
General Counsel. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
16
  Consideration of the key judgements 
made in estimating the Group’s tax charge 
and review of any tax provisions in respect 
of open areas, together with assessment 
from independent experts.
  Consideration of the Group’s tax strategy 
and key developments that may influence 
the Group’s global tax position.
internal audit
The Committee noted further improvements 
in the development and effectiveness of the 
Business Assurance/Internal Audit function 
in 2013. In particular , the Audit Assurance 
System (AAS) deployed during 2012 to 
provide improved document control, risk 
assessment and reporting, was reviewed 
in 2013. Further improvements to the 
AAS are underway and are expected to 
be completed in 2014. We reviewed the 
resources of the team and the plans for 
their deployment during the year . We also 
noted the key relationships between the 
Assurance team and the Compliance and 
Risk Review functions, as well as the working 
relationship with the external auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and 
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance.
As well as the Committee’s formal meeting 
with the VP Business Assurance/Internal 
Audit, the Chairman of the Committee meets 
him informally throughout the year in order to 
provide the opportunity for open and timely 
dialogue. T ypically we discuss the content and 
quality of papers intended for the Committee, 
emerging business risks, the quality of 
engagement with IA and any concerns therein.
audit plan and approach
During the year we reviewed PwC’s audit 
strategy, and the audit approach, key areas 
of focus and audit plan produced as a result. 
PwC explained their risk-based approach, 
including the interaction with their work on 
internal control for the purposes of expressing 
an opinion under section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act. The results of those procedures 
were reported in January and February 
2014. No material misstatements remained 
unadjusted in the financial statements.
In addition to the private meetings held with 
the external auditors and the Committee, 
the Chairman of the Committee meets with 
the PwC team on a regular basis to provide 
the opportunity for an open communication 
regarding any concerns, as well as to 
understand their assessment of key 
judgements as they arise.
auditor effectiveness and 
partner rotation
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been the 
Group’s auditors since it listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in April 1998. The external 
auditors are required to rotate the audit 
partner responsible for the Group and 
subsidiary audits every fifth year-end. The last 
audit partner rotation took place early in 2012. 
The Committee considers that the relationship 
with the auditors is working well and remains 
satisfied with their objectivity and effectiveness. 
This view is supported by a review of the 
effectiveness of the external audit process, 
which was undertaken early in 2014 with 
Board members and senior managers who 
interact with the auditors. It looked at the 
robustness of the audit, and the quality of 
delivery, people and service, and concluded 
that the auditors are effective. Accordingly, 
the Committee has not considered it 
necessary to date to require the firm to 
tender for the audit work. This situation will 
be kept under regular review. The Committee 
is actively monitoring the developments 
and ongoing discussions in this area at the 
Financial Reporting Council, the EU and the 
Competition Commission.
auditor independence
The auditors are required to and do 
communicate with the Committee at least 
annually as to whether there are any threats 
to their independence and objectivity and, 
if there are, what safeguards have been 
applied. The Committee has also reviewed 
the auditors’ Transparency report, paying 
particular attention to the sections covering 
internal controls, independence policies and 
the results of external regulator reviews. 
Having reviewed the safeguards in place, and 
the contents of the Transparency report, as 
well as noting the regular and recent rotation 
of the audit partner , the Committee is satisfied 
that the auditors’ procedures are sufficient to 
maintain their independence and objectivity . 
The Committee has also considered the level 
of non-audit fees and believes that these are 
at a level which does not compromise their 
objectivity or independence in any way .
There are no contractual obligations 
restricting the Group’s choice of external 
auditor . The Committee also keeps under 
review the value for money of the audit. 
policy on auditors providing  
non-audit services
T o avoid the possibility of the auditors’ 
objectivity and independence being 
compromised, there is an agreed policy in 
place on the provision of non-audit services 
by the auditors, which sets out arrangements 
for approving:
  services that require general pre-approval 
by the Committee;
  services that require specific pre-
approval by the Committee before 
work commences; 
  services that cannot be provided by 
the auditors.
This non-audit services policy is reviewed 
annually. The Group’s tax advisory work 
is carried out by the auditors only in cases 
where they are deemed to be best suited 
to perform the work in a cost-effective 
manner , given their familiarity with the 
Group’s business. In other cases, the Group 
has engaged another independent firm of 
accountants to perform tax advisory work. 
The Group does not normally award general 
consulting work to the auditors. From time 
to time, however , the Group will engage 
the auditors to perform work on matters 
relating to benchmarking of the internal audit 
function, human resources, and royalty audits. 
A breakdown of fees paid to the auditors can 
be found in note 5 to the financial statements. 
Kathleen o’donovan
Committee Chairman
5 March 2014
audit Committee CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
17
nomination Committee
As announced on 27 January 2014 it is with 
much regret that I stepped down as Chairman 
on 1 March 2014, and will be retiring from the 
Board at the AGM on 1 May 2014 due to a 
medical condition. The Committee, led for this 
purpose by the Senior Independent Director , 
was active in 2013 and early 2014 in finalising 
arrangements for the appointment of a new 
Chairman and we were delighted to welcome 
Stuart Chambers who joined the Group on 
27 January 2014 as Chairman Designate and 
took over as Chairman on 1 March 2014.
The Committee, now chaired by Stuart 
Chambers, continues to focus on defining 
the skills and attributes required for future 
non-executive director appointments to ensure 
that the Board comprises individuals with the 
requisite skills, knowledge and experience to 
ensure that it is effective in discharging its duties.
s ir John Bu Chanan
Nomination Committee Chairman  
(until 1 March 2014)
“The Committee’s key task in 2013 was the selection of a 
new Chief Executive Officer, which resulted in the promotion 
of Simon Segars to the role on 1 July 2013. This followed 
an extensive externally conducted review of candidates 
worldwide, and Simon’s proven technology expertise and 
management skills across a range of senior executive roles 
resulted in him being selected. The Committee also identified 
and appointed Eric Meurice, who has significant experience 
in the semiconductor industry, to the Board on 1 July 2013 
as an additional independent non-executive director. Again, 
this appointment followed an extensive externally conducted 
review of candidates.” ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
18
Nomination Committee composition and 
meeting attendance during 2013
Name of director Position Meetings attended
Sir John Buchanan Chairman 3/3
Kathleen O’Donovan Senior Independent Director 4/4
Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 4/4
Andy Green Independent non-executive director  
(appointed 21 February 2013) 3/3
During the year , the activities of the 
Committee included engaging external search 
firms to seek and introduce candidates and 
interviewing a number of candidates in each 
case for the following roles:
  Chief Executive Officer (CEO), which 
resulted in the Committee recommending 
the appointment of Simon Segars.
  Chairman, which resulted in the 
Committee recommending the 
appointment of Stuart Chambers.
  Independent non-executive director , which 
resulted in the Committee recommending 
the appointment of Eric Meurice.
The Chairman led the process for the 
appointment of the new CEO and the 
new independent non-executive director . 
Kathleen O’Donovan, in her capacity as 
the Senior Independent Director , led the 
process for the appointment of the new 
Chairman, chairing relevant meetings of 
the Nomination Committee and a number 
of conference calls between Committee 
members. The recruitment process involved 
a review by the Board of all aspects of 
the role of Chairman, its requirements, 
Board dynamics and how best the new 
Chairman should interact with the Board, 
the Executive Committee, shareholders and 
other stakeholders. 
The external search firms were Zygos in the 
case of the Chairman recruitment and Egon 
Zehnder in relation to the CEO and non-
executive director recruitments. There is no 
connection between the Group, any individual 
director , nor either of the search firms.
Andy Green joined the Committee in February 
2013. His business and skills background 
contributed valuable experience to our work.
In addition to leading the process for Board 
appointments and making recommendations to 
the Board in relation to new appointments, the 
Committee’s general responsibilities include:
  reviewing succession planning, Board 
composition and balance; 
  considering the roles and capabilities 
required for each new appointment, based 
on an evaluation of the skill, experience, 
independence and knowledge of the 
existing directors.
The Nomination Committee is seeking 
further candidates as independent non-
executive directors with appropriate skills, 
experience and diversity to complement 
our existing Board members and maintain, 
collectively, an effective Board. We will also 
be looking for financial expertise, in light of 
the forthcoming retirement of Philip Rowley 
in May 2014, following his nine years’ service 
on the Board. 
sir John Buchanan
Chairman (until 1 March 2014)
5 March 2014
nomination Committee CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
19
Corporate governan Ce report
 
internal control/risk management
The Group fully complies with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012)’s provisions on internal control, having 
established procedures to implement in full 
the Turnbull Guidance “Internal Control: 
Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code”. The Group’s risks are 
managed within a systematic process of risk 
identification and assessment. The detailed 
risk management process is explained in the 
Risk management and principal risks section 
on pages 47 to 49 of the Strategic Report.
The Audit Committee is responsible for 
ensuring that the risk management framework 
and process is operating effectively. The Risk 
Review Committee reviews the Corporate 
Risk Register (CRR), Risk Assurance Matrix 
(RAM), and risk heatmap on a quarterly basis, 
and minutes of its meetings are reviewed 
by the Audit Committee. The Executive 
Committee and the Board also review 
these documents at least twice each year . 
The Board confirms that the necessary actions 
have been or are being taken to remedy any 
significant failings or weaknesses identified 
from this process in a timely manner .
The Board has overall responsibility for 
ensuring that the Group maintains an 
adequate system of internal control and 
risk management, and for reviewing its 
effectiveness, while implementation of 
internal control systems is the responsibility 
of management. The Group has implemented 
an internal control system designed to 
help ensure:
  the effective and efficient operation of 
the Group and its divisions by enabling 
management to respond appropriately to 
significant risks to achieving the Group’s 
business objectives;
  the safeguarding of assets from 
inappropriate use or from loss and fraud, 
and ensuring that liabilities are identified 
and managed;
  the quality of internal and 
external reporting;
  compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and with internal policies on the 
conduct of the Group’s business; and
  the ability to recover in a timely manner 
from the effects of disasters or major 
accidents that originate outside the 
Group’s direct control.
Compliance with section 404 of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (US) has been 
successfully achieved for each financial year 
since it became effective for foreign private 
issuers in 2006. This is reported on in more 
detail in the annual report on Form 20-F 
that is filed with the SEC. The processes and 
procedures for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the significant business, operational, 
financial, compliance and other risks facing 
the Group have been successfully integrated 
into day-to-day business operations through 
our internal control system. This is known as 
the ARM Management System (AMS) and is 
proven to provide a sustainable solution for 
ongoing compliance.
The AMS, which covers financial, compliance 
and operational controls, is fully documented 
and compliance is monitored through 
periodic controls testing during each year . 
The effectiveness of individual controls is 
also reviewed with their owners within the 
divisions and functions to ensure efficacy and 
relevance. The Business Assurance function 
reports on the status of the AMS to the 
Audit Committee at least twice each year . 
The Compliance and Audit Committees 
also monitor the satisfactory remediation 
of any identified control issues with Group-
level significance. 
The Board has reviewed and approved the 
system of internal control, including internal 
controls over the consolidation process 
and financial reporting, which have been in 
place for the year under review and up to 
the date of approval of the Annual Report 
and financial statements. These controls 
consist of extensive reviews by qualified and 
experienced individuals, underpinned by a 
system of checklists which ensures that all 
elements of the financial statements and 
appropriate disclosures are considered and 
accurately stated. 
Control systems are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a 
fast-moving, high-technology business and 
can, therefore, provide only reasonable 
and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
remuneration Committee
A description of the composition, 
responsibilities and operation of the 
Remuneration Committee is set out in the 
Remuneration report.
The Group has a number of other 
Committees and bodies that contribute to the 
overall control environment. These include:
risk review Committee
The Risk Review Committee comprises the 
Chief T echnology Officer , the Chief Financial 
Officer , the Chief Operating Officer , the 
VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business 
Assurance/Head of Internal Audit and the 
Company Secretary. The Group’s process 
for the identification, ownership, mitigation 
and reporting of risk was enhanced further 
during 2013. The Committee established 
a CRR some years ago, which summarises 
the key risks faced by the Group and sets 
out risk management activities, the sources 
of assurance and action plans to mitigate 
any significant residual risk. Residual risks are 
assessed in terms of likelihood and impact 
and mapped onto the RAM. Each risk on 
the CRR is owned by a member of the 
senior management team. Risk management 
action plans are managed within the relevant 
operational plans of the divisions and 
corporate functions. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
20
During 2013, the Committee, in conjunction 
with management, undertook an in-depth 
review of our risk assessment and reporting 
framework, with assistance and guidance from 
external advisers. The work has resulted in 
the development of a new format for the 
CRR, RAM and risk heatmap with a better 
focus on strategic risks. These documents are 
expected to continue to evolve during 2014 
with feedback from the Board being provided 
through our ongoing risk appetite discussions. 
The CRR and risk heatmap are normally 
considered in detail by the Board in January 
each year and, at the January 2014 review, the 
Board confirmed that the level of residual risk 
is regarded as acceptable and within normal 
parameters for a company operating in ARM’s 
sphere of business. Risk appetite and a draft 
set of guiding principles were also discussed 
by the Board in January 2014. It was agreed 
that the draft guiding principles are a good 
starting point to inform and serve as a context 
for the development and implementation of 
the Group’s strategy. The guiding principles 
will continue to be refined during 2014. 
The Risk Review Committee reports to 
the Audit Committee throughout the 
year . The Board and the Audit Committee 
receive copies of the minutes of Risk Review 
Committee meetings, the CRR and the risk 
heatmap. These provide greater visibility of 
the range of risks, the ways in which such risks 
are mitigated, and an assessment of the level 
and acceptability of residual risk. It is intended 
that the Board will review changes to the CRR 
and risk heatmap quarterly during 2014. 
The Risk Review Committee typically meets 
on a quarterly basis to review the CRR 
and identify other risks that need to be 
incorporated. Each risk owner is required 
to review and demonstrate that residual 
risks are being appropriately mitigated via 
the operational plans. The divisions’ and 
corporate functions’ operational plans are 
updated quarterly. Changes that could impact 
the CRR are reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee reports formally on the 
CRR to the Executive Committee twice 
a year , where its findings are considered 
and challenged. 
More information on industry trends and 
associated risks and opportunities are 
included in the Risk management and principal 
risks section of the Strategic Report on pages 
47 to 49 and in the annual report on Form 
20-F for the year ended 31 December 2013 
which is available on the Group’s website at 
www.arm.com.
 Compliance Committee
The Compliance Committee consists of 
the General Counsel, the Chief Operating 
Officer , the Chief Financial Officer , the EVP , 
People, the VP Business Assurance/Head 
of Internal Audit, the Chief Information 
Officer , the VP Operations and the Company 
Secretary. It oversees compliance throughout 
the business with all relevant international 
regulations, export controls, trading 
requirements and standards; including direct 
oversight of financial, employment, health and 
safety, environmental, business continuity and 
security processes and policies.
disclosure Committee
The Disclosure Committee comprises the 
Chief Executive Officer , the Chief Financial 
Officer , the VP Finance, ARM Group, the 
General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations 
and the Company Secretary. It is responsible 
for ensuring that disclosures made by the 
Group to its shareholders and the investment 
community are accurate, complete and fairly 
present the Group’s financial condition in all 
material respects.
management structure 
In addition, there are various Committees, 
Governance Review T eams and Operational 
Review meetings that span the Group, as 
shown in the management structure chart on 
page 13. These include the regular Executive 
Committee meetings chaired by the Chief 
Executive Officer and the weekly 
Business Review Meeting chaired by the Chief 
Operating Officer , the purpose of which 
is to monitor and control all main business 
activities, revenue forecasts and other matters 
requiring approval. Through this structure 
management reviews (with representatives 
from the divisions and functions) revenues, 
orders booked, costs, product and project 
delivery dates, and levels of defects found in 
products in development. Relevant issues are 
escalated to the Executive Committee which, 
in turn, raises relevant issues to the Board of 
the Group.
The seven Governance Review T eams and 
three Operational Review meetings all report 
to the Operations Committee, which in turn 
reports to the Executive Committee. 
internal audit function
The Group has an internal audit function that 
meets the criteria set out in the key practice 
standards prescribed by the Institute of 
Internal Auditors. The internal audit function 
undertook a range of financial and operational 
audits in line with the plan agreed with the 
Audit Committee. Additional resource 
was provided by co-sourcing arrangements 
in 2013 and this will continue in 2014. 
The Group successfully achieved certificate 
renewal for ISO 9001 in December 2013. 
The Group also has certification for 
ISO 27001, the international standard for 
Information Security Management and for 
ISO 22301, the international standard for 
Business Continuity Management, both of 
which were maintained throughout the year .
The Group’s Management System documents 
processes and responsibilities across all 
business functions and operations. As an 
autonomous part of this system, the internal 
audit function carries out a programme of 
audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, 
resulting in continuous maintenance and 
improvement of the system, adapting to 
changes in business operations as necessary. 
Corporate governan Ce report CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
21
T o demonstrate compliance with the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit 
function also maintains the documented 
controls over financial reporting and confirms 
the operation of them either by direct testing 
or through a monitored self assessment 
programme. The management system 
is audited externally by Lloyd’s Register 
Quality Assurance for compliance with 
the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 
27001:2005, ISO 22301:2012 and as part of 
its Business Assurance scheme supports the 
Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
Any significant control failings identified 
through the internal audit function or the 
external auditors are brought to the attention 
of the Compliance Committee and undergo 
a detailed process of evaluation of both 
the failing and the steps taken to remedy it. 
There is then a process for communication 
of any significant control failures to the Audit 
Committee. There were no significant control 
failures during 2013 or up to 3 March 2014, 
being the latest practicable date before the 
printing of this report.
whistleblowing procedures
The Group operates a whistleblowing policy 
for employees to report concerns about 
any unethical business practices to senior 
management in strict confidence and without 
fear of recrimination. If they prefer , they can 
do so anonymously through an independent 
third-party telephone line. The third-party 
telephone line is tested regularly to ensure 
that employees can use it if they have 
occasion to. The Audit Committee receives 
details of any such confidential reports from 
the Compliance Committee. There were no 
whistleblowing reports in 2013. In 2014, there 
has been one whistleblowing report, which is 
currently under investigation. 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
measures
The Group’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, which is available on the Group’s 
website, and the Company Rules incorporate 
appropriate provisions to meet our 
obligations under the UK Bribery Act 2010. 
A training and communication programme is 
in place to ensure that employees understand 
the requirements of the Act and the reporting 
procedures. This is targeted at employees 
in roles or working in countries that are 
regarded as higher risk. 
Arrangements with contractors and suppliers 
have been and will continue to be reviewed 
and updated to reflect the requirements 
of the Act. The Compliance Committee 
oversees the reporting procedures and 
monitors and escalates reports in appropriate 
circumstances. There were no reports of 
concern during 2013 or up to 3 March 2014, 
being the latest practicable date before the 
printing of this report.
human rights and equal opportunities
The Group has signed the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and has 
integrated relevant human rights principles 
into its policies for employees and contractors. 
There is growing interest worldwide in the 
issue of the impact of business on human 
rights. Reflecting this, during 2013 the Group 
worked with Shift, a specialist NGO working 
on business and human rights, to understand 
more about this agenda and its key guidelines, 
the UN Guiding Framework on Business and 
Human Rights.
As a result of our work with Shift, we are 
confident that our risk in this area is low. 
We have adopted a specific Human Rights 
Policy within our Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, in addition to our existing 
policies on conflict minerals, business ethics, 
discrimination and export controls. This new 
policy underlines our commitment to trying 
to avoid any adverse impact on human rights 
in the way we conduct our operations, and 
designates contact points within the senior 
executive team for any employee to seek 
advice on any issue that might have human 
rights implications.
The Group strives for equal opportunities for 
all its employees and does not tolerate any 
harassment of, or discrimination against, its 
staff. The Group endeavours to be honest 
and fair in its relationships with its customers 
and suppliers and to be a good corporate 
citizen, respecting the laws of the countries in 
which it operates.
university p rogramme
The ARM University Programme (AUP) 
is an important initiative for the future 
of the Group and our relationships with 
business Partners. The programme engages 
with professors, researchers and students 
worldwide using various channels, including 
higher education institutions, government 
agencies and ARM’s business Partners. 
The aim of the AUP is to develop the 
next generation of engineers for the ARM 
ecosystem, and 2013 saw the building of firm 
foundations to achieve this aim. A strategy 
and plan have been put in place to increase 
the reach of the Group and its Partners 
into academia worldwide and to scale up 
AUP operations using strategic partnerships, 
streamlined processes and procedures. 
These include the AUP flagship Lab-in-a-
Box (LiB) product which is now shipping. 
This allows educators to use state-of-the-art 
ARM and ARM Partners’ technologies in their 
courses and laboratories. LiB, which is free of 
charge, includes both hardware and software 
and comprehensive teaching materials. 
2013 saw the AUP sign up seven Partners: 
Freescale, ST , NXP , Nuvoton, Cypress, 
EnergyMicro/SiLabs and Xilinx for joint 
university engagements and LiB hardware 
platforms. In this time the AUP also doubled 
its reach to universities as a result of the 
above activities, with particularly high growth 
in AsiaPAC and India. Further partnerships in 
education and research are being explored in 
2014 to enable the AUP to increase its reach 
and scalability.
The Group and our Partners are seeing the 
benefits of the AUP , as students graduate 
with experience in designing with ARM 
products and as university engineering 
departments base their own research around 
ARM technology. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
22
environmental, social, corporate 
governance and ethical policies
While the Group is accountable to its 
shareholders, it also endeavours to take into 
account the interests of all its stakeholders, 
including employees, customers and suppliers 
and the local communities and environments 
in which it operates. The Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer take 
responsibility for these matters, which are 
considered at Board level. 
Full details of our CR strategy and 
achievements can be found in the main 
CR report on our website (www.arm/
reporting2013) and a summary of highlights 
from the year are included in the Sustainability 
section of the Strategic Report on page 44.
The Group regularly monitors employees’ 
awareness of Group policies and procedures, 
including its conduct and ethical policies. 
Employees and temporary contractors 
reconfirm their understanding of key policies 
each year to help reinforce awareness. 
The Group operates from a global 
portfolio of offices located in 15 countries. 
The portfolio is made up entirely of offices 
since the Group has no manufacturing 
activities. As such there are no hazardous 
substances nor complex waste streams to be 
managed as part of our business operations. 
The Group’s principal activity involves the 
use of IT-based engineering tools to create 
intellectual property. With the exception of 
development systems products, the majority 
of “products” sold by the Group comprise 
microprocessor core and physical IP designs 
that are delivered electronically to customers.
The Group’s ongoing environmental impact 
analysis informs management about key 
environmental factors and how it can reduce 
the impacts associated with them. In 2013 
the Group’s advanced compute resource 
requirement continued to build upon the 
success of its CEEDA Gold (Certified Energy 
Efficient Data Centre Award) winning data 
centre in Cambridge by commissioning the 
design and build of a second major data 
centre hub in Austin, T exas. This installation 
has the potential to harness geothermal 
energy as part of its design and therefore 
could have a Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) 
rating some 25% lower than typical data 
centres in this region. We have piloted new 
build techniques for this project as part of a 
programme to ensure minimal environmental 
impact in our data centre strategy.
In 2013 ARM opened a new 120,000 
sq ft office in Bangalore, which attained 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) Gold Accreditation. 
This accreditation recognises buildings for 
high environmental performance in their 
construction and operation. ARM aims to 
meet the same LEED accreditation or the 
equivalent Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Methodology 
(BREEAM) performance in all new office 
construction as demonstrated in the design 
briefs of other office expansions developed 
during 2013. These building standards ensure 
high environmental performance of the 
Group’s built environment throughout its 
entire lifecycle.
The Group has continued to partner with 
companies working in the low-impact building 
technology field. We have test installations 
in place with Intellisense, Enlight and Alert 
Me in our Cambridge offices to improve 
environmental performance using energy-
efficient ARM technology. Areas such as 
lighting control and environmental monitoring 
of plant for improved building efficiency are 
being developed with these partners and 
will be extended to other key sites and new 
build projects. The Group continued to 
enhance its environmental data collection and 
reporting ability during 2013 to support the 
work of our Energy Use and Climate Change 
Committee (EUCCC). This is an Executive-
sponsored steering group that directs activity 
relating to environmental stewardship and the 
management of our environmental aspects.
The Group’s environmental policy is published 
on our website within the CR report. In line 
with the Companies Act 2006, the articles 
of association enable the Group to send 
information to shareholders electronically 
and make documents available through the 
website rather than in hard copy, which 
provides both environmental and cost 
benefits. Shareholders can opt to continue 
receiving a printed copy of the annual report, 
subject to availability.
health and safety
The Group operates in an industry and in 
environments which are considered low 
risk from a health and safety perspective. 
However , the safety and welfare of 
employees, contractors and visitors is a 
priority in all Group workplaces worldwide. 
The Group continues to improve its 
management systems in this area with an audit 
programme that includes external auditing of 
processes and offices.
More detail about the Group’s approach to 
environmental matters and health and safety 
is included in the CR report.
Business model
A detailed description of ARM’s business 
model is set out on pages 16 to 17 of the 
Strategic Report.
By order of the Board
patricia alsop
Company Secretary
Corporate governan Ce report CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
23
d ire Ctors’ report
additionaL st a tutory  
 informa tion
description of operations, principal 
activities and review of business
The principal operations and activities of the 
Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, 
marketing, research and development of 
RISC-based microprocessors, fabric system IP , 
graphics processors, physical IP and associated 
systems IP , software and tools. The nature 
of the global semiconductor industry is such 
that most of the Group’s business originates 
overseas and, to serve its customers better , 
the Group has sales offices around the world. 
These include eight offices in the US and 
offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, PR 
China; Shin-Y okohama, Japan; Seoul, South 
Korea; T aipei, T aiwan; Kfar Saba, Israel; Paris, 
France; Grasbrunn, Germany and Bangalore, 
India. Design offices are based in Cambridge, 
Sheffield and Blackburn, UK; Sophia Antipolis 
and Grenoble, France; Grasbrunn, Germany; 
Trondheim, Norway; Sentjernej, Slovenia; 
Lund, Sweden; Oulu, Finland; Austin, T exas; 
Olympia, Washington and San Jose, California 
in the US; Shanghai, PR China; Hsinchu, 
T aiwan and Bangalore, India. 
More information about the business, its 
operations and key performance indicators 
is set out in Overview Marketplace sections 
on pages 14 to 15, the Financial review 
incorporating a section on Risk management 
on pages 47 to 57, and the Sustainability 
summary on pages 44 to 46. The Group’s 
statement on corporate governance can be 
found in the Corporate governance report 
on pages 6 to 22 of this Governance and 
Financial Report. The Risk management 
section of the Financial review and the 
Corporate governance report form part of 
this section and are incorporated into it by 
cross reference.
f uture developments
The Group’s stated objective is to establish 
a global standard for its RISC architecture, 
physical IP and other products in the 
embedded microprocessor and semiconductor 
markets. The directors believe that, in order to 
achieve this goal, it is important to expand the 
number and range of potential customers for 
its technology . 
The Group intends to enter into licence 
agreements with new customers and to 
increase the range of new technology 
supplied to existing customers. 
Relationships will continue to be established 
with third-party tools and software vendors 
to ensure that their products will operate 
with the Group’s products. As a result of its 
position in the semiconductor industry, the 
Group is presented with many opportunities 
to acquire complementary technology or 
resources and it intends to continue to make 
appropriate investments and acquisitions from 
time to time.
g oing concern
After dividend payments of £68.9 million the 
highly cash generative nature of the business 
enabled the Group to increase its cash, cash 
equivalents and deposits to £706.3 million 
(net of accrued interest of £7.2 million) 
at the end of 2013. This was an increase 
from £520.2 million (net of accrued interest 
of £7.4 million) at the start of the year . 
After reviewing the 2014 budget and longer-
term plans and considering any reasonably 
likely scenarios that may occur , the directors 
are satisfied that, at the time of approving 
the financial statements, it is appropriate to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements of both the Group 
and the parent Company. This view was 
supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress 
tests undertaken at the year end which 
showed that some extreme assumptions 
would have to be made before there is a 
negative impact.
dividends
The directors recommend payment of 
a final dividend in respect of the year to 
31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share 
which, subject to approval at the AGM on 
1 May 2014, will be paid on 16 May 2014 
to shareholders on the register on 22 April 
2014. This final dividend, combined with the 
interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share paid in 
October 2013, makes a total of 5.7 pence per 
share for the year , an increase of 27% on the 
total dividend of 4.5 pence per share for 2012. 
The total cost of dividends paid or to be paid 
in respect of the year to 31 December 2013 
is approximately £80 million.
share buyback programme
No share buybacks were undertaken in 2013 
and no shares have been re-purchased to 
date in 2014. The rolling authority to buy back 
shares given by the shareholders at the AGM 
in May 2013 remains in place and a resolution 
to authorise the directors to make purchases 
in appropriate circumstances will be proposed 
at the 2014 AGM. In addition to our policy of 
increasing the dividend through the economic 
cycles, the Group intends to commence a 
limited share buyback programme in 2014 
in order to maintain the issued share capital 
at a constant level in future. The issued 
share capital at 31 December 2013 was 
1,400,263,804 shares, broadly the same level 
as in July 2005 when the Board initiated the 
ongoing share buyback programme under 
which purchases were made until the end 
of 2008. 
The directors present their report and the audited financial 
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with 
the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and T ransparency Rules 
and the UK Corporate Governance Code (September 2012). ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
24
research and development (r&d)
Development of IP is at the heart of the 
Group’s activities and 69% of the Group’s 
workforce is employed in engineering 
activities. Within this, R&D is of major 
importance and, as part of its research 
activities, the Group collaborates closely 
with universities worldwide and plans to 
continue its successful engagement with 
Michigan University. 
Key areas of product development for 2014 
include the development of further energy-
efficient, high-performance processors, such 
as ARM cores based on symmetric multicore 
and superscalar technology. 
The Group is investing in future physical IP 
development including system IP and software 
and low-power , low-leakage technologies for 
a range of chip manufacturing processes, to 
ensure leadership in this market. In addition, 
the Group will continue to develop and 
deliver tools, graphics processors and system 
IP to enable its customers to design and 
programme SoCs.
The Group incurred R&D expenses of 
£202.9 million in 2013, representing 28% of 
revenues, compared with £166.3 million in 
2012, representing 29% of revenues. R&D 
expenses have been charged in full to the 
income statement since the requirements for 
capitalisation were not met. The requirements 
for capitalisation are considered in more detail 
in note 1 to the financial statements.
donations
During the year the Group made donations 
for charitable purposes as follows: 
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
Promotion of education 362.3 142.0
Relief of poverty 55.2 55.3
Other 50.3 37.3
Medical research 62.4 26.5
Local charities 67.8 14.0
Environmental 89.9 1.7
total 687.9 276.8
ARM’s investment of £2.5 million in an 
interest-free charitable bond in Future 
Business, made in 2010, remains in place. 
Future Business is a Cambridge-based social 
enterprise, which provides business advice, 
coaching and affordable workspace to 
entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities 
and voluntary organisations.
ARM employees are encouraged to offer 
their time and expertise to help charities and 
other groups in need. The Group operates 
a Matching Gift Donation programme 
for individual employees’ fundraising 
efforts. The Group does not make any 
political donations. 
More details of the Group’s charitable work 
and fundraising activities can be found in the 
Corporate Responsibility report available 
on the Group’s website at www.arm.com/
reporting2013.
global green house gas emissions
Methodology
Our report covers emissions within 
operations that fall under the Group’s financial 
control. As such data used represents our 
global operations with regional conversion 
factors applied as required. 
Our emission factors are from Defra/DECC 
GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
reporting. Our environmental impact 
assessment of ARM’s operations includes 
energy use and air travel as our material 
CO
2
e contributors. We have excluded non 
material emissions related to refrigerant losses 
in air conditioning systems, motor cars and 
waste streams.
Further detail on our emissions and the 
Group’s management of those emissions 
can be found in our Carbon Disclosure 
Project Submissions.
Reported Emissions 2013 2012
scope 1 and 2 emissions
Combustion of Fuel, Operation 
of Facilities and Electricity 
and Cooling Purchased 
(tonnes CO 2e) 11,067 10,547
CO 2e Intensity (Tonnes CO 2e 
per Employee) 3.37 3.82
scope 3 emissions
Business Travel (Tonnes CO 2e) 10,186 10,112
dire Ctors’ report CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
25
directors in the year
The following served as directors of 
the Company during the year ended 
31 December 2013:
Sir John Buchanan (Chairman) 
Simon Segars (Chief Executive Officer)
Tim Score (Chief Financial Officer)
Mike Muller (Chief T echnology Officer)
Andy Green (independent non-
executive director) 
Larry Hirst CBE (independent non-
executive director)
Eric Meurice (independent non-executive 
director – appointed 1 July 2013) 
Kathleen O’Donovan (Senior Independent 
Director and financial expert) 
Janice Roberts (independent non-
executive director) 
Philip Rowley (independent non-executive 
director and financial expert)
Warren East (former Chief Executive Officer 
– retired 30 June 2013)
Mike Inglis (former Chief Commercial Officer 
– retired 31 March 2013)
re-election of directors 
As previously announced, Sir John Buchanan 
stepped down as Chairman on 1 March 
2014 and will retire from the Board at the 
conclusion of the AGM on 1 May 2014. 
Stuart Chambers joined the Board on 
27 January 2014 as Chairman designate 
and became Chairman on 1 March 2014. 
He will be standing for election at the 2014 
AGM. With the exception of Philip Rowley, 
who is retiring having served for nine years, 
and Sir John Buchanan, all of the other 
directors will be standing for re-election at 
the 2014 AGM. In line with the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2010, all directors will present themselves 
for re-election annually (if eligible) unless 
the directors have agreed otherwise.
See pages 4 to 5 for the biographies of the 
directors at the date of this report.
The interests of the directors in the 
Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, 
all of which were beneficially held, are 
disclosed in the Remuneration report.
The directors have the benefit of directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance.
appointment of directors
ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution 
appoint any person to be a director . ARM 
must have not less than two and no more 
than 16 directors holding office at all times. 
ARM may by ordinary resolution from time 
to time vary the minimum and/or maximum 
number of directors.
The directors may appoint a director to fill a 
casual vacancy or as an additional director to 
hold office until the next AGM, who shall then 
be eligible for election.
share capital
At 31 December 2013, ARM’s share 
capital comprised a single class of ordinary 
shares of 0.05 pence each and there were 
1,400,263,804 ordinary shares in issue, none 
of which were held in treasury (2012: no 
shares held in treasury). The rights attached 
to treasury shares are restricted in accordance 
with the Companies Act. 
The rights attached to ordinary shares are 
as follows: 
1. On a show of hands at a general meeting, 
every shareholder present in person (or , 
in the case of a corporation, present at the 
meeting by way of a representative) and 
entitled to vote shall have one vote and 
every proxy present who has been duly 
appointed by a shareholder entitled to 
vote on the resolution shall have one vote.
2. On a poll, every shareholder present in 
person (or in the case of a corporation, 
present at the meeting by way of a 
representative) or by proxy and entitled 
to vote shall have one vote for every 
ordinary share held.
3. Shareholders are entitled to a dividend 
where declared or paid out of profits 
available for such purposes.
4. Shareholders are entitled to participate in 
a return of capital on a winding-up. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
26
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy 
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions 
to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes 
are counted and the numbers for , against or 
withheld in relation to each resolution are 
announced at the AGM and published on 
ARM’s website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in ARM other than:
  restrictions that may from time to time 
be imposed by laws and regulations (for 
example, those relating to market abuse 
and insider dealing);
  restrictions that may be imposed pursuant 
to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 
Authority under which certain employees 
of ARM require the approval of the 
Company to deal in shares;
  restrictions on the transfer of shares that 
may be imposed under article 61.2 of 
ARM’s articles of association or under 
Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in 
either case following a failure to supply 
information required to be disclosed 
following service of a request under 
section 793 of the Companies Act 2006;
  restrictions on transfer of shares held 
under certain of the Company’s employee 
share plans while they remain subject to 
the plan.
substantial shareholdings
The directors are aware of the following 
substantial interests in the issued share capital 
of the Company as at 3 March 2014:
Percentage of issued  
ordinary share capital
Baillie Gifford & Co 5.05
Thornburg Investment 
Management 5.01
Fidelity Management and Research 
Corporation 4.92
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 4.16
Janus Capital Management LLC 3.05
Save for the above, the Company has not 
been notified, as at 3 March 2014, of any 
material interest of 3% or more or any non-
material interest exceeding 10% of the issued 
share capital of the Company. 
articles of association
ARM’s articles of association may be amended 
only by a special resolution at a general meeting 
of shareholders. It is proposed that the articles 
of association be amended at the AGM on 
1 May 2014 to increase the aggregate limit 
on ordinary remuneration payable to the 
non-executive directors from £0.5m to £1m. 
This aggregate limit has not been increased 
since 2007. Further details are contained in the 
Circular and Notice of 2014 AGM.
dire Ctors’ report CONTINUED
directors’ authority
The directors are responsible for the 
management of the business of ARM and 
may exercise all powers of ARM subject to 
applicable legislation and regulation and the 
articles of association.
At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given 
authority to buy back a maximum number of 
139,650,000 ordinary shares at a minimum 
price of 0.05 pence each. The maximum price 
was an amount equal to 105% of the average 
of the closing mid-market prices of ARM’s 
ordinary shares as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding the day 
on which such ordinary shares are contracted 
to be purchased. This authority will expire 
at the earlier of the conclusion of the 2014 
AGM or 30 June 2014.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed as 
a special resolution at the 2014 AGM to give 
ARM authority to acquire up to 140,891,000 
ordinary shares following expiry of the 
current authority. The directors will use this 
authority only after careful consideration, 
taking into account market conditions 
prevailing at the time, other investment 
opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and 
the overall position of ARM. In particular , 
this authority will be exercised only if the 
directors believe that it is in the best interests 
of shareholders generally and will increase 
earnings per share. Governance Financial Report
27
Resolutions will also be proposed at the 2014 
AGM to:
  authorise the directors generally to allot 
up to £232,470 in nominal amount of 
ordinary shares;
  authorise the directors to allot up to a 
further £232,470 in nominal amount of 
ordinary shares in connection with a rights 
issue (as defined in the Notice of AGM); 
  authorise the directors to allot ordinary 
shares (or sell treasury shares) for cash (i) 
otherwise than in connection with a “pre-
emptive offer” (as defined in the Notice of 
AGM) up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £35,222 or (ii) in connection with a pre-
emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £35,222, or (iii) in connection 
with a rights issue up to a further nominal 
amount of £35,222, in each case as if 
section 561(1) of the Companies Act 2006 
did not apply to such allotment (or sale). 
The period of authorisation will in each 
case expire at the earlier of the conclusion 
of the 2014 AGM or on 30 June 2014.
Qualifying indemnity provision
Article 139 of the Company’s articles of 
association provides for the indemnification 
of directors of the Company against liability 
incurred by them in certain situations, and is 
a “qualifying indemnity provision” within the 
meaning of section 236 of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
The qualifying indemnity was in force during 
the financial year and up to the date of signing 
the annual report.
Change of control
All of ARM’s equity-based plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control. 
Outstanding awards and options would 
normally vest and become exercisable on a 
change of control, subject to the satisfaction 
of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which 
ARM is a party that take effect, alter or 
terminate upon a change of control.
diversity
The Group is committed to employment 
policies, which follow best practice, based 
on equal opportunities for all employees, 
irrespective of sex, race, colour , disability 
or marital status. The Group has a strong 
demand for highly qualified staff and 
disability is not seen to be an inhibitor 
to employment or career development. 
Appropriate arrangements are made for the 
continued employment and training, career 
development and promotion of disabled 
persons employed by the Group. In the 
event of any staff becoming disabled while 
with the Group, their needs and abilities 
would be assessed and the Group would, 
where possible, seek to offer alternative 
employment to them if they were no longer 
able to continue in their current role.
employee involvement
T o help reach the best decision, and one 
that the whole company can support, it 
is important that we include the views of 
those outside of the management team in 
the decision-making process. T o this end, 
internal conferences and communications 
meetings involving employees from all 
parts of the Group in discussions on future 
strategy and developments are held regularly. 
Furthermore, employee share ownership 
is encouraged and all employees are able 
to participate in one of the Group’s share 
ownership schemes. The Group has an 
informal and delegated organisation structure. 
It does not presently operate any collective 
agreements with any trade unions.
Information about the Group’s 
employees and policies are contained 
in the Remuneration report, the “Our 
commitment” section and the Corporate 
Governance report. Information about 
environmental matters, social and community 
policies and their effectiveness is contained in 
the “Our commitment” section and in the full 
Corporate Responsibility report available on 
our website.
financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management and 
policies and exposure to risks in relation to 
financial instruments are detailed in note 1c. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
28
essential contracts
There are no parties with whom the Group 
has contractual or other arrangements that 
are essential to the business of the Group.
There is one company that accounted for 
12% of Group revenues in 2013 (2012: 15%), 
which is referred to in note 2 on page 80.
annual g eneral meeting (agm)
The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 1 May 2014 
at 2.00pm. A presentation will be made at 
this meeting outlining recent developments 
in the business. All voting at the meeting 
will be conducted on a poll where every 
shareholder present in person or by proxy 
will have one vote for each share of which 
they are the owner . The Group will convey 
the results of the poll on the website after 
the AGM. Shareholders are invited to submit 
written questions in advance of the meeting. 
Questions should be sent to The Company 
Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn 
Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
A resolution to reappoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
to the Group will be proposed at the AGM. 
Details of other resolutions to be proposed 
at the meeting are set out in the Circular and 
Notice of AGM 2014, which will be made 
available to all shareholders together with a 
proxy card.
statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Remuneration report, 
and the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial 
year . Under that law the directors have 
prepared the Group financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union, and the parent 
Company financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). 
Under company law the directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company, and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
  select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
  make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
  state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the Group and parent Company financial 
statements respectively; 
  prepare the financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements 
and the Remuneration report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, with regards 
to the Group financial statements, Article 
4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the annual 
report included on the Group’s website in 
accordance with the UK legislation governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements. Legislation in the UK governing 
the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the biographies on 
pages 4 to 5, confirm that to the best 
of their knowledge:
  the Group financial statements, which have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; 
  this Directors’ report on pages 23 to 
28 and the Financial review and the Risk 
management sections on pages 47 to 49 
of the Strategic Report include a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of 
the principal risks and uncertainties that 
it faces.
disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each director in office at the 
date the Directors’ report is approved, that:
(a) so far as the director is aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
(b) the director has taken all the steps that 
he or she ought to have taken as a director 
in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditors are aware of 
that information.
By order of the Board
patricia alsop
Company Secretary  
ARM Holdings plc 
Company Number: 2548782
dire Ctors’ report CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
29
Dear Shareholder
2013 was a busy year for the Committee with the introduction 
and implementation of the new Long-Term Incentive Plan 
(LTIP), which also involved making changes to the annual bonus 
plan for the purposes of simplification of the overall package. 
This followed consultation with major shareholders and 
representative bodies which started in 2012. The Committee 
also approved new salary and benefits arrangements for 
Simon Segars on his promotion to Chief Executive Officer.
In line with ARM’s long-standing commitment to ethical values 
and culture, our aim is to ensure that remuneration policies and 
practices drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of 
the Group and its shareholders. Pay for performance and no 
reward for failure continue to be key principles. At the same 
time, pay and benefits must be at a level that will attract, retain 
and motivate high-calibre people with the skills necessary to 
achieve our goal of sustained growth in corporate performance. 
We operate in a global market, with the majority of our 
revenues being earned from companies located outside the UK 
and with more than half our employees being based outside the 
UK. The Group’s continuing strong performance is due 
principally to the proven abilities of our executive team.
phiL ip r ow Ley 
Remuneration Committee Chairman  
(until 31 December 2013)
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report
  ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
30
In line with the revised remuneration 
disclosure regulations that came into force in 
October 2013, this report is now split into 
two sections:
  The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is 
intended to apply for three years from the 
2014 AGM. The policy will be subject to a 
binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM 
and at least every third year after that.
  The Implementation report, which sets 
out payments and awards made to the 
directors and explains the linkage between 
Group performance and remuneration in 
respect of 2013. This report will be subject 
to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
2014 AGM.
Key decisions on remuneration and actions 
taken in relation to 2013 and 2014 include:
  approval of a pay and benefits package 
(including an L TIP top-up) for Simon Segars 
on his appointment as Chief Executive 
Officer . Pay was increased to the same 
level as applied for the retiring Chief 
Executive Officer (see details on page 46);
  approval of a base pay increase for the 
executive directors of 3.48% for 2013 and 
3.00% for 2014 compared to the average 
increases for the workforce as a whole of 
4.7% for 2013 and 4.35% for 2014; 
  setting of performance targets for the 
bonus plan and new L TIP;
  approval of pro-rated vesting under 
the L TIP and Deferred Annual Bonus 
(DAB) plans for former Chief Executive 
Officer Warren East and former Chief 
Commercial Officer Mike Inglis on their 
retirements from the Group; 
  clear documentation of our remuneration 
policies as set out in this report.
Notwithstanding the tough market conditions 
that continued during 2013, the minimum 
targets, established three years ago under 
both the former L TIP and the former DAB 
Plan, were exceeded and our executives 
have been rewarded for their performance 
as detailed in the Implementation report. It is 
encouraging that shareholders have been 
supportive of our remuneration policies 
for many years and that the Remuneration 
report, incorporating our proposed 
remuneration policy for 2014, received a 
97.6% vote in favour (2.3% vote against; 
4,850,706 votes withheld) at the 2013 AGM. 
We take an active interest in investors’ views 
on remuneration policy, which we were able 
to discuss directly with many shareholders 
through the consultation undertaken in 2013 
in connection with the new L TIP . In line with 
my earlier commitment, I also consulted with 
shareholders in December 2013 over the EPS 
targets applicable to the new L TIP and we 
have taken shareholders’ views into account in 
setting the new L TIP EPS targets.
Finally, I have very much enjoyed my role 
as Committee Chairman and was pleased 
to be able to hand over a coherent and 
carefully considered remuneration structure 
to Larry Hirst, who became Chairman of the 
Committee on 1 January 2014, having been 
a member of the Committee since he joined 
the Board in 2011. At the Annual General 
Meeting on 1 May 2014, it will be nine years 
since my election by shareholders and I will 
therefore be retiring from the Board. I would 
like to thank my colleagues on the Committee 
for their hard work and support during 
my tenure as Chairman and, in particular , 
during 2013.
philip rowley 
Remuneration Committee Chairman  
(until 31 December 2013)
remuneration Committee
In this section we describe the composition 
and activities of the Committee during 2013. 
Committee composition and meeting 
attendance during 2013:
Name of director Position
T otal number 
of meetings/
Meetings 
attended
Philip Rowley Independent non-
executive director 
(Committee 
Chairman until 31 
December 2013)
5/5
Andy Green Independent non-
executive director 
5/5
Larry Hirst Independent non-
executive director 
(Committee 
Chairman from 1 
January 2014)
5/5
Janice Roberts Independent  
non-executive  
director (joined  
28 February 2013)
5/5
Given their diverse business experience, 
the independent non-executive directors 
who made up the Committee in 2013 
offer a balanced view and international 
expertise in relation to remuneration matters 
for the Group. Janice Roberts joined the 
Committee on 28 February 2013 and has 
added valuable knowledge, particularly on 
US compensation matters.
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
31
operation of the Committee
The Chief Executive Officer and the EVP 
People attend each meeting for at least part 
of the time to ensure that the Committee 
is able to obtain their views on the level of 
compensation for executive directors and 
other senior executives, although they are 
not present when their own remuneration 
is discussed. The Company Secretary 
advises the Committee on corporate 
governance matters and acts as Secretary 
to the Committee.
The Committee’s terms of reference are 
published on the corporate website at 
www.arm.com.
The principal items of business dealt with by 
the Committee during 2013 are described in 
my initial letter .
remuneration policy
Introduction
This Remuneration policy section of the 
report has been prepared in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 
and will be submitted to shareholders for 
their approval at the Annual General Meeting 
of the Company to be held on 1 May 2014. 
The Committee has also taken into account 
the principles set out in Schedule A to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012) published by the Financial Reporting 
Council, the Listing Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority and the ABI’s Principles of 
Remuneration published in November 2013.
remuneration p olicy for executive 
directors
We believe that sustained growth can be 
successfully achieved only with a high level 
of employee engagement and motivation. 
We believe that it is in shareholders’ best 
interests that the Group is able to attract 
the best talent in the world within our 
specialised market. All elements of pay 
and benefits set out in the policy table are 
regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and 
motivate appropriately skilled executives. 
The structure of competitive base salaries 
and higher potential incentives supports both 
short- and long-term strategy and has proved 
motivational and successful in achieving strong 
business performance over the past few years. 
The Committee believes that a director’s total 
remuneration should be monitored against 
their worth in the external market, with total 
reward linked to corporate and individual 
performance. T o this end, the Committee 
obtains information from independently 
published remuneration surveys, benchmarks 
the total remuneration package, and applies 
the following principles:
  Base salaries are set at an appropriately 
competitive level.
  A significant amount (i.e. more than 
70%) of total potential remuneration is 
performance-related.
  There should be reward for performance 
but not for failure with an opportunity for 
upside for exceptional performance.
  Benchmarking provides a useful reference 
point but not a target range for salaries or 
other benefits.
  A significant element of performance-
related remuneration is provided in the 
form of shares.
  Elements of performance-related variable 
remuneration are subject to deferral.
  Consideration is given to pay and 
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee is able to consider corporate 
performance on environmental, social and 
corporate governance issues when setting 
the remuneration of executive directors, 
and also takes account of pay and conditions 
elsewhere in the Group. In particular , the 
Committee is mindful of the fact that all 
employees receive share awards (or cash 
equivalents) under the Group’s equity plans.
The Committee does not specifically consult 
with employees when setting and reviewing 
remuneration policy for the executive 
directors; however , it does review the 
salary increases for all Executive Committee 
members against the general employee 
pay award each year to ensure that there 
is fairness. Employees have an opportunity 
to raise any concerns over pay and benefits 
through the annual employee engagement 
survey or direct with their line manager .
The Committee believes that the new L TIP and 
bonus arrangements provide a much simpler 
package (similar to the approach adopted in 
a largely US dominated sector) and one that 
rewards sustained longer term performance. 
The new L TIP also rebalances the package 
towards long-term performance and materially 
reduces the total quantum released after 
three years. In addition, the introduction of 
the new holding periods and increased share 
ownership guidelines will result in longer term 
performance alignment. Therefore, if share 
price performance is sustained during the 
holding period, then participants are rewarded. 
If share price performance is not sustained 
during the holding period then participants are 
worse off than under the old arrangements.
Relative importance of spend on pay £m and percentage change
350
50
100
150
200
250
300
Sta Pay Distributions to
shareholders
Research and
development costs
Tax
2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013
235.7
225.0
292.5 4.8%
24.1%
62.5
47.6
80.4
31.3%
28.6%
166.3
158.6
202.9
4.9%
22.0%
60.3
44.3
57.8
36.1%
–4.1%
The above graph illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit 
(i.e. distributions to shareholders, the development of new products and tax). These were the most significant outgoings 
for the Group in the last financial year. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
32
remuneration p olicy 
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy below 
will be put to shareholders for approval at the 
next Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014 
and is intended to apply for three years from 
that date.
The Policy applies to the executive directors 
at the date of this report and is intended 
to apply to any new executive directors 
who may be appointed during this three-
year period.
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Base salary
To provide an appropriately 
competitive level of base salary 
in order to enable the Group 
to recruit, retain and motivate 
executive directors of the calibre 
required to achieve the Group’s 
business strategy and goal of 
sustained growth in corporate 
performance. 
Base salaries are reviewed annually by the 
Committee and are paid monthly in cash
Increases generally apply from January in each 
year. In its annual review or on promotion, 
the Committee considers the following:
 Pay levels at companies of similar size 
(by reference to market capitalisation and 
revenue) on a geographic and global basis.
 External market conditions.
 Pay and benefits elsewhere in the Group.
 Individual performance, skills, experience 
and potential.
 Corporate performance on environmental, 
social and corporate governance issues. 
Clawback does not apply to base salary 
(in accordance with contractual agreements).
Base salaries are set at an 
appropriate level for each role, 
taking account of the factors 
described in this table.
Generally salaries are no higher 
than market median, although 
higher salaries may be paid, if 
necessary, to recruit externally 
or to retain key executives.
In normal circumstances 
base salary increases will be 
determined by reference 
to average increases for 
employees across the Group.
Greater increases may be 
approved if there is a substantial 
change in a director’s role 
or responsibilities or if the 
salary is significantly below the 
current market rate. In such 
circumstances, increases may 
be phased over a number 
of years and be conditional 
on performance.
None, although the overall performance 
of each executive director is considered by 
the Committee when reviewing base salaries.
Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay 
in lieu of notice may be made at the discretion 
of the Group. This would include base salary 
and contractual benefits (pro-rated where 
applicable) and any untaken holiday.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also 
be paid by the Group.
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report (poL iCy) Governance Financial Report
33
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
performance-related bonus
(in respect of 2014 financial 
year onwards)
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked 
to the Group’s short-term 
financial and strategic goals.
Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for 
2014 onwards. 
Paid annually after the Preliminary 
Announcement for the prior year end. 
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Individual performance measures are focused 
on objectives that are specific to each 
executive director.
Clawback: provisions exist that require 
bonus to be forfeited (i.e. offset of bonus 
accruing in that year) or an equivalent value 
repaid in exceptional circumstances. These 
include material misstatement of published 
results and misconduct causing a material 
loss and would apply for two years from the 
payment of such bonus. The proportion of 
the bonus that would be repayable (and could 
be 100%) would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus exceeds that which 
would have been paid if the results had been 
correctly stated, and also taking into account 
any negative impact of the re-statement.
Maximum bonus: 125% of 
base salary.
Bonus payable at target: 85% 
of base salary. 
Target means the achievement 
of appropriate maximum 
targets in respect of both 
Normalised Operating Profit 
(NOP) and total revenue 
and prior to any personal 
performance adjustment.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% 
of base salary.
Threshold means the minimum 
level of performance before 
bonus starts to accrue.
Amount is subject to achievement of two 
performance targets and then adjusted for 
individual performance:
 NOP (50% of target bonus).
 T otal revenue (50% of target bonus).
 Individual performance measures specific 
to each executive director, which flex the 
amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25.
Revenue and profit growth are regarded as 
the most appropriate short-term metrics for 
continuing the Group’s performance.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust 
bonus targets for any financial year to reflect 
intervening events including acquisitions 
or disposals.
The numerical values of targets for any particular 
financial year will not be disclosed in advance or 
during that year as the Committee considers 
this information to be commercially sensitive. 
The actual targets will be disclosed in the 
following financial year.
performance-related bonus 
(in respect of years up to and 
including 2013)
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked 
to the Group’s short-term 
financial and strategic goals.
Revenue and profit growth 
are regarded as the most 
appropriate short-term 
metrics for continuing the 
Group’s performance.
Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject 
to the provisions of the DAB Plan. This was 
the final operation of the DAB Plan.
Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred 
shares based on NOP, total revenue and 
individual performance.
There is compulsory deferral into shares for 
three years.
Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in 
the range of 0.3 for 1 to 2 for 1 match subject 
to three-year EPS growth of CPI + 4% to CPI 
+12% p.a., respectively.
Deferred and any matching shares in relation 
to 2013 performance will be received in 
February 2017.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.*
Provisions exist that could result in immediate 
forfeiture of shares in the event of dismissal 
for gross misconduct, as determined by the 
Committee and at its discretion.
Maximum and target bonus 
opportunity of 150% and 100% 
of salary respectively.
The targets for 2013 bonus were:
 50% of target bonus was dependent on 
achieving a NOP target of £313.5m** with 
0% payout at £257.7m rising in a linear way 
to 25% at £294.6m. 
 The NOP portion of bonus can continue to 
accrue linearly above the target of £313.5m 
on a straight-line basis, subject to the overall 
maximum of 150% of base salary.
 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving 
a US$ revenue target of US$1,096m** 
with 0% payout at US$913.2m rising to 
25% at $1,030.1m.
 The revenue portion of bonus can continue 
to accrue above the target of US$1,096m so 
that for every 1% increase in revenue, bonus 
is increased by 2.5% of the target, subject to 
the overall maximum of 150% of base salary .
 Bonus amount is then subject to an individual 
performance multiplier which flexes the 
payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again subject to the 
overall maximum of 150% of base salary . ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
34
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Long-t erm incentive 
plan 2013 
(first operation in 2014)
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly linked 
to the Group’s long-term financial 
and strategic goals.
To align executive directors’ 
interests with those of the 
shareholders through the 
performance conditions and 
share retention obligations. 
Annual conditional share awards are made 
at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for 
vesting of between 0% to 200% after three 
years dependent on achievement of the 
performance conditions, with a maximum 
of 375% of base salary.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to 
additional holding periods with 25% released 
after four years and the remaining 25% 
released after five years. During these new 
holding periods, shares may not be sold even 
if the participant has left the Group.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
malus: The Committee has discretion to 
reduce a share award (including to nil) prior 
to vesting where there are exceptional 
circumstances, which include a material 
misstatement in the Group’s published results, 
misconduct by the executive director that is 
deemed to have caused or contributed to a 
material loss as a result of reckless, negligent 
or wilful actions, or inappropriate values 
or behaviour.
Clawback: The Committee has discretion 
to clawback shares and executive directors 
have an obligation under the Rules to transfer 
shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in 
exceptional circumstances (as described 
above). If sold at less than market value, the 
obligation is to pay market value at the date 
of disposal. Clawback would be less any tax 
and social security paid or due to be paid. The 
Committee has discretion to set the length of 
the clawback period, which would normally be 
two years from acquisition of the shares.
Maximum limit of 600% in 
exceptional circumstances as 
determined by the Committee. 
By way of example, exceptional 
circumstances could include the 
hiring of an exceptional senior 
executive director in a highly 
competitive market where we 
need to make an exceptional 
offer in order to recruit.
For the 2014 award vesting is based on:
three-year Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) growth relative to the FTSE All World 
Technology Index (25%).
three-year TSR growth relative to the  
FTSE 350 (25%).
three-year normalised EPS growth (50%) 
with threshold at 15% annual growth (including 
CPI) and the upper performance target at 22% 
annual growth (including CPI).
25% of the respective TSR elements vest for 
median performance with 100% vesting for 
upper quintile performance.
Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element 
vests at threshold performance with 100% 
vesting at the upper performance target 
with straight line interpolation between these 
two points.
The Committee will review the performance 
conditions for new awards annually.
The Committee has discretion to waive or 
change a performance condition if anything 
happens that causes the Committee reasonably 
to consider it appropriate, provided that 
any changed performance condition will be 
no more difficult to satisfy than the original 
condition was intended to be at the time the 
award was granted.
shareholding requirement
To align executive directors’ 
interests with those of 
shareholders over a longer time 
period, they are required to 
build a shareholding of 200% 
of base salary.
Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 
50% of shares received through the DAB Plan 
and LTIP (after the automatic sale of shares to 
satisfy tax liabilities) can be disposed of.
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count 
towards the shareholding requirements.
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report (poL iCy) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
35
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
Long-t erm  
incentive plan
(in respect of years up to and 
including 2013)
To incentivise executive directors 
to achieve performance 
objectives that are directly 
linked to the Group’s long-term 
financial and strategic goals.
To align executive directors’ 
interests with those of the 
shareholders through the 
performance conditions and 
share retention obligations. 
Annual conditional awards normally at 100% 
of salary with the potential for the award to 
vest at between 0% and 200% of salary for 
upper decile performance at the end of the 
three-year performance period.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
Maximum award limit of 400% 
in exceptional circumstances was 
never used.
Vesting is based on:
three-year TSR growth relative to the 
FTSE All World Technology Index (50%).
three-year TSR growth relative to the 
FTSE 350 (50%).
Threshold vesting commencing at median 
ranking of TSR group (25% of respective TSR 
elements rising to 100% vesting for an upper 
decile ranking on a straight-line basis).
The Committee has discretion to waive or 
change a performance condition in the event of 
circumstances which cause the Committee to 
reasonably consider that:
(a) the amended Performance Condition would 
be a fairer measure of performance and 
would be no easier to satisfy; or
(b) the Performance Condition should 
be waived.
pension
To provide pension contributions 
in line with market practice, which 
will enable directors to plan 
for retirement.
10% of base salary for executive directors and 
11% for the Chief Executive Officer is paid 
either into the Group Personal Pension Plan 
or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance 
(subject to payroll deductions) for those in 
excess of the lifetime allowance applicable in 
the UK.
11% of base salary. Not applicable.
other benefits
To provide competitive 
benefits in line with market 
practice to enable the Group to 
recruit and retain high-calibre 
executive directors.
To reward innovation 
and invention.
Other benefits are provided appropriate 
to the location of the executive director 
and include provision of a car or car and 
fuel allowance, long-term sickness and 
disability insurance, death in service benefit, 
and healthcare and travel insurance for the 
executive director and family.
Executive directors may also receive patent 
bonuses in line with the scheme operated 
by the Group from time to time for patent 
applications and on grants of patents.
Reasonable market cost 
of providing benefits.
The Committee reserves 
the discretion to provide such 
situation-specific benefits as 
may be required in the interests 
of the Group’s business, 
such as relocation. Full details 
of the exercise of any such 
discretion would be provided 
to shareholders in the next 
Remuneration report.
Not applicable. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
36
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
overseas benefits/
relocation allowances
To provide competitive 
benefits in line with market 
practice to enable the Group to 
recruit and retain high-calibre 
executive directors and move 
them to alternative locations 
when required by the needs of 
the business.
Executives based in countries outside 
their home country receive other benefits 
appropriate to the country in which they 
are working.
In the event that an executive director agrees 
to move from their home country temporarily 
the relocation arrangements may include:
Housing allowance or settlement of actual costs.
Disturbance allowance to enable essential 
household purchases to be made.
Cost of living and transportation allowance 
for the duration of the assignment.
Flights home for executive and family.
School fees for executive director’s children.
Cost of personal tax advice.
Cost of visas for executive and family.
Cost of transporting executive and family’s 
personal effects.
Legal and estate agents fees associated with 
properties in home and overseas locations.
Reasonable market cost of 
providing benefits for the 
duration of the term abroad.
Not applicable.
one-off recruitment cash/
equity awards
To provide an appropriately 
attractive package to persuade an 
external hire to accept an offer 
of employment and/or to buy 
out equity that would be lost on 
leaving previous employment. 
An award of restricted stock units (RSUs) 
or a grant of options may be made under 
the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit 
to compensate for equity awards foregone 
with previous employer and/or provide equity 
that vests in the three years prior to potential 
vesting of the first LTIP award. 
Alternatively a cash payment or an additional 
LTIP award may be made to compensate.
Payment may be on taking up appointment 
or to coincide with vesting dates under the 
previous employer’s plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
The maximum would be 
a sum equal to the value 
of equity foregone, taking 
account of performance 
conditions attached to the 
award, likelihood of vesting, 
and accelerated payment.
The Committee has discretion to determine 
appropriate performance conditions for any 
award of RSUs, any LTIP award, or any grant 
of options taking account of the circumstances 
of each individual case. Performance conditions 
would normally be applied on an equivalent 
basis to those applicable to awards made to 
other executive directors in the same calendar 
year. Performance conditions may, but would 
not necessarily be applied to any cash payment.
other Contributory  
equity plans 
Executive directors are eligible 
to participate in the share plan 
applicable to the country where 
they work. 
These plans provide an 
opportunity for executive 
directors to voluntarily invest 
in the Group.
ARM currently operates a Save as You 
Earn Option Scheme in the UK (and some 
other countries) and an Employee Stock 
Purchase Plan in the US (and some other 
countries), which enables employees to buy 
shares at a discount of up to 20% of market 
value through regular monthly or fortnightly 
payroll deductions.
The maximum participation 
limits will not exceed those set 
by the relevant tax authorities 
from time to time.
Not applicable.
f ees for non-executive 
roles held outside the 
group 
To provide executive directors 
with opportunities to widen their 
knowledge and experience of 
the operation of other company 
boards and Committees, they are 
permitted to hold non-executive 
positions at other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to retain any 
fees paid and/or shares offered in connection 
with external non-executive roles that 
they undertake.
The amounts received are 
disclosed annually. 
Details are provided on 
page 54.
Not applicable.
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report (poL iCy) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
37
Component of remuneration package  
and how it supports business strategy
Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions,  
targets assessment and areas of discretion 
non-executive directors’ 
(ned) and Chairman’s fees
To attract and retain an 
appropriately experienced 
Chairman and independent 
non-executive directors 
of suitable calibre to fulfil 
a range of different roles 
including financial expert/Audit 
Committee Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director and 
Committee Chairmen.
To pay fees that reflect 
responsibilities and workload 
undertaken, and which 
are competitive with 
peer companies. 
NED fees are proposed by the executive 
directors and approved by the Board as a 
whole. The Chairman’s fee is proposed by the 
Committee and approved by the Board as 
a whole with the Chairman taking no part in 
the decision.
NED appointments are terminable on three 
months’ notice.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and 
take account of fees paid for similar roles by 
peer companies.
The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible 
to receive bonuses, pension contributions and 
nor can they participate in the LTIP or other 
equity plans. 
The overall fees paid to non-executive 
directors will remain within the limit stated in 
our Articles of Association, currently £0.5m 
which we are seeking approval to increase to 
£1.0m at the 2014 AGM.
Fees are set at an appropriate 
level taking into account the 
factors outlined in this table.
Additional fees are paid to the 
SID and Committee Chairmen.
An additional fee is paid to 
NEDs based outside the UK 
who undertake long-haul travel 
to attend Board meetings in 
the UK, to reflect the additional 
time commitment.
Not applicable.
Legacy arrangements 
(pre 27 June 2012)
None.
* Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP .
** Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60.
selection of p erformance measures 
and how targets are set 
LTIP
Performance measures for the new L TIP were 
selected after careful consideration by the 
Committee and following consultation with 
larger shareholders. The Committee believes 
that the use of both TSR and EPS performance 
measures provide the best alignment to Group 
strategy and encourages, reinforces and 
rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder 
value. The TSR element (which accounts for 
50% of total L TIP vesting) was approved by 
shareholders as part of the approval of the 
new L TIP at the 2013 AGM. 
The normalised EPS growth performance 
condition (which accounts for 50% of total 
L TIP vesting) has been set as follows:
12.5% vesting for annual growth of 15% 
(including CPI) rising on a straight-line basis 
to 50% vesting for annual growth of 22% 
(including CPI).
The Committee has set this range for the L TIP 
award made for 2014 and intends to review 
it annually. Changes will be made only if the 
targets become inappropriate in changing 
market conditions. Analysts’ targets are 
acknowledged as important reference points 
for the markets, but there are a number of 
factors beyond the control of the Group 
and the executive directors that may impact 
medium- to long-term EPS performance 
(such as macro or semiconductor industry 
cycles and currency fluctuations). These may 
have impacts that would not necessarily be 
seen as underperformance by the Group. 
The Committee is also keen not to encourage 
short-term views or behaviour where, in 
theory, investment in the long-term future 
(either organically or by acquisition) may be 
discouraged if the EPS range is set at too 
high a level.
Annual Bonus Plan
Performance measures for the Annual 
Bonus Plan are set annually. Each year the 
Committee considers the most appropriate 
metrics to apply for the following financial 
year . These metrics are currently NOP and 
Group Revenue. A personal performance 
multiplier is then applied related to 
achievement of specific personal goals for 
each individual. The Committee is of the 
opinion that the numerical values of targets 
for the Annual Bonus Plan are commercially 
sensitive because they include budgeted 
numbers within the range of outcomes and 
it would be detrimental to the Group to 
disclose them in advance of or during the 
relevant performance period. The actual 
targets will be disclosed in the following 
financial year . ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
38
Changes to executive directors’ 
remuneration for 2014
The former L TIP approved in 2003 expired 
in 2013 and at that time the Committee took 
the opportunity to review its entire approach 
to executive pay. The objective of the review 
was to ensure that the Group’s approach 
remains fit for purpose over the next stage 
of its development. The replacement of 
the DAB Plan and former L TIP with the 
new Bonus Plan and L TIP will not result in 
any increases to the maximum quantum of 
reward delivered. The Committee believes 
that the new structure provides a much 
simpler package (similar to the approach 
adopted in a largely US-dominated sector) 
and one that rewards only sustained longer-
term performance. The chart below highlights 
the change:
Structure of executive directors’ remuneration % of salary
Base salary
Potential DAB match
Cash bonus Potential DAB
LTIP
600
500
400
300
200
100
Former New
illustration of remuneration policy 
for 2014
The tables below illustrate the level of 
remuneration that could be received by each 
executive director through the operation of 
our remuneration policy for 2014. They show 
the proportion of total remuneration made 
up of each component (salary, bonus, L TIP , 
DAB pension and other benefits) and the 
total potential value. It should be noted that 
these do not reflect the new L TIP scheme, 
as entitlements under the new L TIP will not 
start to vest for three years and we are in a 
transitional period between the old and new 
L TIP and bonus plans. For the total amount 
received by each director in respect of 2013 
please see the table on pages 46 to 47.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each 
of the three executive directors:
Fixed element only performance – no bonus, 
no L TIP/DAB vesting.
On-target performance – 85% of base salary 
in cash bonus, 100% L TIP vesting, 100% DAB 
matching shares.
Maximum performance – 125% of base salary 
in cash bonus, 200% L TIP vesting, 200% DAB 
matching shares. 
The total remuneration for each of the 
executive directors that could result from 
the proposed remuneration policy in 2014 
under three different performance levels is 
shown below.
Simon Segars 
Percentages/amounts £000s
Fixed elements Annual variable
Multiple period variable
100%
31%
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
615
1,534
2,221
29% 40%
43% 29% 28%
Tim Score
Percentages/amounts £000s
100%
44%
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
500
1,550
2,409
24% 32%
57% 22% 21%
Mike Muller
Percentages/amounts £000s
100%
44%
Fixed
On-target
Maximum
342
1,066
1,657
24% 32%
57% 22% 21%
d ire Ctors’ remuneration report (poL iCy) CONTINUED
Notes:
1. The Fixed element is base salary for 2014 plus the value 
of pension, allowances and benefits.
2. The annual variable element is the amount of the cash 
bonus potential.
3. The Multiple period variable is made up of the LTIP and 
DAB Plan awards that were granted in February 2012 and 
have a performance period ending in 2014.
4. The values included assume a constant share price from 
date of grant. The actual value received will be higher or 
lower depending on the share price at vest.
5. The annual variable elements would have been three 
percentage points higher under the previous year’s 
remuneration arrangements, as the on-target bonus was 
100% and the maximum bonus was 150%.
% increase in pay and benefits from 2012 to 2013 for Ceo compared  
to employees
CEO* Employees
Base Salary 2.0% 4.7%
Benefits and pension** 65.6% -5.0%
Bonus*** –12.7% 9.6%
*   The percentages for the CEO reflect the pay and benefits for Warren East for the first half of the year and for Simon Segars 
for the second half of the year.
**   The large increase in the benefits and pension of the CEO in 2013 was due to allowances paid to Simon Segars as a result of 
his placement in the US. Warren East received no such allowance in 2012.
***  The CEO’s bonus percentage reflects the decrease in the bonus received by Simon Segars for the year to 31 December 
2013 compared to the bonus received by Warren East for the year to 31 December 2012. On his appointment as CEO on 1 
July 2013, Simon Segars’ base salary was increased from £300,000 to £500,000. Since his bonus is calculated on pro-rata 
basis, his bonus for 2013 was lower than that received by Warren East for 2012, despite the higher overall percentage paid. Governance Financial Report
39
service contracts
Our policy is for notice periods for executive 
directors to be of one year’s duration and 
each of the executive directors’ service 
contracts reflects this. These agreements 
provide for each of the directors to provide 
services to the Group on a full-time basis 
and contain restrictive covenants for 
periods of three to six months following 
termination of employment relating to non-
competition, non-solicitation of the Group’s 
customers, non-dealing with customers, and 
non-solicitation of the Group’s suppliers 
and employees. In addition, each service 
contract contains an express obligation of 
confidentiality in respect of the Group’s trade 
secrets and confidential information and 
provides for the Group to own any intellectual 
property rights created by the directors in the 
course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each 
person who served as an executive director 
during the financial year are as follows:
Director Date
Simon Segars 18 March 2013
Tim Score 1 March 2002
Mike Muller 31 January 1996 
Mike Inglis  
(retired 31 March 2013) 17 July 2002
Warren East  
(retired 30 June 2013) 29 January 2001
Service contracts for the executive directors 
and appointment letters for the Chairman and 
non-executive directors are available to view 
in the Corporate Governance section of our 
website at www.arm.com/reporting2013.
The term of appointment for non-executive 
directors is three years, which can be rolled 
forward for two further periods each of three 
years, which would be subject to annual review. 
Appointments are subject to termination 
on three months’ notice. Fees paid to non-
executive directors are reviewed annually 
with effect from 1 January . 
t ermination of employment
In the event of termination of an executive 
director’s contract of employment, 
compensation would be based on salary and 
contractual benefits during the notice period 
and whether the departing director is deemed 
to be a good leaver under the rules of the 
bonus plan, the 2013 L TIP , the former L TIP , 
and the former DAB Plan.
Contractual provisions/Plan Rules Exit Payment Policy
service contracts Payment of contractual entitlements, including payment in lieu of 
notice in appropriate circumstances, where certainty and protection 
of restrictive covenants are in the best interests of the Group.
Termination payments would take into account the particular 
circumstances relevant to each individual situation.
Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice may 
be made at the discretion of the Group.
This would include base salary and contractual benefits (pro-rated 
where applicable) and any untaken holiday.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by the Group.
L tip For good leavers conditional awards under the LTIP would normally 
vest pro-rata to time served and the extent to which the performance 
conditions are satisfied at the date of termination of employment.
For bad leavers, unvested share awards would lapse on termination 
of employment.
In relation to both the LTIP and Bonus Plan: in assessing whether 
an executive director is a good leaver in retirement circumstances, 
the executive director is required to confirm future intentions to 
the Committee (including that he or she will not accept a full-time 
executive role in a commercial organisation). If the Committee 
determines that the executive director is a good leaver and 
subject to satisfaction of performance targets, pro-rated vesting of 
entitlements under the old and new LTIPs and bonus plans would 
normally be approved.
The holding periods described in the Remuneration Policy table would 
apply to any shares that vest under the LTIP.
Bonus plans There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus. In the event of 
death or leaving as a result of disability or ill health, pro-rata bonus 
may be paid for the year of cessation.
Bad leavers would not receive performance-related bonus awards in 
relation to the year of cessation.
Clawback provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited (i.e. offset 
of bonus accruing in that year) or an equivalent value repaid should 
it be necessary for the Group to re-state to a material extent the 
financial results on which the bonus was awarded within two years of 
the payment of such bonus. The proportion of the bonus that would 
be repayable (which could be 100%) would depend on the extent to 
which the original bonus exceeds that which would have been paid if the 
results had been correctly stated, also taking into account any negative 
impact of the re-statement.
f ormer daB p lan Deferred shares under the former DAB Plan would vest on 
termination. Deferred shares can be forfeited in certain circumstances. 
Matching shares vest, to the extent the performance conditions are 
satisfied, for good leavers only. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
40
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation)
 Ba L an C ing shor t and  
 L ong-term remunera tion
Base salary increase for 2013 and 2014
For 2013, the average increase in base salaries 
for the executive directors was 3.48% and 
the average increase for the workforce as 
a whole was 4.7%. On his appointment as 
Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013, the 
Committee approved a salary increase for 
Simon Segars to £500,000, which was at the 
same level as the retiring Chief Executive 
Officer . For 2014 the average increases are 
3.0% for the executive directors and 4.35% 
for the workforce as a whole. Within the 
overall increase for 2014, the range was 3.4% 
for the US rising to 8.0% in Asia, reflecting 
local market conditions and salary inflation. 
shareholding requirements
In order to align executives’ interests with 
those of shareholders over a longer time 
period, all Executive Committee members 
are now required to build a shareholding 
of 200% of base salary (an increase from 
the previous level of 100% of base salary). 
For other participants in the new L TIP , the 
shareholding requirement has increased from 
50% to 100% of base salary. 
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count 
towards the shareholding requirements. 
Until these levels are achieved, no more than 
50% of shares received through the DAB 
Plan and L TIP (after the automatic sale of 
shares to satisfy tax liabilities) can be disposed 
of by participants. For 2014 a transitional 
arrangement is in place for participants below 
Executive Committee level under which 
20% of net shares vesting must be retained. 
This will increase to 50% for 2015 onwards.
At the present share price, all of the executive 
directors meet the 200% of base salary 
shareholding requirement.
Collectively the Executive Committee, 
including the executive directors, held 
3.7 million shares with a value of £36.8 million 
at 3 March 2014. This currently equates to a 
multiple of 10 times base salaries. 
Current incentive arrangements and 
their operation in respect of 2013 
financial year
For 2013 there were four key incentive 
schemes in operation across the workforce 
as a whole. These are as follows:
For executive directors and senior managers:
  The final annual bonus award under the 
DAB Plan.
  An annual conditional award under 
the L TIP .
For all other employees: 
  Awards under the Annual Bonus Plan.
  Employee Equity Plan.
Option grants to executive directors ceased 
in 2006 (although the facility to grant options 
exists in exceptional circumstances). The move 
away from options to restricted shares for all 
employees has reduced potential dilution and 
has simplified remuneration arrangements. 
We significantly out-performed our 
international peer group over the last three 
years, which resulted in 183.7% vesting of the 
L TIP awards made in 2011 when the share 
price was 611 pence per share and full vesting 
of the DAB Plan matching share awards made 
in respect of 2010. T o put the awards that 
are currently outstanding under the L TIP and 
DAB Plan into context, the share price was 
568 pence per share for the February 2012 
awards and 924.5 pence per share for the 
February 2013 awards. The share price was 
896 pence per share on 7 February 2014 
being the day before the 2014 L TIP and final 
DAB Plan awards were made. 
Shares earned are satisfied through the issue 
of new shares (any treasury shares available 
would be used first).
Each of the executive directors achieved a 
personal performance multiplier of at least 
1.15 for 2013, which means bonus received 
was in the range 136% to 144% of salary, 
half of which was compulsorily deferred into 
shares for three years. Actual bonuses are 
detailed in the table on page 48.
The revenue target is set in US dollars to 
reflect the main currency in which revenues 
are earned. 
The NOP target range was from zero payout 
at £257.7 million up to 25% at £294.6 million 
and 50% at £313.5 million, all at the Group 
budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60.
Shares representing the deferred element of 
bonus earned in 2010 and awarded in 2011 
vested in February 2014, with the maximum 
2:1 ratio of matching shares being triggered. 
This ratio was achieved because EPS growth 
was 120.4%, which is greater than CPI plus 
12% per annum on average for the three 
years making up the performance period.
At normalised EPS growth equal to the 
increase in the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) 
plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will 
be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 
when EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% 
per annum. These targets are directly related 
to the Group’s financial results and encourage 
achievement of the Group’s short-term 
financial goals, while the deferral and matching 
elements encourage a longer term view 
of the success of the Group. The deferred 
shares can be forfeited in the event of gross 
misconduct and the matching shares are 
subject to forfeiture for “bad leavers”. Governance Financial Report
41
new Bonus p lan for 2014
As part of the new structure for executive 
remuneration and in particular the new L TIP 
(which was consulted on with shareholders 
in 2012/13 and approved by shareholders at 
the 2013 Annual General Meeting), bonuses, 
if earned, will be paid wholly in cash for 2014 
onwards. The maximum bonus opportunity 
has reduced from 150% to 125% of base 
salary, bonus payable at target has reduced 
from 100% to 85% of base salary and no 
bonus is paid at threshold.
T arget constitutes the achievement of 
appropriate maximum targets in respect 
of both NOP and total revenue and prior 
to any personal performance adjustment.
The amount is subject to the achievement 
of two performance targets and then adjusted 
for individual performance: 
  NOP – 50% of target bonus.
  T otal revenue – 50% of target bonus.
  Individual performance multiplier specific 
to each executive director , which flexes the 
bonus amount by a factor of 0.75 to 1 .25.
Revenue and profit growth are regarded 
as the best drivers to increase market share 
and continue the Group’s outperformance 
of semiconductor market growth.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust 
bonus targets for any financial year to reflect 
intervening events including acquisitions or 
disposals. It should be noted that the individual 
performance multiplier when applied to the 
executive directors normally falls within a 
relatively narrow range at the upper end. 
This results from the fact that maintenance 
of a very high level of performance is a 
pre-requisite to continuation in the role of 
executive director . Performance is reviewed 
on an in-depth basis on at least an annual 
basis by the CEO (for the other executive 
directors) and by the Chairman for the CEO. 
The individual performance multipliers for 
the executive directors are then approved by 
the Committee.
The numerical values of targets for any 
particular financial year will not be disclosed in 
advance or during that year as the Committee 
considers this information to be commercially 
sensitive. The commercial sensitivity relates to 
the use of current year budget revenue within 
the range of outcomes. The actual targets will 
be disclosed in the following financial year .
The bonus targets set by the Committee 
for each year are intended to be stretching 
but motivational and average bonus paid to 
the executive directors over the past five 
years was 125% of salary (with a range from 
84% payout for 2009 to 150% for 2011) 
as shown below: 
Notes:
1.   2010 maximum bonus was limited to 125% of base salary. 
2.  For 201 1, 2012 and 2013 maximum bonus was 150% of base salary.
3.  For 2014 onwards maximum bonus is 125% of base salary.
Average percentage bonus paid over the past ﬁve years to executive directors
576.9
200%
150%
100%
50%
0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
% of base salary ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
42
Linkage of bonus targets to 
business strategy
The personal performance multiplier depends 
on the achievement of pre-determined 
objectives, which are reviewed and approved 
by the Committee each year . These include 
key strategic objectives related to each 
director’s role and responsibilities (such as 
compliance with the Management Charter , 
which is designed to foster employee 
development), understanding of the 
overall vision and strategy of the Group, 
and good governance. The Committee is 
able to consider corporate performance 
on environmental, social and corporate 
governance issues when setting the 
remuneration of executive directors.
Long-t erm incentive plan
Former L TIP
Under the former L TIP , annual conditional 
awards to executive directors were normally 
made at a level equivalent to base salary. 
Conditional awards vest to the extent 
that the performance criteria are satisfied 
over a three-year performance period 
from 1 January of the year of award, 
with no subsequent re-testing permitted. 
The performance conditions are based on 
the Company’s TSR when measured against 
that of two comparator groups (each testing 
half of the shares comprised in the award). 
The first index comprises UK companies 
across all sectors (FTSE 350) and the second 
comprises predominantly US companies 
within the hi-tech sector (FTSE All World 
T echnology Index).
For each comparator group, the number 
of shares that may vest may be up to a 
maximum of 200% of the relevant half of 
the shares comprised in the conditional 
award if the Company’s TSR ranks in the 
upper decile, 50% of the relevant half of 
the shares will vest in the event of median 
performance and between median and upper 
decile performance vesting will increase on 
a straight-line basis. Additional shares may 
vest to cover dividends paid by the Company 
during the performance period. No shares will 
be received for below-median performance. 
In addition, no shares will vest unless the 
Committee is satisfied that there has been 
a sustained improvement in the underlying 
financial performance of the Group.
The vesting of the 2011 L TIP awards in 
February 2014 was at 183.7% as a result of 
our significant outperformance compared to 
our international peer group over the past 
three years. Subject to achievement of the 
performance conditions, the final outstanding 
awards under the former L TIP will vest 
in 2016.
New L TIP
The new L TIP was approved by shareholders 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting 
and is described in more detail in the 
Remuneration Policy summary earlier in 
this report. Annual awards are made up 
to a normal maximum of 375% of base 
salary. Dividend shares are added at vesting. 
Vesting is based on:
Three-year relative TSR growth relative to 
the FTSE All World T echnology Index (25%).
Three-year relative TSR growth relative to 
the FTSE 350 (25%).
Three-year EPS growth (50%).
25% of the respective TSR elements vest for 
median performance, with 100% vesting for 
upper quintile performance.
Similarly 25% of the EPS element vests at 
threshold performance (annual growth in 
EPS of 15% including CPI) and 100% vests at 
maximum performance (annual growth in EPS 
of 22% including CPI) and rising on a straight-
line basis between these two points.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to 
additional holding periods with 25% released 
after four years and the remaining 25% 
released after five years. During these new 
holding periods, shares may not be sold even 
if the participant has left the Group.
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
43
The Committee gave particularly careful 
thought to this range, taking into account a 
number of factors including internal forecasts 
and updated market consensus, balanced 
with the need to create a real incentive over 
the long-term. Another key factor was the 
need for the Group to have the flexibility to 
make appropriate investments with a view 
to generating long-term shareholder value 
(recognising the typical timelines in which 
investments in technology give rise to licence 
and royalty revenue). The range is considered 
to be challenging and significantly exceeds the 
EPS growth range for awards granted under 
the former DAB Plan (being CPI + 4% to 
CPI + 12%). 
Our intent is to review these targets on 
an annual basis, taking account of market 
conditions and any other relevant factors 
to ensure that they remain appropriate in 
the context of the factors set out above. 
The Committee will review their applicability 
on an annual basis, so that in the event that 
exceptional circumstances arise, such as 
material corporate activity or substantial 
changes in market conditions, their impact 
can be considered against subsequent annual 
awards. If changes are to be proposed for 
any prospective L TIP award, it would be the 
Committee’s intention to confirm any such 
change to shareholders in advance.
f ormer share option schemes
The remaining shares of the final option grant 
to executive directors made in 2006 vested 
in accordance with the rules of the scheme in 
February 2013. 
pensions
The Group does not operate its own pension 
scheme but makes payments into a group 
personal pension plan, which is a money 
purchase scheme. For executive directors, 
the normal rate of Group contribution is 
10% of the executive’s basic salary, or 11% 
in the case of the Chief Executive Officer 
(plus additional amounts in accordance 
with the Group’s salary sacrifice scheme). 
Full details of Group contributions are set 
out in the directors’ emoluments table later 
in this report. Since 2011 , to the extent that 
contributions cannot be made in a tax efficient 
way at the 10/11% of basic salary level, 
the difference is paid as an additional cash 
allowance (and subject to appropriate tax and 
other deductions).
Compensation for loss of office
No payments were made during 2013 
to former executive directors by way of 
compensation for loss of office, or pay in 
lieu of notice. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
44
performance graphs
A performance graph showing the 
Company’s TSR together with the TSRs for 
the FTSE All-World T echnology Index and 
the FTSE 350 from 31 December 2008 is 
shown below. The TSR has been calculated in 
accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Company’s shares was 
1,231% over this period compared with 148% 
for the FTSE All-World T echnology Index for 
the same period.
The Committee considers the FTSE 
All-World T echnology Index to be an 
appropriate choice as the Index contains 
companies from the US, Asia and Europe 
and therefore reflects the global environment 
in which the Group operates. In addition, 
the Index includes many companies that are 
currently the Group’s customers, as well as 
companies that use ARM technology in their 
end products.
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED
1 400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
Dec 09 Dec 08 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13
ARM   FTSE All-World Technology   FTSE 350
ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2013
CEO’s Pay for the last five financial years
Y ear 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
CEO’s total single figure £*
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 2,010,584 7,570,679 7,744,982 6,709,569 3,415,729
Simon Segars (appointed CEO 1 July 2013) – – – – 2,064,907
CEO’s total single figure £ 2,010,584 7,570,679 7,744,982 6,709,569 5,480,636
Bonus % of maximum award % 67% 100% 100% 85% 91%
L TIP % of maximum vesting % 91% 100% 100% 100% 92%
DAB % of maximum vesting % 0% 100% 100% 100% 100%
*  Warren East retired on 30 June 2013 and was succeeded by Simon Segars. The CEO’s total single figure for 2013 represents the pay, benefits and pension received by Warren East for the first 
half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plans. This figure also includes the pay, benefits, bonus 
and pension received by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received by him under the LTIP and DAB Plans in respect of the financial year to  
31 December 2013. Governance Financial Report
45
non-executive directors
During 2013, the Chairmen of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees each received 
a total fee of £70,000 per annum and the 
other non-executive directors each received 
a total fee of £55,000 per annum. In line 
with fee arrangements in place in other 
companies of similar size and complexity, the 
executive directors have implemented new 
arrangements from 1 January 2014 as follows:
  A standard fee of £60,000 per annum. 
  Additional fees for Committee Chairmen 
and the Senior Independent Director of 
£16,000 per annum.
This is believed to more fairly reflect the 
workload undertaken by Committee 
Chairmen and the Senior Independent 
Director . The additional fee of $2,500 per 
meeting which is paid to non-executive 
directors who are based in the US and travel 
to the UK for Board meetings will continue 
at this level. This is to reflect their additional 
time commitment. 
The Chairman’s fee for 2013 was at the 
rate of £390,000 per annum and increased 
by 2.6% for 2014 to the rate of £400,000 
per annum.
Non-executive directors do not have service 
contracts and are not eligible to participate 
in bonus or share incentive arrangements. 
Their service does not qualify for pension 
purposes or other benefits, and no element 
of their fees is performance-related.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, 
the executive directors have interests in 
dividend shares that could be awarded 
under the former and current L TIPs and 
the former DAB Plan, the amount of which 
will depend on the extent to which the 
performance criteria are satisfied and on the 
dividends declared during the performance 
period. Changes in directors’ interests in the 
Company’s shares that have taken place in the 
period from 31 December 2013 to the date 
of approval of the Remuneration report are 
shown above.
external advisers
The Committee has access to independent 
professional advice on remuneration 
matters. Following a competitive tender 
process, T owers Watson were appointed 
by the Committee in 2010, and Committee 
members continue to be satisfied that their 
advice is objective and independent and their 
fees are in line with market practice. Access to 
their global database and expertise is an 
important factor in considering remuneration 
matters across the senior executive team. 
Work undertaken by T owers Watson in 
2013 included advice on the structure and 
targets for the new L TIP , new CEO and senior 
executive packages, and the Remuneration 
Policy summary in this report, for which total 
fees of £52,000 were paid during the year . 
The Committee also received advice from 
Kepler Associates who provided independent 
verification of T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) 
calculations for the L TIP .
The former EVP Human Resources and the 
current EVP People also provided advice to 
the Committee in 2013. 
share dilution
It is proposed that the Group will continue 
to manage dilution within the context of 
maintaining award levels within a 10% limit 
over five years (excluding rolled over Artisan 
options), the limit that has applied since 2003. 
We are aware that this is higher than the limit 
of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary 
awards and 10% over ten years in respect of 
all schemes adopted by many UK companies 
and preferred by many institutional investors. 
The reasons for this higher limit, which was 
approved by shareholders when the former 
L TIP was introduced, are at least as strong 
today . These are the broad-based nature of 
our equity plans (which cover all employees) 
and the need to be able to compete with US 
companies worldwide for the high-calibre 
engineers and executives required to secure 
the Group’s future success. The Committee 
is keenly aware of this issue, and will continue 
to keep well below the 10% upper limit. 
Dilution over the past five years has been 
6.85%. ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
46
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED
audited information
The following information has been audited by the Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Director
T otal amount of salary and fees  
£
All taxable benefits  
£*
Bonus payments  
£**
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
executive
Simon Segars**** 400,000  280,000  73,186  93,284  543,454  370,605 
Tim Score 415,000  400,000  26,031  25,178  599,374  529,436 
Mike Muller 285,000  275,000  14,940  15,087  403,718  349,428 
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 250,000  490,000  17,041  15,087  –  622,617 
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 71,250  280,000  11,293 14,692  –  355,781 
Tudor Brown (retired 3 May 2012) –  77,586  –  9,741  –  – 
T otal 1,421,250  1,802,586  142,491  173,069  1,546,546  2,227,867 
non-executive
Sir John Buchanan (appointed 3 May 2012) 390,000  258,879  –  –  –  – 
Andy Green 55,000  52,000  –  –  –  – 
Larry Hirst 55,000  52,000  –  –  –  – 
Eric Meurice (appointed 1 July 2013) 27,500  –  –  –  –  – 
Kathleen O’Donovan 70,000  65,000  –  –  –  – 
Janice Roberts 61,399  58,314  –  –  –  – 
Philip Rowley 70,000  65,000  –  –  –  – 
Doug Dunn (retired 3 May 2012) –  62,069  –  –  –  – 
Y oung Sohn (retired 31 December 2012) –  59,906  –  –  –  – 
T otal 728,899  673,168  –  –  –  – 
t otal 2,150,149  2,475,754  142,491  173,069  1,546,546  2,227,867 
* All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind. In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit 
and Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Mike Muller received a car and petrol allowance. Simon Segars receives £61,283 living, transportation and other allowances as part of his 
placement in the US. Warren East, Mike Inglis and Tudor Brown received an additional cash allowance in place of Group pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a 
tax-efficient way. 
** The bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2013. According to the terms of the DAB Plan, 50% of this bonus is not paid in cash, but is deferred and becomes payable 
in shares after three years. Details of the awards made in February 2012 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
***  These include the value of shares received by Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Warren East on LTIP and DAB plans on their retirements.
**** For the first half of 201 3, Simon Segars’ salary was £300,000. Following his appointment to CEO on 1 July 201 3, his salary increased to £500,000, resulting in an average for the year of £400,000.
Executive directors’ annual salaries were increased from 1 January 2014, each by 3% to the following amounts: Simon Segars £5 15,000; Tim Score £427 ,450; and Mike Muller £293,550.
The Group has adopted the single total figure performance measure in the year . Under the new guidance, share price appreciation of scheme interests that vest in the year , for which the performance 
conditions were met in a prior year , are excluded from the single figure table. The comparative amounts have been amended to reflect the new guidance. Governance Financial Report
47
Money and other assets receivable  
for periods of more than one financial year  
£***
All pension-related benefits  
£
T otal  
£
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
 1,207,360  3,319,547  44,000  30,800 2,268,000 4,094,236
1,727,783 4,783,187 44,156  42,560 2,812,344 5,780,361
1,193,633 3,276,928 32,148  31,020 1,929,439 3,947,463
3,123,688 5,532,865 25,000  49,000 3,415,729 6,709,569
1,680,367 3,341,919 7,125  28,418 1,770,035 4,020,810
 – 1,380,904 –  10,167  – 1,478,398
8,932,831 21,635,350  152,429  191,965 12,195,547  26,030,837 
 –  –  –  –  390,000  258,879 
 –  –  –  –  55,000  52,000 
 –  –  –  –  55,000  52,000 
 –  –  –  –  27,500  – 
 –  –  –  –  70,000  65,000 
 –  –  –  –  61,399  58,314 
 –  –  –  –  70,000  65,000 
 –  –  –  –  –  62,069 
 –  –  –  –  –  59,906 
 –  –  –  –  728,899  673,168 
8,932,831  21,635,350  152,429  191,965 12,924,446 26,704,005  ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
48
deferred annual Bonus p lan in respect of 2013 financial year
This was the final operation of the DAB Plan which will be replaced by the new Annual Bonus Plan and L TIP for 2014 onwards. Details of these 
new plans are included in the Remuneration Policy summary earlier in this report. The deferred and matching share elements of the DAB Plan will 
continue to vest over the next three years and all new awards will be made under the new L TIP and the Annual Bonus Plan. As demonstrated in 
this summary, there is a highly variable element to executive directors’ remuneration. For 2013, target and maximum bonus of 100% and 150% 
of base salary respectively (after application of an individual performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25) could be earned 
through the DAB Plan if all targets were met.
The strong performance of the Group in 2013 resulted in achievement of both of the equally weighted bonus targets, as set out below:
2013 Bonus targets T arget Actual
Bonus % achieved  
of base salary
Revenue US$1,096.0m US$1,117.7m 55.0%
NOP* £313.5m £332.6m 62.9%
total 117.9%
*  NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of £1:US$1.60 for 2013.
The executive directors received the following payments in respect of the performance of the company in 2013:
Director
Salary  
£
Bonus %  
achieved
Personal  
multiplier
T otal  
bonus  
%
Bonus  
paid  
£
50% deferred 
 in shares  
£
Shares  
awarded  
Number
Simon Segars (until 30 June 2013) 300,000 117.9 1.150  135.59  201,706 
Simon Segars (from 1 July 2013) 500,000 117.9 1.150  135.59  341,748 
simon segars t otal for year* 543,454  271,727  30,327 
tim score 415,000 117.9 1.225  144.43  599,374  299,687  33,447 
mike muller** 285,000 117.9 1.200  141.48  403,218  201,609  22,501 
* Simon Segars’ bonus was calculated pro-rated on a daily basis.
** In addition to his DAB bonus, Mike Muller received a £500 bonus for filing a patent.
Money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year .
The executive directors received the following in February 2014, in respect of performance periods ending in 2013:
Director
Market value  
of LTIP at  
vesting  
£
Market value  
of DAB matching  
shares at vesting  
£
T otal  
received 
£
Simon Segars 734,433  472,927  1,207,360 
Tim Score 1,049,565  678,218  1,727,783 
Mike Muller 726,208  467,425  1,193,633 
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 1,822,138  1,301,550  3,123,688 
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 921,076  759,291  1,680,367 
t otal 5,253,420  3,679,411  8,932,831 
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
49
The executive directors received the following in February 2013, in respect of performance periods ending in 2012:
Director
Market value  
of LTIP at  
vesting  
£
Market value  
of DAB matching  
shares at vesting  
£
T otal  
received 
£
Simon Segars 2,376,446  943,101  3,319,547 
Tim Score 3,408,086  1,375,101  4,783,187 
Mike Muller 2,348,822  928,106  3,276,928 
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 3,960,771  1,572,094  5,532,865 
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 2,394,880  947,039  3,341,919 
T udor Brown (retired 3 May 2012) 928,941  451,963  1,380,904 
t otal 15,417,946  6,217,404  21,635,350 
L tip vesting in 2013
The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2010 were satisfied in respect of the performance 
period ended 31 December 2012 to the extent of 200% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows:
Director
Conditional award 
Number
Vested award  
Number
Dividend shares 
Number
T otal award  
Number
Market value  
at vesting  
£
Simon Segars 125,853 251,706 5,346 257,052 2,376,446
Tim Score 180,487 360,974 7,667 368,641 3,408,086
Mike Muller 124,390 248,780 5,284 254,064 2,348,822
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 209,756 419,512 8,911 428,423 3,960,771
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) 126,829 253,658 5,388 259,046 2,394,880
t otal 767,315 1,534,630 32,596 1,567,226 14,489,005
The amount vested above represents the maximum award under the L TIP . This is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below:
Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting
FTSE 350 Index 99.4% 200%
FTSE All W orld T echnology Index 100% 200%
Overall 200%
L tip vesting in 2014
The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2011 were satisfied in respect of the performance 
period ended 31 December 2013 to the extent of 183.7% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2014, as follows:
Director
Conditional award 
Number
Vested award  
Number
Dividend shares 
Number
T otal award  
Number
Market value  
at vesting  
£
Simon Segars 43,863 80,576 1,392 81,968 734,433
Tim Score 62,684 115,150 1,989 117,139 1,049,565
Mike Muller 43,372 79,674 1,376 81,050 726,208
t otal 149,919 275,400 4,757 280,157 2,510,206 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
50
The amount vested above is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below:
Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting
FTSE 350 Index 81.3% 167.4%
FTSE All W orld T echnology Index 90.0% 200.0%
Overall 183.7%
In accordance with the rules of the L TIP , on his retirement on 31 March 2013, Mike Inglis received the following shares under the Plan calculated 
on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Conditional award  
Number
Vested award  
Number
Dividend shares  
Number
T otal award  
Number
Market value  
at vesting  
£
8 February 2011 44,190 52,683 – 52,683 551,064
8 February 2012 49,295 35,374 – 35,374 370,012
t otal 93,485 88,057 – 88,057 921,076
In accordance with the rules of the L TIP , on his retirement on 30 June 2013, Warren East received the following shares under the Plan calculated 
on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Conditional  
award  
Number
Vested  
award  
Number
Dividend  
shares  
Number
T otal  
award  
Number
Market value  
at vesting  
£
8 February 2011 77,741 122,434 – 122,434 1,085,377
8 February 2012 86,267 83,109 – 83,109 736,761
t otal 164,008 205,543 – 205,543 1,822,138
In accordance with the rules of the L TIP , on his retirement on 3 May, 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares under the Plan calculated 
on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Conditional award
Number
Vested award
Number
Dividend shares
Number
T otal award
Number
Market value 
at vesting 
£
8 February 2010 106,341  165,679 –  165,679  796,088 
8 February 2011 36,007  27,649 – 27,649  132,853 
t otal 142,348  193,328 – 193,328  928,941 
The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the L TIP on 8 February 2014: Simon Segars 107,770; Tim Score 89,449 
and Mike Muller 61,429. The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 7 February 2014, being the business day prior to the date of these 
conditional awards, was 896 pence.
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
51
deferred annual Bonus p lan
There is a compulsory deferral of 50% of the annual bonus earned by executive directors in the year . The emoluments detailed above include the 
full bonus earned for 2013, although only half has been settled in cash and the deferred elements will be settled in shares after three years.
The total number of deferred shares held under the DAB Plan by the directors following confirmation of 2013 bonus is:
Director
Shares deferred as part of  
the 2011 bonus  
Number
Shares deferred as part of  
the 2012 bonus  
Number
Shares deferred as part of  
the 2013 bonus  
Number
T otal awards  
Number 
Simon Segars 35,387 20,045 30,327 85,759
Tim Score 50,572 28,637 33,447 112,656
Mike Muller 34,991 18,900 22,501 76,392
t otal 120,950 67,582 86,275 274,807
The performance conditions applicable to the matching awards relating to the deferred elements of the annual bonus for 2010 were satisfied to 
the extent of 200% matching shares plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2014, as follows:
Director
Shares deferred as part of  
the 2010 bonus  
Number
Matching shares  
Number
Matching shares  
Value £
Dividend shares  
Number
T otal award  
Number
Simon Segars 26,391 52,782 472,927 456 79,629
Tim Score 37,847 75,694 678,218 654 114,195
Mike Muller 26,084 52,168 467,425 451 78,703
t otal 90,322 180,644 1,618,570 1,561 272,527
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 896.0 pence. The matching shares vesting above represent the maximum award 
under the DAB Plan. This award is based on an EPS growth rate before inflation of 120% per annum compared with a target growth rate of CPI 
plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 31 March 2013, Mike Inglis received the following shares calculated on a pro-
rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Shares deferred as part  
of the bonus  
Number
Matching shares  
Number
Matching shares value  
£
T otal award  
Number
2011 26,595 39,831 416,632 66,426
2012 35,651 29,629 309,919 65,280
2013 19,244 3,130 32,740 22,374
t otal 81,490 72,590 759,291 154,080 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
52
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 1 July 2013, Warren East received the following shares calculated on a pro-
rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Shares deferred as 
part of the bonus  
Number
Matching shares  
Number
Matching shares value  
£
T otal award 
Number
2011 43,985 73,186 648,794 117,171
2012 62,720 62,550 554,506 125,270
2013 33,677 11,083 98,251 44,760
t otal 140,382 146,819 1,301,550 287,201
The performance conditions applicable to the matching awards relating to the deferred elements of the annual bonus for 2009 were satisfied to 
the extent of 200% matching shares plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows:
Director
Shares deferred  
as part of  
the bonus
Number
Matching 
shares  
Number
Matching  
shares  
award  
£
Dividend shares
Number
T otal awards  
Number 
Simon Segars 51,006  102,012  943,101  1,082  154,100 
Tim Score 74,370  148,740  1,375,101  1,578  224,688 
Mike Muller 50,195  100,390  928,106  1,065  151,650 
Warren East 85,024  170,048  1,572,094  1,804  256,876 
Mike Inglis 51,219  102,438  947,039  1,087  154,744 
t otal 311,814  623,628  5,765,441  6,616  942,058 
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 924.5 pence. The matching shares vesting above represent the maximum award 
under the DAB Plan. This award is based on an EPS growth rate before inflation of 170% compared with a target growth rate of CPI plus 12% 
per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 3 May, 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares calculated on a 
pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date:
Grant
Shares deferred  
as part of  
the bonus  
Number
Matching  
shares  
Number
Matching  
shares  
award  
£
T otal award  
Number
2010 43,427  67,659  325,102  111,086 
2011 22,299  19,875  95,499  42,174 
2012 29,049  6,527  31,362  35,576 
t otal 94,775  94,061  451,963  188,836 
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED Governance Financial Report
53
share awards
Details of conditional awards made in the year to 31 December 2013 under the L TIP and deferred shares granted under the DAB in the year to 
31 December 2013 plan by the directors are as follows:
Director
Type of  
award
Basis of  
award
Date of  
award Number
Share price at  
award date  
£
Vesting  
date
Face value* 
£
% vesting at
threshold**
Simon Segars LTIP  100% of salary 8 February 2013 32,449  9.245 8 February 2016 600,000 50%
Simon Segars LTIP 
 100% of payrise 
for 2013 on 
becoming CEO 13 August 2013 11,280  8.865 13 August 2016 200,000 50%
Simon Segars DAB 
 50% of bonus 
paid in respect 
of 2012 8 February 2013 20,045  9.245 8 February 2016 370,605 100%
Tim Score LTIP  100% of salary 8 February 2013 44,889  9.245 8 February 2016 830,000 50%
Tim Score DAB 
 50% of bonus 
paid in respect  
of 2012 8 February 2013 28,637  9.245 8 February 2016 529,436 100%
Mike Muller LTIP  100% of salary 8 February 2013 30,827  9.245 8 February 2016 570,000 50%
Mike Muller DAB 
 50% of bonus 
paid in respect 
of 2012 8 February 2013 18,900  9.245 8 February 2016 349,428 100%
Warren East  
(retired 30 June 2013) LTIP  100% of salary 8 February 2013 54,083  9.245 8 February 2016 1,000,000 50%
Warren East  
(retired 30 June 2013) DAB 
 50% of bonus 
paid in respect 
of 2012 8 February 2013 33,677  9.245 8 February 2016 622,617 100%
Mike Inglis  
(retired 31 March 2013) DAB 
 50% of bonus 
paid in respect 
of 2012 8 February 2013 19,244  9.245 8 February 2016 355,781 100%
*  Face Value represents the maximum amount receivable under the award.
**  Threshold for LTIP is 50% vest when certain TSR-related criteria are met. All DAB shares will vest after three years. Additional matching shares may be granted depending on EPS growth  
(see page 33 for details).
Details of options exercised by directors during the year are as follows:
Director
Number  
of shares
Exercise  
price  
£
Market price  
on date of  
exercise  
£
Gains on  
exercise  
£
simon segars 75,441 1.325 9.2168 595,362
tim score 114,959 1.325 9.2213 907,749
mike muller 80,830 1.325 9.2211 638,241
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 136,513 1.325 9.2943 1,087,911
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) 4,620 1.948 8.745 31,402
w arren east (retired 30 June 2013) 141,133 1,119,313
mike inglis (retired 31 march 2013) 80,830 1.325 9.3014 644,736
t otal 493,193 3,905,401
No options were exercised by directors after the year end. Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors’ interests under 
the Group’s equity schemes since the end of the 2013 financial year up to the date of approval of the Remuneration report.
The Company’s register of directors’ interests contains full details of directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe and conditional awards 
under the L TIP . ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
54
directors’ shareholdings in the Company
There is no requirement in the Articles of Association for directors to hold shares in the Company. There is a requirement for executive directors 
to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out in the remuneration policy on page 34.
The directors’ beneficial interests in the Company’s ordinary shares of 0.05 pence are as follows:
Director
Shareholding at  
date of report 
Number
Shareholding at  
31 December 2013 
or date of retirement 
if earlier 
Number
Shareholding 
requirement met 
Number
Shares held  
under LTIP at  
31 December 2013 
Number
Shares held  
under DAB at  
31 December 2013 
Number
Shares held under 
SAYE scheme at  
31 December 2013 
Number
Sir John Buchanan –  – N/A –  –  – 
Stuart Chambers (appointed 27 January 2014) 10,000  10,000 N/A –  –  – 
Simon Segars 557,222  479,947 Yes 136,887  81,823  – 
Tim Score 864,824  742,218 Yes 177,995  117,056  18,208 
Mike Muller 1,425,442  1,340,774 Yes 122,614  79,975  – 
Andy Green –  – N/A –  –  – 
Larry Hirst –  – N/A –  –  – 
Eric Meurice (appointed 1 July 2013) –  – N/A –  –  – 
Kathleen O’Donovan –  – N/A –  –  – 
Janice Roberts –  – N/A –  –  – 
Philip Rowley 40,000  40,000 N/A –  –  – 
Warren East (retired 30 June 2013) N/A  1,419,322 N/A –  –  – 
Mike Inglis (retired 31 March 2013) N/A  99,857 N/A –  –  – 
The following information is unaudited. 
It is the Company’s policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and to receive remuneration for 
their services. The Board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and Committees is valuable to the 
development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors’ roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows:
Tim Score was a non-executive director of National Express Group plc until 25 February 2014 and he received remuneration totalling £60,500 
up to 31 December 2013 (2012: £60,500). Mike Muller is a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy Limited in July 2012 and he received fees 
totalling £40,000 up to 31 December 2013 (2012: £16,666 from appointment in July 2012). 
Warren East (who retired on 30 June 2013) is a non-executive director of De La Rue plc and he received remuneration totalling £26,100 up to 
the date of his retirement (2012: £49,000 for the full year). Mike Inglis (who retired on 31 March 2013) was a non-executive director of Pace plc 
and he received remuneration totalling £10,500 up to the date of his retirement. (2012: £42,000 for the full year).
All of the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group. 
Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash allowance as described in the Pensions section above were fully paid during the year .
The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board and signed on its behalf by
philip rowley
Remuneration Committee Chairman  
(until 31 December 2013)
5 March 2014
dire Ctors’ remuneration report (imp Lementation) CONTINUED 55
Governance f inancial r eport
report on the group financial statements
Our opinion
In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
•	 have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by ARM Holdings plc, comprise:
•	 the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013;
•	 the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
•	 the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and
•	 the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements comprises applicable law and IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts  
(the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and 
are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error . This includes an assessment of:
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”) to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be £13.2 million. 
We based this assessment on the Group’s profit before exceptional items and taxation, being, in our view, the most relevant measure of 
performance of the Group. Materiality was calculated as 5% of this performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £0.6 million as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 27 companies, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and head office entities. 
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group (ARM Limited and ARM Inc.) which contribute substantially all of 
the Group’s third party revenue and profits and more than 80% of the Group’s expenses and net assets. We performed full scope audit 
procedures at ARM Limited and ARM Inc. We also performed audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at 
other Group companies
Substantially all audit work in respect of the Group financial statements was performed by the Group engagement team, with the assistance 
of auditors from other PwC network firms in respect of specific account balances or transaction classes at some Group companies. 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
56
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in 
these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year . This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of 
focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. Their report on those matters that they considered 
to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 15.
Revenue recognition 
The timing of revenue recognition, particularly licence revenue, is inherently complex.
Recognition of license revenue involves a number of significant judgements by the directors, including the following:
•	 determining whether contracts contain deliverables which should be separated for revenue recognition purposes and the most appropriate 
revenue recognition methodology for those contracts;
•	 determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value basis between components of multi-element contracts and whether the 
consideration is deemed probable where a contract incorporates extended payment terms; and
•	 assessing the degree of completion of contracts accounted for on a ‘percentage of completion’ basis.
(Refer also to note 1b to the Group financial statements.)
In addition, ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition for every audit conducted under these auditing standards 
because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised.
We read a sample of contracts selected on a high value basis and assessed whether the revenue recognition methodology is consistent with 
accounting standards. We evaluated the significant judgements and estimates made by management in applying the Group’s policy to specific 
contracts and obtained evidence, including contractual agreements, delivery records, cash receipts and project plans.
For the contracts selected we re-performed management’s calculations and agreed the revenue recognised to the underlying accounting records.
In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was recorded through journal entries we performed testing over a sample of journals 
to establish whether revenue was appropriately recognised. 
Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property (‘IP’) risk
The Group has, directly and through indemnity provisions in its contracts with customers, exposure to patent infringement disputes. 
Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any provisions. In addition, the Group has engaged in arrangements to obtain IP 
rights, and judgements are made in determining the most appropriate accounting treatment in this regard. 
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
We discussed litigation with the Group’s in-house legal counsel and obtained confirmations from external legal advisors. We assessed the 
adequacy of any provisions recognised and disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
We examined the Group’s arrangements in response to litigation and IP risk and considered their accounting treatment. 
Where indemnification costs with a licensee and litigation settlements through purchase of a licence were expensed during the year , we vouched 
to evidence of payment and examined relevant contracts.
In respect of ARM’s contribution to a consortium to acquire rights over the patents of MIPS T echnologies Inc., we evaluated the accounting 
treatment adopted and considered the assumptions made in valuing the available-for-sale asset acquired and its subsequent impairment. We also 
examined evidence demonstrating the future use of the patents acquired in ARM’s roadmap and assessed the assumptions used that support the 
carrying value in the balance sheet.
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc
continued 57
Goodwill impairment assessment
The assessment of the value in use of the Physical Intellectual Property Division (‘PIPD’) for the purpose of assessing whether the carrying value 
of goodwill is impaired involves significant judgement from the directors. These judgements include estimates of the projected future results of 
PIPD and the allocation of revenue to PIPD from the Processor Division (‘PD’) to reflect an estimate of the arm’s length incremental benefit 
accruing to PD from PIPD activity. 
(Refer also to note 13 to the Group financial statements.)
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
We reviewed the methodology used in the directors’ cash flow projections, and the process by which they were drawn up, including reconciling 
them to the latest Board-approved budgets, and testing the accuracy of the underlying calculations. We challenged:
•	 the estimates underlying the allocation of revenues from PD to PIPD by assessing the historical and projected growth in POP IP and the 
reasonableness of the proportion of this revenue allocated to PIPD;
•	 the directors’ key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to external analysts’ and industry expert 
forecasts; and
•	 the discount rate by comparing to our own estimate of the cost of capital for the company. 
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers: including the cross-allocation of revenues to PIPD from other divisions of the ARM 
group, and the growth and discount rates used within the cash flow forecasts. 
Risk of management override of internal controls 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this. 
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate actions, and 
interviewed senior management and the Group’s internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by management. 
In particular , we challenged management over the estimates and judgements made in respect of the annual goodwill impairment review and 
revenue recognition. We also performed testing over manual journal entries. 
g oing Concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to 
report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that 
the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However , because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
opinion on matters prescribed by the Companies act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Governance f inancial r eport ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
58
other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law have 
not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ 
remuneration. We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with 
nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 15 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C.1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair , balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. On page 15, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in 
relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; 
or
•	 the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to 
the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
other information in the annual report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our 
audit; or
•	 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc
continued 59
responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on 
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Charles Bowman  
Senior Statutory Auditor  
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
5 March 2014
Governance f inancial r eport ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
60
Consolidated income statement 
 
For the year ended 31 December Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Revenues  2  714.6 576.9
Cost of revenues   (39.3) (31.9)
Gross profit   675.3 545.0
Operating expenses  
Research and development   (202.9) (166.3)
Sales and marketing   (89.4) (72.9)
General and administrative   (128.2) (97.7)
Total operating expenses before exceptional items (420.5) (336.9)
Exceptional items  6 (101.3) –
Total operating expenses after exceptional items (521.8) (336.9)
Profit from operations  153.5 208.1
Investment income   13.3 13.9
Interest payable and similar charges   (0.2) (0.3)
Share of results in joint venture  26 (4.0) (0.7)
Profit before tax  2, 5 162.6 221.0
Tax (including £8.6 million in respect of exceptional items) 7 (57.8) (60.3)
Profit for the year  2 104.8 160.7
Earnings per share  
Basic and diluted earnings   104.8 160.7
Number of shares (millions)  
Basic weighted average number of shares   1,396.4 1,375.1
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes   15.4 20.7
Diluted weighted average number of shares   1,411.8 1,395.8
Basic EPS   7.5p 11.7p
Diluted EPS   7.4p 11.5p
All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations. Th e Company has opted 
to present its own accounts under UK G AAP as shown on pages 109 to 114.  
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 8 and 25 of the financial statements respectively. 
 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
 
For the year ended 31 December Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit for the year   104.8 160.7
Other comprehensive income:  
Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale financia l assets (net of tax of £nil (2012: £0.1m)) * 11  – (0.3)
Currency translation adjustment *  (17.9) (26.8)
Other comprehensive loss for the year   (17.9) (27.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year   86.9 133.6
*These items may be reclassified to the inco me statement if certain conditions are met. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
  
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
At 31 December 
Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Assets  
Current assets:  
Cash and cash equivalents  17  43.8 46.3
Short-term deposits  17  544.1 340.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts  17  5.1 1.4
Accounts receivable  9  136.2 124.5
Available-for-sale financial assets  11, 17 1.2 –
Prepaid expenses and other assets  10  39.8 135.6
Current tax assets   6.9 13.9
Inventories   3.0 2.3
Total current assets   780.1 664.0
Non-current assets:  
Long-term deposits  17  125.6 141.3
Loans and receivables  17  3.0 2.1
Available-for-sale financial assets  11, 17  13.9 13.8
Investment in joint venture 26 6.5 6.8
Prepaid expenses and other assets  10  1.6 2.0
Property, plant and equipment  12  33.6 36.1
Goodwill  13  525.9 519.4
Other intangible assets  14  82.9 11.2
Deferred tax assets  7  65.3 70.1
Total non-current assets   858.3 802.8
Total assets   1,638.4 1,466.8
Liabilities   
Current liabilities:  
Accounts payable  17  7.0 5.9
Embedded derivatives 17 7.0 2.5
Accrued and other liabilities  15  88.1 79.3
Finance lease liabilities 16 2.7 2.9
Current tax liabilities   18.8 16.6
Deferred revenue   156.7 126.4
Total current liabilities   280.3 233.6
Non-current liabilities:  
Accrued and other liabilities 15 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 16 1.5 2.9
Deferred tax liabilities 7 0.1 –
Deferred revenue   42.5 24.2
Total non-current liabilities   46.7 27.1
Total liabilities   327.0 260.7
Net assets   1,311.4 1,206.1
Capital and reserves attributable to owner s of the Company 
Share capital  18  0.7 0.7
Share premium account   18.1 12.2
Capital reserve  354.3 354.3
Share option reserve   61.4 61.4
Retained earnings   820.6 703.3
Cumulative translation adjustment   56.3 74.2
Total equity   1,311.4 1,206.1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements on pages 60 to 108 were appro ved by the Board 
of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   60 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
61
Consolidated income statement 
 
For the year ended 31 December Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Revenues  2  714.6 576.9
Cost of revenues   (39.3) (31.9)
Gross profit   675.3 545.0
Operating expenses  
Research and development   (202.9) (166.3)
Sales and marketing   (89.4) (72.9)
General and administrative   (128.2) (97.7)
Total operating expenses before exceptional items (420.5) (336.9)
Exceptional items  6 (101.3) –
Total operating expenses after exceptional items (521.8) (336.9)
Profit from operations  153.5 208.1
Investment income   13.3 13.9
Interest payable and similar charges   (0.2) (0.3)
Share of results in joint venture  26 (4.0) (0.7)
Profit before tax  2, 5 162.6 221.0
Tax (including £8.6 million in respect of exceptional items) 7 (57.8) (60.3)
Profit for the year  2 104.8 160.7
Earnings per share  
Basic and diluted earnings   104.8 160.7
Number of shares (millions)  
Basic weighted average number of shares   1,396.4 1,375.1
Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes   15.4 20.7
Diluted weighted average number of shares   1,411.8 1,395.8
Basic EPS   7.5p 11.7p
Diluted EPS   7.4p 11.5p
All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations. Th e Company has opted 
to present its own accounts under UK G AAP as shown on pages 109 to 114.  
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 8 and 25 of the financial statements respectively. 
 
 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
 
For the year ended 31 December Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit for the year   104.8 160.7
Other comprehensive income:  
Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale financia l assets (net of tax of £nil (2012: £0.1m)) * 11  – (0.3)
Currency translation adjustment *  (17.9) (26.8)
Other comprehensive loss for the year   (17.9) (27.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year   86.9 133.6
*These items may be reclassified to the inco me statement if certain conditions are met. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
  
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
At 31 December 
Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Assets  
Current assets:  
Cash and cash equivalents  17  43.8 46.3
Short-term deposits  17  544.1 340.0
Fair value of currency exchange contracts  17  5.1 1.4
Accounts receivable  9  136.2 124.5
Available-for-sale financial assets  11, 17 1.2 –
Prepaid expenses and other assets  10  39.8 135.6
Current tax assets   6.9 13.9
Inventories   3.0 2.3
Total current assets   780.1 664.0
Non-current assets:  
Long-term deposits  17  125.6 141.3
Loans and receivables  17  3.0 2.1
Available-for-sale financial assets  11, 17  13.9 13.8
Investment in joint venture 26 6.5 6.8
Prepaid expenses and other assets  10  1.6 2.0
Property, plant and equipment  12  33.6 36.1
Goodwill  13  525.9 519.4
Other intangible assets  14  82.9 11.2
Deferred tax assets  7  65.3 70.1
Total non-current assets   858.3 802.8
Total assets   1,638.4 1,466.8
Liabilities   
Current liabilities:  
Accounts payable  17  7.0 5.9
Embedded derivatives 17 7.0 2.5
Accrued and other liabilities  15  88.1 79.3
Finance lease liabilities 16 2.7 2.9
Current tax liabilities   18.8 16.6
Deferred revenue   156.7 126.4
Total current liabilities   280.3 233.6
Non-current liabilities:  
Accrued and other liabilities 15 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 16 1.5 2.9
Deferred tax liabilities 7 0.1 –
Deferred revenue   42.5 24.2
Total non-current liabilities   46.7 27.1
Total liabilities   327.0 260.7
Net assets   1,311.4 1,206.1
Capital and reserves attributable to owner s of the Company 
Share capital  18  0.7 0.7
Share premium account   18.1 12.2
Capital reserve  354.3 354.3
Share option reserve   61.4 61.4
Retained earnings   820.6 703.3
Cumulative translation adjustment   56.3 74.2
Total equity   1,311.4 1,206.1
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. The financial statements on pages 60 to 108 were appro ved by the Board 
of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: 
Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   61 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
62
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 
Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit before tax   162.6 221.0
Investment income (net of interest payable and similar charges)   (13.1) (13.6)
Share of results in joint venture  4.0 0.7
Profit from operations   153.5 208.1
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation and amortisation of property, pl ant and equipment and intangible assets   28.0 17.4
Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments   59.2 37.1
Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (including non-cash exceptional item of £59.5 million)  66.3 1.4
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets  (3.3) (0.8)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment   0.6 –
Provision for doubtful debts   4.0 0.4
Non-cash foreign currency gains  (3.6) (0.7)
Movement in fair value of cu rrency exchange contracts   (3.7) (2.9)
Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives   4.4 3.7
Changes in working capital  
Accounts receivable   (19.8) (5.7)
Inventories   (0.7) 0.1
Prepaid expenses and other assets   (8.8) (1.1)
Accounts payable   1.1 (2.8)
Deferred revenue   53.1 37.3
Accrued and other liabilities   8.3 (4.8)
Cash generated by operations before tax   338.6 286.7
Income taxes paid   (23.3) (26.1)
Net cash from operating activities   315.3 260.6
Investing activities  
Interest received (net of interest paid of £0.2m (2012: £0.3m))  13.2 11.2
Purchases of property, plant and equipment    (13.5) (20.2)
Advance payment to acquire intangible asset and available-for-sale financial asset 10 – (103.7)
Purchases of other intangible assets   (31.8) (5.4)
Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 11 (8.9) (3.0)
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets  5.5 11.8
Purchase of short- and lo ng-term deposits, net   (188.5) (76.8)
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 19 (21.1) –
Investment in joint venture  26 (3.7) (7.5)
Provision of long-term loan  (0.7) –
Net cash used in investing activities   (249.5) (193.6)
Financing activities  
Proceeds from borrowings   – 99.8
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 18 5.9 5.6
Refund of costs related to share issue  – 2.7
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (68.9) (51.8)
Repayment of borrowings  (1.1) (99.8)
Repayment of finance lease liabilities  (3.3) (3.3)
Net cash used in financing activities   (67.4) (46.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (1.6) 20.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year   46.3 26.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   (0.9) (0.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year    43.8 46.3
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 
 
 Attributable to the owners of the Company 
For the year ended 31 December 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Capital
reserve*
£m 
Share 
option 
reserve**
£m 
Retained  
earnings  
£m 
Revaluation  
reserve*** 
£m 
Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.7 6.6 351.6 61.4 539.6 0.3 101.0 1,061.2
Profit for the year  – – – – 160.7 – – 160.7
Other comprehensive income:   
Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale 
financial assets (net of tax of £0.1 million) – – – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Currency translation adjustment  – – – – – – (26.8) (26.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 160.7 (0.3) (26.8) 133.6
Shares issued on exercise of share options and 
awards (note 18) – 5.6 – – – – – 5.6
Dividends (note 8) – – – – (51.8) – – (51.8)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – – – 37.1 – – 37.1
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards  – – – – 17.7 – – 17.7
Refund of costs related to share issue **** – – 2.7 – – – – 2.7
 – 5.6 2.7 – 3.0 – – 11.3
Balance at 31 December 2012 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 – 74.2 1,206.1
Profit for the year  – – – – 104.8 – – 104.8
Other comprehensive income:   
Currency translation adjustment  – – – – – – (17.9) (17.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 104.8 – (17.9) 86.9
Shares issued on exercise of share options and 
awards (note 18) – 5.9 – – – – – 5.9
Dividends (note 8) – – – – (68.9) – – (68.9)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – – – 59.2 – – 59.2
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards  – – – – 22.2 – – 22.2
 – 5.9 – – 12.5 – – 18.4
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 – 56.3 1,311.4
* Capital reserve. In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components In c. was credited to reserves on cons olidation in accordance with Section 
131 of the Companies Act 1985. The reserve has been classified as a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credi t to equity arising on acquisition.  
** Share option reserve. This represents the fair value of opti ons granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 200 4.  
*** Revaluation reserve. The Group includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are cla ssified as available-for-sale financial assets. These are carried at fair value plus 
transaction costs. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revalu ation reserve (except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, 
in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement). Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistribut able. 
****  Refund of costs related to share issue. This represents th e refund of stamp duty costs incurred on the issue of shares fo r the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   62 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
63
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the year ended 31 December 
Note 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit before tax   162.6 221.0
Investment income (net of interest payable and similar charges)   (13.1) (13.6)
Share of results in joint venture  4.0 0.7
Profit from operations   153.5 208.1
Adjustments for:  
Depreciation and amortisation of property, pl ant and equipment and intangible assets   28.0 17.4
Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments   59.2 37.1
Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (including non-cash exceptional item of £59.5 million)  66.3 1.4
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets  (3.3) (0.8)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment   0.6 –
Provision for doubtful debts   4.0 0.4
Non-cash foreign currency gains  (3.6) (0.7)
Movement in fair value of cu rrency exchange contracts   (3.7) (2.9)
Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives   4.4 3.7
Changes in working capital  
Accounts receivable   (19.8) (5.7)
Inventories   (0.7) 0.1
Prepaid expenses and other assets   (8.8) (1.1)
Accounts payable   1.1 (2.8)
Deferred revenue   53.1 37.3
Accrued and other liabilities   8.3 (4.8)
Cash generated by operations before tax   338.6 286.7
Income taxes paid   (23.3) (26.1)
Net cash from operating activities   315.3 260.6
Investing activities  
Interest received (net of interest paid of £0.2m (2012: £0.3m))  13.2 11.2
Purchases of property, plant and equipment    (13.5) (20.2)
Advance payment to acquire intangible asset and available-for-sale financial asset 10 – (103.7)
Purchases of other intangible assets   (31.8) (5.4)
Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 11 (8.9) (3.0)
Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets  5.5 11.8
Purchase of short- and lo ng-term deposits, net   (188.5) (76.8)
Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 19 (21.1) –
Investment in joint venture  26 (3.7) (7.5)
Provision of long-term loan  (0.7) –
Net cash used in investing activities   (249.5) (193.6)
Financing activities  
Proceeds from borrowings   – 99.8
Proceeds received on issuance of shares 18 5.9 5.6
Refund of costs related to share issue  – 2.7
Dividends paid to shareholders 8 (68.9) (51.8)
Repayment of borrowings  (1.1) (99.8)
Repayment of finance lease liabilities  (3.3) (3.3)
Net cash used in financing activities   (67.4) (46.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (1.6) 20.2
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year   46.3 26.8
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes   (0.9) (0.7)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year    43.8 46.3
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 
 
 Attributable to the owners of the Company 
For the year ended 31 December 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share 
premium 
account 
£m 
Capital
reserve*
£m 
Share 
option 
reserve**
£m 
Retained  
earnings  
£m 
Revaluation  
reserve*** 
£m 
Cumulative 
translation 
adjustment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Balance at 1 January 2012 0.7 6.6 351.6 61.4 539.6 0.3 101.0 1,061.2
Profit for the year  – – – – 160.7 – – 160.7
Other comprehensive income:   
Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale 
financial assets (net of tax of £0.1 million) – – – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Currency translation adjustment  – – – – – – (26.8) (26.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 160.7 (0.3) (26.8) 133.6
Shares issued on exercise of share options and 
awards (note 18) – 5.6 – – – – – 5.6
Dividends (note 8) – – – – (51.8) – – (51.8)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – – – 37.1 – – 37.1
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards  – – – – 17.7 – – 17.7
Refund of costs related to share issue **** – – 2.7 – – – – 2.7
 – 5.6 2.7 – 3.0 – – 11.3
Balance at 31 December 2012 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 – 74.2 1,206.1
Profit for the year  – – – – 104.8 – – 104.8
Other comprehensive income:   
Currency translation adjustment  – – – – – – (17.9) (17.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 104.8 – (17.9) 86.9
Shares issued on exercise of share options and 
awards (note 18) – 5.9 – – – – – 5.9
Dividends (note 8) – – – – (68.9) – – (68.9)
Credit in respect of employee share schemes  – – – – 59.2 – – 59.2
Movement on tax arising on share options 
and awards  – – – – 22.2 – – 22.2
 – 5.9 – – 12.5 – – 18.4
Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 – 56.3 1,311.4
* Capital reserve. In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components In c. was credited to reserves on cons olidation in accordance with Section 
131 of the Companies Act 1985. The reserve has been classified as a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credi t to equity arising on acquisition.  
** Share option reserve. This represents the fair value of opti ons granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 200 4.  
*** Revaluation reserve. The Group includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are cla ssified as available-for-sale financial assets. These are carried at fair value plus 
transaction costs. Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revalu ation reserve (except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, 
in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement). Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistribut able. 
****  Refund of costs related to share issue. This represents th e refund of stamp duty costs incurred on the issue of shares fo r the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   63 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
64
Notes to the financial statements  
1 The Group and a summary of its significant acco unting policies and financial risk management 
1a General information about the Group 
The business of the Group 
ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Group”) design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, 
and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-e ffectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applic ations. 
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to lead ing international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell 
microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs ) and application-specific standard processors (ASSPs) based on ARM’s technology 
to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. 
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to be st utilise ARM’s technology, the Group is establishing its proces sor architecture 
and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital tel evisions and PC 
peripherals, enterprise networking and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers. 
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to sy stems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems 
companies and other systems designers. 
The Group’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific. 
Incorporation and history 
ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England an d Wales. The registered office of the Co mpany is 
110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK. 
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture be tween Apple Computer (UK) Limite d and Acorn Computers Limited, and 
operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limite d until 10 March 1998, when its na me was changed to ARM Holdings plc. Its 
initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.  
Group undertakings include ARM Limi ted (incorporated in the UK), Geomerics Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM France SAS (in corporated 
in France), ARM Germany GmbH (incorporated in Germany), ARM Norway AS (incorporated in Norway), ARM Sweden AB (incorporated in 
Sweden), ARM Finland Oy (incorporated in Fi nland), ARM Inc. (incorporated in the US), ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Limited (in corporated in 
PR China), ARM KK (incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited (incorporated in South Korea), ARM Taiwan Limited (incorporated in Taiwan), 
and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Limited (incorporated in India). 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. The se policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Basis of preparation 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ), as adopted 
by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Comp anies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost co nvention as 
modified by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities at fair val ue through the income statement 
(including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments). 
The cash flow statement for 2012 includes a reclassification in respect of the advance payment to acquire rights to MIPS Techno logies, Inc.’s 
portfolio of patents.  £103.7 mi llion has been moved from ‘prepa yments and other assets’ within working capital movements to ‘a dvance payment 
to acquire intangible asset and available-fo r-sale (AFS) financial asset’ within investing activities.  The reclassification ha s been made to better reflect 
the nature of the payment fo llowing the completion of the transaction in 2013.   
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates an d judgements that 
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and acco mpanying notes. These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and 
are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonab le under the 
circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equa l the related actual results. The estimates a nd assumptions 
that have significant risk of causing a mate rial adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next f inancial year are 
discussed below. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually. This re quires an estimation of the va lue in use of the cash generati ng units (CGUs) to 
which goodwill is allocated. As discussed in detail in note 13, estimating the value in use requires the Grou p to make an estim ate of the expected 
future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable di scount rate in order to calculat e the present values of those c ash flows. The 
discount rate is based on an estimate of the Group’s weighted av erage cost of capital. The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% (2012: 
10%) (pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% (2012: 11%)). 
The most significant balance of goodwill is that allocated to th e Physical IP Division (PIPD). Th e cash flows relevant to this CGU are those of both 
the division itself and also a proportion of the cash flows gene rated by the Processor Division (PD). The directors make an estimate of the PD cash 
flows that are considered to be generated as a result of the in cremental value provided by the combination of PD and PIPD produ cts. Although 
these PD cash flows are not cross allocated to PIPD in the segmental reporting note, the directors consider that it is necessar y to include them in 
the estimation of the value in use of the PIPD CGU. This is be cause PD products are enhanced wh en combined with certain PIPD pr oducts. As a 
result the directors believe that PD is able, and will be able in future, to achieve higher reve nues than it would have done as a stand-alone entity. 
The amount of these revenues is estimated by considering the percen tage of revenue that is achiev ed as a result of the combinat ion for each class 
of PD product. While these percentages are not derived from external sources of inform ation, as no such so urces exist, the directors utilise their 
considerable knowledge and experience of the semiconductor industry in estimating the amounts that would be re-charged if PD an d PIPD were 
independent entities. Among other things, they consider the number of additional licences that may be signed and the additional value that may be 
achieved per licence as a result of the processors’ enhanced performance. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue re cognition policies. In particular, as discussed in detail in th e revenue recognition 
policy on page 68, estimates are made in relation to the use of the percentage-of-completion accounting method, which requires that the extent 
of progress toward completion of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-of-completio n method is itself 
based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements , there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained. The 
Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the ex tent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future 
economic benefit to the Group. In addition, when allocating reve nue to various components of arrangements involving several com ponents, it 
is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when so ld separately. The complexity of the estimation process and issues 
related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported 
in the financial statements. If different assu mptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements. 
Provisions for income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ord inary course of 
business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the 
final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
Legal settlements and other contingencies 
Determining the amount to be accrued for le gal settlements requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and se ttlement fees 
the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed ag ainst the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required 
to indemnify a licensee. The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinio ns received from 
external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required. 
Contingent consideration for an ac quisition is recognised at fair value as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are 
expected to be satisfied. This requires the directors to estimate the acquiree’s future financial performance, typically more t han one year 
post-acquisition. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   64 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
65
Notes to the financial statements  
1 The Group and a summary of its significant acco unting policies and financial risk management 
1a General information about the Group 
The business of the Group 
ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies (“ARM” or “the Group”) design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, 
and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-e ffectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applic ations. 
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to lead ing international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell 
microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs ) and application-specific standard processors (ASSPs) based on ARM’s technology 
to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products. 
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to be st utilise ARM’s technology, the Group is establishing its proces sor architecture 
and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital tel evisions and PC 
peripherals, enterprise networking and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers. 
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to sy stems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems 
companies and other systems designers. 
The Group’s principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific. 
Incorporation and history 
ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England an d Wales. The registered office of the Co mpany is 
110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK. 
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture be tween Apple Computer (UK) Limite d and Acorn Computers Limited, and 
operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limite d until 10 March 1998, when its na me was changed to ARM Holdings plc. Its 
initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.  
Group undertakings include ARM Limi ted (incorporated in the UK), Geomerics Limited (incorporated in the UK), ARM France SAS (in corporated 
in France), ARM Germany GmbH (incorporated in Germany), ARM Norway AS (incorporated in Norway), ARM Sweden AB (incorporated in 
Sweden), ARM Finland Oy (incorporated in Fi nland), ARM Inc. (incorporated in the US), ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Limited (incorporated in 
PR China), ARM KK (incorporated in Japan), ARM Korea Limited (incorporated in South Korea), ARM Taiwan Limited (incorporated in Taiwan), 
and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Limited (incorporated in India). 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. The se policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Basis of preparation 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS ), as adopted 
by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Comp anies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost co nvention as 
modified by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities at fair val ue through the income statement 
(including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments). 
The cash flow statement for 2012 includes a reclassification in respect of the advance payment to acquire rights to MIPS Techno logies, Inc.’s 
portfolio of patents.  £103.7 mi llion has been moved from ‘prepa yments and other assets’ within working capital movements to ‘a dvance payment 
to acquire intangible asset and available-fo r-sale (AFS) financial asset’ within investing activities.  The reclassification ha s been made to better reflect 
the nature of the payment fo llowing the completion of the transaction in 2013.   
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates an d judgements that 
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and acco mpanying notes. These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and 
are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonab le under the 
circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equa l the related actual results. The estimates a nd assumptions 
that have significant risk of causing a mate rial adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next f inancial year are 
discussed below. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Impairment of goodwill 
The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually. This re quires an estimation of the va lue in use of the cash generati ng units (CGUs) to 
which goodwill is allocated. As discussed in detail in note 13, estimating the value in use requires the Grou p to make an estim ate of the expected 
future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable di scount rate in order to calculat e the present values of those c ash flows. The 
discount rate is based on an estimate of the Group’s weighted av erage cost of capital. The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% (2012: 
10%) (pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% (2012: 11%)). 
The most significant balance of goodwill is that allocated to th e Physical IP Division (PIPD). Th e cash flows relevant to this CGU are those of both 
the division itself and also a proportion of the cash flows gene rated by the Processor Division (PD). The directors make an estimate of the PD cash 
flows that are considered to be generated as a result of the in cremental value provided by the combination of PD and PIPD produ cts. Although 
these PD cash flows are not cross allocated to PIPD in the segmental reporting note, the directors consider that it is necessar y to include them in 
the estimation of the value in use of the PIPD CGU. This is be cause PD products are enhanced wh en combined with certain PIPD pr oducts. As a 
result the directors believe that PD is able, and will be able in future, to achieve higher reve nues than it would have done as a stand-alone entity. 
The amount of these revenues is estimated by considering the percen tage of revenue that is achiev ed as a result of the combinat ion for each class 
of PD product. While these percentages are not derived from external sources of inform ation, as no such so urces exist, the directors utilise their 
considerable knowledge and experience of the semiconductor industry in estimating the amounts that would be re-charged if PD an d PIPD were 
independent entities. Among other things, they consider the number of additional licences that may be signed and the additional value that may be 
achieved per licence as a result of the processors’ enhanced performance. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue re cognition policies. In particular, as discussed in detail in th e revenue recognition 
policy on page 68, estimates are made in relation to the use of the percentage-of-completion accounting method, which requires that the extent 
of progress toward completion of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty. The use of the percentage-of-completio n method is itself 
based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements , there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained. The 
Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the ex tent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future 
economic benefit to the Group. In addition, when allocating reve nue to various components of arrangements involving several com ponents, it 
is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when so ld separately. The complexity of the estimation process and issues 
related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported 
in the financial statements. If different assu mptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements. 
Provisions for income taxes 
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for 
income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ord inary course of 
business. The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the 
final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
Legal settlements and other contingencies 
Determining the amount to be accrued for le gal settlements requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and se ttlement fees 
the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed ag ainst the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required 
to indemnify a licensee. The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinio ns received from 
external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required. 
Contingent consideration for an ac quisition is recognised at fair value as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are 
expected to be satisfied. This requires the directors to estimate the acquiree’s future financial performance, typically more t han one year 
post-acquisition. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   65 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
66
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Participation in trust to acquire patent rights 
During 2013, the Group has participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certai n patent rights and has made various jud gements regarding 
these transactions.  
The directors believe that the Group does not control or have si gnificant influence over the trus t since, amongst other factors it does not have 
voting rights on the board or significant influence over the relevant activities of the trust. The results of the trust have th erefore not been 
consolidated or equity accounted in the Group financial statements. The Group has determined that the participation in the cons ortium conferred 
on the Group two separate rights: an intang ible asset, conferring the right to use th e assets in the Group’s own business, and an AFS financial asset 
conferring the right to certain potential future revenue streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust. The amount expected to be 
recovered through this licensing programme was estimated by the Gr oup in conjunction with the management of the trust, which ha s 
considerable experience of managing the assets of similar trusts.  
The Group assesses its intangible assets for impairment at each reporting date and has reviewed the valuation of the patent rig hts acquired in this 
transaction. Given the design freedom that these rights provide and the size of the future opportunity afforded, the directors have concluded that 
no impairment of the patent rights is required. 
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the port folio was instead put up for sa le by auction. 
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£ 2.4 million), which will be acco unted for as an additional in tangible asset. 
The auction process means that th ere are no further potential cash flows in relation to the AFS financial asset and the asset h as therefore been 
impaired down to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, resulting in a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 mi llion 
(£59.5 million). 
Provision for impairment of trade receivables 
The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requir es the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeitu re by customers. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
New standards, amendments and interpretations 
New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements” IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and co nsolidation in IAS 27 “Consolidated and separate 
financial statements”, and SIC-12 “Consolidation – special purpos e entities” and changes the definition of control so that the same criteria are 
applied to all entities. The revised definition of control focuses on the need to have both power and variable returns before c ontrol is present. 
Power is the current ability to direct the activities that sign ificantly influence returns. Returns must vary and can be positi ve, negative or both. This 
standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Gr oup. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on o r after 1 January 
2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. 
IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements” Changes in the definitions have reduced the “types” of joint arrangements to two: joint operations and joint 
ventures. The existing policy choice of pr oportionate consolidation for jointly contro lled entities has been eliminated. Equity accounting is 
mandatory for participants in joint ventures. Entities that partic ipate in joint operations will follow accounting much like th at for joint assets or joint 
operations today, whereby a joint operator will recognise its in terest based on its involvement in the joint operation (that is , based on its direct 
rights and obligations) rather than on the participation interest it has in the joint arrangement. In contrast, a joint venture does not have rights to 
individual assets or obligations for individual liabilities of the joint venture. Instead, join t venturers share in the net ass ets and, in turn, the outcome 
(profit or loss) of the activity undertaken by the joint venture. This standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Group. This 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or af ter 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. 
IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities” IFRS 12 sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under the two new standards, 
IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements”, and IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements”. The ne w standard, IFRS 12, requires entities to disclose 
information that helps financial statement readers to evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the enti ty’s interests in 
subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated st ructured entities. This standard has not had a material impac t on the results 
of the Group. The standard is effective for annual periods beginn ing on or after 1 January 2014 bu t has been early adopted by t he Group. 
IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement” The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be 
applied where its use is already required or permitted by other st andards. IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce compl exity by 
providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012. The Group has 
included the relevant disclosure requirements within note 1c ‘F inancial risk management’, and no te 17 ‘Financial instruments’. 
IAS 28 (Revised) “Investments in associates and joint ventures” IAS 28 defines “significa nt influence” and the “equ ity method” and provides 
guidance on their practical application. Th e revised standard incorporates the accounting for joint ventures as well as the con sensus from SIC-13 
“Jointly controlled entities”. The disclosure requirements have now been relocated to IFRS 12. This new guidance may impact the classification of 
investments acquired in the futu re. This standard is effective for annual period s beginning on or afte r 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by 
the Group. 
Amendment to IAS 1 “Financial statement presentation” The main change resulting from this amendm ent is a requirement for entities to group 
items presented in other comprehensive income (OCI) on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the income s tatement 
subsequently (reclassification adjustments). This standard is e ffective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 201 2 and was endorsed 
by the EU in June 2012. The Group has included rele vant disclosures within the financial statements. 
IAS 27 (revised 2011) “Separate financial statements” This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after 
the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10. This standard is effe ctive for accounting periods begin ning on or after 
1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. There has b een no material impact on the Group. 
Amendment to IAS 36 “Impairment of assets” This amendment relates to the recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets. 
The amendment removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs that had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IF RS 13. 
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has b een early adopted by the Group. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   66 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
67
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 
Participation in trust to acquire patent rights 
During 2013, the Group has participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certai n patent rights and has made various jud gements regarding 
these transactions.  
The directors believe that the Group does not control or have si gnificant influence over the trus t since, amongst other factors it does not have 
voting rights on the board or significant influence over the relevant activities of the trust. The results of the trust have th erefore not been 
consolidated or equity accounted in the Group financial statements. The Group has determined that the participation in the cons ortium conferred 
on the Group two separate rights: an intang ible asset, conferring the right to use th e assets in the Group’s own business, and an AFS financial asset 
conferring the right to certain potential future revenue streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust. The amount expected to be 
recovered through this licensing programme was estimated by the Gr oup in conjunction with the management of the trust, which ha s 
considerable experience of managing the assets of similar trusts.  
The Group assesses its intangible assets for impairment at each reporting date and has reviewed the valuation of the patent rig hts acquired in this 
transaction. Given the design freedom that these rights provide and the size of the future opportunity afforded, the directors have concluded that 
no impairment of the patent rights is required. 
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the port folio was instead put up for sa le by auction. 
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£ 2.4 million), which will be acco unted for as an additional in tangible asset. 
The auction process means that th ere are no further potential cash flows in relation to the AFS financial asset and the asset h as therefore been 
impaired down to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, resulting in a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 mi llion 
(£59.5 million). 
Provision for impairment of trade receivables 
The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requir es the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeitu re by customers. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
New standards, amendments and interpretations 
New and amended standards adopted by the Group 
IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements” IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and co nsolidation in IAS 27 “Consolidated and separate 
financial statements”, and SIC-12 “Consolidation – special purpos e entities” and changes the definition of control so that the same criteria are 
applied to all entities. The revised definition of control focuses on the need to have both power and variable returns before c ontrol is present. 
Power is the current ability to direct the activities that sign ificantly influence returns. Returns must vary and can be positi ve, negative or both. This 
standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Gr oup. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on o r after 1 January 
2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. 
IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements” Changes in the definitions have reduced the “types” of joint arrangements to two: joint operations and joint 
ventures. The existing policy choice of pr oportionate consolidation for jointly contro lled entities has been eliminated. Equity accounting is 
mandatory for participants in joint ventures. Entities that partic ipate in joint operations will follow accounting much like th at for joint assets or joint 
operations today, whereby a joint operator will recognise its in terest based on its involvement in the joint operation (that is , based on its direct 
rights and obligations) rather than on the participation interest it has in the joint arrangement. In contrast, a joint venture does not have rights to 
individual assets or obligations for individual liabilities of the joint venture. Instead, join t venturers share in the net ass ets and, in turn, the outcome 
(profit or loss) of the activity undertaken by the joint venture. This standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Group. This 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or af ter 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. 
IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities” IFRS 12 sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under the two new standards, 
IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements”, and IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements”. The ne w standard, IFRS 12, requires entities to disclose 
information that helps financial statement readers to evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the enti ty’s interests in 
subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated st ructured entities. This standard has not had a material impac t on the results 
of the Group. The standard is effective for annual periods beginn ing on or after 1 January 2014 bu t has been early adopted by t he Group. 
IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement” The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be 
applied where its use is already required or permitted by other st andards. IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce compl exity by 
providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs. The 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012. The Group has 
included the relevant disclosure requirements within note 1c ‘F inancial risk management’, and no te 17 ‘Financial instruments’. 
IAS 28 (Revised) “Investments in associates and joint ventures” IAS 28 defines “significa nt influence” and the “equ ity method” and provides 
guidance on their practical application. Th e revised standard incorporates the accounting for joint ventures as well as the con sensus from SIC-13 
“Jointly controlled entities”. The disclosure requirements have now been relocated to IFRS 12. This new guidance may impact the classification of 
investments acquired in the futu re. This standard is effective for annual period s beginning on or afte r 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by 
the Group. 
Amendment to IAS 1 “Financial statement presentation” The main change resulting from this amendm ent is a requirement for entities to group 
items presented in other comprehensive income (OCI) on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the income s tatement 
subsequently (reclassification adjustments). This standard is e ffective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 201 2 and was endorsed 
by the EU in June 2012. The Group has included rele vant disclosures within the financial statements. 
IAS 27 (revised 2011) “Separate financial statements” This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after 
the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10. This standard is effe ctive for accounting periods begin ning on or after 
1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group. There has b een no material impact on the Group. 
Amendment to IAS 36 “Impairment of assets” This amendment relates to the recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets. 
The amendment removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs that had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IF RS 13. 
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has b een early adopted by the Group. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   67 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
68
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
New standards, amendments and interpretations continued 
Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted 
IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. This is the first part of a new 
standard to replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value. All equity instruments are me asured at fair 
value. A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and t he cash flows represent 
principal and interest. Otherwise it is measured at fair value th rough the income statement. This standard is not expected to h ave a material impact 
on the results of the Group. Published by the IASB in November 2009, the effective date is currently open, pending the finalisa tion of the 
impairment, and classification and measurement requirem ents. This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU. 
Amendment to IAS 32 “Financial instruments: Presentation” This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32 to clarify some of the 
requirements for offsetting fina ncial assets and financial liabilities on the bala nce sheet. This standard is effective for acc ounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2014 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012. It is not expect ed to have a material impact on the Gro up. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, “Revenue recognition”, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies. In principle, 
therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: 
• The Group has transferred to the bu yer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods. 
• The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over 
the goods sold. 
• The amount of revenue ca n be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
• The costs incurred or to be in curred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably. 
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following cond itions have been satisfied: 
• The amount of revenue ca n be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
• The stage of completion of the transaction at the en d of the reporting period can be measured reliably. 
• The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably. 
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and af ter eliminating sales within the Group. 
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology , royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees’ ARM technology-based 
products, revenues from support, maintenance and training an d the sale of development boards and software toolkits. 
Licence revenues: 
Revenue from standard licence products that are not modified to m eet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the 
conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: 
• The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered 
to the customer. 
• Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over lice nsed IP is relinquished at the point at which the IP is delive red to the customer. 
• The amount of revenue can be measured reli ably; any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably 
measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the tr ansaction will flow to the Group; any economic benefits of the transaction that 
are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition continued 
The majority of the Group’s reve nues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are the refore very few 
direct costs associated with the sale of goods; where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing 
agreements in place with the Group’s suppliers. 
Many licence agreements are for products wh ich are designed to meet the specific requ irements of each customer. Revenue from th e sale of 
such licences is recognised on a percentage-of-completion basis over the peri od from signing of the licence to customer accepta nce. Under the 
percentage-of-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood 
of such losses is determined. The percentage -of-completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incu rred to date in 
the project compared with the to tal estimated project requirement, which appr oximates to the extent of performance. 
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrang ements are such that the re ceipts fall due significantly outside the period over wh ich the customisation 
is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group eval uates whether it 
is probable that economic benefits associ ated with these milestones wi ll flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be 
included in the arrangement consideration. 
In particular, it considers: 
• whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be ra ised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoici ng milestone is in 
some way dependent on customer activity; 
• whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Group’s contra ctual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled; 
• whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expect ed to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that 
a future invoice may be raised;  
• the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar cu stomers supports the conclusions reached. 
Where the Group considers that there is insuff icient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with su ch future milestones 
will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient 
evidence that it is probable th at the economic benefits associated with the tran saction will flow to th e Group. The Group does not discount future 
invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial. 
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual compo nents based 
on each component’s fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charge d for an item when sold separately. Where a component in a 
multiple-component agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors 
including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component rel ative to the book 
prices of the other components in the agreement. If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is n ot 
determinable (where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrang ement), the entire arrangement fee is defe rred until such 
fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee. Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are 
linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual co mponents, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the el ements as if they were 
a single element. 
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products (as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements) are accounted for using 
subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line ba sis over the term of the arran gement, or an 
estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product . 
Royalty revenues: 
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Group’s customers of products containing ARM techno logy. Royalty revenues are recog nised when it 
is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transa ction will flow to the Group, th e amount of revenue can be rel iably measured, 
and when the Group receives notification from the customer of pr oduct sales. Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of 
the products by the customer.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   68 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
69
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
New standards, amendments and interpretations continued 
Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted 
IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. This is the first part of a new 
standard to replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value. All equity instruments are me asured at fair 
value. A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and t he cash flows represent 
principal and interest. Otherwise it is measured at fair value th rough the income statement. This standard is not expected to h ave a material impact 
on the results of the Group. Published by the IASB in November 2009, the effective date is currently open, pending the finalisa tion of the 
impairment, and classification and measurement requirem ents. This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU. 
Amendment to IAS 32 “Financial instruments: Presentation” This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32 to clarify some of the 
requirements for offsetting fina ncial assets and financial liabilities on the bala nce sheet. This standard is effective for acc ounting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2014 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012. It is not expect ed to have a material impact on the Gro up. 
Revenue recognition 
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, “Revenue recognition”, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies. In principle, 
therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: 
• The Group has transferred to the bu yer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods. 
• The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over 
the goods sold. 
• The amount of revenue ca n be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
• The costs incurred or to be in curred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably. 
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following cond itions have been satisfied: 
• The amount of revenue ca n be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
• The stage of completion of the transaction at the en d of the reporting period can be measured reliably. 
• The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably. 
Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and af ter eliminating sales within the Group. 
Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology , royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees’ ARM technology-based 
products, revenues from support, maintenance and training an d the sale of development boards and software toolkits. 
Licence revenues: 
Revenue from standard licence products that are not modified to m eet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the 
conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: 
• The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered 
to the customer. 
• Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over lice nsed IP is relinquished at the point at which the IP is delive red to the customer. 
• The amount of revenue can be measured reli ably; any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably 
measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably. 
• It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the tr ansaction will flow to the Group; any economic benefits of the transaction that 
are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group. 
  
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition continued 
The majority of the Group’s reve nues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are the refore very few 
direct costs associated with the sale of goods; where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing 
agreements in place with the Group’s suppliers. 
Many licence agreements are for products wh ich are designed to meet the specific requ irements of each customer. Revenue from th e sale of 
such licences is recognised on a percentage-of-completion basis over the peri od from signing of the licence to customer accepta nce. Under the 
percentage-of-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood 
of such losses is determined. The percentage -of-completion is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incu rred to date in 
the project compared with the to tal estimated project requirement, which appr oximates to the extent of performance. 
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrang ements are such that the re ceipts fall due significantly outside the period over wh ich the customisation 
is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group eval uates whether it 
is probable that economic benefits associ ated with these milestones wi ll flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be 
included in the arrangement consideration. 
In particular, it considers: 
• whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be ra ised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoici ng milestone is in 
some way dependent on customer activity; 
• whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Group’s contra ctual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled; 
• whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expect ed to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that 
a future invoice may be raised;  
• the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar cu stomers supports the conclusions reached. 
Where the Group considers that there is insuff icient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with su ch future milestones 
will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient 
evidence that it is probable th at the economic benefits associated with the tran saction will flow to th e Group. The Group does not discount future 
invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial. 
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual compo nents based 
on each component’s fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charge d for an item when sold separately. Where a component in a 
multiple-component agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors 
including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component rel ative to the book 
prices of the other components in the agreement. If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is n ot 
determinable (where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrang ement), the entire arrangement fee is defe rred until such 
fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee. Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are 
linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual co mponents, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the el ements as if they were 
a single element. 
Agreements including rights to unspecified future products (as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements) are accounted for using 
subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line ba sis over the term of the arran gement, or an 
estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product . 
Royalty revenues: 
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Group’s customers of products containing ARM techno logy. Royalty revenues are recog nised when it 
is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transa ction will flow to the Group, th e amount of revenue can be rel iably measured, 
and when the Group receives notification from the customer of pr oduct sales. Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of 
the products by the customer.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   69 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
70
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition continued 
Other revenues: 
In addition to licence fees, co ntracts generally contain an agreement to provid e post-delivery service support (in the form of support, maintenance 
and training) which consists of the right to receive services an d/or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a when-
and-if-available basis. Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the co ntract. Revenue related to post -delivery service support 
is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with re ference to contractual renewal rates. Where renewal rates are spe cified, revenue for 
post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line ba sis over the period for which support and maintenance is contr actually agreed by 
the Group with the licensee. 
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence (such as off-the-shel f software) are 
recognised upon delivery, when the signific ant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. At that ti me, the Group has 
no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs a ssociated with providing post-delivery service support have bee n accrued. Services 
(such as training) that the Grou p provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and pri ced in the contract and, 
therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is recognised as serv ices are performed and it is probable that the economic benef its associated with 
the transaction will flow to the Group. 
For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoic ed to customers, the excess amount is r ecorded as 
amounts recoverable on contracts within a ccounts receivable. The excess of licence fees and post-delivery service support invoi ced over revenue 
recognised is recorded as deferred revenue. 
Intangible assets 
(a) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consid eration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the 
assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses. 
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of co mpletion, the fair value 
of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the 
directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further cons ideration will be payable. 
(b) Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are ca pitalised at cost and amortised on 
a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Grou p is expected to benefit from th em. Costs that are directly att ributable to the 
development of new business application software and that are incu rred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into 
operational use, are capitalised. External costs and internal co sts are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future econo mic benefit of the 
asset. 
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible asse ts purchased as part of a business combination, the directors a re primarily 
responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.  
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combinat ion may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 (revised), 
“Business combinations”, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill. Management tracks the status of in-process r esearch and 
development intangible assets such that their amortisati on commences when the assets are brought into use.  
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised. 
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are ad justed (if appropriate) 
at each balance sheet date, on a straight-l ine basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The princ ipal economic lives 
used for this purpose are: 
Computer software Three to five years 
Patents and licences Three to eleven years 
In-process research and development One to five years 
Developed technology One to seven years 
Existing agreements and customer relationships  One to six years 
Core technology Five years 
Trademarks and tradenames One to five years 
Order backlog One year 
 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Income taxes 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or subs tantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries 
where the Group’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable inco me. Management periodically eval uates positions taken in tax re turns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropri ate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
During the period legislation was enacted to allow UK companies to elect for the Rese arch and Development Expenditure Credit (R DEC) on 
qualifying expenditure incurred since 1 April 2013, instead of th e existing super-deduction rules. At the balance sheet date ma nagement has 
concluded that the election will be made an d therefore the RDEC is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted aga inst research and 
development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant. In previous periods there was a reduction in the incom e tax expense. 
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are deter mined based on 
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liab ilities and are measured using enacted ra tes and laws that will 
be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial reco gnition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting n or taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is pr obable that future taxable profits will arise against which the t emporary differences will 
be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on inve stments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversa l of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable futu re. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset , where the taxation authority permits a single net payment. 
In the period a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made. The UK patent box regime seeks to tax all profits att ributable to 
patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.  The rules are to be phased in over five years from 1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled 
to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. As ‘relevant’ patent box profits are taxed a t 10% and other 
profits are taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets an d liabilities are measured using the average rates expected to a pply on realisation 
or settlement. 
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction fo r amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain emplo yee share 
options or vest of share awards under each jurisdiction’s tax ru les. As explained under “Share-b ased payments” below, a compens ation expense 
is recorded in the Group’s income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards. As there 
is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded. The deferred tax asset arisin g is calculated by 
comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future (based on the Company’s share price at the balance sheet date) 
with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement. If the amount of estimated future tax deduction 
exceeds the cumulative amount of the compen sation expense at the statutory rate, the ex cess is recorded directly in equity, aga inst retained 
earnings. 
Impairment of assets 
Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment. 
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances i ndicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the no n-financial asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amou nt. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. For purposes of assessing impair ment, assets are 
grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (each a cash generating unit, “CGU”). Where the recoverable 
amount of a CGU is measured based on a value-in-use calculation, all cash inflows and outflows associated with the CGU are take n into account 
whether these are explicitly charged or not. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible 
reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 
The annual impairment tests in 2013 and 2012 sh owed there was no impairment with respec t to goodwill. Furthermore, no trigger events have 
been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Group’s other intangible assets. 
The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible fixed assets are impaired. If there is such an indication, the 
Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets’ recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets’ fair val ues less costs to sell 
and their values in use. If th e recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and th e assets are written 
down to their recoverable amounts. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   70 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
71
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Revenue recognition continued 
Other revenues: 
In addition to licence fees, co ntracts generally contain an agreement to provid e post-delivery service support (in the form of support, maintenance 
and training) which consists of the right to receive services an d/or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a when-
and-if-available basis. Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the co ntract. Revenue related to post -delivery service support 
is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with re ference to contractual renewal rates. Where renewal rates are spe cified, revenue for 
post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line ba sis over the period for which support and maintenance is contr actually agreed by 
the Group with the licensee. 
Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence (such as off-the-shel f software) are 
recognised upon delivery, when the signific ant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. At that ti me, the Group has 
no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs a ssociated with providing post-delivery service support have bee n accrued. Services 
(such as training) that the Grou p provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and pri ced in the contract and, 
therefore, accounted for separately. Revenue is recognised as serv ices are performed and it is probable that the economic benef its associated with 
the transaction will flow to the Group. 
For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoic ed to customers, the excess amount is r ecorded as 
amounts recoverable on contracts within a ccounts receivable. The excess of licence fees and post-delivery service support invoi ced over revenue 
recognised is recorded as deferred revenue. 
Intangible assets 
(a) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consid eration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the 
assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses. 
In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of co mpletion, the fair value 
of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the 
directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further cons ideration will be payable. 
(b) Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are ca pitalised at cost and amortised on 
a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Grou p is expected to benefit from th em. Costs that are directly att ributable to the 
development of new business application software and that are incu rred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into 
operational use, are capitalised. External costs and internal co sts are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future econo mic benefit of the 
asset. 
Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible asse ts purchased as part of a business combination, the directors a re primarily 
responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.  
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combinat ion may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 (revised), 
“Business combinations”, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill. Management tracks the status of in-process r esearch and 
development intangible assets such that their amortisati on commences when the assets are brought into use.  
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised. 
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are ad justed (if appropriate) 
at each balance sheet date, on a straight-l ine basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned. The princ ipal economic lives 
used for this purpose are: 
Computer software Three to five years 
Patents and licences Three to eleven years 
In-process research and development One to five years 
Developed technology One to seven years 
Existing agreements and customer relationships  One to six years 
Core technology Five years 
Trademarks and tradenames One to five years 
Order backlog One year 
 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Income taxes 
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or subs tantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries 
where the Group’s subsidiaries operate and generate taxable inco me. Management periodically eval uates positions taken in tax re turns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropri ate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
During the period legislation was enacted to allow UK companies to elect for the Rese arch and Development Expenditure Credit (R DEC) on 
qualifying expenditure incurred since 1 April 2013, instead of th e existing super-deduction rules. At the balance sheet date ma nagement has 
concluded that the election will be made an d therefore the RDEC is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted aga inst research and 
development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant. In previous periods there was a reduction in the incom e tax expense. 
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are deter mined based on 
temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liab ilities and are measured using enacted ra tes and laws that will 
be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial reco gnition of an asset or 
liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting n or taxable profit or loss. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is pr obable that future taxable profits will arise against which the t emporary differences will 
be utilised. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on inve stments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversa l of the temporary 
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable futu re. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset , where the taxation authority permits a single net payment. 
In the period a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made. The UK patent box regime seeks to tax all profits att ributable to 
patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.  The rules are to be phased in over five years from 1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled 
to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. As ‘relevant’ patent box profits are taxed a t 10% and other 
profits are taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets an d liabilities are measured using the average rates expected to a pply on realisation 
or settlement. 
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction fo r amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain emplo yee share 
options or vest of share awards under each jurisdiction’s tax ru les. As explained under “Share-b ased payments” below, a compens ation expense 
is recorded in the Group’s income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards. As there 
is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded. The deferred tax asset arisin g is calculated by 
comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future (based on the Company’s share price at the balance sheet date) 
with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement. If the amount of estimated future tax deduction 
exceeds the cumulative amount of the compen sation expense at the statutory rate, the ex cess is recorded directly in equity, aga inst retained 
earnings. 
Impairment of assets 
Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment. 
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances i ndicate that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. 
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the no n-financial asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amou nt. The 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. For purposes of assessing impair ment, assets are 
grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (each a cash generating unit, “CGU”). Where the recoverable 
amount of a CGU is measured based on a value-in-use calculation, all cash inflows and outflows associated with the CGU are take n into account 
whether these are explicitly charged or not. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible 
reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 
The annual impairment tests in 2013 and 2012 sh owed there was no impairment with respec t to goodwill. Furthermore, no trigger events have 
been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Group’s other intangible assets. 
The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible fixed assets are impaired. If there is such an indication, the 
Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets’ recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets’ fair val ues less costs to sell 
and their values in use. If th e recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and th e assets are written 
down to their recoverable amounts. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   71 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
72
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Impairment of assets continued 
In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a signific ant or prolonged decline in the fa ir value of the security below its cost is considered as an 
indicator that the securities are permanently impaired. If any su ch evidence exists for AFS fina ncial assets, the cumulative lo ss – measured as the 
difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised 
in the income statement – is remo ved from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the in come 
statement on equity instruments are not reversed. 
When securities classified as AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustme nts recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled 
through the income statement. 
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under “Accounts receivable” below. 
Provisions 
Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a pr esent legal or constructive obli gation as a result of past e vents; and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount of the outflow can be re liably estimated. 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further unders tanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature. 
Segment reporting  
At 31 December 2013, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the Processor Division (PD), the 
Physical IP Division (PIPD) and the System Design Division (SDD). This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and mana gement structure 
and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Make r (CODM) and the rest of the Board are provided with financial information. 
The directors believe that th e CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group. 
Segment expenses are expenses that are dire ctly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can 
reasonably be allocated by segment. Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment income, interest payable and similar charges, share of joint 
venture results, and tax are not allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable bas is of shared items. 
Corporate assets and liabilities are not in cluded in business segments and are thus unallocated. At 31 December 2013 and 2012, these comprised 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits, AFS financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, an d the fair value of 
currency exchange contracts. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and VAT are also not included in business segments and are thus 
unallocated. 
As part of the ongoing evolutio n of the business, the Group’s divisional struct ure was re-organised on 1 January 2014. As a res ult of this change, 
the Group’s business segments may change for future report ing periods in order to reflect this new organisation. 
Principles of consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries. Intra-group transactions, 
including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation. All subsidiaries use uniform account ing policies.  
• Business combinations 
The results of subsidiaries acquired are in cluded in the income statement from the da te of acquisition. Assets and liabilities existing at the date 
of acquisition are recorded at their fair valu es reflecting their condition at that date. 
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an in dividual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition cons ideration or as 
employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement. 
• Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) ov er which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity wh en it is exposed to, 
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with th e entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from th e date that 
control ceases. 
 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Principles of consolidation continued  
• Associates  
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significan t influence but not control, gene rally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are acco unted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equi ty method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying am ount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of the profit or loss 
of the investee after the date of acquisition. 
• Joint ventures 
Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a 
share of the net assets of the arrangement. Investments in join t ventures are accounted for usin g the equity method of accounti ng. Under the 
equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, an d the carrying amount is increa sed or decreased to recognise t he Group’s share 
of the profit or loss of the invest ee after the date of acquisition. 
Research and development expenditure 
All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Where a product is technically feasible, pr oduction and sale are 
intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resour ces are available to complete the project, development costs 
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product. The Group beli eves its current 
process for developing products is essentia lly completed concurrently with the establ ishment of technological feasibility, whic h is evidenced by a 
working model. Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been signi ficant and, 
therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date. 
Where no internally-generated intangible a sset can be recognised, development expenditur e is recognised as an expense in the pe riod in which it 
is incurred. Any collaborative agreement wh ereby a third party agrees to partially fu nd the Group’s research and development is recognised over 
the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses. 
Government grants 
Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are recognised as rece ivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied wi th. They are credited to the inco me statement in the same perio d as the 
related research and development costs for which the grant is comp ensating. The grant income is presented as a deduction from t he related 
expense. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based pa yments to certain employees. In accordance with IFRS 2, “Share-based payments”, e quity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair valu e is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricin g model. The fair 
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expe nsed on a straight-line basis over the ves ting period, based 
on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. 
The Group operates Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purc hase Plan (ESPP) in the US, India, Japan , South 
Korea and Taiwan. Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of 
announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for t he ESPP. The 
UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. The Group has 
recognised a compensation charge in respec t of the SAYE plans and ESPPs. The charges fo r these are calculated as detailed above. 
The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to reco gnise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above. 
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expens es, sales and marketing expenses, and general 
and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount. 
Employer’s taxes on share options 
Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisd ictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting 
of share awards. In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction. A provision is made, calculated usin g the intrinsic value of 
the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   72 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
73
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Impairment of assets continued 
In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a signific ant or prolonged decline in the fa ir value of the security below its cost is considered as an 
indicator that the securities are permanently impaired. If any su ch evidence exists for AFS fina ncial assets, the cumulative lo ss – measured as the 
difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised 
in the income statement – is remo ved from equity and recognised in the income statement. Impairment losses recognised in the in come 
statement on equity instruments are not reversed. 
When securities classified as AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustme nts recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled 
through the income statement. 
Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under “Accounts receivable” below. 
Provisions 
Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a pr esent legal or constructive obli gation as a result of past e vents; and it is more 
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount of the outflow can be re liably estimated. 
Exceptional items 
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further unders tanding of the financial 
performance of the Group. They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature. 
Segment reporting  
At 31 December 2013, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the Processor Division (PD), the 
Physical IP Division (PIPD) and the System Design Division (SDD). This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and mana gement structure 
and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Make r (CODM) and the rest of the Board are provided with financial information. 
The directors believe that th e CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group. 
Segment expenses are expenses that are dire ctly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can 
reasonably be allocated by segment. Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment income, interest payable and similar charges, share of joint 
venture results, and tax are not allocated by segment. 
Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable bas is of shared items. 
Corporate assets and liabilities are not in cluded in business segments and are thus unallocated. At 31 December 2013 and 2012, these comprised 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits, AFS financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, an d the fair value of 
currency exchange contracts. Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and VAT are also not included in business segments and are thus 
unallocated. 
As part of the ongoing evolutio n of the business, the Group’s divisional struct ure was re-organised on 1 January 2014. As a res ult of this change, 
the Group’s business segments may change for future report ing periods in order to reflect this new organisation. 
Principles of consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries. Intra-group transactions, 
including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation. All subsidiaries use uniform account ing policies.  
• Business combinations 
The results of subsidiaries acquired are in cluded in the income statement from the da te of acquisition. Assets and liabilities existing at the date 
of acquisition are recorded at their fair valu es reflecting their condition at that date. 
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an in dividual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition cons ideration or as 
employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement. 
• Subsidiaries  
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) ov er which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity wh en it is exposed to, 
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with th e entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. 
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from th e date that 
control ceases. 
 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Principles of consolidation continued  
• Associates  
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significan t influence but not control, gene rally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are acco unted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equi ty method, the 
investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying am ount is increased or decreased to recognise the Group’s share of the profit or loss 
of the investee after the date of acquisition. 
• Joint ventures 
Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a 
share of the net assets of the arrangement. Investments in join t ventures are accounted for usin g the equity method of accounti ng. Under the 
equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, an d the carrying amount is increa sed or decreased to recognise t he Group’s share 
of the profit or loss of the invest ee after the date of acquisition. 
Research and development expenditure 
All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred. Where a product is technically feasible, pr oduction and sale are 
intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resour ces are available to complete the project, development costs 
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product. The Group beli eves its current 
process for developing products is essentia lly completed concurrently with the establ ishment of technological feasibility, whic h is evidenced by a 
working model. Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been signi ficant and, 
therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date. 
Where no internally-generated intangible a sset can be recognised, development expenditur e is recognised as an expense in the pe riod in which it 
is incurred. Any collaborative agreement wh ereby a third party agrees to partially fu nd the Group’s research and development is recognised over 
the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses. 
Government grants 
Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are recognised as rece ivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be 
received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied wi th. They are credited to the inco me statement in the same perio d as the 
related research and development costs for which the grant is comp ensating. The grant income is presented as a deduction from t he related 
expense. 
Share-based payments 
The Group issues equity-settled share-based pa yments to certain employees. In accordance with IFRS 2, “Share-based payments”, e quity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair valu e is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricin g model. The fair 
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expe nsed on a straight-line basis over the ves ting period, based 
on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. 
The Group operates Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purc hase Plan (ESPP) in the US, India, Japan , South 
Korea and Taiwan. Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of 
announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for t he ESPP. The 
UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. The Group has 
recognised a compensation charge in respec t of the SAYE plans and ESPPs. The charges fo r these are calculated as detailed above. 
The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to reco gnise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above. 
The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expens es, sales and marketing expenses, and general 
and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount. 
Employer’s taxes on share options 
Employer’s National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting 
of share awards. In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction. A provision is made, calculated usin g the intrinsic value of 
the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   73 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
74
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension 
schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India. The Group contributes to these plans based upo n various fixed 
percentages of employee compensation, and su ch contributions are expensed as incurred. 
Operating leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of th e risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operat ing leases. Costs, net 
of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are char ged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if paymen ts are not made on 
such a basis. 
Finance leases 
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ow nership are transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases. Assets held 
under finance leases are recognised as asse ts of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimu m lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liabil ity to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finan ce lease liability. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance char ges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of inte rest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charge s are charged directly to the income statement. 
Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which that entity operates. The consolid ated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation curre ncy of the Group. 
(b) Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group 
entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated 
at closing rates of exchange at the balanc e sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative e xpenses. 
(c) Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) 
not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: 
(i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance shee t date. 
(ii) Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at th e rates of exchange at the time of each transa ction during the 
period. 
(iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a se parate component of equity, being taken through other comprehens ive income via the 
cumulative translation adjustment. 
When a foreign operation is partially dispos ed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensiv e income are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rates of exchange. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group utilises currency exchange contra cts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivabl e, denominated 
in a currency other than the functional cu rrency of the business. The Group’s currency exchange contracts do not subject the Gr oup to risk from 
exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactio ns being hedged. 
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each 
period end. The fair value of forward exch ange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The fair 
value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations perfor med by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments. 
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the 
income statement. The Group does not ente r into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions . 
Embedded derivatives 
In accordance with IAS 39, “Finan cial instruments: recognition and measurement”, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for e mbedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. From time to time, 
the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neit her the functional currency of the Group entity nor 
the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative pa rtner. Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries 
such derivatives at fair value. The result ing gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrati ve expenses. 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges 
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time b asis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividends 
Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in th e income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the 
movement in shareholders’ equity. A liabilit y is recorded for a dividend when the divi dend is approved by the Company’s shareho lders. Interim 
dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by di viding the earnings attributable to ordina ry shareholders by the weighted average n umber of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, which are treated as cancelled. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordi nary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share option s granted to 
employees and directors where the exercise pr ice is less than the averag e market price of the Compan y’s ordinary shares during the year and the 
awards made under the Company’s RSU, DAB plan, and LTIP schemes. For 2013 and 2012, no shares that were allocated for awards un der the 
LTIP were included in the diluted EPS calculation as the performa nce criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance 
period.  
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calc ulations are shown on the face of the con solidated income 
statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less. The carr ying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments . 
Short- and long-term deposits  
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original matu rity dates of greater than three months and maturing in les s than one year 
to be short-term deposits. Deposits with a maturity date of gr eater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term. 
Accounts receivable 
Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amo unts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairme nt. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probabili ty that the debtor will enter 
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (mor e than 90 days overdue) are considered indic ators that the 
trade receivable may be impaired. Where there is no objective evid ence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is includ ed in a group of 
receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment. 
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement within general and administra tive expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against 
the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of am ounts previously written off are credited against gener al and 
administrative expenses in the income statement. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated deprec iation and any recognised impairment loss. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use. External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the a sset.  
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss. Depreciation of these assets comm ences when the 
assets are ready for their intended use.  
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   74 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
75
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Retirement benefit costs 
The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension 
schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India. The Group contributes to these plans based upo n various fixed 
percentages of employee compensation, and su ch contributions are expensed as incurred. 
Operating leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of th e risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operat ing leases. Costs, net 
of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are char ged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if paymen ts are not made on 
such a basis. 
Finance leases 
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ow nership are transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases. Assets held 
under finance leases are recognised as asse ts of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimu m lease payments, each 
determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liabil ity to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finan ce lease liability. Lease 
payments are apportioned between finance char ges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of inte rest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charge s are charged directly to the income statement. 
Foreign currency translation 
(a) Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which that entity operates. The consolid ated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation curre ncy of the Group. 
(b) Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group 
entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated 
at closing rates of exchange at the balanc e sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative e xpenses. 
(c) Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities (none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) 
not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: 
(i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance shee t date. 
(ii) Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at th e rates of exchange at the time of each transa ction during the 
period. 
(iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a se parate component of equity, being taken through other comprehens ive income via the 
cumulative translation adjustment. 
When a foreign operation is partially dispos ed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensiv e income are 
recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rates of exchange. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group utilises currency exchange contra cts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivabl e, denominated 
in a currency other than the functional cu rrency of the business. The Group’s currency exchange contracts do not subject the Gr oup to risk from 
exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactio ns being hedged. 
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each 
period end. The fair value of forward exch ange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The fair 
value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations perfor med by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments. 
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the 
income statement. The Group does not ente r into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions . 
Embedded derivatives 
In accordance with IAS 39, “Finan cial instruments: recognition and measurement”, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for e mbedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. From time to time, 
the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency (typically US dollars) that is neit her the functional currency of the Group entity nor 
the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative pa rtner. Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries 
such derivatives at fair value. The result ing gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrati ve expenses. 
 
 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges 
Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time b asis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. 
Dividends 
Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in th e income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the 
movement in shareholders’ equity. A liabilit y is recorded for a dividend when the divi dend is approved by the Company’s shareho lders. Interim 
dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid. 
Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by di viding the earnings attributable to ordina ry shareholders by the weighted average n umber of ordinary 
shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, which are treated as cancelled. 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordi nary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential 
ordinary shares. The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share option s granted to 
employees and directors where the exercise pr ice is less than the averag e market price of the Compan y’s ordinary shares during the year and the 
awards made under the Company’s RSU, DAB plan, and LTIP schemes. For 2013 and 2012, no shares that were allocated for awards un der the 
LTIP were included in the diluted EPS calculation as the performa nce criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance 
period.  
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calc ulations are shown on the face of the con solidated income 
statement. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities 
of three months or less. The carr ying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments . 
Short- and long-term deposits  
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original matu rity dates of greater than three months and maturing in les s than one year 
to be short-term deposits. Deposits with a maturity date of gr eater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term. 
Accounts receivable 
Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amo unts due according to the original terms of the receivables. 
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairme nt. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probabili ty that the debtor will enter 
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (mor e than 90 days overdue) are considered indic ators that the 
trade receivable may be impaired. Where there is no objective evid ence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is includ ed in a group of 
receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment. 
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement within general and administra tive expenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against 
the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of am ounts previously written off are credited against gener al and 
administrative expenses in the income statement. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated deprec iation and any recognised impairment loss. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its 
intended use. External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the a sset.  
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss. Depreciation of these assets comm ences when the 
assets are ready for their intended use.  
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   75 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
76
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment continued 
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date , on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets conc erned. The principal 
economic lives used for this purpose are: 
Freehold buildings  25 years 
Leasehold improvements  Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter 
Computer equipment  Three to five years 
Fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles  Three to five years 
Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have oc curred. Asset 
lives and residual va lues are reviewed on an annual basis. 
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the pr oceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within gener al and 
administrative expenses in the income statement. 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and re ceivables, and available-
for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the cla ssification of 
financial assets at initial recognition. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income stat ement are financial assets 
held for trading – that is, assets that have been acquired prin cipally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classified 
as current assets. They are initially recognised at fair value wi th transaction costs being expensed in the income statement. S pecifically, the Group’s 
currency exchange contracts and embedded deri vatives fall within this category. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fai r value of “financial 
assets at fair value through the income st atement” are presented in the income statem ent within general and administrative expe nses in the period 
in which they arise. 
(b) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. “Accounts receivable”, “cash an d cash equivalents”, and “short - and long-term deposits” are c lassified as “Loans 
and receivables” (see note 17). 
Loans and receivables are measured init ially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of 
the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 mont hs of the balance 
sheet date. 
Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classifi ed as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs. Given that the 
markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. The estimated fair val ue of these investments 
approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on estimates determined by management), except where indepen dent 
valuation information is obtained. Unrealised holding gains or lo sses on such securities are re cognised, net of related taxes, through other 
comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where ther e is evidence of permanent impa irment (in which case the loss is recognised 
through the income statement within general and administra tive expenses or exceptional items where appropriate). 
Current investments have been valued base d on the amount that is recoverable. 
Accounts payable 
Accounts payable are recognised at face valu e as they are settled within 12 months. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
  
 
 
1c Financial risk management 
The Group operates in the intensely compet itive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid te chnological 
change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Significant technological changes 
in the industry could affect operating results. 
The Group’s operations expose it to a vari ety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities pri ce risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. 
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated th e responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of 
the Board. The policies set by the directors are implemented by th e Group’s finance and treasury departments. The Group has a t reasury policy 
that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, intere st rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it 
would be appropriate to use financ ial instruments to manage these. 
Currency risk 
The Group’s earnings and liquidity are affect ed by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of t he US dollar, reflecting 
the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling. 
The Group seeks to use currency exchange co ntracts and currency options to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, b y monitoring 
the timing and value of anticipated US doll ar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, hi gh-value licence deals and royal ty receipts) 
in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars. The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regu lar basis and 
hedges this exposure using curre ncy exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate. Such con tracts are entered 
into with the objective of matching their matu rity with projected US dollar cash receipts. 
The Group is also exposed to cu rrency risk in respect of the foreign currency de nominated assets and liabilities of its oversea s subsidiaries. At 
present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant ri sk since the Group does not intend to move assets between group companies.  
The Group has elected not to apply hedge acco unting, and all movements in the fair valu e of derivative foreign exchange instrum ents are recorded 
in the income statement, offsetting the fo reign exchange movements on the accounts re ceivable, and cash and cash equivalents ba lances being 
hedged. 
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the Euro and Japanese yen. The G roup is also required 
to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in it s French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amoun ts involved are not 
considered significant, the Group does not take out forwar d-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies. 
Interest rate risk 
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LI BID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk. 
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined u nder “Liquidity risk” 
below. Other financial assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk. 
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage intere st rate fluctuations in place at the year end since the level of financing was not 
considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is appl ied. The Group’s cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily bas is. Excess cash, 
considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either short- or long-t erm deposits to maximise the interest income thereo n. Daily surpluses 
are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight. 
Securities price risk 
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS fina ncial assets. As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for 
these securities (which are generally unlisted at the time of in vestment) or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate 
each investment opportunity on it s merits before committing the Group’s funds. The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular 
basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best in terests of the Group. Funds for such ventures are limited in o rder that the 
financial effect of any potential decline of the value of invest ments will not be substantial in the context of the Group’s fin ancial results. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises fr om cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments an d deposits with banks 
and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to cust omers, including outstanding receivables and committed transacti ons. 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit ri sk. The amount of expo sure to any individ ual 
counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   76 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
77
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 
Property, plant and equipment continued 
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date , on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets conc erned. The principal 
economic lives used for this purpose are: 
Freehold buildings  25 years 
Leasehold improvements  Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter 
Computer equipment  Three to five years 
Fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles  Three to five years 
Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have oc curred. Asset 
lives and residual va lues are reviewed on an annual basis. 
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the pr oceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within gener al and 
administrative expenses in the income statement. 
Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and re ceivables, and available-
for-sale. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the cla ssification of 
financial assets at initial recognition. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income stat ement are financial assets 
held for trading – that is, assets that have been acquired prin cipally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classified 
as current assets. They are initially recognised at fair value wi th transaction costs being expensed in the income statement. S pecifically, the Group’s 
currency exchange contracts and embedded deri vatives fall within this category. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fai r value of “financial 
assets at fair value through the income st atement” are presented in the income statem ent within general and administrative expe nses in the period 
in which they arise. 
(b) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are 
classified as non-current assets. “Accounts receivable”, “cash an d cash equivalents”, and “short - and long-term deposits” are c lassified as “Loans 
and receivables” (see note 17). 
Loans and receivables are measured init ially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of 
the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 mont hs of the balance 
sheet date. 
Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classifi ed as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs. Given that the 
markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques. The estimated fair val ue of these investments 
approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on estimates determined by management), except where indepen dent 
valuation information is obtained. Unrealised holding gains or lo sses on such securities are re cognised, net of related taxes, through other 
comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where ther e is evidence of permanent impa irment (in which case the loss is recognised 
through the income statement within general and administra tive expenses or exceptional items where appropriate). 
Current investments have been valued base d on the amount that is recoverable. 
Accounts payable 
Accounts payable are recognised at face valu e as they are settled within 12 months. 
Share capital 
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
  
 
 
1c Financial risk management 
The Group operates in the intensely compet itive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid te chnological 
change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition. Significant technological changes 
in the industry could affect operating results. 
The Group’s operations expose it to a vari ety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities pri ce risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. 
Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated th e responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of 
the Board. The policies set by the directors are implemented by th e Group’s finance and treasury departments. The Group has a t reasury policy 
that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, intere st rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it 
would be appropriate to use financ ial instruments to manage these. 
Currency risk 
The Group’s earnings and liquidity are affect ed by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of t he US dollar, reflecting 
the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling. 
The Group seeks to use currency exchange co ntracts and currency options to manage the US dollar/sterling risk as appropriate, b y monitoring 
the timing and value of anticipated US doll ar receipts (which tend to arise from low-volume, hi gh-value licence deals and royal ty receipts) 
in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars. The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regu lar basis and 
hedges this exposure using curre ncy exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate. Such con tracts are entered 
into with the objective of matching their matu rity with projected US dollar cash receipts. 
The Group is also exposed to cu rrency risk in respect of the foreign currency de nominated assets and liabilities of its oversea s subsidiaries. At 
present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant ri sk since the Group does not intend to move assets between group companies.  
The Group has elected not to apply hedge acco unting, and all movements in the fair valu e of derivative foreign exchange instrum ents are recorded 
in the income statement, offsetting the fo reign exchange movements on the accounts re ceivable, and cash and cash equivalents ba lances being 
hedged. 
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the Euro and Japanese yen. The G roup is also required 
to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in it s French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amoun ts involved are not 
considered significant, the Group does not take out forwar d-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies. 
Interest rate risk 
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LI BID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk. 
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined u nder “Liquidity risk” 
below. Other financial assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk. 
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage intere st rate fluctuations in place at the year end since the level of financing was not 
considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is appl ied. The Group’s cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily bas is. Excess cash, 
considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either short- or long-t erm deposits to maximise the interest income thereo n. Daily surpluses 
are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight. 
Securities price risk 
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS fina ncial assets. As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for 
these securities (which are generally unlisted at the time of in vestment) or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate 
each investment opportunity on it s merits before committing the Group’s funds. The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular 
basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best in terests of the Group. Funds for such ventures are limited in o rder that the 
financial effect of any potential decline of the value of invest ments will not be substantial in the context of the Group’s fin ancial results. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises fr om cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments an d deposits with banks 
and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to cust omers, including outstanding receivables and committed transacti ons. 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit ri sk. The amount of expo sure to any individ ual 
counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   77 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
78
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1c Financial risk management continued 
Credit risk continued 
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence. The Gro up generally 
does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies. The Group h as not 
experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geograp hic area. 
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of cust omers with individually large value transactions. The Group per forms credit 
checks on all customers (other than those paying in advance) in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its i nvoices as they 
become due. As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of l ow risk of default 
due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordin gly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this 
low risk of default. 
No credit limits were exceeded during th e reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses from non-perf ormance by these 
counterparties, other than those already provided for. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash eq uivalents, and short- and long-term deposits, such that highly li quid resources 
exceed the Group’s projected cash outflows at all times. Surplus funds are placed on fixed- or floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing 
economic climate at the time (wit h reference to forward interest rates) and also on the required maturity of the deposit (as dr iven by the 
expected timing of the Group’s cash receipts and payments over the short- to medium-term). 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s short- and medium-term ex pected cash flows. This is carried out at both a local and a 
Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard th e Group’s ability to co ntinue as a going concern in order to pr ovide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structur e. The capital structure of the Group consists of 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and capi tal and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as dis closed on the 
consolidated balance sheet. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt. 
The Group’s strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term profitable gro wth, prevailing trading 
conditions and the desire to improve balanc e sheet efficiency over time. The Group in troduced a dividend in 2004 which has grow n each year 
since. Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing sh are buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bough t back at 
an average price of £1.22. In 2013, the interim dividend was in creased by 26% and the directors are proposing a 27% increase in the final dividend, 
reflecting the Board’s long-term confidence in the business. As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board intends to u ndertake a limited 
share buyback programme to maintain a flat share-count over time . No share buybacks were made in the current year. The capital structure is 
continually monitored by the Group. 
Valuation hierarchy 
The Group classifies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for 
identical instruments; level 2 instruments are those valued using techniques based sign ificantly on observable market data; and level 3 instruments 
are those valued using information other than observable market data.  
The Group has a team that performs the valu ations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including leve l 3 fair values. This 
team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee. 
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current fi nancial assets, cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-te rm deposits, and 
accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount. 
  
 
 
2 Segmental reporting 
At 31 December 2013 the Group was organised on a wo rld-wide basis into three main business segments: 
Processor Division (PD), encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as 
graphics IP, system IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing (DSP) IP. 
Physical IP Division (PIPD), concerned with the building blocks necessary for tr anslation of a circuit design into actual silicon. 
System Design Division (SDD), focused on the tools and models used to create an d debug software and system -on-chip (SoC) designs. 
This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and manageme nt structure and is the primary way in which the CODM is provi ded with 
financial information. Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams (namely licensing, royalties, software and tools, and 
services), the costs, operating results and balance sheets are only analysed into these three divi sions. Further, the information provided to the 
CODM is based on normalised profit before tax, a non-GAAP measure, and therefore this information is provided as well as the eq uivalent profit 
stated under IFRS. 
The reconciling items: intangible amortisation; acquisition-rela ted charges; share-based payment costs including payroll taxes; disposal/impairment 
of investments; exceptional items; share of results in joint venture; and Linaro-related charges are analysed below. Also analy sed are revenues; 
operating costs; investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges; profit/(loss) before tax; tax; profit/(loss) a fter tax; depreciation; 
total assets and liabilities; net assets; and good will for each segment and the Group in total. 
Business segment information 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division 
£m 
System Design 
Division  
£m 
Unallocated 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Segmental income statement  
Revenues  596.2 82.0 36.4 – 714.6
Operating costs  (426.6) (90.7) (42.6) (1.2) (561.1)
Investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges  – – – 13.1 13.1
Share of results in joint venture – – – (4.0) (4.0)
Profit/(loss) before tax  169.6 (8.7) (6.2) 7.9 162.6
Tax  – – – (57.8) (57.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year  169.6 (8.7) (6.2) (49.9) 104.8
Reconciliation to normalised profit before tax:  
Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 9.6 2.0 – – 11.6
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 54.5 12.1 7.4 – 74.0
Impairment of investments, net of profit on disposal  3.5 – – – 3.5
Exceptional items 101.3 – – – 101.3
Share of results in joint venture and Linaro-related charges 7.0 – – 4.0 11.0
Normalised profit before tax  345.5 5.4 1.2 11.9 364.0
Segmental balance sheet  
Total assets  389.4 400.1 31.6 817.3 1,638.4
Total liabilities  (243.2) (46.0) (12.0) (25.8) (327.0)
Net assets  146.2 354.1 19.6 791.5 1,311.4
Other segmental items  
Depreciation  9.6 2.8 2.0 – 14.4
Goodwill  151.5 360.2 14.2 – 525.9
Revenues (USD millions)  931.5 129.1 57.1 – 1,117.7
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   78 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
79
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
1c Financial risk management continued 
Credit risk continued 
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence. The Gro up generally 
does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies. The Group h as not 
experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geograp hic area. 
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of cust omers with individually large value transactions. The Group per forms credit 
checks on all customers (other than those paying in advance) in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its i nvoices as they 
become due. As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of l ow risk of default 
due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordin gly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this 
low risk of default. 
No credit limits were exceeded during th e reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses from non-perf ormance by these 
counterparties, other than those already provided for. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash eq uivalents, and short- and long-term deposits, such that highly li quid resources 
exceed the Group’s projected cash outflows at all times. Surplus funds are placed on fixed- or floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing 
economic climate at the time (wit h reference to forward interest rates) and also on the required maturity of the deposit (as dr iven by the 
expected timing of the Group’s cash receipts and payments over the short- to medium-term). 
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s short- and medium-term ex pected cash flows. This is carried out at both a local and a 
Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard th e Group’s ability to co ntinue as a going concern in order to pr ovide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structur e. The capital structure of the Group consists of 
cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term deposits and capi tal and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as dis closed on the 
consolidated balance sheet. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt. 
The Group’s strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term profitable gro wth, prevailing trading 
conditions and the desire to improve balanc e sheet efficiency over time. The Group in troduced a dividend in 2004 which has grow n each year 
since. Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing sh are buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bough t back at 
an average price of £1.22. In 2013, the interim dividend was in creased by 26% and the directors are proposing a 27% increase in the final dividend, 
reflecting the Board’s long-term confidence in the business. As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board intends to u ndertake a limited 
share buyback programme to maintain a flat share-count over time . No share buybacks were made in the current year. The capital structure is 
continually monitored by the Group. 
Valuation hierarchy 
The Group classifies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for 
identical instruments; level 2 instruments are those valued using techniques based sign ificantly on observable market data; and level 3 instruments 
are those valued using information other than observable market data.  
The Group has a team that performs the valu ations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including leve l 3 fair values. This 
team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee. 
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current fi nancial assets, cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-te rm deposits, and 
accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount. 
  
 
 
2 Segmental reporting 
At 31 December 2013 the Group was organised on a wo rld-wide basis into three main business segments: 
Processor Division (PD), encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as 
graphics IP, system IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing (DSP) IP. 
Physical IP Division (PIPD), concerned with the building blocks necessary for tr anslation of a circuit design into actual silicon. 
System Design Division (SDD), focused on the tools and models used to create an d debug software and system -on-chip (SoC) designs. 
This is based upon the Group’s internal organisation and manageme nt structure and is the primary way in which the CODM is provi ded with 
financial information. Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams (namely licensing, royalties, software and tools, and 
services), the costs, operating results and balance sheets are only analysed into these three divi sions. Further, the information provided to the 
CODM is based on normalised profit before tax, a non-GAAP measure, and therefore this information is provided as well as the eq uivalent profit 
stated under IFRS. 
The reconciling items: intangible amortisation; acquisition-rela ted charges; share-based payment costs including payroll taxes; disposal/impairment 
of investments; exceptional items; share of results in joint venture; and Linaro-related charges are analysed below. Also analy sed are revenues; 
operating costs; investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges; profit/(loss) before tax; tax; profit/(loss) a fter tax; depreciation; 
total assets and liabilities; net assets; and good will for each segment and the Group in total. 
Business segment information 
For the year ended 31 December 2013 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division 
£m 
System Design 
Division  
£m 
Unallocated 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Segmental income statement  
Revenues  596.2 82.0 36.4 – 714.6
Operating costs  (426.6) (90.7) (42.6) (1.2) (561.1)
Investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges  – – – 13.1 13.1
Share of results in joint venture – – – (4.0) (4.0)
Profit/(loss) before tax  169.6 (8.7) (6.2) 7.9 162.6
Tax  – – – (57.8) (57.8)
Profit/(loss) for the year  169.6 (8.7) (6.2) (49.9) 104.8
Reconciliation to normalised profit before tax:  
Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 9.6 2.0 – – 11.6
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 54.5 12.1 7.4 – 74.0
Impairment of investments, net of profit on disposal  3.5 – – – 3.5
Exceptional items 101.3 – – – 101.3
Share of results in joint venture and Linaro-related charges 7.0 – – 4.0 11.0
Normalised profit before tax  345.5 5.4 1.2 11.9 364.0
Segmental balance sheet  
Total assets  389.4 400.1 31.6 817.3 1,638.4
Total liabilities  (243.2) (46.0) (12.0) (25.8) (327.0)
Net assets  146.2 354.1 19.6 791.5 1,311.4
Other segmental items  
Depreciation  9.6 2.8 2.0 – 14.4
Goodwill  151.5 360.2 14.2 – 525.9
Revenues (USD millions)  931.5 129.1 57.1 – 1,117.7
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   79 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
80
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
2 Segmental reporting continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division 
£m 
System Design 
Division  
£m 
Unallocated 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Segmental income statement  
Revenues  473.9 68.3 34.7 – 576.9
Operating costs  (243.3) (82.8) (40.1) (2.6) (368.8)
Investment income, net of interest pa yable and similar charges  – – – 13.6 13.6
Share of results in joint venture – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax  230.6 (14.5) (5.4) 10.3 221.0
Tax  – – – (60.3) (60.3)
Profit/(loss) for the year  230.6 (14.5) (5.4) (50.0) 160.7
Reconciliation to normalised profit/(loss) before tax: 
Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 5.5 2.5 – 0.8 8.8
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes  30.0 8.6 6.8 – 45.4
Profit on sale of investments, net of impairment 0.6 – – – 0.6
Share of results in joint venture – – – 0.7 0.7
Normalised profit/(loss) before tax  266.7 (3.4) 1.4 11.8 276.5
Segmental balance sheet  
Total assets  284.6 409.2 32.5 740.5 1,466.8
Total liabilities  (182.6) (43.9) (15.1) (19.1) (260.7)
Net assets  102.0 365.3 17.4 721.4 1,206.1
Other segmental items  
Depreciation  6.7 2.5 1.6 – 10.8
Goodwill  138.0 367.0 14.4 – 519.4
Revenues (USD millions)  749.8 108.4 54.9 – 913.1
There are no inter-segment revenues. Unallo cated operating costs consist of foreign ex change gains and losses. Unallocated asse ts and liabilities 
include: cash and cash equivalents; short- and long-term deposits; AFS financial assets; loans and receivables; embedded deriva tives; fair value of 
currency exchange contracts; deferred tax balances; current tax; and VAT.  
During the year ended 31 December 2013 on e customer (within all three business segmen ts) accounted for 12% of the Group’s total revenues 
amounting to £87.6 million (2012: one customer accounted for 15%). 
The results of each segment have been prepared using account ing policies consistent with those of the Group as a whole. 
  
 
 
2  Segmental reporting continued 
Geographical information 
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based in three main geographical areas. The UK is the home 
country of the parent company. The main operations are in the following principal territories: 
• Europe 
• United States 
• Asia Pacific 
Analysis of revenue by destination*: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
United States  280.3 215.9
South Korea  101.7 95.0
Taiwan  99.4 69.2
China  90.0 71.2
Japan  47.6 46.6
Switzerland  24.8 14.0
Singapore 24.6 9.2
Germany  13.4 15.4
Netherlands  8.5 15.8
Rest of Europe  19.7 19.0
Rest of Asia Pacific  3.6 4.4
Rest of North America  1.0 1.2
 714.6 576.9
* Destination is defined as the location of the Group’s customers’ operations. 
The Group’s revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to £4.9 mi llion and £5.5 million for the years ended 
31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively. The Group’s exports from the UK were £699.2 million and £560.3 million for the years en ded 
31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively. 
Analysis of revenue by origin: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Europe*  705.3 567.8
United States  9.3 9.1
 714.6 576.9
* Includes the UK, which had total revenues of £704.1 million in 2013 (2012: £565.8 million). 
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Royalties  358.3 299.8
Licensing 285.6 214.0
Software and tools 36.4 34.7
Services 34.3 28.4
 714.6 576.9
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   80 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
81
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
2 Segmental reporting continued 
For the year ended 31 December 2012 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division 
£m 
System Design 
Division  
£m 
Unallocated 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Segmental income statement  
Revenues  473.9 68.3 34.7 – 576.9
Operating costs  (243.3) (82.8) (40.1) (2.6) (368.8)
Investment income, net of interest pa yable and similar charges  – – – 13.6 13.6
Share of results in joint venture – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Profit/(loss) before tax  230.6 (14.5) (5.4) 10.3 221.0
Tax  – – – (60.3) (60.3)
Profit/(loss) for the year  230.6 (14.5) (5.4) (50.0) 160.7
Reconciliation to normalised profit/(loss) before tax: 
Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 5.5 2.5 – 0.8 8.8
Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes  30.0 8.6 6.8 – 45.4
Profit on sale of investments, net of impairment 0.6 – – – 0.6
Share of results in joint venture – – – 0.7 0.7
Normalised profit/(loss) before tax  266.7 (3.4) 1.4 11.8 276.5
Segmental balance sheet  
Total assets  284.6 409.2 32.5 740.5 1,466.8
Total liabilities  (182.6) (43.9) (15.1) (19.1) (260.7)
Net assets  102.0 365.3 17.4 721.4 1,206.1
Other segmental items  
Depreciation  6.7 2.5 1.6 – 10.8
Goodwill  138.0 367.0 14.4 – 519.4
Revenues (USD millions)  749.8 108.4 54.9 – 913.1
There are no inter-segment revenues. Unallo cated operating costs consist of foreign ex change gains and losses. Unallocated asse ts and liabilities 
include: cash and cash equivalents; short- and long-term deposits; AFS financial assets; loans and receivables; embedded deriva tives; fair value of 
currency exchange contracts; deferred tax balances; current tax; and VAT.  
During the year ended 31 December 2013 on e customer (within all three business segmen ts) accounted for 12% of the Group’s total revenues 
amounting to £87.6 million (2012: one customer accounted for 15%). 
The results of each segment have been prepared using account ing policies consistent with those of the Group as a whole. 
  
 
 
2  Segmental reporting continued 
Geographical information 
The Group manages its business segments on a global basis. The operations are based in three main geographical areas. The UK is the home 
country of the parent company. The main operations are in the following principal territories: 
• Europe 
• United States 
• Asia Pacific 
Analysis of revenue by destination*: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
United States  280.3 215.9
South Korea  101.7 95.0
Taiwan  99.4 69.2
China  90.0 71.2
Japan  47.6 46.6
Switzerland  24.8 14.0
Singapore 24.6 9.2
Germany  13.4 15.4
Netherlands  8.5 15.8
Rest of Europe  19.7 19.0
Rest of Asia Pacific  3.6 4.4
Rest of North America  1.0 1.2
 714.6 576.9
* Destination is defined as the location of the Group’s customers’ operations. 
The Group’s revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to £4.9 mi llion and £5.5 million for the years ended 
31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively. The Group’s exports from the UK were £699.2 million and £560.3 million for the years en ded 
31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively. 
Analysis of revenue by origin: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Europe*  705.3 567.8
United States  9.3 9.1
 714.6 576.9
* Includes the UK, which had total revenues of £704.1 million in 2013 (2012: £565.8 million). 
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Royalties  358.3 299.8
Licensing 285.6 214.0
Software and tools 36.4 34.7
Services 34.3 28.4
 714.6 576.9
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   81 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
82
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
2  Segmental reporting continued 
Geographical information continued 
Analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets): 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Europe*  172.0 193.8
United States  7.2 5.2
Asia Pacific  5.0 3.1
 184.2 202.1
* Includes the UK, which had non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets) of £171.0 million in 2013 (2012: £192.8 million), of which long-term deposits accounted 
for £125.6 million (2012: £141.3 million). 
3 Key management compensation and directors’ emoluments 
Key management compensation 
The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings 
plc together with the Executive Committee (comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management). These person s have 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controllin g the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly. At 3 1 December 2013, key 
management comprised 21 people (2012: 19). 
The aggregate amounts of key manageme nt compensation are set out below: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Salaries and short-term employee benefits  9.5 8.9
Share-based payments  6.1 3.4
Post-employment benefits  0.2 0.2
 15.8 12.5
Directors’ emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments of the direct ors of the Company are set out below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services  3.8 4.9
Aggregate payments for pension-related benefits  0.2 0.2
Aggregate gains on exercise of share options  3.9 1.8
Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 12.9 11.5
Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP  17.2 21.2
 38.0 39.6
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 46 and 47. Details of directors’ interests in share options and awards are shown 
on pages 48 to 53, which form part of the financial statements. 
  
 
 
4 Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 
 
2013
Number 
2012 
Number 
By segment 
Processor Division  1,667 1,398
Physical IP Division  615 557
System Design Division  316 306
 2,598 2,261
 
 
2013 
Number 
2012 
Number 
By activity 
Research and development  1,803 1,581
Sales and marketing  425 367
General and administrative  370 313
 2,598 2,261
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries  185.4 161.5
Medical care costs 5.5 5.0
Share-based payments (note 20)  59.2 37.1
Social security costs  35.1 30.2
Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards (1.4) (6.1)
Other pension costs  8.7 8.0
 292.5 235.7
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   82 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
83
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
2  Segmental reporting continued 
Geographical information continued 
Analysis of non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets): 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Europe*  172.0 193.8
United States  7.2 5.2
Asia Pacific  5.0 3.1
 184.2 202.1
* Includes the UK, which had non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets) of £171.0 million in 2013 (2012: £192.8 million), of which long-term deposits accounted 
for £125.6 million (2012: £141.3 million). 
3 Key management compensation and directors’ emoluments 
Key management compensation 
The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings 
plc together with the Executive Committee (comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management). These person s have 
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controllin g the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly. At 3 1 December 2013, key 
management comprised 21 people (2012: 19). 
The aggregate amounts of key manageme nt compensation are set out below: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Salaries and short-term employee benefits  9.5 8.9
Share-based payments  6.1 3.4
Post-employment benefits  0.2 0.2
 15.8 12.5
Directors’ emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments of the direct ors of the Company are set out below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services  3.8 4.9
Aggregate payments for pension-related benefits  0.2 0.2
Aggregate gains on exercise of share options  3.9 1.8
Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 12.9 11.5
Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP  17.2 21.2
 38.0 39.6
Detailed disclosures of directors’ emoluments are shown on page 46 and 47. Details of directors’ interests in share options and awards are shown 
on pages 48 to 53, which form part of the financial statements. 
  
 
 
4 Employee information 
The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: 
 
2013
Number 
2012 
Number 
By segment 
Processor Division  1,667 1,398
Physical IP Division  615 557
System Design Division  316 306
 2,598 2,261
 
 
2013 
Number 
2012 
Number 
By activity 
Research and development  1,803 1,581
Sales and marketing  425 367
General and administrative  370 313
 2,598 2,261
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries  185.4 161.5
Medical care costs 5.5 5.0
Share-based payments (note 20)  59.2 37.1
Social security costs  35.1 30.2
Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards (1.4) (6.1)
Other pension costs  8.7 8.0
 292.5 235.7
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   83 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
84
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature 
The following items have been charged/ (credited) to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Staff costs, including share-based payments (note 4)  292.5 235.7
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense  2.8 3.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned assets (note 12) 11.6 9.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equi pment – under finance leases (note 12) 2.8 1.3
Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 14) 
– Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3
– Research and development expenses 6.9 2.3
– Sales and marketing expenses 0.6 0.9
– General and administrative expenses 5.8 3.1
Government grants – research and development expenditure credit (5.8) –
Exceptional items (note 6) 
– Impairment of current AFS financial asset 59.5 –
– IP indemnity and similar charges 41.8 –
Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets (note 11) 6.8 1.4
Profit on disposal of AFS financial assets  (3.3) (0.8)
Other operating lease rentals payable 
– Plant and machinery  26.2 24.0
– Property  8.7 7.6
Accounts receivables impairment (including movement in provision)  4.0 0.4
Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 4.5 3.7
Other foreign exchange gains (3.3) (1.9)
Services provided by the Grou p’s auditor and its associates 
During the year the Group (including its ov erseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor and it s associates: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and it s associates for the audit of the Company 
and consolidated financial statements  0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
– The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries  0.2 0.2
– Audit-related assurance services (services pursua nt to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) 0.3 0.3
– Other assurance services  0.1 0.1
Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services  0.9 0.9
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.2
– Tax compliance services  – 0.1
– All other non-audit services*  0.1 0.1
 1.1 1.3
* All other non-audit services consist predominantly of fees for the performance of royalty audits.  
 
 
6 Exceptional items 
IP indemnity and similar charges 
As noted in prior financial statements, the Group had been in di scussions with a licensee to re-negotiate the terms upon which the Group would 
indemnify that licensee. During 2013, terms were executed and th e Group incurred indemnification costs amounting to $18.0 milli on. Further in 
relation to legal proceedings regarding the same patent portfolio, for a consideration of $45.4 million, ARM entered into a lic ence agreement with 
a third party covering patents being asserted against ARM tec hnology in litigation between th e patentee and a number of license es of ARM 
technology. The licence was entered into in full and final settle ment of any indemnity claims with respect to the asserted pate nts and will prevent 
any future assertion of the patents against ARM technology. Tota l indemnification, settlement and licence costs of $63.4 millio n (£41.8 million) 
were expensed as an exceptional item in 2013, resultin g in a tax deduction in current tax of £9.7 million. 
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (current) 
During the year, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights. These rights were not s ubject to actual or 
threatened legal proceedings. Of the Grou p’s total contribution to the consortium, $100.5 million was classified within current AFS financial assets 
(£60.7 million after translation at 31 December 2013 exchange rate s) and $67 million, the residual, was classified within other intangible assets 
(£37.4 million after amortisation to 31 De cember 2013). The available-for-sale financial asset represented ARM’s right to recei ve cash from the 
Group's financial interest in the consortium, as it was anticipa ted that a programme of licensing the patents to third parties would be undertaken 
by the trust. The other intangible asset consists of IP rights that are being amortised over a pe riod of eight and a half years , being the average 
remaining life of the underlying patent portfolio. 
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was put up for sale by au ction. The Group 
acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£2.4 million) which will be accounted for as an additional intangible as set. As there is no 
longer an expectation of any future cash flows with respect to licensing of the patents by the trust, the AFS financial asset h as been impaired down 
to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, giving rise to a non-cash exceptiona l charge of $98.5 million (£59.5 million). As 
disclosed in note 7, a deferred tax asset has not been recognised in relation to this exceptional item, increasing the current tax charge by £18.3 
million. 
7 Tax 
Analysis of charge in the year: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Current tax: 
Current tax on profits for the year  56.5 47.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.2) (0.5)
Total current tax  56.3 47.0
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (4.1) 11.8
Impact of change in the UK statutory tax rate 0.1 1.5
Impact of change due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 –
Total deferred tax  1.5 13.3
Income tax expense  57.8 60.3
Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards  4.8 9.7
Current tax benefit on share options and awards  (27.0) (27.4)
Deferred tax credit on AFS financial assets  – (0.1)
 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   84 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
85
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature 
The following items have been charged/ (credited) to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Staff costs, including share-based payments (note 4)  292.5 235.7
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense  2.8 3.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment – owned assets (note 12) 11.6 9.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equi pment – under finance leases (note 12) 2.8 1.3
Amortisation of other intangible assets (note 14) 
– Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3
– Research and development expenses 6.9 2.3
– Sales and marketing expenses 0.6 0.9
– General and administrative expenses 5.8 3.1
Government grants – research and development expenditure credit (5.8) –
Exceptional items (note 6) 
– Impairment of current AFS financial asset 59.5 –
– IP indemnity and similar charges 41.8 –
Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets (note 11) 6.8 1.4
Profit on disposal of AFS financial assets  (3.3) (0.8)
Other operating lease rentals payable 
– Plant and machinery  26.2 24.0
– Property  8.7 7.6
Accounts receivables impairment (including movement in provision)  4.0 0.4
Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 4.5 3.7
Other foreign exchange gains (3.3) (1.9)
Services provided by the Grou p’s auditor and its associates 
During the year the Group (including its ov erseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Group’s auditor and it s associates: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and it s associates for the audit of the Company 
and consolidated financial statements  0.3 0.3
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
– The audit of the Group’s subsidiaries  0.2 0.2
– Audit-related assurance services (services pursua nt to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act) 0.3 0.3
– Other assurance services  0.1 0.1
Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services  0.9 0.9
– Tax advisory services 0.1 0.2
– Tax compliance services  – 0.1
– All other non-audit services*  0.1 0.1
 1.1 1.3
* All other non-audit services consist predominantly of fees for the performance of royalty audits.  
 
 
6 Exceptional items 
IP indemnity and similar charges 
As noted in prior financial statements, the Group had been in di scussions with a licensee to re-negotiate the terms upon which the Group would 
indemnify that licensee. During 2013, terms were executed and th e Group incurred indemnification costs amounting to $18.0 milli on. Further in 
relation to legal proceedings regarding the same patent portfolio, for a consideration of $45.4 million, ARM entered into a lic ence agreement with 
a third party covering patents being asserted against ARM tec hnology in litigation between th e patentee and a number of license es of ARM 
technology. The licence was entered into in full and final settle ment of any indemnity claims with respect to the asserted pate nts and will prevent 
any future assertion of the patents against ARM technology. Tota l indemnification, settlement and licence costs of $63.4 millio n (£41.8 million) 
were expensed as an exceptional item in 2013, resultin g in a tax deduction in current tax of £9.7 million. 
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets (current) 
During the year, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights. These rights were not s ubject to actual or 
threatened legal proceedings. Of the Grou p’s total contribution to the consortium, $100.5 million was classified within current AFS financial assets 
(£60.7 million after translation at 31 December 2013 exchange rate s) and $67 million, the residual, was classified within other intangible assets 
(£37.4 million after amortisation to 31 De cember 2013). The available-for-sale financial asset represented ARM’s right to recei ve cash from the 
Group's financial interest in the consortium, as it was anticipa ted that a programme of licensing the patents to third parties would be undertaken 
by the trust. The other intangible asset consists of IP rights that are being amortised over a pe riod of eight and a half years , being the average 
remaining life of the underlying patent portfolio. 
In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was put up for sale by au ction. The Group 
acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million (£2.4 million) which will be accounted for as an additional intangible as set. As there is no 
longer an expectation of any future cash flows with respect to licensing of the patents by the trust, the AFS financial asset h as been impaired down 
to the value of the Group’s share of the auction proceeds, giving rise to a non-cash exceptiona l charge of $98.5 million (£59.5 million). As 
disclosed in note 7, a deferred tax asset has not been recognised in relation to this exceptional item, increasing the current tax charge by £18.3 
million. 
7 Tax 
Analysis of charge in the year: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Current tax: 
Current tax on profits for the year  56.5 47.5
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.2) (0.5)
Total current tax  56.3 47.0
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (4.1) 11.8
Impact of change in the UK statutory tax rate 0.1 1.5
Impact of change due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 –
Total deferred tax  1.5 13.3
Income tax expense  57.8 60.3
Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards  4.8 9.7
Current tax benefit on share options and awards  (27.0) (27.4)
Deferred tax credit on AFS financial assets  – (0.1)
 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   85 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
86
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
7 Tax continued 
The tax charge for the year was differen t from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit before tax  162.6 221.0
Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%)  37.8 54.2
Effects of: 
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.2) (0.5)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates  4.1 5.0
Research and development tax credits * (6.6) (5.5)
Current impact of the UK patent box regime (4.8) –
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK statutory tax rate  0.1 1.5
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 –
US deferred tax assets not recognised ** 17.5 3.4
Foreign withholding tax  3.0 1.0
Impact of share-based payments (1.5) 0.3
Other ***  2.9 0.9
Total taxation  57.8 60.3
* The provisions extending the US federal R&D tax credits into 2012 were signed on 2 January 2013. As a result of the provision s being enacted in 2013, 2012 R&D tax credits of £2.1 million have been 
accounted for in 2013. 
** Includes the tax impact of the exceptional charge of £59.5 million for the impairment of an AFS financial asset which gave r ise to a tax loss that has not been recognised because it is not probable that 
the loss will be utilised. 
*** Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on te mporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction. 
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  70.1 105.9
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking (1.2) –
Income statement charge  (1.5) (13.3)
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments  (4.8) (9.7)
Prior year movement from/(to) current tax assets 3.0 (11.6)
Exchange differences  (0.4) (1.3)
Revaluation of AFS financial asset  – 0.1
At 31 December  65.2 70.1
Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to defe rred tax assets 
because it is not probab le that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.  
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 20 13 was £23.2 million (2012: £4.4 million). The unrecognised def erred tax 
assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and th e loss arising on the impairment of an AFS financial asset. The losses may remain 
unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future profits. 
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further £ 33.2 million (2012: £35.0 million) of unremitted earnings of overs eas subsidiaries 
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is possible that su ch differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal. 
  
 
 
7  Tax continued 
At the balance sheet date the UK Government had enacted a 2% redu ction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% f rom 
1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015. The UK Government ha s also introduced the new patent box regi me, which 
seeks to tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%. The rules are to be phased in over five years from 
1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled to only 60% of the de duction in financial year 2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. Th e impact of these 
changes on the deferred tax balances of th e Group is included in the tax charge. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to of fsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) during 
the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities ar e only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of off set and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net. 
Deferred tax assets 
 
Amounts 
relating to 
share-based 
payments 
£m 
Temporary 
differences 
relating to 
fixed assets 
£m 
Tax losses 
and R&D tax 
credits carried 
forward 
£m 
Temporary 
differences 
relating to  
reserves  
£m 
Other
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking – – 0.5 – – 0.5
Prior year movement from current tax assets – – 3.0 – – 3.0
Income statement credit/(charge) 0.8 1.3 (2.8) (1.5) 0.3 (1.9)
Movement on deferred ta x arising on outstanding share options and 
awards 
(4.8) – – – – (4.8)
Unutilised current year share option deductions  (6.7) – 6.7 – – –
Exchange differences  – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting)  32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities   (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting)   65.3
At 1 January 2012  59.5 4.6 30.9 12.7 – 107.7
Prior year movement to current tax assets – – (11.6) – – (11.6)
Income statement (charge)/credit (0.1) (2.0) (9.1) (3.2) 0.6 (13.8)
Movement on deferred ta x arising on outstanding share options and 
awards  
(9.7) – – – – (9.7)
Unutilised current year share option deductions  (6.2) – 6.2 – – –
Exchange differences  – – (1.3) – – (1.3)
At 31 December 2012 (prior to offsetting)  43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities   (1.2)
At 31 December 2012 (after offsetting)   70.1
The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is £35.2 million (2012: £29.6 million). 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   86 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
87
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
7 Tax continued 
The tax charge for the year was differen t from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Profit before tax  162.6 221.0
Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%)  37.8 54.2
Effects of: 
Adjustments in respect of prior years  (0.2) (0.5)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates  4.1 5.0
Research and development tax credits * (6.6) (5.5)
Current impact of the UK patent box regime (4.8) –
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK statutory tax rate  0.1 1.5
Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 –
US deferred tax assets not recognised ** 17.5 3.4
Foreign withholding tax  3.0 1.0
Impact of share-based payments (1.5) 0.3
Other ***  2.9 0.9
Total taxation  57.8 60.3
* The provisions extending the US federal R&D tax credits into 2012 were signed on 2 January 2013. As a result of the provision s being enacted in 2013, 2012 R&D tax credits of £2.1 million have been 
accounted for in 2013. 
** Includes the tax impact of the exceptional charge of £59.5 million for the impairment of an AFS financial asset which gave r ise to a tax loss that has not been recognised because it is not probable that 
the loss will be utilised. 
*** Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax is calculated in full on te mporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction. 
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  70.1 105.9
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking (1.2) –
Income statement charge  (1.5) (13.3)
Adjustment in respect of share-based payments  (4.8) (9.7)
Prior year movement from/(to) current tax assets 3.0 (11.6)
Exchange differences  (0.4) (1.3)
Revaluation of AFS financial asset  – 0.1
At 31 December  65.2 70.1
Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to defe rred tax assets 
because it is not probab le that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.  
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 20 13 was £23.2 million (2012: £4.4 million). The unrecognised def erred tax 
assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and th e loss arising on the impairment of an AFS financial asset. The losses may remain 
unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future profits. 
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further £ 33.2 million (2012: £35.0 million) of unremitted earnings of overs eas subsidiaries 
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is possible that su ch differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal. 
  
 
 
7  Tax continued 
At the balance sheet date the UK Government had enacted a 2% redu ction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% f rom 
1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015. The UK Government ha s also introduced the new patent box regi me, which 
seeks to tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%. The rules are to be phased in over five years from 
1 April 2013 – a company will be entitled to only 60% of the de duction in financial year 2013/14, rising to 100% by 2017/18. Th e impact of these 
changes on the deferred tax balances of th e Group is included in the tax charge. 
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to of fsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12) during 
the year are shown below. Deferred tax assets and liabilities ar e only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of off set and there is an 
intention to settle the balances net. 
Deferred tax assets 
 
Amounts 
relating to 
share-based 
payments 
£m 
Temporary 
differences 
relating to 
fixed assets 
£m 
Tax losses 
and R&D tax 
credits carried 
forward 
£m 
Temporary 
differences 
relating to  
reserves  
£m 
Other
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking – – 0.5 – – 0.5
Prior year movement from current tax assets – – 3.0 – – 3.0
Income statement credit/(charge) 0.8 1.3 (2.8) (1.5) 0.3 (1.9)
Movement on deferred ta x arising on outstanding share options and 
awards 
(4.8) – – – – (4.8)
Unutilised current year share option deductions  (6.7) – 6.7 – – –
Exchange differences  – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting)  32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities   (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting)   65.3
At 1 January 2012  59.5 4.6 30.9 12.7 – 107.7
Prior year movement to current tax assets – – (11.6) – – (11.6)
Income statement (charge)/credit (0.1) (2.0) (9.1) (3.2) 0.6 (13.8)
Movement on deferred ta x arising on outstanding share options and 
awards  
(9.7) – – – – (9.7)
Unutilised current year share option deductions  (6.2) – 6.2 – – –
Exchange differences  – – (1.3) – – (1.3)
At 31 December 2012 (prior to offsetting)  43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities   (1.2)
At 31 December 2012 (after offsetting)   70.1
The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is £35.2 million (2012: £29.6 million). 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   87 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
88
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
7  Tax continued 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
Amounts relating to 
intangible assets 
arising on acquisition 
£m 
Temporary difference  
on AFS financial assets 
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  1.1 – 0.1 1.2
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 – – 1.7
Movement in respect of amortisa tion of intangible assets  (0.2) – – (0.2)
Other short-term differences  (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting)  2.5 – – 2.5
Offsetting of deferred tax assets   (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting)   0.1
At 1 January 2012  1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8
Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets  (0.2) – – (0.2)
Movement through reserves – (0.1) – (0.1)
Other short-term differences  – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2012 (prior to offsetting)  1.1 – 0.1 1.2
Offsetting of deferred tax assets   (1.2)
At 31 December 2012 (after offsetting)   –
The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is £1.2 million (2012: £0.8 million). 
8 Dividends 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Final 2011 paid at 2.09 pence per share  – 28.8
Interim 2012 paid at 1.67 pence per share  – 23.0
Final 2012 paid at 2.83 pence per share  39.5 –
Interim 2013 paid at 2.10 pence per share  29.4 –
 68.9 51.8
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in resp ect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share, which will 
absorb an estimated £51 million of sharehol ders’ funds. Subject to approval at the 20 14 AGM, it will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members on 22 April 2014. 
  
 
 
9 Accounts receivable 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade debtors (including receivables from related parties – see note 24)  140.3 119.1
Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors  (9.7) (2.4)
Trade debtors, net  130.6 116.7
Amounts recoverable on contracts  5.6 7.8
Current accounts receivable  136.2 124.5
Movements in the Group’s provision for impa irment of trade debtors are as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  (2.4) (1.7)
Charge to income statement  (4.0) (0.4)
Reclassification from deferred income (3.5) (0.4)
Foreign exchange  0.2 0.1
At 31 December  (9.7) (2.4)
See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Group’s gross trade debtors. 
10  Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Other receivables  18.1 10.4
Prepayments and accrued income  21.7 125.2
Current prepaid expenses and other assets  39.8 135.6
Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income  1.6 2.0
Total prepaid expenses and other assets  41.4 137.6
Included within prepayments and accrued in come at 31 December 2012 was a prepayment am ounting to £103.7 million, being the Grou p’s 
advance contribution to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Inc .’s portfolio of patents. The Group has determined that the par ticipation in the 
consortium conferred on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Group ’s own business of 
£41.9 million (see note 14), and an AFS fi nancial asset of £63.4 million (see note 11) , conferring the right to certain potenti al future revenue 
streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   88 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
89
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
7  Tax continued 
Deferred tax liabilities 
 
Amounts relating to 
intangible assets 
arising on acquisition 
£m 
Temporary difference  
on AFS financial assets 
 £m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  1.1 – 0.1 1.2
Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 – – 1.7
Movement in respect of amortisa tion of intangible assets  (0.2) – – (0.2)
Other short-term differences  (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
At 31 December 2013 (prior to offsetting)  2.5 – – 2.5
Offsetting of deferred tax assets   (2.4)
At 31 December 2013 (after offsetting)   0.1
At 1 January 2012  1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8
Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets  (0.2) – – (0.2)
Movement through reserves – (0.1) – (0.1)
Other short-term differences  – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 December 2012 (prior to offsetting)  1.1 – 0.1 1.2
Offsetting of deferred tax assets   (1.2)
At 31 December 2012 (after offsetting)   –
The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is £1.2 million (2012: £0.8 million). 
8 Dividends 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Final 2011 paid at 2.09 pence per share  – 28.8
Interim 2012 paid at 1.67 pence per share  – 23.0
Final 2012 paid at 2.83 pence per share  39.5 –
Interim 2013 paid at 2.10 pence per share  29.4 –
 68.9 51.8
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in resp ect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share, which will 
absorb an estimated £51 million of sharehol ders’ funds. Subject to approval at the 20 14 AGM, it will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members on 22 April 2014. 
  
 
 
9 Accounts receivable 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade debtors (including receivables from related parties – see note 24)  140.3 119.1
Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors  (9.7) (2.4)
Trade debtors, net  130.6 116.7
Amounts recoverable on contracts  5.6 7.8
Current accounts receivable  136.2 124.5
Movements in the Group’s provision for impa irment of trade debtors are as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
At 1 January  (2.4) (1.7)
Charge to income statement  (4.0) (0.4)
Reclassification from deferred income (3.5) (0.4)
Foreign exchange  0.2 0.1
At 31 December  (9.7) (2.4)
See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Group’s gross trade debtors. 
10  Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Other receivables  18.1 10.4
Prepayments and accrued income  21.7 125.2
Current prepaid expenses and other assets  39.8 135.6
Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income  1.6 2.0
Total prepaid expenses and other assets  41.4 137.6
Included within prepayments and accrued in come at 31 December 2012 was a prepayment am ounting to £103.7 million, being the Grou p’s 
advance contribution to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Inc .’s portfolio of patents. The Group has determined that the par ticipation in the 
consortium conferred on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Group ’s own business of 
£41.9 million (see note 14), and an AFS fi nancial asset of £63.4 million (see note 11) , conferring the right to certain potenti al future revenue 
streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   89 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
90
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
11 Available-for-sale financial assets 
Non-current investments 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Net book value 
At 1 January  13.8 27.3
Additions (including capitalised in terest of £0.2 million in 2012)  8.9 3.2
Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income – (0.4)
Disposals (1.7) (14.9)
Foreign exchange translation (0.3) –
Impairment recognised through income statem ent (general and admi nistrative expenses) (6.8) (1.4)
At 31 December  13.9 13.8
 
Current investments 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Net book value 
At 1 January  – –
Additions  63.4 –
Foreign exchange translation (2.7) –
Impairment recognised through income statement (as an exceptional item, see note 6) (59.5) –
At 31 December  1.2 –
All investments noted above are considered to be Level 3 financial assets. See note 17. 
  
 
 
11 Available-for-sale financial assets continued 
Non-current investments 
Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are ge nerally early-stage development enterprises, which are generatin g value for 
shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profit s. The fair value of these inv estments is 
considered to approximate to cost or is determined us ing independent valuation information where available.  
The Group’s investments include the following companies: 
• Amantys Limited 
• Ambiq Micro Inc. 
• Cambridge Innovation Capital plc 
• Carbon Design Systems Inc. 
• Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. 
• Marmalade Technologies Limited (formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited) 
• Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise 
• Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd 
• Triad Semiconductor Inc. 
During the year the Group disposed of its invest ments in Arteris Holdings Inc and eSol Co. Ltd. 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no listed investments. 
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Unlisted equity securities – UK  6.2 3.7
Unlisted equity securities – China  1.9 2.0
Unlisted equity securities – Japan  – 0.9
Unlisted equity securities – US  1.4 5.9
Convertible loan notes – UK  1.3 1.3
Convertible loan notes – US  3.1 –
Total non-current financial assets 13.9 13.8
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Sterling  9.5 12.5
US dollars  4.4 1.3
Total financial assets  13.9 13.8
A permanent 10% fall in the under lying value of those unlis ted companies in which the Group ha s invested as at 31 December 2013 would have 
reduced the Group’s post-tax profit by £1.1 million (2012: £1.0 million) and resulted in a £nil (2012: £nil) reduction in other components of equity. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   90 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
91
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
11 Available-for-sale financial assets 
Non-current investments 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Net book value 
At 1 January  13.8 27.3
Additions (including capitalised in terest of £0.2 million in 2012)  8.9 3.2
Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income – (0.4)
Disposals (1.7) (14.9)
Foreign exchange translation (0.3) –
Impairment recognised through income statem ent (general and admi nistrative expenses) (6.8) (1.4)
At 31 December  13.9 13.8
 
Current investments 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Net book value 
At 1 January  – –
Additions  63.4 –
Foreign exchange translation (2.7) –
Impairment recognised through income statement (as an exceptional item, see note 6) (59.5) –
At 31 December  1.2 –
All investments noted above are considered to be Level 3 financial assets. See note 17. 
  
 
 
11 Available-for-sale financial assets continued 
Non-current investments 
Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are ge nerally early-stage development enterprises, which are generatin g value for 
shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profit s. The fair value of these inv estments is 
considered to approximate to cost or is determined us ing independent valuation information where available.  
The Group’s investments include the following companies: 
• Amantys Limited 
• Ambiq Micro Inc. 
• Cambridge Innovation Capital plc 
• Carbon Design Systems Inc. 
• Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. 
• Marmalade Technologies Limited (formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited) 
• Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise 
• Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd 
• Triad Semiconductor Inc. 
During the year the Group disposed of its invest ments in Arteris Holdings Inc and eSol Co. Ltd. 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no listed investments. 
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Unlisted equity securities – UK  6.2 3.7
Unlisted equity securities – China  1.9 2.0
Unlisted equity securities – Japan  – 0.9
Unlisted equity securities – US  1.4 5.9
Convertible loan notes – UK  1.3 1.3
Convertible loan notes – US  3.1 –
Total non-current financial assets 13.9 13.8
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Sterling  9.5 12.5
US dollars  4.4 1.3
Total financial assets  13.9 13.8
A permanent 10% fall in the under lying value of those unlis ted companies in which the Group ha s invested as at 31 December 2013 would have 
reduced the Group’s post-tax profit by £1.1 million (2012: £1.0 million) and resulted in a £nil (2012: £nil) reduction in other components of equity. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   91 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
92
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
12  Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
buildings 
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m 
Computer 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures, fittings 
and motor  
vehicles  
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0
Additions  – 2.5 8.1 1.8 2.6 15.0
Acquisitions  – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
Transfers  – 0.9 2.3 – (3.2) –
Reclassification* – – (3.2) – (1.7) (4.9)
Disposals  – (1.7) (5.7) (1.0) (0.4) (8.8)
Exchange differences  – (0.6) (1.0) (0.3) (0.1) (2.0)
At 31 December 2013  0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2013  0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 – 45.9
Charge for the year  – 2.3 11.0 1.1 – 14.4
Acquisitions – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Reclassification* – – (3.2) – – (3.2)
Disposals  – (1.5) (5.7) (1.0) – (8.2)
Exchange differences  – (0.2) (0.8) (0.1) – (1.1)
At 31 December 2013  0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 – 47.9
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013  0.1 9.7 20.5 2.6 0.7 33.6
 
 
Freehold 
buildings 
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m 
Computer 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures, fittings 
and motor  
vehicles  
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost  
At 1 January 2012  0.2 18.0 32.5 5.7 0.9 57.3
Additions  – 1.7 14.0 1.1 12.4 29.2
Transfers  – 4.9 4.9 – (9.8) –
Disposals  – (1.1) (1.8) (0.2) – (3.1)
Exchange differences  – (0.4) (0.8) (0.2) – (1.4)
At 31 December 2012  0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2012  0.1 13.5 21.8 3.8 – 39.2
Charge for the year  – 1.8 8.1 0.9 – 10.8
Disposals  – (1.1) (1.8) (0.2) – (3.1)
Exchange differences  – (0.3) (0.6) (0.1) – (1.0)
At 31 December 2012  0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 – 45.9
Net book value  
At 31 December 2012  0.1 9.2 21.3 2.0 3.5 36.1
Net book value at 1 January 2012 0.1 4.5 10.7 1.9 0.9 18.1
Included within computer equipment are asse ts with net book value of £6.6 million (2 012: £7.7 million) held under finance lease s. 
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software). 
  
 
 
13  Goodwill 
 £m 
At 1 January 2012 542.5
Exchange differences (23.1)
At 31 December 2012 519.4
Exchange differences  (9.9)
Acquisition – Sensinode (note 19) 6.4
Acquisition – Geomerics (note 19) 10.0
At 31 December 2013 525.9
During the fourth quarter of 2013, the directors tested the Group’ s balance of goodwill for impair ment in accordance with IAS 3 6,“Impairment of 
assets”. No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test. 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs according to business segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2013 are 
summarised below: 
 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division  
£m 
System Design 
Division 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Goodwill relating to Artisan  119.0 357.1 – 476.1
Goodwill relating to Geomerics 10.0 – – 10.0
Goodwill relating to Falanx  9.4 – – 9.4
Goodwill relating to Axys  – – 7.3 7.3
Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI  – – 6.9 6.9
Goodwill relating to Sensinode 5.8 – – 5.8
Goodwill relating to Prolific – 3.1 – 3.1
Goodwill relating to Obsidian 3.0 – – 3.0
Goodwill relating to Logipard 2.2 – – 2.2
Goodwill relating to other acquisitions  2.1 – – 2.1
Goodwill at 31 December 2013 151.5 360.2 14.2 525.9
Goodwill at 31 December 2012 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4
The recoverable amount for each CGU has been me asured based on a value-in-use calculation. 
Allocation of goodwill relating to Artisan 
The directors believed that, in addition to forming the basis of the Physical IP Division (PIPD), the Group’s acquisition of Ar tisan in 2004 would 
provide a benefit to the Processor Divi sion (PD) for the following reasons: 
• The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams. 
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher values. 
• The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and ph ysical IP in-
house. 
The goodwill relating to Artisan was allocated between the two divisions accordingly. 
Processor Division  
PD encompasses those resources that are cent red around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, system IP, 
embedded software IP and configurable DSP IP. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per 
annum. Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-ye ar forecast period 
to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   92 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
93
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
12  Property, plant and equipment 
 
Freehold 
buildings 
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m 
Computer 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures, fittings 
and motor  
vehicles  
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost   
At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0
Additions  – 2.5 8.1 1.8 2.6 15.0
Acquisitions  – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.2
Transfers  – 0.9 2.3 – (3.2) –
Reclassification* – – (3.2) – (1.7) (4.9)
Disposals  – (1.7) (5.7) (1.0) (0.4) (8.8)
Exchange differences  – (0.6) (1.0) (0.3) (0.1) (2.0)
At 31 December 2013  0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2013  0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 – 45.9
Charge for the year  – 2.3 11.0 1.1 – 14.4
Acquisitions – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Reclassification* – – (3.2) – – (3.2)
Disposals  – (1.5) (5.7) (1.0) – (8.2)
Exchange differences  – (0.2) (0.8) (0.1) – (1.1)
At 31 December 2013  0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 – 47.9
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013  0.1 9.7 20.5 2.6 0.7 33.6
 
 
Freehold 
buildings 
£m 
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m 
Computer 
equipment 
£m 
Fixtures, fittings 
and motor  
vehicles  
£m 
Assets in the 
course of 
construction
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost  
At 1 January 2012  0.2 18.0 32.5 5.7 0.9 57.3
Additions  – 1.7 14.0 1.1 12.4 29.2
Transfers  – 4.9 4.9 – (9.8) –
Disposals  – (1.1) (1.8) (0.2) – (3.1)
Exchange differences  – (0.4) (0.8) (0.2) – (1.4)
At 31 December 2012  0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2012  0.1 13.5 21.8 3.8 – 39.2
Charge for the year  – 1.8 8.1 0.9 – 10.8
Disposals  – (1.1) (1.8) (0.2) – (3.1)
Exchange differences  – (0.3) (0.6) (0.1) – (1.0)
At 31 December 2012  0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 – 45.9
Net book value  
At 31 December 2012  0.1 9.2 21.3 2.0 3.5 36.1
Net book value at 1 January 2012 0.1 4.5 10.7 1.9 0.9 18.1
Included within computer equipment are asse ts with net book value of £6.6 million (2 012: £7.7 million) held under finance lease s. 
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software). 
  
 
 
13  Goodwill 
 £m 
At 1 January 2012 542.5
Exchange differences (23.1)
At 31 December 2012 519.4
Exchange differences  (9.9)
Acquisition – Sensinode (note 19) 6.4
Acquisition – Geomerics (note 19) 10.0
At 31 December 2013 525.9
During the fourth quarter of 2013, the directors tested the Group’ s balance of goodwill for impair ment in accordance with IAS 3 6,“Impairment of 
assets”. No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test. 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs according to business segment. The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2013 are 
summarised below: 
 
Processor 
Division 
£m 
Physical IP 
Division  
£m 
System Design 
Division 
£m 
Group 
£m 
Goodwill relating to Artisan  119.0 357.1 – 476.1
Goodwill relating to Geomerics 10.0 – – 10.0
Goodwill relating to Falanx  9.4 – – 9.4
Goodwill relating to Axys  – – 7.3 7.3
Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI  – – 6.9 6.9
Goodwill relating to Sensinode 5.8 – – 5.8
Goodwill relating to Prolific – 3.1 – 3.1
Goodwill relating to Obsidian 3.0 – – 3.0
Goodwill relating to Logipard 2.2 – – 2.2
Goodwill relating to other acquisitions  2.1 – – 2.1
Goodwill at 31 December 2013 151.5 360.2 14.2 525.9
Goodwill at 31 December 2012 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4
The recoverable amount for each CGU has been me asured based on a value-in-use calculation. 
Allocation of goodwill relating to Artisan 
The directors believed that, in addition to forming the basis of the Physical IP Division (PIPD), the Group’s acquisition of Ar tisan in 2004 would 
provide a benefit to the Processor Divi sion (PD) for the following reasons: 
• The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams. 
This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher values. 
• The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and ph ysical IP in-
house. 
The goodwill relating to Artisan was allocated between the two divisions accordingly. 
Processor Division  
PD encompasses those resources that are cent red around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, system IP, 
embedded software IP and configurable DSP IP. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per 
annum. Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-ye ar forecast period 
to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   93 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
94
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
13  Goodwill continued 
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to remain constant over the period of the calculation. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax. 
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estima ting 
its fair value are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors b elieve that no reasonably 
foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairme nt of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fai r value exceeds 
the carrying value. 
Physical IP Division 
PIPD is concerned with the building bl ocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per 
annum. Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-ye ar forecast period 
to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.  
This timescale is consistent with ARM’s experience in developi ng the processor licensing and royalty model. ARM has signed more than 1,000 
processor licences with around 35 0 customers since the formation of the Group with less than half of these paying royalties thu s far. As royalty 
revenues are a function of cumulative licens ing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows – ARM processor ro yalties have 
increased from $72 million in 2003 to $495 million in 2013. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions. Since the 
acquisition of Artisan at the en d of 2004, PIPD has accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology. As semi conductor process 
geometries shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other semicond uctor 
companies.  
US dollar licence revenues increa sed by 25% year-on-year in 2013 and royalty reve nues increased by 13%. The increase in revenue s was due 
mainly to the successful delivery of new products licensed in the previous year. Further licensi ng of new technology was achieved in the year and as 
a result, backlog at the end of 2013 was at a similar level to th e beginning of the year. This co ntinuing licensing activity is expected to translate into 
growth in royalty revenues in future years. The directors believe that the investment in the physical IP technology portfolio i n recent years will not 
only generate growth in physical IP revenue in future years, but also contribute sign ificantly to the success of PD due to the synergistic benefits of 
the combined technologies. An estimate of the increased benefits to PD arising as a result of the combination with physical IP products is taken in 
to account in calculating the value-in-use for PIPD. Over the ten- year period of the forecast it is estimated that on average 8 % of PD revenues 
would be allocated to PIPD. Demand for Processor Optimisation Packs (POPs) continued to be strong in 2013, with a number of Par tners taking 
licences alongside PD processors. POPs enable an enhanced and deterministic outcome fo r licensees when implementing ARM process ors. 
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to approximately 15% by the end of the forecast period. 
In 2013, PIPD continued to make progress and recorded a profit on a normalised basis for the firs t time. This was mostly as a r esult of increased 
revenues offset by continued investment in the development of le ading-edge technology. Margins are expected to improve signific antly in future 
years as licence revenues from le ading-edge products gather pace. Growth in high-margin royalty revenues will further improve p rofitability. 
Costs are expected to grow relatively slowly in real terms. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.  
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair valu e are 
appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, th e directors believe that no reas onably foreseeable 
changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of good will, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exce eds the carrying 
value. The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the assumed revenues and benefits provided to the Processor Divis ion (see Note 1, 
Critical Estimates and Judgements). The dire ctors have considered the impact of a number of scenarios on the overall valuation of the PIPD 
business, including a considerable reduction in the benefits assu med to be provided to the Processor Division. The results of t his sensitivity analysis 
showed that applying a range of reasonable variations to the ke y assumptions would not change the conclusion that no impairment in the carrying 
value of the goodwill is required at 31 December 2013. 
  
 
 
13  Goodwill continued 
System Design Division  
SDD develops and sells the tools and models used to create and debug software and SoC designs. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a five-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2018 of 3% per 
annum. It is considered ap propriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reflect the weighted average period over whi ch the benefits of 
the acquisitions of Axys, KEG an d KSI are expected to accrue. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions. 
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to grow gradually during the period. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax. 
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value 
are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable th at a key assumption in the calculation co uld change, the directors believe that no reasonably 
foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairme nt of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fai r value 
exceeds the carrying value. 
14  Other intangible assets 
 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Patents and 
licences 
£m 
In-process 
research and 
development
£m 
Developed 
technology 
£m 
Existing 
agreements 
and customer 
relationships 
£m 
Core  
technology  
£m 
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m 
Order 
backlog 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost    
At 1 January 2013 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0
Additions  2.0 74.1 – 7.5 0.3 – – – 83.9
Reclassification*  4.9 – – – – – – – 4.9
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) – – – – – – (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.1) (0.4) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.8)
At 31 December 2013 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 – 246.5
Accumulated amortisation    
At 1 January 2013 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8
Charge for the year  2.3 8.3 – 1.5 0.6 0.9 – – 13.6
Reclassification*  3.2 – – – – – – – 3.2
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) – – – – – – (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences  – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.5)
At 31 December 2013 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 – 163.6
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 5.1 69.5 – 7.7 0.2 0.4 – – 82.9
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software). 
The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology used in SoCs, with a carrying value of 
£16.0 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil) and a remaining useful life of 9 years, and IP righ ts acquired from Bridge Cross ing LLC (see note 6) 
with a carrying value of £ 37.4 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil) and a remaining useful life of 8 years. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   94 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
95
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
13  Goodwill continued 
Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to remain constant over the period of the calculation. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax. 
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estima ting 
its fair value are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors b elieve that no reasonably 
foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairme nt of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fai r value exceeds 
the carrying value. 
Physical IP Division 
PIPD is concerned with the building bl ocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per 
annum. Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-ye ar forecast period 
to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.  
This timescale is consistent with ARM’s experience in developi ng the processor licensing and royalty model. ARM has signed more than 1,000 
processor licences with around 35 0 customers since the formation of the Group with less than half of these paying royalties thu s far. As royalty 
revenues are a function of cumulative licens ing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows – ARM processor ro yalties have 
increased from $72 million in 2003 to $495 million in 2013. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions. Since the 
acquisition of Artisan at the en d of 2004, PIPD has accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology. As semi conductor process 
geometries shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other semicond uctor 
companies.  
US dollar licence revenues increa sed by 25% year-on-year in 2013 and royalty reve nues increased by 13%. The increase in revenue s was due 
mainly to the successful delivery of new products licensed in the previous year. Further licensi ng of new technology was achieved in the year and as 
a result, backlog at the end of 2013 was at a similar level to th e beginning of the year. This co ntinuing licensing activity is expected to translate into 
growth in royalty revenues in future years. The directors believe that the investment in the physical IP technology portfolio i n recent years will not 
only generate growth in physical IP revenue in future years, but also contribute sign ificantly to the success of PD due to the synergistic benefits of 
the combined technologies. An estimate of the increased benefits to PD arising as a result of the combination with physical IP products is taken in 
to account in calculating the value-in-use for PIPD. Over the ten- year period of the forecast it is estimated that on average 8 % of PD revenues 
would be allocated to PIPD. Demand for Processor Optimisation Packs (POPs) continued to be strong in 2013, with a number of Par tners taking 
licences alongside PD processors. POPs enable an enhanced and deterministic outcome fo r licensees when implementing ARM process ors. 
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to approximately 15% by the end of the forecast period. 
In 2013, PIPD continued to make progress and recorded a profit on a normalised basis for the firs t time. This was mostly as a r esult of increased 
revenues offset by continued investment in the development of le ading-edge technology. Margins are expected to improve signific antly in future 
years as licence revenues from le ading-edge products gather pace. Growth in high-margin royalty revenues will further improve p rofitability. 
Costs are expected to grow relatively slowly in real terms. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.  
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair valu e are 
appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, th e directors believe that no reas onably foreseeable 
changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of good will, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exce eds the carrying 
value. The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the assumed revenues and benefits provided to the Processor Divis ion (see Note 1, 
Critical Estimates and Judgements). The dire ctors have considered the impact of a number of scenarios on the overall valuation of the PIPD 
business, including a considerable reduction in the benefits assu med to be provided to the Processor Division. The results of t his sensitivity analysis 
showed that applying a range of reasonable variations to the ke y assumptions would not change the conclusion that no impairment in the carrying 
value of the goodwill is required at 31 December 2013. 
  
 
 
13  Goodwill continued 
System Design Division  
SDD develops and sells the tools and models used to create and debug software and SoC designs. 
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: 
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a five-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2018 of 3% per 
annum. It is considered ap propriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reflect the weighted average period over whi ch the benefits of 
the acquisitions of Axys, KEG an d KSI are expected to accrue. 
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior ma nagement, taking into account 
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARM’s historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic condi tions. 
Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to grow gradually during the period. 
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax. 
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value 
are appropriate. Whilst it is conceivable th at a key assumption in the calculation co uld change, the directors believe that no reasonably 
foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairme nt of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fai r value 
exceeds the carrying value. 
14  Other intangible assets 
 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Patents and 
licences 
£m 
In-process 
research and 
development
£m 
Developed 
technology 
£m 
Existing 
agreements 
and customer 
relationships 
£m 
Core  
technology  
£m 
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m 
Order 
backlog 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost    
At 1 January 2013 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0
Additions  2.0 74.1 – 7.5 0.3 – – – 83.9
Reclassification*  4.9 – – – – – – – 4.9
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) – – – – – – (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.1) (0.4) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.8)
At 31 December 2013 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 – 246.5
Accumulated amortisation    
At 1 January 2013 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8
Charge for the year  2.3 8.3 – 1.5 0.6 0.9 – – 13.6
Reclassification*  3.2 – – – – – – – 3.2
Disposals and derecognitions (1.5) – – – – – – (2.0) (3.5)
Exchange differences  – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.8) (0.3) (0.1) – (1.5)
At 31 December 2013 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 – 163.6
Net book value  
At 31 December 2013 5.1 69.5 – 7.7 0.2 0.4 – – 82.9
* Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets (software). 
The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology used in SoCs, with a carrying value of 
£16.0 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil) and a remaining useful life of 9 years, and IP righ ts acquired from Bridge Cross ing LLC (see note 6) 
with a carrying value of £ 37.4 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil) and a remaining useful life of 8 years. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   95 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
96
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
14  Other intangible assets continued 
 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Patents and 
licences 
£m 
In-process 
research and 
development 
£m 
Developed 
technology 
£m 
Existing 
agreements 
and customer 
relationships 
£m 
Core  
technology  
£m 
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m 
Order 
backlog 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost    
At 1 January 2012 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9
Additions  4.0 1.4 – – – –  –  – 5.4
Disposals  (0.2) – – – – –  –  – (0.2)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.3) (1.4) (2.2) (0.8) (0.2) (0.1) (5.1)
At 31 December 2012 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0
Accumulated amortisation    
At 1 January 2012 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4
Charge for the year  1.6 2.3 – 1.4 0.4 0.9 – – 6.6
Disposals  (0.2) – – – – –  –  – (0.2)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.3) (1.4) (2.2) (0.7) (0.2) (0.1) (5.0)
At 31 December 2012 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8
Net book value  
At 31 December 2012 3.8 3.7 – 1.9 0.5 1.3 – – 11.2
15  Accrued and other liabilities 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Accruals: 
 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards  15.1 16.5
 Employee bonus and sales commissions  26.5 23.8
 Other accruals (including £2.6 million non-current (2012: £nil)) 40.0 31.0
Total accruals  81.6 71.3
 
Other taxation and social security  4.4 3.4
Other payables  4.7 4.6
Total accrued and other liabilities 90.7 79.3
16 Finance lease liabilities 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments: 
 Within one year  2.9 3.1
 In the second to fifth years inclusive  1.5 3.0
 Less: future finance charges  (0.2) (0.3)
Present value of lease obligations  4.2 5.8
 
Amounts due for settlement within 12 months  2.7 2.9
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months  1.5 2.9
Present value of lease obligations 4.2 5.8
The Group has entered into a three- and a four-year finance lease arrangement in respect of certain IT equipment.   
 
 
17 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: 
Financial assets 
 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m 
Assets at fair 
value through 
the income 
statement  
£m 
Available-
for-sale 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 31 December 2013  
Cash and cash equivalents  43.8 – – 43.8
Short-term deposits  544.1 – – 544.1
Currency exchange contracts  – 5.1 – 5.1
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 145.9 – – 145.9
Available-for-sale financial assets – unlisted – – 1.2 1.2
Total current financial assets  733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1
Long-term deposits  125.6 – – 125.6
Loans and receivables 3.0 – – 3.0
Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted  – – 13.9 13.9
Total non-current financial assets  128.6 – 13.9 142.5
Total financial assets  862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6
At 31 December 2012  
Cash and cash equivalents  46.3 – – 46.3
Short-term deposits  340.0 – – 340.0
Currency exchange contracts  – 1.4 – 1.4
Accounts receivable (gross of impa irment provision)  126.9 – – 126.9
Total current financial assets  513.2 1.4 – 514.6
Long-term deposits  141.3 – – 141.3
Loans and receivables 2.1 – – 2.1
Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted  – – 13.8 13.8
Total non-current financial assets  143.4 – 13.8 157.2
Total financial assets  656.6 1.4 13.8 671.8
Financial liabilities 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: 
Accounts payable  7.0 5.9
Accrued and other liabilities* 56.3 46.8
Finance lease liabilities  4.2 5.8
 67.5 58.5
Liabilities at fair value through th e income statement at 31 December:
Embedded derivatives 7.0 2.5
Total financial liabilities  74.5 61.0
* Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   96 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
97
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
14  Other intangible assets continued 
 
Computer 
software  
£m 
Patents and 
licences 
£m 
In-process 
research and 
development 
£m 
Developed 
technology 
£m 
Existing 
agreements 
and customer 
relationships 
£m 
Core  
technology  
£m 
Trademarks  
and  
tradenames  
£m 
Order 
backlog 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost    
At 1 January 2012 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9
Additions  4.0 1.4 – – – –  –  – 5.4
Disposals  (0.2) – – – – –  –  – (0.2)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.3) (1.4) (2.2) (0.8) (0.2) (0.1) (5.1)
At 31 December 2012 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0
Accumulated amortisation    
At 1 January 2012 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4
Charge for the year  1.6 2.3 – 1.4 0.4 0.9 – – 6.6
Disposals  (0.2) – – – – –  –  – (0.2)
Exchange differences  (0.1) – (0.3) (1.4) (2.2) (0.7) (0.2) (0.1) (5.0)
At 31 December 2012 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8
Net book value  
At 31 December 2012 3.8 3.7 – 1.9 0.5 1.3 – – 11.2
15  Accrued and other liabilities 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Accruals: 
 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards  15.1 16.5
 Employee bonus and sales commissions  26.5 23.8
 Other accruals (including £2.6 million non-current (2012: £nil)) 40.0 31.0
Total accruals  81.6 71.3
 
Other taxation and social security  4.4 3.4
Other payables  4.7 4.6
Total accrued and other liabilities 90.7 79.3
16 Finance lease liabilities 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Gross finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments: 
 Within one year  2.9 3.1
 In the second to fifth years inclusive  1.5 3.0
 Less: future finance charges  (0.2) (0.3)
Present value of lease obligations  4.2 5.8
 
Amounts due for settlement within 12 months  2.7 2.9
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months  1.5 2.9
Present value of lease obligations 4.2 5.8
The Group has entered into a three- and a four-year finance lease arrangement in respect of certain IT equipment.   
 
 
17 Financial instruments 
(a) Financial instruments by category 
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: 
Financial assets 
 
Loans and 
receivables 
£m 
Assets at fair 
value through 
the income 
statement  
£m 
Available-
for-sale 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 31 December 2013  
Cash and cash equivalents  43.8 – – 43.8
Short-term deposits  544.1 – – 544.1
Currency exchange contracts  – 5.1 – 5.1
Accounts receivable (gross of impairment provision) 145.9 – – 145.9
Available-for-sale financial assets – unlisted – – 1.2 1.2
Total current financial assets  733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1
Long-term deposits  125.6 – – 125.6
Loans and receivables 3.0 – – 3.0
Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted  – – 13.9 13.9
Total non-current financial assets  128.6 – 13.9 142.5
Total financial assets  862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6
At 31 December 2012  
Cash and cash equivalents  46.3 – – 46.3
Short-term deposits  340.0 – – 340.0
Currency exchange contracts  – 1.4 – 1.4
Accounts receivable (gross of impa irment provision)  126.9 – – 126.9
Total current financial assets  513.2 1.4 – 514.6
Long-term deposits  141.3 – – 141.3
Loans and receivables 2.1 – – 2.1
Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted  – – 13.8 13.8
Total non-current financial assets  143.4 – 13.8 157.2
Total financial assets  656.6 1.4 13.8 671.8
Financial liabilities 
 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: 
Accounts payable  7.0 5.9
Accrued and other liabilities* 56.3 46.8
Finance lease liabilities  4.2 5.8
 67.5 58.5
Liabilities at fair value through th e income statement at 31 December:
Embedded derivatives 7.0 2.5
Total financial liabilities  74.5 61.0
* Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   97 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
98
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued 
Valuation hierarchy 
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s financial instrument assets consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income 
statement (level 2) of £5.1 million (2012: £1.4 million) and AFS financial assets (lev el 3) of £1.2 million (current) and £13.9 million (non-current) 
(2012: £13.8 million non-current).  
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s financia l instrument liabilities consisted of embe dded derivatives (level 2) of £7.0 million (2012: 
£2.5 million). The Group had no level 1 financial instruments as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil). 
Level 2 currency exchange contra cts comprise forward exch ange contracts and foreign currency op tions. The fair value of the for ward exchange 
contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market. The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon 
valuations performed by management and the respec tive banks holding the currency instruments.  
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market. 
Level 3 AFS financial assets cons ist of unlisted equity investment s and other current investments. The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity 
investments approximates to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on management’s es timate of forecast profitabili ty and 
achievement of set objectives by the relevant entity), except where independent valuation information is obtained, e.g. through the occurrence 
of funding or other transactions in the relevant entity's equity instruments. 
The current investment was initially held at the value of the ex pected licensing programme related to the MIPS patent portfolio . This was estimated 
by reference to the amounts that it was ex pected certain potential licensees would be prepared to pay for a licence. At 31 Dece mber 2013 the 
value of the current investment has been ba sed on the amount that is recoverable from an auction process which was held in Janu ary 2014. 
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the Level 3 ca lculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonabl y foreseeable changes 
to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value. 
Maturity of financial liabilities 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into re levant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to 
the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months 
equal their carrying balances as the impa ct of discounting is not significant. 
 
Less than 
six months 
£m 
Between  
six months and 
one year  
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years
£m 
Over 
two years 
£m 
At 31 December 2013:  
Accounts payable  7.0 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities  52.8 0.9 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 1.0 1.7 1.2 0.3
Embedded derivatives  2.4 1.6 2.2 0.8
  
At 31 December 2012:  
Accounts payable  5.9 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities  46.8 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 0.8 2.1 2.2 0.7
Embedded derivatives  0.8 0.7 0.6 0.4
During 2012, the Group entered in to a three-month fixed-rate debt facility for $160 million (£99.8 million) to facilitate the c ontribution to acquire 
rights to MIPS Technologies, In c’s portfolio of patents (see note 6). This faci lity was fully settled by 31 December 2012. The Group had no 
borrowings during 2013. 
  
 
 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued 
Loans and receivables 
During 2010 the Group invested £2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business. This was recognised in lo ans and receivables 
at its initial fair value of £1.9 million, measured using the e ffective interest method, which resulted in a charge of £0.6 mil lion being recognised as 
interest payable and similar charges during 2010. In addition, during 2013 the Group in vested a further £0.7 million with Futur e Business. The 
carrying value of the total loan amounted to £3.0 million at 31 December 2013 ( 2012: £2.1 million), with £0.1 million being rec ognised as interest 
receivable during 2013 (2012: £0.1 million). 
Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-te rm deposits outstanding at the year end was 1.85% (2012: 2.70%) and these deposits 
have an average maturity of 178 days (2012: 190 days). 
Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstandin g at the year end was 1.65% (2012: 3.32%) and these deposits 
have an average maturity of 531 days (2012: 489 days). 
Derivative financial instruments 
This table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance 
sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclo sed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Am ounts due within 
12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant. 
 
Less than three 
months 
m 
Over three months 
but less than  
six months  
m 
Between 
six months and 
one year 
m 
Greater than 
one year
m 
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2013  
Outflow  $98.0 $13.0 $23.0 $9.0
Inflow  £60.9 £8.0 £14.7 £6.0
Foreign exchange options – held-f or-trading at 31 December 2013  
Outflow (maximum)  $41.0 $29.3 $26.2 –
Inflow (maximum)  £26.8 £19.4 £17.6 –
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2012  
Outflow  $51.0 $8.0 $12.0 –
Inflow  £31.9 £5.0 £7.5 –
Foreign exchange options – held-for -trading at 31 December 2012  
Outflow (maximum)  $38.9 $37.3 $13.5 –
Inflow (maximum)  £25.3 £24.3 £8.6 –
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 
The fair value of currency exchange contract s is estimated using the settlement rates. The estimation of the fair value of the asset in respect of 
currency exchange contracts was £5 .1 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £1.4 mi llion). The resulting gains and losses on the mo vement of the 
fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amo unting to a gain 
of £3.4 million (2012: £8.3 million).  
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   98 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
99
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued 
Valuation hierarchy 
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s financial instrument assets consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income 
statement (level 2) of £5.1 million (2012: £1.4 million) and AFS financial assets (lev el 3) of £1.2 million (current) and £13.9 million (non-current) 
(2012: £13.8 million non-current).  
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s financia l instrument liabilities consisted of embe dded derivatives (level 2) of £7.0 million (2012: 
£2.5 million). The Group had no level 1 financial instruments as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil). 
Level 2 currency exchange contra cts comprise forward exch ange contracts and foreign currency op tions. The fair value of the for ward exchange 
contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market. The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon 
valuations performed by management and the respec tive banks holding the currency instruments.  
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market. 
Level 3 AFS financial assets cons ist of unlisted equity investment s and other current investments. The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity 
investments approximates to cost less any permanent diminution in value (based on management’s es timate of forecast profitabili ty and 
achievement of set objectives by the relevant entity), except where independent valuation information is obtained, e.g. through the occurrence 
of funding or other transactions in the relevant entity's equity instruments. 
The current investment was initially held at the value of the ex pected licensing programme related to the MIPS patent portfolio . This was estimated 
by reference to the amounts that it was ex pected certain potential licensees would be prepared to pay for a licence. At 31 Dece mber 2013 the 
value of the current investment has been ba sed on the amount that is recoverable from an auction process which was held in Janu ary 2014. 
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the Level 3 ca lculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonabl y foreseeable changes 
to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value. 
Maturity of financial liabilities 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into re levant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to 
the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months 
equal their carrying balances as the impa ct of discounting is not significant. 
 
Less than 
six months 
£m 
Between  
six months and 
one year  
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years
£m 
Over 
two years 
£m 
At 31 December 2013:  
Accounts payable  7.0 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities  52.8 0.9 2.6 –
Finance lease liabilities 1.0 1.7 1.2 0.3
Embedded derivatives  2.4 1.6 2.2 0.8
  
At 31 December 2012:  
Accounts payable  5.9 – – –
Accrued and other liabilities  46.8 – – –
Finance lease liabilities 0.8 2.1 2.2 0.7
Embedded derivatives  0.8 0.7 0.6 0.4
During 2012, the Group entered in to a three-month fixed-rate debt facility for $160 million (£99.8 million) to facilitate the c ontribution to acquire 
rights to MIPS Technologies, In c’s portfolio of patents (see note 6). This faci lity was fully settled by 31 December 2012. The Group had no 
borrowings during 2013. 
  
 
 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(a) Financial instruments by category continued 
Loans and receivables 
During 2010 the Group invested £2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business. This was recognised in lo ans and receivables 
at its initial fair value of £1.9 million, measured using the e ffective interest method, which resulted in a charge of £0.6 mil lion being recognised as 
interest payable and similar charges during 2010. In addition, during 2013 the Group in vested a further £0.7 million with Futur e Business. The 
carrying value of the total loan amounted to £3.0 million at 31 December 2013 ( 2012: £2.1 million), with £0.1 million being rec ognised as interest 
receivable during 2013 (2012: £0.1 million). 
Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-te rm deposits outstanding at the year end was 1.85% (2012: 2.70%) and these deposits 
have an average maturity of 178 days (2012: 190 days). 
Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstandin g at the year end was 1.65% (2012: 3.32%) and these deposits 
have an average maturity of 531 days (2012: 489 days). 
Derivative financial instruments 
This table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance 
sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclo sed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Am ounts due within 
12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant. 
 
Less than three 
months 
m 
Over three months 
but less than  
six months  
m 
Between 
six months and 
one year 
m 
Greater than 
one year
m 
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2013  
Outflow  $98.0 $13.0 $23.0 $9.0
Inflow  £60.9 £8.0 £14.7 £6.0
Foreign exchange options – held-f or-trading at 31 December 2013  
Outflow (maximum)  $41.0 $29.3 $26.2 –
Inflow (maximum)  £26.8 £19.4 £17.6 –
Foreign exchange forward contracts – held-for-trading at 31 December 2012  
Outflow  $51.0 $8.0 $12.0 –
Inflow  £31.9 £5.0 £7.5 –
Foreign exchange options – held-for -trading at 31 December 2012  
Outflow (maximum)  $38.9 $37.3 $13.5 –
Inflow (maximum)  £25.3 £24.3 £8.6 –
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 
The fair value of currency exchange contract s is estimated using the settlement rates. The estimation of the fair value of the asset in respect of 
currency exchange contracts was £5 .1 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £1.4 mi llion). The resulting gains and losses on the mo vement of the 
fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amo unting to a gain 
of £3.4 million (2012: £8.3 million).  
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   99 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
100
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(b) Credit quality of financial assets 
Trade debtors 
On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis. E ither a provision 
is made or the lack thereof is justified, with re view by senior members of the Group’s finance team. 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade debtors (gross of impairment provision): 
Not yet due  76.1 80.1
Under 90 days overdue  41.2 27.3
Over 90 days overdue but not provided for  13.2 9.3
Fully provided for  9.8 2.4
Total  140.3 119.1
As shown above, at 31 December 2013 trade debtors less than 90 da ys overdue amounted to £41.2 million. Of those outstanding at 
31 December 2013, £22.8 million had been collected by 3 March 20 14 and £15.3 million were owed by large, established customers. Similarly, 
debtors more than 90 days overdu e and not provided for amounted to £13.2 million of which £5.0 million had been collected by 3 March 2014 
and £4.2 million was owed by la rge, established customers. For the remainder, discussions re garding repayment are ongoing and r epayment 
schedules have been agreed with the custom ers concerned. These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the co ntrol outlined 
above. No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Group’s future 
results. 
As shown above, at 31 December 2013, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to £9.8 million (2012: £2.4 million). Of those p rovided for at 
31 December 2013, £4.0 million relates to tr ade debtors that are up to six months over due (2012: £0.6 million) and £5.8 million relates to trade 
debtors that are over six months overdue (2012: £1.8 million). 
At 31 December 2013, no individual  customer account ed for over 10% of account s receivable (2012: one).  
Credit risk 
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial inst itutions with a Moody’s 
rating of at least A2/P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A/F1, or UK building societies with over £2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where 
the cash holding concerned is immaterial. At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the majority of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-
term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and buildin g societies in the UK and US in the form of money market depo sits and 
corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years. At 31 December 2013, 98% (2012: 93%) of the Group’s cash and cash equ ivalents, and 
short- and long-term deposits were deposited with major cleari ng banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria. The ma jority of the Group’s 
cash currently falling outside of the counterparty criteria is he ld with building societies that were within criteria when the deposits were placed. 
Interest rate risk 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had £713.7 million (2012: £523.6 mill ion) of interest-bearing assets. At 31 December 2013, 93% ( 2012: 91%) 
of interest-bearing assets (comprising cash and cash equivalent s, short- and long-term deposits, loans and receivables, and the Group’s convertible 
loan notes) are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk. Had interest rates been 1% (100 basi s points) lower 
throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately £5.8 million (2012: £5.3 million) and profit after tax by £4.6 million 
(2012: £4.0 million). 
  
 
 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(b) Credit quality of financial assets continued 
Currency risk 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $143 million (2012: $71 million) for sterlin g. In addition, 
the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either t he Group or the 
counterparty the option to exercise. At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under 
certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $97 million (2 012: $90 million) for sterling. A common scenario with options o f this type is that the 
spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the co unterparty chooses to exercise th e option. At 31 December 2013, t he Group had 
$230 million (2012: $190 million) of account s receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US doll ar cash and cash eq uivalents, and 
short-term deposits of $14 mill ion (2012: $22 million). Thus the Group’s US dollar assets exceeded its currency exchange contra cts and currency 
options at the year end. Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contract s taking into consideration bot h the current 
and expected future level of US dollar assets. Based on the pred ictable nature of the Group’s cash flows, the Group typically h as a greater value of 
currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held. As such, after the balance sheet date, the Group has entere d into additional 
currency exchange contracts, returning the Group to its usua l position in this regard, at the date of this report. 
At 31 December 2013, if sterling had strength ened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other va riables held constant, post-tax profit for the 
year would have been £9.5 million lower (2 012: £12.1 million lower), mainly as a resu lt of the mix of financial instruments at respective year ends.  
18  Share capital 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Authorised 
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 2,200,000,000)  1.1 1.1
 
  2013  2012 
 
Number of 
shares 
m 
Value  
£m 
Number of 
shares 
m 
Value 
£m 
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January  1,380.8 0.7 1,351.3 0.7
Allotted under employee incentive schemes 19.5 – 29.5 –
At 31 December  1,400.3 0.7 1,380.8 0.7
During 2013, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was £ 5.9 million 
(2012: £5.6 million). 
19  Acquisitions 
There were two acquisitions made in 2013: Sensinode Oy, acquired on 19 July 2013 for $11.7 million (£7.7 mi llion), and Geomerics Limited, 
acquired on 12 December 2013 for £13.4 mill ion. The Group acquired the entire share ca pital of both entities, which have been a ccounted for 
as acquisitions.  
Sensinode, a company based in Oulu, Finland, is a provider of so ftware technology for the Internet of Things (IoT). Sensinode i s a pioneer in 
software for low-cost, low-power internet-connected devices and ha s been a key contributor to open standards for IoT. This acqu isition enables 
Sensinode’s expertise and technology to be accessible to the AR M Partnership and through the ARM mbed project it will enable ra pid 
deployment of new and innovative IoT applications. 
Geomerics, a company based in Cambridge, United Kingdom, is a leader in lighting technology fo r the gaming and entertainment in dustries. 
The acquisition expands ARM's position at the forefront of the visual computing and graphics industries. Additionally, the agre ement enables 
Geomerics to build on their existing partnerships as well as accelerate their development in the mobile market. 
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the wo rkforce of both Sensinode and Geomerics, including the founders and the 
management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, givi ng rise to goodwill. All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, 
with the residual excess over net asse ts being recognised as goodwill.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   100 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
101
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(b) Credit quality of financial assets 
Trade debtors 
On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis. E ither a provision 
is made or the lack thereof is justified, with re view by senior members of the Group’s finance team. 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Trade debtors (gross of impairment provision): 
Not yet due  76.1 80.1
Under 90 days overdue  41.2 27.3
Over 90 days overdue but not provided for  13.2 9.3
Fully provided for  9.8 2.4
Total  140.3 119.1
As shown above, at 31 December 2013 trade debtors less than 90 da ys overdue amounted to £41.2 million. Of those outstanding at 
31 December 2013, £22.8 million had been collected by 3 March 20 14 and £15.3 million were owed by large, established customers. Similarly, 
debtors more than 90 days overdu e and not provided for amounted to £13.2 million of which £5.0 million had been collected by 3 March 2014 
and £4.2 million was owed by la rge, established customers. For the remainder, discussions re garding repayment are ongoing and r epayment 
schedules have been agreed with the custom ers concerned. These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the co ntrol outlined 
above. No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Group’s future 
results. 
As shown above, at 31 December 2013, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to £9.8 million (2012: £2.4 million). Of those p rovided for at 
31 December 2013, £4.0 million relates to tr ade debtors that are up to six months over due (2012: £0.6 million) and £5.8 million relates to trade 
debtors that are over six months overdue (2012: £1.8 million). 
At 31 December 2013, no individual  customer account ed for over 10% of account s receivable (2012: one).  
Credit risk 
Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial inst itutions with a Moody’s 
rating of at least A2/P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A/F1, or UK building societies with over £2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where 
the cash holding concerned is immaterial. At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the majority of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-
term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and buildin g societies in the UK and US in the form of money market depo sits and 
corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years. At 31 December 2013, 98% (2012: 93%) of the Group’s cash and cash equ ivalents, and 
short- and long-term deposits were deposited with major cleari ng banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria. The ma jority of the Group’s 
cash currently falling outside of the counterparty criteria is he ld with building societies that were within criteria when the deposits were placed. 
Interest rate risk 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had £713.7 million (2012: £523.6 mill ion) of interest-bearing assets. At 31 December 2013, 93% ( 2012: 91%) 
of interest-bearing assets (comprising cash and cash equivalent s, short- and long-term deposits, loans and receivables, and the Group’s convertible 
loan notes) are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk. Had interest rates been 1% (100 basi s points) lower 
throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately £5.8 million (2012: £5.3 million) and profit after tax by £4.6 million 
(2012: £4.0 million). 
  
 
 
17 Financial instruments continued 
(b) Credit quality of financial assets continued 
Currency risk 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $143 million (2012: $71 million) for sterlin g. In addition, 
the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either t he Group or the 
counterparty the option to exercise. At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under 
certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $97 million (2 012: $90 million) for sterling. A common scenario with options o f this type is that the 
spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the co unterparty chooses to exercise th e option. At 31 December 2013, t he Group had 
$230 million (2012: $190 million) of account s receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US doll ar cash and cash eq uivalents, and 
short-term deposits of $14 mill ion (2012: $22 million). Thus the Group’s US dollar assets exceeded its currency exchange contra cts and currency 
options at the year end. Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contract s taking into consideration bot h the current 
and expected future level of US dollar assets. Based on the pred ictable nature of the Group’s cash flows, the Group typically h as a greater value of 
currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held. As such, after the balance sheet date, the Group has entere d into additional 
currency exchange contracts, returning the Group to its usua l position in this regard, at the date of this report. 
At 31 December 2013, if sterling had strength ened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other va riables held constant, post-tax profit for the 
year would have been £9.5 million lower (2 012: £12.1 million lower), mainly as a resu lt of the mix of financial instruments at respective year ends.  
18  Share capital 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Authorised 
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 2,200,000,000)  1.1 1.1
 
  2013  2012 
 
Number of 
shares 
m 
Value  
£m 
Number of 
shares 
m 
Value 
£m 
Issued and fully paid  
At 1 January  1,380.8 0.7 1,351.3 0.7
Allotted under employee incentive schemes 19.5 – 29.5 –
At 31 December  1,400.3 0.7 1,380.8 0.7
During 2013, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was £ 5.9 million 
(2012: £5.6 million). 
19  Acquisitions 
There were two acquisitions made in 2013: Sensinode Oy, acquired on 19 July 2013 for $11.7 million (£7.7 million), and Geomerics Limited, 
acquired on 12 December 2013 for £13.4 mill ion. The Group acquired the entire share ca pital of both entities, which have been a ccounted for 
as acquisitions.  
Sensinode, a company based in Oulu, Finland, is a provider of so ftware technology for the Internet of Things (IoT). Sensinode i s a pioneer in 
software for low-cost, low-power internet-connected devices and ha s been a key contributor to open standards for IoT. This acqu isition enables 
Sensinode’s expertise and technology to be accessible to the AR M Partnership and through the ARM mbed project it will enable ra pid 
deployment of new and innovative IoT applications. 
Geomerics, a company based in Cambridge, United Kingdom, is a leader in lighting technology fo r the gaming and entertainment in dustries. 
The acquisition expands ARM's position at the forefront of the visual computing and graphics industries. Additionally, the agre ement enables 
Geomerics to build on their existing partnerships as well as accelerate their development in the mobile market. 
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the wo rkforce of both Sensinode and Geomerics, including the founders and the 
management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, givi ng rise to goodwill. All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, 
with the residual excess over net asse ts being recognised as goodwill.  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   101 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
102
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
19  Acquisitions continued 
From 19 July 2013 to 31 December 2013, the ac quisition of Sensinode contributed £0.1 mi llion in revenue and incurred a loss of £nil. If Sensinode 
had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, th e consolidated income statement would have included £0.2 million of revenue and £0 .9 million of 
pre-tax loss. 
From 12 December 2013 to 31 December 2013, the acquisition of Geomer ics contributed £nil in revenue and incurred a loss of £0.1 million. 
If Geomerics had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the consol idated income statement would ha ve included £0.7 million of r evenue and 
£1.1 million of pre-tax loss. 
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each 
acquisition.  
 
Sensinode 
19 July 2013 
Geomerics 
12 December 2013 
 
 
£m 
 
$m 
 
£m  
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.5 0.2
Intangible assets  2.8 4.3 5.0
Accrued and other liabilities (0.5) (0.8) (0.8)
Loans payable (1.1) (1.6) –
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.2) (0.3) (1.0)
Net assets acquired 1.3 2.1 3.4
Goodwill 6.4 9.6 10.0
Consideration  7.7 11.7 13.4
The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash. All tr ansaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to t he income 
statement within general and administrative expenses. 
Other 
During 2013 the Group made a payment of £2.0 million (2012: £2.2 million) in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of 
the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011. The Group also made paym ents of £0.6 million (2012: £0.8 million) in respect of time-based and 
performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Prolific Inc in 2011. 
20  Share-based payments 
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actu al share awards on vesting rather than options to buy share s at a fixed 
exercise price.  
The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions other than France) vest 25% on each annive rsary over four years. RSU awards to our 
French employees vest 50% after two years, and th en a further 25% after three and four years. 
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB pl an. Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. Thes e shares will be defe rred for three 
years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EP S performance condition over that time. This scheme will 
be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of th e new scheme, see the Remunerat ion Report on 
page 41. 
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and select ed senior management, whereby sh are awards are made and vest d epending 
on the Company’s TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the 
last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replace by a new LTIP fo r 2014 grants onwards. For details of the n ew scheme, see the 
Remuneration Report on page 42. 
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for employees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is relat ed to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The pe riod of savings is three or five years. The option price for gr ants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the sa vings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option sc heme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Tai wan, namely 
the ESPP. The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six m onths, with the 
option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme. 
 
 
 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The Group has in the past issued share options under several addi tional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted t o employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equa l to the market price of the sh ares under option at the date of grant. These 
schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unap proved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Sha res 
options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Co mpany reserves the right to award options to employees going for ward. Shares 
relating to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no sh are-based payment charge associated with t hem for 2012 
or 2013. 
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses ar ising from these share-based compensation sc hemes of £59.2 million (2012: £37.1 millio n) were charged 
to the income statement in the year. This is in line with the Group’s policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these 
remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1. 
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for t he ESPP whose fair 
value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest. The following assumptions for each option grant during 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 
Grant date  16 Feb 2013 23 Jun 2013 30 Apr 2013 31 Oct 2013 16 Feb 2012  23 Jun 2012 16 Aug 2012 
Scheme  ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP
Share price at grant date  £9.25 £7.725 £9.96 £9.94 £5.905 £5.06 £5.74
Exercise price  £4.964 £7.9616 £5.6525 £8.449 £4.42 £3.9616 £4.876
Number of employees  391 350 151 605 373 490 372
Shares under option  330,676 210,605 35,386 228,335 333,464 720,922 306,497
Vesting period (years)  – 3-5 – – – 3-5 –
Expected volatility  – 37%-40% – – – 38%-43% –
Expected life (years)  – 3-5 – – – 3-5 –
Risk-free rate  – 0.5% – – – 0.5% –
Dividend yield  – 0.58% – – – 0.69% –
Fair value per option  £4.286 £1.828-£2.510 £4.3075 £1.491 £1.485 £1.728-£2.175 £0.864
 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   102 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
103
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
19  Acquisitions continued 
From 19 July 2013 to 31 December 2013, the ac quisition of Sensinode contributed £0.1 mi llion in revenue and incurred a loss of £nil. If Sensinode 
had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, th e consolidated income statement would have included £0.2 million of revenue and £0 .9 million of 
pre-tax loss. 
From 12 December 2013 to 31 December 2013, the acquisition of Geomer ics contributed £nil in revenue and incurred a loss of £0.1 million. 
If Geomerics had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the consol idated income statement would ha ve included £0.7 million of r evenue and 
£1.1 million of pre-tax loss. 
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each 
acquisition.  
 
Sensinode 
19 July 2013 
Geomerics 
12 December 2013 
 
 
£m 
 
$m 
 
£m  
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.5 0.2
Intangible assets  2.8 4.3 5.0
Accrued and other liabilities (0.5) (0.8) (0.8)
Loans payable (1.1) (1.6) –
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (0.2) (0.3) (1.0)
Net assets acquired 1.3 2.1 3.4
Goodwill 6.4 9.6 10.0
Consideration  7.7 11.7 13.4
The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash. All tr ansaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to t he income 
statement within general and administrative expenses. 
Other 
During 2013 the Group made a payment of £2.0 million (2012: £2.2 million) in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of 
the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011. The Group also made paym ents of £0.6 million (2012: £0.8 million) in respect of time-based and 
performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Prolific Inc in 2011. 
20  Share-based payments 
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actu al share awards on vesting rather than options to buy share s at a fixed 
exercise price.  
The main RSU awards (to employees in all jurisdictions other than France) vest 25% on each annive rsary over four years. RSU awards to our 
French employees vest 50% after two years, and th en a further 25% after three and four years. 
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB pl an. Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. Thes e shares will be defe rred for three 
years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EP S performance condition over that time. This scheme will 
be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of th e new scheme, see the Remunerat ion Report on 
page 41. 
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and select ed senior management, whereby sh are awards are made and vest d epending 
on the Company’s TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the 
last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replace by a new LTIP fo r 2014 grants onwards. For details of the n ew scheme, see the 
Remuneration Report on page 42. 
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for employees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is relat ed to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The pe riod of savings is three or five years. The option price for gr ants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the sa vings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option sc heme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Tai wan, namely 
the ESPP. The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six m onths, with the 
option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme. 
 
 
 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The Group has in the past issued share options under several addi tional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted t o employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equa l to the market price of the sh ares under option at the date of grant. These 
schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executi ve Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Sha res 
options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Co mpany reserves the right to award options to employees going for ward. Shares 
relating to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no sh are-based payment charge associated with t hem for 2012 
or 2013. 
As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses ar ising from these share-based compensation sc hemes of £59.2 million (2012: £37.1 millio n) were charged 
to the income statement in the year. This is in line with the Group’s policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these 
remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1. 
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for t he ESPP whose fair 
value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest. The following assumptions for each option grant during 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 
Grant date  16 Feb 2013 23 Jun 2013 30 Apr 2013 31 Oct 2013 16 Feb 2012  23 Jun 2012 16 Aug 2012 
Scheme  ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP
Share price at grant date  £9.25 £7.725 £9.96 £9.94 £5.905 £5.06 £5.74
Exercise price  £4.964 £7.9616 £5.6525 £8.449 £4.42 £3.9616 £4.876
Number of employees  391 350 151 605 373 490 372
Shares under option  330,676 210,605 35,386 228,335 333,464 720,922 306,497
Vesting period (years)  – 3-5 – – – 3-5 –
Expected volatility  – 37%-40% – – – 38%-43% –
Expected life (years)  – 3-5 – – – 3-5 –
Risk-free rate  – 0.5% – – – 0.5% –
Dividend yield  – 0.58% – – – 0.69% –
Fair value per option  £4.286 £1.828-£2.510 £4.3075 £1.491 £1.485 £1.728-£2.175 £0.864
 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   103 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
104
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimate d on the date of grant using th e Black-Scholes option pricing m odel. As all are 
share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exerci se price of £0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes m odel. The 
assumptions for each grant during 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 
Grant date  8 Feb 2013  8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 May 2013 8 May 2013 
Scheme  DAB RSU French RSU LTIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date  £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £10.46 £10.46
Number of employees  53 2,207 93 55 102 3
Shares awarded  466,174 7,686,539 286,900 742,469 258,224 6,645
Vesting period (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility  37% 30%-37% 35%-37% 37% 30%-38% 34%-38%
Expected life (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.43% 0.43%
Fair value per share £9.111 £9.067-£9.200 £9.067-£9.155 £9.111 £10.282-£10.415 £10.282-£10.37
   
Grant date   13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 12 Nov 2013  12 Nov 2013
Scheme   RSU French RSU LTIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date   £8.89 £8.89 £8.89 £9.495 £9.495
Number of employees   134 4 1 252 9
Shares awarded   318,934 6,347 11,280 494,746 16,478
Vesting period (years)   1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility   31%-36% 32%-36% 36% 31%-36% 31%-36%
Expected life (years)   1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate   0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield   0.55% 0.55% 0.55% 0.52% 0.52%
Fair value per share   £8.69-£8.836 £8.69-£8.787 £8.738 £9.30-£9.446 £9.30-£9.397
 
  
 
 
20  Share-based payments continued 
Grant date  8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 May 2012
Scheme  DAB RSU French RSU  LTIP  RSU
Share price at grant date  £5.68 £5.68 £5.68 £5.68 £5.07
Number of employees  50 1,918 91 54 108
Shares awarded  850,741 3,012,604 128,067 1,102,625 159,720
Vesting period (years)  – 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Expected volatility  39% 34%-45% 39%-45% 39% 37%-42%
Expected life (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.61% 0.61% 0.61% 0.61% 0.69%
Fair value per share £5.577 £5.542-£5.671 £5.542- £5.611 £5.577 £4.933-£5.035
   
Grant date  8 May 2012 13 Aug 2012 13 Aug 2012  12 Nov 2012  12 Nov 2012
Scheme  French RSU RSU French RSU  RSU  French RSU
Share price at grant date  £5.07 £5.74 £5.74 £7.125 £7.125
Number of employees  4 126 1 159 3
Shares awarded  4,230 213,201 960 275,270 2,490
Vesting period (years)  2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility  38%-42% 35%-41% 38%-41% 31%-40% 38%-40%
Expected life (years)  2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.69% 0.66% 0.66% 0.53% 0.53%
Fair value per share  £4.933-£5.001 £5.592-£5.703 £5.592-£5.665 £6.976-£7.087 £6.976-£7.05
The expected volatility was primarily based upon historical volatility adjusted for past one-time events that are not expected to re-occur. 
The expected life is the expe cted period to exercise. 
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the ye ar to 31 December 2013 is shown below. Share awards do not have an 
exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no co rresponding weighted average e xercise prices. 
  2013   2012  
 Options Number 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
RSUs/LTIP/DAB 
Number Options Number 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
RSUs/LTIP/DAB 
Number 
Outstanding at 1 January  3,738,922 £1.994 23,255,834 6,581,438 £1.221 35,215,062
Granted  805,002 £6.765 14,972,806 1,360,883 £4.280 14,448,979
Forfeited  (57,969) £4.257 (974,255) (234,196) £3.570 (914,068)
Lapsed  (47,313) £0.575 – (10,589) £0.910 –
Exercised  (2,468,723) £2.414 (17,026,729) (3,958,614) £1.404 (25,494,139)
Outstanding at 31 December  1,969,919 £3.385 20,227,656 3,738,922 £1.994 23,255,834
Exercisable at 31 December  392,451 £0.723 – 985,557 £0.685 –
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   104 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
105
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimate d on the date of grant using th e Black-Scholes option pricing m odel. As all are 
share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exerci se price of £0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes m odel. The 
assumptions for each grant during 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 
Grant date  8 Feb 2013  8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 Feb 2013 8 May 2013 8 May 2013 
Scheme  DAB RSU French RSU LTIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date  £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £9.245 £10.46 £10.46
Number of employees  53 2,207 93 55 102 3
Shares awarded  466,174 7,686,539 286,900 742,469 258,224 6,645
Vesting period (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility  37% 30%-37% 35%-37% 37% 30%-38% 34%-38%
Expected life (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.49% 0.43% 0.43%
Fair value per share £9.111 £9.067-£9.200 £9.067-£9.155 £9.111 £10.282-£10.415 £10.282-£10.37
   
Grant date   13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 13 Aug 2013 12 Nov 2013  12 Nov 2013
Scheme   RSU French RSU LTIP RSU French RSU
Share price at grant date   £8.89 £8.89 £8.89 £9.495 £9.495
Number of employees   134 4 1 252 9
Shares awarded   318,934 6,347 11,280 494,746 16,478
Vesting period (years)   1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility   31%-36% 32%-36% 36% 31%-36% 31%-36%
Expected life (years)   1-4 2-4 3 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate   0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield   0.55% 0.55% 0.55% 0.52% 0.52%
Fair value per share   £8.69-£8.836 £8.69-£8.787 £8.738 £9.30-£9.446 £9.30-£9.397
 
  
 
 
20  Share-based payments continued 
Grant date  8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 May 2012
Scheme  DAB RSU French RSU  LTIP  RSU
Share price at grant date  £5.68 £5.68 £5.68 £5.68 £5.07
Number of employees  50 1,918 91 54 108
Shares awarded  850,741 3,012,604 128,067 1,102,625 159,720
Vesting period (years)  – 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Expected volatility  39% 34%-45% 39%-45% 39% 37%-42%
Expected life (years)  3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.61% 0.61% 0.61% 0.61% 0.69%
Fair value per share £5.577 £5.542-£5.671 £5.542- £5.611 £5.577 £4.933-£5.035
   
Grant date  8 May 2012 13 Aug 2012 13 Aug 2012  12 Nov 2012  12 Nov 2012
Scheme  French RSU RSU French RSU  RSU  French RSU
Share price at grant date  £5.07 £5.74 £5.74 £7.125 £7.125
Number of employees  4 126 1 159 3
Shares awarded  4,230 213,201 960 275,270 2,490
Vesting period (years)  2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Expected volatility  38%-42% 35%-41% 38%-41% 31%-40% 38%-40%
Expected life (years)  2-4 1-4 2-4 1-4 2-4
Risk-free rate  0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5%
Dividend yield  0.69% 0.66% 0.66% 0.53% 0.53%
Fair value per share  £4.933-£5.001 £5.592-£5.703 £5.592-£5.665 £6.976-£7.087 £6.976-£7.05
The expected volatility was primarily based upon historical volatility adjusted for past one-time events that are not expected to re-occur. 
The expected life is the expe cted period to exercise. 
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the ye ar to 31 December 2013 is shown below. Share awards do not have an 
exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no co rresponding weighted average e xercise prices. 
  2013   2012  
 Options Number 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
RSUs/LTIP/DAB 
Number Options Number 
Weighted average 
exercise price 
RSUs/LTIP/DAB 
Number 
Outstanding at 1 January  3,738,922 £1.994 23,255,834 6,581,438 £1.221 35,215,062
Granted  805,002 £6.765 14,972,806 1,360,883 £4.280 14,448,979
Forfeited  (57,969) £4.257 (974,255) (234,196) £3.570 (914,068)
Lapsed  (47,313) £0.575 – (10,589) £0.910 –
Exercised  (2,468,723) £2.414 (17,026,729) (3,958,614) £1.404 (25,494,139)
Outstanding at 31 December  1,969,919 £3.385 20,227,656 3,738,922 £1.994 23,255,834
Exercisable at 31 December  392,451 £0.723 – 985,557 £0.685 –
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   105 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
106
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was £9.29 (2012: £5.72). The following 
options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 
2013 
Exercise price (£) 
Number 
outstanding 
Weighted  
average  
exercise price  
£ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected
Years 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual
Years 
Outstanding options:  
0.7 – 0.854 571,846 0.76 0.49 0.78
1.01 – 1.055  19,166 1.04 0.52 1.05
1.25  1,360 1.25 0.04 0.08
1.948 – 7.96 1,377,547 4.51 2.00 2.25
Total  1,969,919 3.38 1.55 1.81
  
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:  
0.00 (RSUs)  16,792,567 – 1.20 1.20
0.00 (LTIP)  2,054,203 – 1.12 1.12
0.00 (DAB)  1,380,886 – 1.06 1.06
Total  20,227,656 – 1.18 1.18
2012 
Exercise price (£) 
Number 
outstanding 
Weighted  
average  
exercise price  
£ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected
Years 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual
Years 
Outstanding options:  
0.47 – 0.854 1,514,873 0.72 0.87 1.37
1.005 – 1.055  46,114 1.04 1.03 2.05
1.25  32,813 1.25 0.54 1.08
1.325 – 4.464 2,145,122 2.93 1.77 1.97
Total  3,738,922 1.99 1.38 1.72
  
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:  
0.00 (RSUs)  16,750,069 – 0.93 0.93
0.00 (LTIP)  4,189,314 – 0.82 0.82
0.00 (DAB)  2,316,451 – 1.06 1.06
Total  23,255,834 – 0.92 0.92
21  Capital and other financial commitments 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 9.8 0.6
Included in the amount for 2013 is £9.1 mi llion of equipment relating to the expansio n of the US high-performance computing clu ster. 
  
 
 
22  Operating lease commitmen ts – minimum lease payments 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 
  2013   2012  
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Land and 
buildings  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases are as follows:  
Within one year  8.5 18.3 26.8 6.8 20.4 27.2
Later than one year and less than five years  23.1 5.3 28.4 16.9 21.5 38.4
After five years  9.0 – 9.0 6.7 – 6.7
At 31 December  40.6 23.6 64.2 30.4 41.9 72.3
The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms are 
between two and ten years, and the majority of lease agreements are rene wable at the end of the leas e period at market rate. 
23  Financial contingencies 
It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licen see in the event that the 
technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third party. Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemni fication to its 
licensees. The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upo n a third party bringing 
an action against the licensee alleging that the technology lice nsed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third party’s IP rights. The 
indemnification obligations typically survive any terminat ion of the licence and will continue in perpetuity. 
The Group does not provide for any such inde mnities unless it has received notification from the other party that they are like ly to invoke the 
indemnity. A provision is made if both of the following conditio ns are met: (i) information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements 
indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements; and (ii) the amount o f the liability can be 
reasonably estimated. Any such provision is based upon the direct ors’ estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim. 
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resol ution of such 
proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group. Currently, there are legal proceedin gs against some of the Group ’s licensees in which it 
is asserted that certain of the Group’s technology infringes th ird-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group ei ther presently has no 
obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnif ication have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is 
any present obligation to indemnify, the Grou p does not believe that it is probable th at the resolution of such proceedings wil l result in a material 
liability for the Group. If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which c ould result in a material 
liability for the Group.  
24  Related party transactions 
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group incurred subscrip tion costs of £7.0 million from Linaro Limited, an associated company 
of the Group, representing ARM’s committed aggregate contributions to Linaro for a period of two years. In respect of the subsc ription fees, 
the Group was invoiced £4.3 million during the year to 31 December 2013 (2012: £4.2 million). As at 31 December 2013, £1.0 mill ion (2012: 
£1.0 million) was owing to Linaro. 
In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to £1.6 million (2012: £1.7 million). All fees have been charged 
in accordance with the terms of the agreement. As at 31 December 2013, £0.3 mill ion (2012: £1.0 million) was owed to the Group. 
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 26. 
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3. 
There were no other related party transact ions during 2013 which require disclosure. 
25  Post-balance sheet events 
After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final di vidend in respect of 2013 of 3.6 pence per share. Subject to sh areholder approval, 
the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014. The final dividend has not bee n recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   106 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
107
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
20  Share-based payments continued 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was £9.29 (2012: £5.72). The following 
options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 
2013 
Exercise price (£) 
Number 
outstanding 
Weighted  
average  
exercise price  
£ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected
Years 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual
Years 
Outstanding options:  
0.7 – 0.854 571,846 0.76 0.49 0.78
1.01 – 1.055  19,166 1.04 0.52 1.05
1.25  1,360 1.25 0.04 0.08
1.948 – 7.96 1,377,547 4.51 2.00 2.25
Total  1,969,919 3.38 1.55 1.81
  
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:  
0.00 (RSUs)  16,792,567 – 1.20 1.20
0.00 (LTIP)  2,054,203 – 1.12 1.12
0.00 (DAB)  1,380,886 – 1.06 1.06
Total  20,227,656 – 1.18 1.18
2012 
Exercise price (£) 
Number 
outstanding 
Weighted  
average  
exercise price  
£ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Expected
Years 
Weighted 
average 
remaining life 
Contractual
Years 
Outstanding options:  
0.47 – 0.854 1,514,873 0.72 0.87 1.37
1.005 – 1.055  46,114 1.04 1.03 2.05
1.25  32,813 1.25 0.54 1.08
1.325 – 4.464 2,145,122 2.93 1.77 1.97
Total  3,738,922 1.99 1.38 1.72
  
Outstanding RSU/LTIP/DAB awards:  
0.00 (RSUs)  16,750,069 – 0.93 0.93
0.00 (LTIP)  4,189,314 – 0.82 0.82
0.00 (DAB)  2,316,451 – 1.06 1.06
Total  23,255,834 – 0.92 0.92
21  Capital and other financial commitments 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 9.8 0.6
Included in the amount for 2013 is £9.1 mi llion of equipment relating to the expansio n of the US high-performance computing clu ster. 
  
 
 
22  Operating lease commitmen ts – minimum lease payments 
At 31 December 2013, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 
  2013   2012  
 
Land and 
buildings 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Land and 
buildings  
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases are as follows:  
Within one year  8.5 18.3 26.8 6.8 20.4 27.2
Later than one year and less than five years  23.1 5.3 28.4 16.9 21.5 38.4
After five years  9.0 – 9.0 6.7 – 6.7
At 31 December  40.6 23.6 64.2 30.4 41.9 72.3
The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The remaining lease terms are 
between two and ten years, and the majority of lease agreements are rene wable at the end of the leas e period at market rate. 
23  Financial contingencies 
It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licen see in the event that the 
technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third party. Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemni fication to its 
licensees. The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upo n a third party bringing 
an action against the licensee alleging that the technology lice nsed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third party’s IP rights. The 
indemnification obligations typically survive any terminat ion of the licence and will continue in perpetuity. 
The Group does not provide for any such inde mnities unless it has received notification from the other party that they are like ly to invoke the 
indemnity. A provision is made if both of the following conditio ns are met: (i) information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements 
indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements; and (ii) the amount o f the liability can be 
reasonably estimated. Any such provision is based upon the direct ors’ estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim. 
At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resol ution of such 
proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group. Currently, there are legal proceedin gs against some of the Group ’s licensees in which it 
is asserted that certain of the Group’s technology infringes th ird-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group ei ther presently has no 
obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnif ication have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is 
any present obligation to indemnify, the Grou p does not believe that it is probable th at the resolution of such proceedings wil l result in a material 
liability for the Group. If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which c ould result in a material 
liability for the Group.  
24  Related party transactions 
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group incurred subscrip tion costs of £7.0 million from Linaro Limited, an associated company 
of the Group, representing ARM’s committed aggregate contributions to Linaro for a period of two years. In respect of the subsc ription fees, 
the Group was invoiced £4.3 million during the year to 31 December 2013 (2012: £4.2 mill ion). As at 31 December 2013, £1.0 mill ion (2012: 
£1.0 million) was owing to Linaro. 
In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to £1.6 million (2012: £1.7 million). All fees have been charged 
in accordance with the terms of the agreement. As at 31 December 2013, £0.3 mill ion (2012: £1.0 million) was owed to the Group. 
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 26. 
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3. 
There were no other related party transact ions during 2013 which require disclosure. 
25  Post-balance sheet events 
After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final di vidend in respect of 2013 of 3.6 pence per share. Subject to sh areholder approval, 
the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014. The final dividend has not bee n recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   107 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
108
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
26  Principal subsidiaries, as sociates, and joint ventures 
Subsidiaries 
Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below. Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length. A full list is 
filed in the Group’s Annual Return. All investment s are indirectly held unless otherwise shown. 
Name of undertaking  Country of registration  Principal activity 
Proportion of total 
nominal value of 
issued shares held 
ARM Limited  England and Wales  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP.  
100*
ARM Inc.  US  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM France SAS  France  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM Norway AS  Norway  Research and development of graphics IP.  100 
ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Limited India  Marketing, research and de velopment of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Limited PR China  Marketing, research and develo pment of graphics IP.  100 
* The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through AR M Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group. 
Associate 
During 2010 the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-fo r-profit engineering company created to foster innovation in t he Linux 
community. Linaro (a company incorporated in the UK) is a compan y limited by guarantee and as su ch has no shareholders. The Gro up controls 
only 25% of the board and therefore consider s Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary. The Group has not recognised any associate 
profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.  
Joint venture 
In 2012 the Group invested £7.5 million ($12.0 million) in a jo int venture, Trustonic Limited (a company incorporated in the UK ), representing a 
40% shareholding. With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate 
the wide deployment of secure, smart device s. During 2013 the Group invested a further £3.7 million (€4.4 mi llion) into the joi nt venture, 
maintaining the 40% shareholding.  
Investment in joint venture 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
At 1 January 6.8 –
Investment 3.7 7.5
Share of results for the period  (4.0) (0.7)
At 31 December 6.5 6.8
The Group’s share of the results of the joint venture, an d its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: 
Trustonic Limited 
Current assets
£m 
Non-current 
assets
£m 
Current 
liabilities
£m 
Income  
£m 
Expenses  
£m 
Tax 
£m 
Loss for the 
year
£m 
At 31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 (3.9) 2.5 (6.7) 0.2 (4.0)
At 31 December 2012 3.7 4.6 (1.5) – (0.7) – (0.7)
The Group’s share of joint venture capita l commitments amount to £0 .1 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £0.6 million). 
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 
 
At 31 December Note 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Fixed assets  
Investments  4 653.3 616.1
Current assets  
Debtors  5 1.5 0.8
Cash at bank and in hand   0.7 0.9
  2.2 1.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  6 (46.0) (3.0)
Net current liabilities   (43.8) (1.3)
Total assets less current liabilities  609.5 614.8
Net assets   609.5 614.8
Capital and reserves  
Called-up share capital  7 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 8 18.1 12.2
Share option reserve  8 61.4 61.4
Profit and loss reserve  8 529.3 540.5
Total shareholders’ funds  9 609.5 614.8
The financial statements on pages 109 to 114 were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its beh alf by: 
 
 
 
Simon Segars,      Tim Score, 
Chief Executive Officer     Chief Financial Officer 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   108 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
109
Notes to the financial statements  
continued 
26  Principal subsidiaries, as sociates, and joint ventures 
Subsidiaries 
Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below. Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length. A full list is 
filed in the Group’s Annual Return. All investment s are indirectly held unless otherwise shown. 
Name of undertaking  Country of registration  Principal activity 
Proportion of total 
nominal value of 
issued shares held 
ARM Limited  England and Wales  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and graphics IP.  
100*
ARM Inc.  US  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM France SAS  France  Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM Norway AS  Norway  Research and development of graphics IP.  100 
ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Limited India  Marketing, research and de velopment of RISC-based 
microprocessors and physical IP.  
100 
ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Limited PR China  Marketing, research and develo pment of graphics IP.  100 
* The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through AR M Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group. 
Associate 
During 2010 the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-fo r-profit engineering company created to foster innovation in t he Linux 
community. Linaro (a company incorporated in the UK) is a compan y limited by guarantee and as su ch has no shareholders. The Gro up controls 
only 25% of the board and therefore consider s Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary. The Group has not recognised any associate 
profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.  
Joint venture 
In 2012 the Group invested £7.5 million ($12.0 million) in a jo int venture, Trustonic Limited (a company incorporated in the UK ), representing a 
40% shareholding. With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate 
the wide deployment of secure, smart device s. During 2013 the Group invested a further £3.7 million (€4.4 mi llion) into the joi nt venture, 
maintaining the 40% shareholding.  
Investment in joint venture 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
At 1 January 6.8 –
Investment 3.7 7.5
Share of results for the period  (4.0) (0.7)
At 31 December 6.5 6.8
The Group’s share of the results of the joint venture, an d its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: 
Trustonic Limited 
Current assets
£m 
Non-current 
assets
£m 
Current 
liabilities
£m 
Income  
£m 
Expenses  
£m 
Tax 
£m 
Loss for the 
year
£m 
At 31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 (3.9) 2.5 (6.7) 0.2 (4.0)
At 31 December 2012 3.7 4.6 (1.5) – (0.7) – (0.7)
The Group’s share of joint venture capita l commitments amount to £0 .1 million at 31 December 2013 (2012: £0.6 million). 
Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 
 
At 31 December Note 
2013
£m 
2012 
£m 
Fixed assets  
Investments  4 653.3 616.1
Current assets  
Debtors  5 1.5 0.8
Cash at bank and in hand   0.7 0.9
  2.2 1.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  6 (46.0) (3.0)
Net current liabilities   (43.8) (1.3)
Total assets less current liabilities  609.5 614.8
Net assets   609.5 614.8
Capital and reserves  
Called-up share capital  7 0.7 0.7
Share premium account 8 18.1 12.2
Share option reserve  8 61.4 61.4
Profit and loss reserve  8 529.3 540.5
Total shareholders’ funds  9 609.5 614.8
The financial statements on pages 109 to 114 were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its beh alf by: 
 
 
 
Simon Segars,      Tim Score, 
Chief Executive Officer     Chief Financial Officer 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   109 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
110
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP 
1 Principal accounting policies 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in th e UK. A 
summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and review ed by the board of directors in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18, “Accounting policies”, is set out below: 
Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention. 
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost . Where an acquisition satisfie s the provisions of section 612 
of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal va lue of shares issued plus the fair value of any other 
consideration. 
Cash flow statement The Company has not presented a separate cash flow statemen t. The cash flows for the Company are included within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currenci es have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of t he 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in fore ign currencies have been translat ed at the closing rates of exc hange at the balance 
sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in operating profit. 
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively en acted 
by the balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financia l instruments, other than intercompany creditors and debtors, and cash. Due to 
the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers th e fair value of these items to equal the carrying value. Becau se the Company is 
included in the consolidated fi nancial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required 
by FRS 29 are in note 17 of those financ ial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements. 
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share- based payments, including an LTIP, to cert ain employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is m easured by use of 
the Black-Scholes pricing model. The fair value determined at th e grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expe nsed in the 
accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the n umber of shares 
that will eventually vest. 
The Company operates SAYE schemes in the UK and an ESPP in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Options under the SAYE scheme 
were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of anno uncement of the scheme. The UK SAYE schemes are 
approved by the Inland Revenue, whic h stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exem ption available, and has applied the provis ions of FRS 20 only to those options gran ted after 
7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004. Th e Company does not have any employees and as such, in accorda nce 
with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries. The Company recharges t he relevant 
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying valu e of its 
investments. 
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, ne t of direct issue costs. 
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareh olders. Interim dividends are reco gnised 
as a distribution when paid. 
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not re versed at the balance sheet dat e.  
Deferred tax is measured at the average ra tes that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing difference is expect ed to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantia lly enacted by the balance sheet date.  Deferred tax is measured on an 
undiscounted basis. 
 
 
 
2 Profit for the financial year 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss accoun t has not been included in these financial 
statements. The parent company’s loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £1.5 mill ion (2012: 
£1.9 million). The Company has no employees; all three executive directors (as at 31 December 2013) have contracts of service w ith ARM 
Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The emoluments of two of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the director s is paid 
by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclo sed in the remuneration report within this Annual Report. Audit fees are disclosed i n note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 84. 
3 Dividends paid and proposed 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Final dividend paid of 2.83 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2012 (2012: 2.09 pence in respect of 2011)  39.5 28.8
Interim dividend paid of 2.10 pence (2012: 1.67 pence) per ordinary share  29.4 23.0
 68.9 51.8
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in resp ect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share which will 
absorb an estimated £51 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 
22 April 2014, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
4 Investments 
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was £653.3 million at 31 December 2013 and 
£616.1 million at 31 December 2012. The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the i ssue of 
shares for the acquisition of Artisan Compon ents Inc. (now ARM Inc.), and thus did not record the premium within the value of t he investment 
in the Company balance sheet at that time. 
 
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Cost and net book value 
At 1 January 2013  616.1
Additions 0.1
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 59.2
Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments (22.1)
At 31 December 2013  653.3
Where options and awards over the Company’s shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee 
services performed (equal to the share-base d payments) has been recorded as a capita l contribution. The Company recharges the r elevant 
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying valu e 
of its investments. 
The directors believe that th e carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
Interests in Group undertakings 
Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 
Name of undertaking 
Country 
of registration 
Description  
of shares held  
Proportion of 
nominal value 
of issued 
shares held 
ARM Limited  England and Wales Ordina ry £1 shares  less than 0.01%*
ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM Finance UK Limited  England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares  100%
* The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through AR M Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group. 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   110 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
111
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP 
1 Principal accounting policies 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in th e UK. A 
summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and review ed by the board of directors in accordance 
with Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18, “Accounting policies”, is set out below: 
Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention. 
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost . Where an acquisition satisfie s the provisions of section 612 
of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal va lue of shares issued plus the fair value of any other 
consideration. 
Cash flow statement The Company has not presented a separate cash flow statemen t. The cash flows for the Company are included within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currenci es have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of t he 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in fore ign currencies have been translat ed at the closing rates of exc hange at the balance 
sheet date. Exchange differences have been included in operating profit. 
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively en acted 
by the balance sheet date. 
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financia l instruments, other than intercompany creditors and debtors, and cash. Due to 
the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers th e fair value of these items to equal the carrying value. Becau se the Company is 
included in the consolidated fi nancial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required 
by FRS 29 are in note 17 of those financ ial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements. 
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share- based payments, including an LTIP, to cert ain employees of subsidiary undertakings. 
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is m easured by use of 
the Black-Scholes pricing model. The fair value determined at th e grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expe nsed in the 
accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the n umber of shares 
that will eventually vest. 
The Company operates SAYE schemes in the UK and an ESPP in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Options under the SAYE scheme 
were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of anno uncement of the scheme. The UK SAYE schemes are 
approved by the Inland Revenue, whic h stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months. 
The Company has taken advantage of the exem ption available, and has applied the provis ions of FRS 20 only to those options gran ted after 
7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004. Th e Company does not have any employees and as such, in accorda nce 
with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries. The Company recharges t he relevant 
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying valu e of its 
investments. 
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, ne t of direct issue costs. 
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Company’s shareh olders. Interim dividends are reco gnised 
as a distribution when paid. 
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not re versed at the balance sheet dat e.  
Deferred tax is measured at the average ra tes that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing difference is expect ed to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantia lly enacted by the balance sheet date.  Deferred tax is measured on an 
undiscounted basis. 
 
 
 
2 Profit for the financial year 
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss accoun t has not been included in these financial 
statements. The parent company’s loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was £1.5 mill ion (2012: 
£1.9 million). The Company has no employees; all three executive directors (as at 31 December 2013) have contracts of service w ith ARM 
Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. The emoluments of two of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the director s is paid 
by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclo sed in the remuneration report within this Annual Report. Audit fees are disclosed i n note 5 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 84. 
3 Dividends paid and proposed 
 
2013
£m 
2012
£m 
Final dividend paid of 2.83 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2012 (2012: 2.09 pence in respect of 2011)  39.5 28.8
Interim dividend paid of 2.10 pence (2012: 1.67 pence) per ordinary share  29.4 23.0
 68.9 51.8
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in resp ect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share which will 
absorb an estimated £51 million of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 
22 April 2014, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM. 
4 Investments 
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was £653.3 million at 31 December 2013 and 
£616.1 million at 31 December 2012. The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the i ssue of 
shares for the acquisition of Artisan Compon ents Inc. (now ARM Inc.), and thus did not record the premium within the value of t he investment 
in the Company balance sheet at that time. 
 
Investments in 
subsidiary 
undertakings 
£m 
Cost and net book value 
At 1 January 2013  616.1
Additions 0.1
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 59.2
Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments (22.1)
At 31 December 2013  653.3
Where options and awards over the Company’s shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee 
services performed (equal to the share-base d payments) has been recorded as a capita l contribution. The Company recharges the r elevant 
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying valu e 
of its investments. 
The directors believe that th e carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 
Interests in Group undertakings 
Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 
Name of undertaking 
Country 
of registration 
Description  
of shares held  
Proportion of 
nominal value 
of issued 
shares held 
ARM Limited  England and Wales Ordina ry £1 shares  less than 0.01%*
ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary £1 shares 100%
ARM Finance UK Limited  England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares  100%
* The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through AR M Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited. Both ARM 
Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group. 
 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   111 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
112
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued 
4 Investments continued 
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP. The remaining 
shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited (AFL) and ARM Finance UK Three Limited (AFL 3) (with 
AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL). The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediat e holding companies. 
5 Debtors 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.2 0.5
Deferred tax assets * 0.3 0.3
 1.5 0.8
* A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses. 
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 45.7 2.7
Accruals  0.3 0.3
 46.0 3.0
7 Called-up share capital 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Authorised 
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 2,200,000,000)  1.1 1.1
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,400,263,804 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 1,380,768,350)  0.7 0.7
19,495,454 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consid eration of £5.9 million (2012: £5.6 millio n) as a result of the 
exercise of share options at various times during the year. 
Share options and awards 
The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 31 December 2013: 
 
 Year of grant 
Number 
of options 
Range of 
exercise prices 
£ 
Weighted 
average exercise  
price  
£ 
Latest date 
of exercise 
Executive Scheme  2004 1,360 1.25 1.25 29 January 2014
 2005 14,166 1.055 1.055 3 February 2015
 15,526 1.072 
2003 Plan  2004 376,925 0.7-1.01 0.7086 29 November 2014
SAYE  2009 199,921 0.854 0.854 31 January 2015
 2010 126,730 1.948 1.948 31 January 2016
 2011 363,300 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017
 2012 680,302 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018
 2013 207,215 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019
 1,577,468 4.0469 
Total options  1,969,919 3.3847 
 
  
 
 
7 Called-up share capital continued 
   Year of grant 
Number  
of share awards  Latest vest date 
RSU  2010 2,417,436 12 November 2014
 2011 2,833,120 12 November 2015
 2012 2,410,868 12 November 2016
 2013 8,404,823 12 November 2017
 16,066,247 
French RSU  2010 128,769 12 November 2014
 2011 153,375 12 November 2015
 2012 130,087 12 November 2016
 2013 314,089 12 November 2017
 726,320 
LTIP  2011 621,132 8 February 2014
 2012 782,375 8 February 2015
 2013 650,696 8 February 2016
 2,054,203 
DAB  2011 430,102 8 February 2014
 2012 586,666 8 February 2015
 2013 364,118 8 February 2016
 1,380,886 
Total awards  20,227,656 
Total options and awards  22,197,575 
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actu al share awards on vesting rather than options to buy share s at a fixed 
exercise price. The main RSU awards (to em ployees in all jurisdictions other than Fran ce) vest 25% on each anniversary over fou r years. RSU 
awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years. 
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB pl an. Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. Thes e shares will be defe rred for three 
years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EP S performance condition over that time. This scheme will 
be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of th e new scheme, see the Remunerat ion Report on 
page 41. 
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and select ed senior management, whereby sh are awards are made and vest d epending 
on the Company’s TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the 
last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards. For details of the new scheme, see 
the Remuneration Report on page 42. 
The Company also offers SAYE scheme for em ployees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is relate d to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The pe riod of savings is three or five years. The option price for gr ants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the sa vings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option sc heme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Tai wan, namely 
the ESPP. The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six m onths, with the 
option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme. 
The Group has in the past issued share options under several addi tional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted t o employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equa l to the market price of the sh ares under option at the date of grant. These 
schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unap proved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Sha res in 
these schemes are no longer granted, althou gh the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Share s relating 
to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2 012 or 2013. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   112 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
113
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued 
4 Investments continued 
The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP. The remaining 
shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited (AFL) and ARM Finance UK Three Limited (AFL 3) (with 
AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL). The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediat e holding companies. 
5 Debtors 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.2 0.5
Deferred tax assets * 0.3 0.3
 1.5 0.8
* A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses. 
6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 
 
2013 
£m 
2012
£m 
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 45.7 2.7
Accruals  0.3 0.3
 46.0 3.0
7 Called-up share capital 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Authorised 
2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 2,200,000,000)  1.1 1.1
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
1,400,263,804 ordinary shares of 0. 05 pence each (2012: 1,380,768,350)  0.7 0.7
19,495,454 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consid eration of £5.9 million (2012: £5.6 millio n) as a result of the 
exercise of share options at various times during the year. 
Share options and awards 
The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 31 December 2013: 
 
 Year of grant 
Number 
of options 
Range of 
exercise prices 
£ 
Weighted 
average exercise  
price  
£ 
Latest date 
of exercise 
Executive Scheme  2004 1,360 1.25 1.25 29 January 2014
 2005 14,166 1.055 1.055 3 February 2015
 15,526 1.072 
2003 Plan  2004 376,925 0.7-1.01 0.7086 29 November 2014
SAYE  2009 199,921 0.854 0.854 31 January 2015
 2010 126,730 1.948 1.948 31 January 2016
 2011 363,300 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017
 2012 680,302 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018
 2013 207,215 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019
 1,577,468 4.0469 
Total options  1,969,919 3.3847 
 
  
 
 
7 Called-up share capital continued 
   Year of grant 
Number  
of share awards  Latest vest date 
RSU  2010 2,417,436 12 November 2014
 2011 2,833,120 12 November 2015
 2012 2,410,868 12 November 2016
 2013 8,404,823 12 November 2017
 16,066,247 
French RSU  2010 128,769 12 November 2014
 2011 153,375 12 November 2015
 2012 130,087 12 November 2016
 2013 314,089 12 November 2017
 726,320 
LTIP  2011 621,132 8 February 2014
 2012 782,375 8 February 2015
 2013 650,696 8 February 2016
 2,054,203 
DAB  2011 430,102 8 February 2014
 2012 586,666 8 February 2015
 2013 364,118 8 February 2016
 1,380,886 
Total awards  20,227,656 
Total options and awards  22,197,575 
Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actu al share awards on vesting rather than options to buy share s at a fixed 
exercise price. The main RSU awards (to em ployees in all jurisdictions other than Fran ce) vest 25% on each anniversary over fou r years. RSU 
awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years. 
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB pl an. Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, 
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis. Thes e shares will be defe rred for three 
years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EP S performance condition over that time. This scheme will 
be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus. For details of th e new scheme, see the Remunerat ion Report on 
page 41. 
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and select ed senior management, whereby sh are awards are made and vest d epending 
on the Company’s TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period. Grants were made for the 
last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards. For details of the new scheme, see 
the Remuneration Report on page 42. 
The Company also offers SAYE scheme for em ployees and executive directors of the Group. The number of options granted is relate d to the 
value of savings made by the employee. The pe riod of savings is three or five years. The option price for gr ants is set at 80% of the market share 
price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the sa vings have been 
completed. The Company also operates a savings-related option sc heme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Tai wan, namely 
the ESPP. The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee. The period of savings is six m onths, with the 
option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme. 
The Group has in the past issued share options under several addi tional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted t o employees 
and directors. Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equa l to the market price of the sh ares under option at the date of grant. These 
schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan (the “Executive Scheme”), the Unapproved Scheme (the 
“Unapproved Scheme”), the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004. Sha res in 
these schemes are no longer granted, althou gh the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward. Share s relating 
to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2 012 or 2013. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   113 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
114
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued 
7 Called-up share capital continued 
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair valu e assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option bal ances, and related items, 
please refer to note 20 in the consolidated financial statements. 
8 Reserves 
 
Share premium 
account 
£m 
Share option 
reserve 
£m 
Profit and 
loss reserve 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  12.2 61.4 540.5
Premium on issue of share options 5.9 – –
Credit in respect of capital contributi ons arising from share-based payments – – 59.2
Loss attributable to shareholders  – – (1.5)
Equity dividends payable  – – (68.9)
At 31 December 2013  18.1 61.4 529.3
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options gr anted on the acquisition of Arti san Components Inc. in 2004.  
The Company considers the share option reserv e and share premium account as non-distributable. Within the profit and loss reserve are credits 
in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as 
a capital contribution. The Company also considers these credit s as non-distributable. As such, approximately £324 million of t he profit and loss 
reserve is deemed distributable. 
The Company did not undertake any share buy- backs during 2013. The quantum and frequenc y of share repurchases is not predetermi ned and 
will take into account prevailing market conditions, the short- to medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of empl oyee share-based 
remuneration going forward. At 31 December 2013, there were nil (2012: nil) shares in the Company still held from purchases made in 
prior years. 
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Loss attributable to shareholders  (1.5) (1.9)
Equity dividends payable  (68.9) (51.8)
 (70.4) (53.7)
New share capital issued 5.9 5.6
Credit in respect of capital contributi ons arising from share-based payments 59.2 37.1
Net reduction to shareholders’ funds  (5.3) (11.0)
Opening shareholders’ funds  614.8 625.8
Closing shareholders’ funds  609.5 614.8
10 Capital commitments 
The Company had no capital commitme nts at 31 December 2013 and 2012. 
11 Financial commitments and contingencies 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Company had no annual commitment s under non-cancellable operating leases and no contingencies. 
12 Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exempt ion from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disc losures”, 
where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation. 
13  Post-balance sheet events 
After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final divi dend in respect of 2013 of 3. 6 pence per share. Subject to sh areholder approval, 
the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014. The final dividend has not bee n recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc 
 
Report on the parent company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the parent company fi nancial statements, defined below: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The parent company financial st atements, which are prepared by ARM Holdings plc, comprise: 
• the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013;  
• the notes to the parent company financial statements, which in clude a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprise s applicable law and UK Accounting Standar ds 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respec t of significant 
accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
What an audit of financia l statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standard s on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (“ ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financ ial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that t he financial 
statements are free from materi al misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent co mpany’s circumstances, and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors;   
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial an d non-financial information in the annual report and accoun ts (the “annual report”) to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited parent comp any financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materia lly incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the parent Company fin ancial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited ha s been properly prepared in acco rdance with the Companies Act 20 06. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   114 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
115
Notes to the financial statements/UK GAAP  
continued 
7 Called-up share capital continued 
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair valu e assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option bal ances, and related items, 
please refer to note 20 in the consolidated financial statements. 
8 Reserves 
 
Share premium 
account 
£m 
Share option 
reserve 
£m 
Profit and 
loss reserve 
£m 
At 1 January 2013  12.2 61.4 540.5
Premium on issue of share options 5.9 – –
Credit in respect of capital contributi ons arising from share-based payments – – 59.2
Loss attributable to shareholders  – – (1.5)
Equity dividends payable  – – (68.9)
At 31 December 2013  18.1 61.4 529.3
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options gr anted on the acquisition of Arti san Components Inc. in 2004.  
The Company considers the share option reserv e and share premium account as non-distributable. Within the profit and loss reserve are credits 
in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as 
a capital contribution. The Company also considers these credit s as non-distributable. As such, approximately £324 million of t he profit and loss 
reserve is deemed distributable. 
The Company did not undertake any share buy- backs during 2013. The quantum and frequenc y of share repurchases is not predetermi ned and 
will take into account prevailing market conditions, the short- to medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of empl oyee share-based 
remuneration going forward. At 31 December 2013, there were nil (2012: nil) shares in the Company still held from purchases made in 
prior years. 
9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
Loss attributable to shareholders  (1.5) (1.9)
Equity dividends payable  (68.9) (51.8)
 (70.4) (53.7)
New share capital issued 5.9 5.6
Credit in respect of capital contributi ons arising from share-based payments 59.2 37.1
Net reduction to shareholders’ funds  (5.3) (11.0)
Opening shareholders’ funds  614.8 625.8
Closing shareholders’ funds  609.5 614.8
10 Capital commitments 
The Company had no capital commitme nts at 31 December 2013 and 2012. 
11 Financial commitments and contingencies 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Company had no annual commitment s under non-cancellable operating leases and no contingencies. 
12 Related party transactions 
The Company has taken advantage of the exempt ion from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disc losures”, 
where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation. 
13  Post-balance sheet events 
After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final divi dend in respect of 2013 of 3. 6 pence per share. Subject to sh areholder approval, 
the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014. The final dividend has not bee n recognised as a 
distribution during the year ended 31 December 2013. 
 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc 
 
Report on the parent company financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the parent company fi nancial statements, defined below: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013; 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report. 
What we have audited 
The parent company financial st atements, which are prepared by ARM Holdings plc, comprise: 
• the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013;  
• the notes to the parent company financial statements, which in clude a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprise s applicable law and UK Accounting Standar ds 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respec t of significant 
accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events. 
What an audit of financia l statements involves  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standard s on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (“ ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financ ial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that t he financial 
statements are free from materi al misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent co mpany’s circumstances, and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors;   
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.  
In addition, we read all the financial an d non-financial information in the annual report and accoun ts (the “annual report”) to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited parent comp any financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materia lly incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. 
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the parent Company fin ancial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements. 
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited ha s been properly prepared in acco rdance with the Companies Act 20 06. 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   115 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
116
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc 
continued  
 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and in formation and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been ke pt by the parent company, or returns adeq uate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration re port to be audited are not in agreement w ith the 
accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in ou r opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speci fied by law have 
not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Other information in the annual report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in th e audited parent company financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsis tent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the pare nt company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with th e Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and on ly for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chap ter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibilit y for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.  
 
 
Charles Bowman  
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
5 March 2014 
Glossary 
 
 
Apps Application software that runs within the chip. 
ARM7/9/11 ARM7 processor was one of ARM’s first commer cial products. ARM9 and ARM11 processors 
followed later. 
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs. 
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM proc essors on a single chip: one (big) that delivers high-performance 
when needed with the other (L ITTLE) running most of the time, enabling long battery-life. 
CAGR Compound annual growth rate. 
Cortex ARM’s latest family of processors. 
DTV Digital TV. 
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, in cluding semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs 
and software providers. 
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips are typically manufactured 
by a foundry. For example Mediatek, NVIDIA and Qualcomm. 
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company th at manufacturers computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor 
companies. For example TSMC and UMC. 
Intellectual Property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general te rm for the products that are designs 
only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.  
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connec ted to the internet either directly or indirectly via 
a smartphone. From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights.  
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partne rs. They pay an upfront free, which 
is reported as “licence revenue”. 
LTE Long Term Evolution (or 4G) is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones. It is optimised 
for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.  
Mali ARM’s family of 3D graphics processors. 
Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been/can be used in many applications. 
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU. 
Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) 
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. For example Apple, HTC 
and LG. 
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology. 
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation a SoC design. 
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip. 
Processor Optimisation Pack 
(POP) 
Physical IP components that have been selected an d optimised to implement a processor on a specific 
foundry’s manufacturing process. 
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. The royalty is usually a percentage 
of the selling price of the chip and is reported as “royalty revenue”. 
STB Set-top box. 
System-on-Chip (SoC) A SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip. Most ARM 
processors are used in either an SoC or MCU. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   116 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
117
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc 
continued  
 
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and in formation and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
• adequate accounting records have not been ke pt by the parent company, or returns adeq uate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration re port to be audited are not in agreement w ith the 
accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Directors’ remuneration 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in ou r opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration speci fied by law have 
not been made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Other information in the annual report 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: 
• materially inconsistent with the information in th e audited parent company financial statements; or 
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsis tent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course 
of performing our audit; or 
• is otherwise misleading. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit 
Our responsibilities and those of the directors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the pare nt company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with th e Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and on ly for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chap ter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibilit y for any other 
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.  
 
 
Charles Bowman  
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
5 March 2014 
Glossary 
 
 
Apps Application software that runs within the chip. 
ARM7/9/11 ARM7 processor was one of ARM’s first commer cial products. ARM9 and ARM11 processors 
followed later. 
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs. 
big.LITTLE Combination of two different ARM proc essors on a single chip: one (big) that delivers high-performance 
when needed with the other (L ITTLE) running most of the time, enabling long battery-life. 
CAGR Compound annual growth rate. 
Cortex ARM’s latest family of processors. 
DTV Digital TV. 
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, in cluding semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs 
and software providers. 
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips. These chips are typically manufactured 
by a foundry. For example Mediatek, NVIDIA and Qualcomm. 
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company th at manufacturers computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor 
companies. For example TSMC and UMC. 
Intellectual Property (IP) ARM designs technology for use in computer chips. The general te rm for the products that are designs 
only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.  
Internet of Things (IoT) An increasing variety of digital devices are being connec ted to the internet either directly or indirectly via 
a smartphone. From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights.  
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partne rs. They pay an upfront free, which 
is reported as “licence revenue”. 
LTE Long Term Evolution (or 4G) is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones. It is optimised 
for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.  
Mali ARM’s family of 3D graphics processors. 
Microcontroller (MCU) A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been/can be used in many applications. 
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU. 
Original Equipment 
Manufacturer (OEM) 
An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones. For example Apple, HTC 
and LG. 
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARM’s processor technology. 
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation a SoC design. 
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip. 
Processor Optimisation Pack 
(POP) 
Physical IP components that have been selected an d optimised to implement a processor on a specific 
foundry’s manufacturing process. 
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology. The royalty is usually a percentage 
of the selling price of the chip and is reported as “royalty revenue”. 
STB Set-top box. 
System-on-Chip (SoC) A SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip. Most ARM 
processors are used in either an SoC or MCU. 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   117 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
118
Group directory 
 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410 
ARM Limited 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8LT 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 427700 
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701 
Rockingham Court 
152 Rockingham Street 
Sheffield S1 4EB 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 114 282 8000 
Fax: +44 (0) 114 282 8001 
Blackburn Design Centre 
Belthorn House 
Walker Road 
Blackburn BB1 2QE 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1254 893900 
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901 
Geomerics Limited 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge 
CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
ARM France SAS 
12 Avenue des Prés 
BL204 Montigny le 
Bretonneux 
78059 Saint Quentin en 
Yvelines, Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 1 39 30 47 89 
Fax: +33 1 39 30 47 88 
25 Allée Pierre Ziller 
Le Paros 
BP 70124 
06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 4 97 23 51 00 
Fax: +33 4 97 23 51 99 
Miniparc Polytec 
60 Rue des Berges 
38000 Grenoble 
France 
Tel: +33 4 56 38 47 00 
Fax: +33 4 56 38 47 01 
ARM Germany GmbH 
Bretonischer Ring 16 
D-85630 Grasbrunn 
Germany 
Tel: +49 89 456 040-0 
Fax: +49 89 456 040-19 
Obrtna Cesta 18 
SL-8310 
Sentjernej 
Slovenia 
ARM Israel 
3 Hagavish Street 
44424 Kfar Saba 
Israel 
Tel: +972.9.7644888 
Fax: +972.9.7644884 
ARM Norway AS 
Olav Tryggvassons gt. 39-41 
7011 Trondheim 
Norway 
Tel: +47 7318 7500 
Fax: +47 7351 3181 
ARM Sweden AB 
Lilla Fiskaregatan 12 
SE-222 22 Lund 
Sweden 
Tel: +46 46 540 11 04 
Fax: +46 46 14 48 08 
ARM Finland Oy 
Konekuja 2 
Fl-90620 Oulu 
Finland 
Tel: +358 10 387 8680 
ARM Belgium Services BVBA 
Mechelsesteenweg 277 
1800 Vilvoorde 
Belgium 
Tel: +32 2 3045598 
ARM Inc. 
150 Rose Orchard Way 
San Jose, CA 95134-1358 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 408 576 1501 
The Park on Barton Creek 
3711 S. Mopac Expressway 
Building 1, Suite 400 
Austin, TX 78746 
United States 
Tel: +1 512 327 9249 
Fax: +1 512 314 1078 
5 East Street 
Franklin, MA 02038 
United States 
Tel: +1 970 532 0767 
Fax: +1 508 520 1907 
2 Venture Suite 470 
Irvine, CA 92618 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 949 623 8305 
4965 Preston Park Blvd 
Suite 650 
Plano, TX 75093 
United States 
Tel: +1 972 312 1107 
Fax: +1 972 312 1159 
2002 Caton Way SW 
Olympia 
WA 98502-1119 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
5375 Mira Sorrento Place 
Suite 290 
San Diego, CA 92121 
United States 
Tel: +1 858 453 1900 
2320 130
th
 Avenue NE 
Building E, Suite 220 
Bellevue 
WA 98005 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
  
 
 
ARM KK 
Shinyokohama Square Bldg. 17F 
2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama 
Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi 
Kanagawa 222-0033 
Japan 
Tel: +81 45 477 5260 
Fax: +81 45 477 5261 
ARM Korea Limited 
8th Floor Kyungdong Building 
4-4 Sunae-Dong 
Bundang-Gu, Seongnam-si 
Gyeonggi-do 463-020 
Korea 
Tel: +82 31 712 8234 
Fax: +82 31 713 8225 
ARM Embedded  
Technologies Pvt. Limited 
Bagmane World Technology Center – SEZ 
Citrine Block, 5
th
 and 6
th
 Floor 
Marathahalli Outer Ring Road 
Mahaderapura 
Bangalore 560048 
Tel: +91 80 4928 2000 
Fax: +91 80 4112 7403 
Unit no: F2 (II), 2
nd
 Floor 
S.B. Towers, Plot no: IA/I Sector 16A 
Film City, Noida – 201301 
Uttar Pradesh 
ARM Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd 
35F, Building B,  
New CHJ International Business Centre 
No. 391 Guiping Road 
Shanghai 200233 
PR China 
Tel: +86 21 6154 9000 
Fax: +86 21 6154 9100 
Room 602, Ideal Plaza 
58 West Road 
North 4th Ring Road 
Haidian District 
Beijing 100080 
PR China 
Tel: +86 10 8217 2000 
Fax: +86 10 8217 2010 
Unit 13B01, Anlian Plaza 
No.4018, Jin Tian Road 
Futian District 
Shenzhen 518006 
PR China 
Tel: +86 755 8280 4836 
Fax: +86 755 8280 4839 
ARM Taiwan Limited 
8F, No. 36, Ruihu Street 
Nei-Hu District 
Taipei City 
11494 
Taiwan (R.O.C) 
Tel: +886 2 8752 1700 
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682 
7F, No. 2, Li-Hsin 
6
th
 Road Hsinchu Science Park 
Hsinchu City 
30078 
Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
Tel: +886 3 565 7100 
Fax: +886 3 567 7128 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   118 10/03/2014   21:00 Governance Financial Report
119
Group directory 
 
ARM Holdings plc 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 400410 
ARM Limited 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead 
Berkshire SL6 8LT 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 427700 
Fax: +44 (0) 1628 427701 
Rockingham Court 
152 Rockingham Street 
Sheffield S1 4EB 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 114 282 8000 
Fax: +44 (0) 114 282 8001 
Blackburn Design Centre 
Belthorn House 
Walker Road 
Blackburn BB1 2QE 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1254 893900 
Fax: +44 (0) 1254 893901 
Geomerics Limited 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge 
CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 400400 
ARM France SAS 
12 Avenue des Prés 
BL204 Montigny le 
Bretonneux 
78059 Saint Quentin en 
Yvelines, Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 1 39 30 47 89 
Fax: +33 1 39 30 47 88 
25 Allée Pierre Ziller 
Le Paros 
BP 70124 
06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex 
France 
Tel: +33 4 97 23 51 00 
Fax: +33 4 97 23 51 99 
Miniparc Polytec 
60 Rue des Berges 
38000 Grenoble 
France 
Tel: +33 4 56 38 47 00 
Fax: +33 4 56 38 47 01 
ARM Germany GmbH 
Bretonischer Ring 16 
D-85630 Grasbrunn 
Germany 
Tel: +49 89 456 040-0 
Fax: +49 89 456 040-19 
Obrtna Cesta 18 
SL-8310 
Sentjernej 
Slovenia 
ARM Israel 
3 Hagavish Street 
44424 Kfar Saba 
Israel 
Tel: +972.9.7644888 
Fax: +972.9.7644884 
ARM Norway AS 
Olav Tryggvassons gt. 39-41 
7011 Trondheim 
Norway 
Tel: +47 7318 7500 
Fax: +47 7351 3181 
ARM Sweden AB 
Lilla Fiskaregatan 12 
SE-222 22 Lund 
Sweden 
Tel: +46 46 540 11 04 
Fax: +46 46 14 48 08 
ARM Finland Oy 
Konekuja 2 
Fl-90620 Oulu 
Finland 
Tel: +358 10 387 8680 
ARM Belgium Services BVBA 
Mechelsesteenweg 277 
1800 Vilvoorde 
Belgium 
Tel: +32 2 3045598 
ARM Inc. 
150 Rose Orchard Way 
San Jose, CA 95134-1358 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 408 576 1501 
The Park on Barton Creek 
3711 S. Mopac Expressway 
Building 1, Suite 400 
Austin, TX 78746 
United States 
Tel: +1 512 327 9249 
Fax: +1 512 314 1078 
5 East Street 
Franklin, MA 02038 
United States 
Tel: +1 970 532 0767 
Fax: +1 508 520 1907 
2 Venture Suite 470 
Irvine, CA 92618 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
Fax: +1 949 623 8305 
4965 Preston Park Blvd 
Suite 650 
Plano, TX 75093 
United States 
Tel: +1 972 312 1107 
Fax: +1 972 312 1159 
2002 Caton Way SW 
Olympia 
WA 98502-1119 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
5375 Mira Sorrento Place 
Suite 290 
San Diego, CA 92121 
United States 
Tel: +1 858 453 1900 
2320 130
th
 Avenue NE 
Building E, Suite 220 
Bellevue 
WA 98005 
United States 
Tel: +1 408 576 1500 
  
 
 
ARM KK 
Shinyokohama Square Bldg. 17F 
2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama 
Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi 
Kanagawa 222-0033 
Japan 
Tel: +81 45 477 5260 
Fax: +81 45 477 5261 
ARM Korea Limited 
8th Floor Kyungdong Building 
4-4 Sunae-Dong 
Bundang-Gu, Seongnam-si 
Gyeonggi-do 463-020 
Korea 
Tel: +82 31 712 8234 
Fax: +82 31 713 8225 
ARM Embedded  
Technologies Pvt. Limited 
Bagmane World Technology Center – SEZ 
Citrine Block, 5
th
 and 6
th
 Floor 
Marathahalli Outer Ring Road 
Mahaderapura 
Bangalore 560048 
Tel: +91 80 4928 2000 
Fax: +91 80 4112 7403 
Unit no: F2 (II), 2
nd
 Floor 
S.B. Towers, Plot no: IA/I Sector 16A 
Film City, Noida – 201301 
Uttar Pradesh 
ARM Consulting 
(Shanghai) Co. Ltd 
35F, Building B,  
New CHJ International Business Centre 
No. 391 Guiping Road 
Shanghai 200233 
PR China 
Tel: +86 21 6154 9000 
Fax: +86 21 6154 9100 
Room 602, Ideal Plaza 
58 West Road 
North 4th Ring Road 
Haidian District 
Beijing 100080 
PR China 
Tel: +86 10 8217 2000 
Fax: +86 10 8217 2010 
Unit 13B01, Anlian Plaza 
No.4018, Jin Tian Road 
Futian District 
Shenzhen 518006 
PR China 
Tel: +86 755 8280 4836 
Fax: +86 755 8280 4839 
ARM Taiwan Limited 
8F, No. 36, Ruihu Street 
Nei-Hu District 
Taipei City 
11494 
Taiwan (R.O.C) 
Tel: +886 2 8752 1700 
Fax: +886 2 2627 1682 
7F, No. 2, Li-Hsin 
6
th
 Road Hsinchu Science Park 
Hsinchu City 
30078 
Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
Tel: +886 3 565 7100 
Fax: +886 3 567 7128 
  
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   119 10/03/2014   21:00 ARM Holdings plc
Governance and Financial Report 2013
120
Key shareholder information  
ARM Holdings plc is the parent 
company of the Group 
Company Number: 2548782 
Incorporated in England & Wales 
Domiciled in the UK 
Public company limited by shares 
Secretary and registered office 
Patricia Alsop 
110 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge CB1 9NJ 
United Kingdom 
Independent auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London WC2N 6RH 
United Kingdom 
Stockbrokers 
UBS Limited 
2 Finsbury Avenue 
London EC2M 2PP 
United Kingdom 
Goldman Sachs 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom 
Registrars 
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom 
Shareholder Helpline 
0871 384 2139 
Depositary 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
101 Barclays Street 
New York 
New York 10286 
United States of America 
Legal advisers 
UK Law 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY 
United Kingdom 
Linklaters 
One Silk Street 
London EC2Y 8HQ 
United Kingdom 
US Law 
Davis Polk & Wardwell 
99 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7NG 
United Kingdom 
 
For more shareholder information please 
contact Ian Thornton at 
investor.relations@arm.com  
Our website contains information 
for shareholders, including regular strategic, 
business and financial updates. 
www.arm.com/ir 
017043_ARM_GovernanceFinancials_2013_WORD.indd   120 10/03/2014   21:00 g overnance 
  Chairman’s introduction 1
  Board of directors 4
  Corporate governance 6
  Directors’ report 23
  Directors’ remuneration report 29
f inancial Report
  Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of ARM Holdings plc 55
  Consolidated income statement 60
  Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 60
  Consolidated balance sheet 61
  Consolidated cash flow statement 62
  Consolidated statement of changes  
in shareholders’ equity 63
  Notes to the financial statements 64
  Company balance sheet/UK GAAP 109
  Notes to the financial statements/ 
UK GAAP 110
  Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of ARM Holdings plc 115
g lossary and g roup directory
 Glossary 117
  Group directory 118
  Key shareholder information 120
o ur vision
  Operational highlights 
  Financial highlights 
  Chairman’s review 
  Chief Executive’s statement 
 o ur performance
  Our marketplace 
  Our business model 
  Our global reach 
  Strategy and key  
performance indicators 
  Mobile computing 
  Enterprise infrastructure 
  Embedded computing 
o ur c ommitment
  Governance 
  Sustainability 
  Risk management and principal risks
o ur f inancial Review
  Chief Financial Officer’s review 
  Summary accounts 
 Glossary  
f ront cover 
Most major population centres are now 
covered by 3G or 4G networks, and there 
were more than two billion smartphones 
and tablets connecting to the internet in 
2013. With some mobile computers now 
costing as little as $35, many more people 
can now afford to buy a smart device. 
An entry-level mobile computer may have 
up to four ARM
®
-based chips.
d ownloads
More information about ARM and our 
end market opportunities are available 
on our website.
Reports available online:
  Strategic Report
  Governance and Financial Report
  Corporate Responsibility Report
ARM’s annual report is in two parts. The Strategic Report contains 
information about the Group, how we make money and how we run 
the business. It includes our strategy, business model, markets and 
key performance indicators, as well as our approach to governance, 
sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our 
financial management.
The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about 
how we run the business and remunerate management, and how 
we organise ourselves financially.
Online you can find more information about our end markets, 
including case studies about how our technology is used in our 
customers’ products. A more detailed Corporate Responsibility 
report is also available online.
g ove RnAnce And  
f inAnci Al Repo Rt
  
s tRA tegic R epo Rt
  
o nline Repo Rting
WelcoMe to oUR goveRnAnce  
And finAnciAl RepoR t
www.arm.com/reporting2013
equiniti s hareholder s ervices
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
BN99 6DA, UK
Phone: 0871 384 2139
www.equiniti.com
ian t hornton
Head of Investor Relations 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 400796
E-mail: ian.thornton@arm.com
phil s parks
Investor Relations Manager 
ARM Holdings plc 
1 10 Fulbourn Road 
Cambridge, CB1 9NJ
Phone: +44 1223 405566
E-mail: philip.sparks@arm.com
l aura faid
Investor Relations Associate 
ARM Holdings plc 
Liberty House 
Moorbridge Road 
Maidenhead, SL6 8LT
Phone: +44 1628 427800
E-mail: laura.faid@arm.com
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com 
This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by 
the Forest Stewardship Council
®
 and contains 100% recycled waste. The paper 
is Process Chlorine Free (PCF) made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental 
management system accreditation. This report was produced using the pureprint
®
 
environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently 
audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process. 
Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral
®
 printer certified to 
ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco 
Management Audit Scheme.
ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM 
Limited. ARM7, ARM9, ARM1 1, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
investoR Rel Ations cont Act det Ails 
 
If want to inform us of a change address 
or have lost your share certificate or have 
an enquiry about dividend payments 
please contact:
For all other enquires please contact one of  
ARM’s investor relations team: ARM Holdings plc
1 10 Fulbourn Road
Cambridge CB1 9NJ
United Kingdom
Telephone +44 (0)1223 400400
Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400410
www.arm.com
twitter: @ARMCommunity
pinterest: ARMLtd
facebook.com/ARMfans
youtube.com/armflix
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report
effective gove RnAnce  
And st Rong f inAnci Al 
pe Rfo RMAnce
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report
