 Annual Report and Accounts
For the year ended 31 December 2012 SOURCE OF SUCCESS Playtech is the 
world’s largest 
listed online 
gaming software 
and services 
supplier.
Competitive Advantage
Playtech has significant scale and offers a  
full range of gaming products and ancillary
services, underpinned by a sophisticated 
technology platform, which unites all 
product verticals, third party content, an 
extensive content library and complementary 
services; these are delivered seamlessly 
through multiple channels including web, 
mobile, live and broadcast enabling players 
to move between product verticals using  
one wallet, maximising player value and 
ultimately licensee revenue.
Principal Customers and Markets
Playtech derives revenue from three main 
constituencies: B2B, B2G and joint ventures.
Playtech has over 1 10 licensees comprising  
a number of the leading names in the  
gaming industry, including Bet365, Gala 
Coral, Ladbrokes, Titan, Tropez and William 
Hill. Playtech has approximately 40 licensees 
contributing €1 million or more in revenues, 
with only three licensees representing more 
than 10% of total revenues. The Group provides 
its services worldwide in both regulated and 
unregulated markets and currently has more 
than half of its software royalty revenues 
derived from regulated markets.
Playtech is supplier to the government 
lotteries in Finland and Serbia.
Through 2012, Playtech had joint ventures  
with the following: William Hill Online  
(29%), Gauselmann (Germany) (49.99%)  
and Peermont (South Africa) (50%).
24 January 2012 
Formation of two joint 
ventures
24 January 2012 
Acquisition of Geneity
1 March 2012 
Signs agreement with 
Caliente, Mexico’s largest 
land-based casino operator
9 May 2012 
Gala Casino launch
12 Jun 2012 
Playtech enters the Social 
gaming arena through 
Skywind Holdings
2 July 2012 
Listing on LSE Main Market
11 July 2012 
Gala Bingo launch
24 August 2012 
Launch of mobile bingo 
26 August 2012 
Poker liquidity  
program launched
11 October 2012
Coral launch 
6 November 2012 
Betclic Everest Launch  
with Playtech
A year of progress
Continued 
overleaf... Casino Games Poker Bingo Sport
Live & TV 
Gaming
Internet Mobile
TV  
Broadcast
Gaming 
Machines
Lottery
IMS: Integrated Operator Platform
PT Turnkey Services
About Playtech
Our business model is centred on the 
continual development of market-leading 
gaming products and content. These, 
together with a broad range of ancillary 
services, are provided to a diverse  
range of operators across both locally 
regulated markets and globally, through  
all distribution channels.
Overview
Our Products and Platform
Playtech has industry-leading content  
and player networks combined with  
unique cross-platform capabilities.  
This is supported by the sophisticated  
and integrating tools of the IMS enabling 
operators to easily integrate new products 
on a single platform and maximise the 
potential for enhanced player returns. 
Turnkey Services
PTTS delivers material value and expertise  
to its licensees across the key elements of  
player acquisition and retention, together  
with the opportunity to realise substantial  
cost efficiencies through the outsourcing  
of operational services which benefit from 
economies of scale.
 
Casino
With best-of-breed graphics and audio,  
together with regular releases of new games 
content including branded games, Playtech 
Casino has been designed to attract and 
retain a broad range of players.
Games
Playtech’s Games Tab is centred on an 
innovative open platform solution which 
enables the seamless integration of a wide 
range of games from both internal and 
third-party developers.
Poker
Home to Europe’s leading operators, 
Playtech’s iPoker network is the largest 
independent poker network in the world, 
with over 35,000 concurrent players at  
peak time.
Bingo
Playtech’s Bingo network includes over  
80 sites and is home to 65,000 daily players, 
over 16,000 concurrent players at peak time, 
driving over €165 million in total stakes- 
per-month.
Sports Betting
Playtech’s Sports Betting platform offers  
a sophisticated next-generation trading  
and in-play capability across a very broad  
sports offering. 
 
Live & TV Gaming
With both European and Asian formats, 
Playtech’s Live offering drives important  
cross-channel traffic, blurring the  
boundary between land-based and  
online environments.
Mobile
As an integral part of the cross-platform 
offering, Playtech Mobile enables  
content integration and a seamless  
player experience.
Key Products Our Presence and Markets
Regulated Markets
Playtech’s experience in locally-regulated 
markets, such as the UK, Italy and Finland,  
is a crucial part of the Company’s success
and provides substantial long-term growth 
opportunities. Membership of the World  
Lottery Association and close relationships  
with regulators worldwide reflect Playtech’s 
strong reputation. This is aided by Playtech’s 
profile as a publicly listed company.
As the world’s leading listed supplier 
to the online gaming industry, Playtech 
offers the widest product choice in  
the industry, backed by over a decade 
of outsourcing expertise, including 
marketing and player retention.
Global Operators
Leading operators include sportsbook and specialist 
gaming operators, such as Bet365, Betfair, Betfred, 
Gala Coral, Ladbrokes, Mansion, Paddy Power  
and Titan. 
Locally-Regulated Markets
Well-recognised local operators in regulated markets, 
including Casino Gran Madrid, Codere, JOA, Olympic, 
SISAL, SNAI and Sportech. 
B2G
State-owned or state-sponsored entities, including  
the RAY in Finland and Serbian Lottery.
Joint Ventures 
Partnerships with leading land-based  
operators including Gauselmann,  
Peermont and William Hill Online*.
Videobet
Playtech’s gaming machine subsidiary  
Videobet provides a complete end-to-end  
solution for land-based gaming operations, 
leveraging the architecture and stability  
of Playtech’s online offering.  
Social
In 2012, Playtech entered into a licence 
agreement with Skywind Holdings to provide  
the Group with a wide range of social and  
real money gaming software, giving access  
to platforms and products and complementary 
real money products.
*  William Hill confirmed on 1 March 2013 that it
 was exercising its call option over Playtech’s 29
 per cent stake in William Hill Online. The transaction
 is expected to complete by the end of April 2013. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1
2012 317.5
2011 207.5
2010 142.3
2009 114.8
2008 111 .5
*  Gross income is defined as total revenue plus the Group’s income from associate.
**   Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EPS and adjusted net profit are calculated after adding  
back certain non-cash charges, cash expenses relating to certain one-off professional  
and legal costs, expenditure relating to the move to the Main Market and prior year  
taxes (see reconciliation in Financial Review on page 24).
***  Net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents less loans and borrowings.
Highlights
€51.7m 
2011: €137.3m
Total Revenue
Adjusted Net Profit**
Adjusted Basic EPS** 
Recommended  
Final Dividend for 2012 
Net Cash Balances*** 
Adjusted EBITDA**
€186.7m 
+49% 
2011: €124.9m
€168.5m 
+49%
2011: €112.8m
Total Revenue
€31 7 .5m 
+53%
2011: €207.5m
Gross Income*
€368.1m 
+51 %
2011: €243.6m
58.1 € cents 
+26%
2011: 46.2 € cents
15.4 € cents 
per share
Full year dividend 
+41 %
1  Highlights
2  Chairman’s Statement
Overview
4  Chief Executive Officer’s Report
10 Industry Overview 
14  Business Model & Strategy 
16  Products 
21  Partnerships 
22  Financial Review
Business Review
50  Corporate Social Responsibilty
Sustainability
28  Board of Directors
30  Directors’ Report
33  Corporate Governance
37  Remuneration Report
45  Nominations Committee Report
46  Audit Committee Report
47  Risk & Compliance Committee Report
48  Key Risks
Governance
57  Independent Auditor’s Report 
58  Financial Statements
63 Notes to the Financial Statements
94 Parent Company Financial Statements
98  Five-Year Financial Summary
BC Company Information
Accounts 2 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating across all regulated areas, Playtech  
is in a prime position to benefit from increasing 
regulation as it develops on an international 
scale. It is the Board’s belief that the Company’s 
ability to provide market-leading products  
and services to both established operators and 
new entrants operating under new regulations 
will over time increase the scale and quality  
of its earnings.
Strategic developments during the year 
included further integration of PTTS, our wholly 
owned services business, the acquisition of 
which introduced the ability to provide full 
turnkey solutions, enhancing joint venture 
opportunities and further increasing Playtech’s 
ability to attract new partners. The acquisitions 
of Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity have 
been fully integrated and have proven to 
positively enhance Playtech’s offering and 
strengthen its position as the best of breed 
technology provider to the global online 
gaming industry.
The Company was pleased to announce  
in February 2013 that its joint venture with 
Gauselmann in Germany was awarded licenses 
by the State of Schleswig-Holstein for the 
provision of casino and sports betting, and 
management is now working with Gauselmann 
to develop an appropriate business plan 
pertinent to the emerging regulatory regime  
in Germany.
Signs from the US are encouraging, with  
the news that the states of New Jersey and 
Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker 
respectively. As a result, other US states may 
contemplate similar actions, however, such 
developments are in their infancy and there 
remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, 
political and practical considerations. We 
continue to watch developments closely.
Introduction
The year ending 31 December 2012 was  
an exceptional period in the continued 
development of Playtech. The Company 
delivered another impressive financial 
performance and passed a number of 
significant corporate and operational 
milestones. Notably, the Company achieved  
a Premium Listing on London’s Main Market, 
reflecting both the short-term effort needed  
to make the progression and the longer  
term determination to comply with the 
responsibilities associated with a Premium 
Listing. Pleasingly, Playtech was included in  
the FTSE 250 Index in September and has, since 
inclusion, moved up approximately 30 places. 
The move provided greater visibility for the 
Company, improved market liquidity and 
affords wider recognition of Playtech’s strengths 
and consistent strong financial performance. 
Strategic Developments
Playtech is the clear market leader in the 
provision of software and services to the global 
online gaming industry. Its offering includes a 
full product suite, leading-edge management 
system, full integration across all player 
interfaces and a broad range of marketing 
services and techniques that enable licensees  
to maximise the potential of their online  
gaming business.
The period saw growth of software revenues 
derived from regulated markets, including  
Italy, Spain and Denmark, further enhanced  
by organic growth. While the regulatory 
environment remains in a state of flux in  
a small number of geographies, the global 
process of regulating the online gaming 
industry continues to advance. This trend,  
led by national and local governments, is a key 
driver of Playtech’s current and future success. 
Chairman’s Statement
 “Playtech has had another excellent  
year, incorporating some of its most 
significant achievements to date.”
Overview Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
Governance and Risk Management
Playtech is committed to upholding the highest 
levels of corporate governance. The Company 
was delighted to welcome Andrew Thomas to 
the Board as an independent Non-Executive 
Director, and Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
effective 19 June 2012. Andrew brings with him 
a wealth of experience in the leisure sector and 
valuable insight into the nuances of taxation 
and finance.
As announced at the interim results last year, 
David Mathewson retired as Chief Financial 
Officer and from the Board on 31 December 
2012. I would like to thank David for his efforts 
and counsel while he was a director.
Ron Hoffman, formerly Vice President of Finance 
over the previous eight years, and who has 
played a fundamental role in all of Playtech’s 
recent acquisitions, was appointed to the Board 
as Chief Financial Officer with effect from the 
new financial year. 
The Board has worked to ensure a robust 
governance structure to comply with corporate 
best practice. During 2012, an advanced internal 
audit function was implemented by PwC and 
the Company, and a revised Code of Conduct 
and Ethics policy was adopted.
William Hill Online
In October, the Board of William Hill plc 
commenced the valuation process relating  
to their call option over Playtech’s 29% stake  
in William Hill Online. The process culminated  
in the confirmation that William Hill will exercise 
the option for a consideration of approximately 
£424 million. The transaction is expected  
to complete by the end of April 2013. 
This has generated substantial returns for  
the Company during the lifetime of the joint 
venture. While this brings to a close a highly 
successful and profitable joint venture for 
Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy  
a close working relationship with William Hill, 
which remains a top-five licensee.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend  
of 15.4 € cents per share, giving a total 2012 
dividend of 23.2 € cents per share (201 1: 16.5 € 
cents per share), an increase of 41%. This reflects 
the Company’s strong underlying growth in 
earnings, cash generation and the Company’s 
dividend policy of paying out 40% of adjusted 
net profit.
Subject to shareholder approval of the final 
dividend at the Annual General Meeting, to be 
held on 8 May 2013, the dividend will be payable 
on 24 May 2013 to those shareholders on the 
Company’s register as at the record date of 26 
April 2013. The ex-dividend date is 24 April 2013. 
For any shareholders who elect to receive  
their dividends in sterling the conversion 
exchange rate from euros into sterling will  
be set on 26 April 2013 and election forms 
should be returned to the Company’s registrars 
by 3 May 2013.
The Board, with its advisers, is undertaking  
a broad review of the most effective use of  
the expected proceeds from the disposal of 
William Hill Online, once completed, taking into 
consideration feedback from shareholders and 
the Company’s future requirements. The Board 
will, amongst other strategic options, assess the 
potential for further value-enhancing 
acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, 
focusing on regulated markets, together  
with the possibility of a return of capital to 
shareholders. Playtech has a proven ability  
of generating value through successful 
acquisitions and management is confident  
that this will continue.
In summary, Playtech has had another excellent 
year, incorporating some of its most significant 
achievements to date. The Company continues 
to capitalise on its clear strategy and strong 
balance sheet. The Board is highly confident of 
the Company’s prospects in 2013 and beyond.
Roger Withers
Chairman
14 March 2013
Listing on the Main Market
“ This is a very exciting 
occasion for Playtech  
and we are delighted  
to be part of the Official 
List. We have experienced 
exceptional growth since 
the Company was founded 
in 1999, and this marks a 
significant milestone in our 
continued development.” 4 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Regulated Markets
Regulated markets continue to present 
significant potential for revenue growth and 
Playtech is in a prime position to take advantage 
of global market developments, such as those  
in Italy, Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands, 
Greece and Germany. Pleasingly, we announced 
that Playtech’s joint venture with Gauselmann, 
created in January 2012, was awarded two 
licenses by the state of Schleswig-Holstein for 
online casino and sports betting a year later.
While Playtech continued to focus on  
increasing income from regulated markets, 
revenue from dot.com operators also increased 
in 2012. These operators provide liquidity in 
most regulated markets and are important  
to the Company’s strategy, as they establish 
themselves in regulated markets and provide 
the cornerstone for our activities in regulated 
and soon to be regulated markets.
In France, Betclic Everest launched with 
Playtech’s iPoker network on iPoker.fr and 
iPoker.com in November. This was followed by 
the launch of Unibet.fr at the beginning of this 
year. Betfair has also commenced its migration 
onto the iPoker network, which is due to be 
completed in July 2013. These developments 
have cemented Playtech’s leadership in the 
poker market as the natural network of choice.
During the year, Playtech undertook a 
significant level of activity in anticipation of 
Spanish regulation and further liberalisation  
in Italy. The Company has enjoyed pleasing 
revenue growth following the launch in June  
of regulated casino, poker and sports betting in 
Spain and the launch in December of regulated 
online slots in Italy.
In the UK, the third and final phase of the Gala 
Coral programme was completed in the last 
quarter of the year and Betfair commenced  
its poker migration to the iPoker network.  
After the highly successful launch of coral.co.uk, 
Gala migrated most of its product verticals onto 
Playtech’s IMS platform. The offering includes 
some of Playtech’s more recent innovations, 
including the Playtech portal, a new mobile  
hub and an improved IMS. The current results 
from Gala Coral are exceeding expectations, 
illustrating the cumulative, positive impact 
derived through the cross-selling opportunities 
afforded by an integrated offering. 
In November, the Dutch government 
announced plans to sell the state-owned  
casino monopoly and legalise online gaming  
to increase competition. The government  
is expected to introduce a draft framework  
for consultation in the spring of 2013 with a 
finalised law expected to be approved by the 
end of the year. We anticipate that Playtech  
and its licensees will seek to benefit from  
these changes in the Dutch market.
Overview
Playtech again delivered an outstanding 
financial and operational performance  
in a year of significant change for the online 
gaming market. The Company increased 
revenue by 53% to €317 .5 million, gross income 
by 51% to €368.1 million and adjusted EBITDA 
grew by 49%. 
During the period, Playtech expanded its 
product offering both organically and through 
acquisitions, secured 19 new licensees including 
major operators such as Gala Coral and Betclic 
Everest, further extended its relationships with 
existing licensees, and entered into significant 
new joint venture opportunities.
The Company has the operational capacity  
to stimulate future growth, specifically in  
mobile gaming, which enjoyed a triple digit 
percentage performance increase. In order  
to maintain its high level of customer service, 
Playtech invested in new product development 
related to the mobile hub, IMS and player portal, 
enabling operators to create a bespoke player 
experience, and grew its employee base by  
63% to support the business and its customers.
Importantly, the Company surpassed a major 
milestone in achieving a Premium Listing on 
London’s Main Market in July and was included 
in the FTSE 250 Index in September. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
 “In 2012, Playtech strengthened its position 
as the clear market leader in the provision 
of software and services to the global 
gaming industry.”
Business Review Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
Signs from the US are encouraging, with  
the news that the states of New Jersey and 
Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker 
respectively. As a result, other US states may 
contemplate similar actions, however, such 
developments are in their infancy and there 
remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, 
political and practical considerations. A number 
of strategic partnerships are being pursued to 
prepare for the potential opportunities offered 
by this large, diverse market.
Elsewhere, the Company signed an agreement 
with Mexican market leader Caliente, and 
management believes that Playtech, given  
its commitment and proven track record, is 
positioned as the natural choice for operators  
in different regulated markets. 
Strategic Positioning
Playtech’s strategy of organic development, 
targeted acquisitions, partnerships and  
joint ventures has enabled it to maximise 
opportunities created by the significant 
changes in the online gaming industry.  
The industry is moving towards locally 
regulated markets as governments see the 
implementation of gaming tax and the sale  
of regulatory licenses as significant revenue 
streams. Land-based and digital channels  
are converging as regulatory authorities issue 
gaming licenses to land-based casinos for both 
static and online offerings. Through being able 
to offer a full turnkey solution, Playtech is able  
to partner with local brands and casinos to take 
advantage of these opportunities.
Mobile gaming continues to be one of the  
most significant growth drivers of the global 
online gaming industry. Playtech’s launch of  
the mobile hub in late 2012 has combined the 
established Mobenga mobile sports betting 
solution with other gaming products. This 
combination uniquely positions the Company 
to capitalise on further developments in this 
sector. Mobile gaming is essential to Playtech’s 
future success and we have invested heavily  
to develop the next generation of products, 
maximising new functionality on tablets and 
smartphones, while continuing to roll out 
products across all mobile platforms, including 
Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
Playtech’s proven strategy further strengthened 
its market position, and the Company is seen  
as the leading software and services supplier  
to the online gaming industry, as evidenced  
by Playtech winning the Gaming Awards for 
iGaming software supplier of the year.
Acquisitions 
Playtech’s recent acquisitions, including 
Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity, along  
with PTTS, have been fully integrated and 
continue to deliver significant benefits in  
terms of revenue, product capability, cross-sell 
opportunity and licensee relationships. 
Playtech’s capacity for further bolt-on 
acquisitions and joint ventures will be enhanced 
considerably following receipt of approximately 
£424 million for the sale of Playtech’s 29%  
stake in William Hill Online, which is expected  
to complete by the end of April. 
“ Playtech’s recent 
acquisitions continue  
to deliver significant 
benefits in terms of 
revenue, product capability, 
cross-sell opportunity  
and licensee relationships.”
Industry Awards in the Past Year: 6 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
On 1 1 March 2013, Playtech announced 
landmark software and services agreements 
with Ladbrokes. The existing Playtech offering 
to Ladbrokes, which includes the provision  
of bingo and software for land-based video 
licensing terminals, will extend to all product 
verticals other than sports betting, using a 
phased approach. The second is a significant 
agreement for PTTS to provide Ladbrokes with 
advisory services and to license sophisticated 
CRM methodologies and business intelligence 
to assist in the development and growth  
of Ladbrokes’s digital business. This is an 
outstanding transaction for PTTS, which 
continues to develop, delivering significant 
returns for the Company, which are anticipated 
to increase following the agreement with 
Ladbrokes. 
Products and Services
In 2012, Playtech made further investment into 
its product offering, extending its capabilities 
both horizontally and vertically through 
in-house development as well as through the 
introduction of acquired products. Playtech’s 
licensees benefitted from the introduction of 
the mobile hub and portal, as well as the IMS, 
enabling operators to offer a bespoke player 
experience available in all formats and channels. 
The combined system facilitates a two-way 
information flow from the IMS, providing 
licensees with greater real-time insight and 
control, and players with an improved user 
experience thereby maximising the potential  
of licensee online gaming operations.
Casino 
Playtech’s flagship product delivered another 
outstanding performance in 2012. Revenues 
increased 33% from a combination of organic 
growth, the addition of new licensees, 
expansion of the games portfolio, now 
including all Ash Gaming products, growth from 
mobile and the revamped live dealer offering, 
which is now available through all interactive 
channels, including mobile. Branded games  
are a valuable marketing tool for Playtech,  
and the Company has the largest portfolio  
of games available across multiple delivery 
channels including online, mobile, TV and 
gaming terminals. During 2012, Playtech 
launched 35 games and 21 branded games.
PTTS
Playtech offers affiliate marketing services and 
sophisticated CRM solutions, combined with 
advanced player management tools, which  
are of particular interest to new market entrants 
requiring a full turnkey solution as well as 
existing operators that would like to boost  
their online gaming operations.
During the year, PTTS grew to become 
Playtech’s second largest vertical. In July, 
Playtech announced that PTTS had achieved  
an annualised adjusted EBITDA in excess of  
€40 million in the first two quarters of 2012, 
fulfilling the condition for acceleration of  
the additional consideration of €140 million.  
The additional consideration outstanding  
at year end is scheduled to be paid in three 
instalments ending in January 2014.
Licensees
Playtech aims to provide its licensees with 
market-leading content, features, tools and  
a broad range of services that support and 
enhance their businesses.
Betclic Everest launched its poker products  
on the iPoker network for dot.fr and dot.com.  
In addition, several other licensees increased  
the number of product verticals licensed from 
Playtech. These developments reflect Playtech’s 
success in strengthening its relationships  
with existing licensees through an integrated 
solution, which helps deliver maximum  
player yields.
Gala Coral completed its three-stage 
programme to move its entire online gaming 
operation to Playtech’s IMS, which we believe 
serves as a significant endorsement of the 
Company’s market-leading cross-product 
technology. Playtech now provides Gala Coral 
with an improved IMS, a newly developed 
portal, innovative mobile hub, and a full  
range of gaming products. Gala Coral will use 
Playtech’s systems to manage all of its online 
activities including Gala Casino and Gala Bingo, 
as well as Coral.
Pleasingly, Betfair decided to migrate its  
poker offering to Playtech’s iPoker network, 
commencing the migration plan in the year  
with completion anticipated for July 2013.
In connection with the regulation of the 
Spanish, French and Danish markets, Playtech 
gained a number of new licensees. Certain 
existing licensees also underwent regulation 
and now offer their services on a dot.local  
basis as compared to a previous dot.com basis.
Chief Executive Officer’s Report (continued)
Business Review
Playtech’s flagship  
casino product delivered 
revenue growth of 33%  
in 2012. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
The acquisition of PTTS has been highly 
successful, delivering outstanding results.  
We have also demonstrated that the ability to 
offer a full turnkey solution or advisory services 
is essential to attracting further business 
opportunities. Through PTTS we can provide 
operators, both existing and new licensees, 
including dot.com operators or new entrants  
in regulated markets, access to best of breed 
marketing and CRM services as well as other 
ancillary services. PTTS has a proven track 
record of more than a decade and is a 
fundamental element to the future success  
of the Company. 
Bingo
Playtech provides the industry’s leading bingo 
offering and operates the industry’s largest 
bingo network. Bingo continues to perform 
strongly, increasing revenue in the period  
by 19% to €18.0 million (2011: €15.1 million). 
Strong organic growth was complemented  
by the launch in the third quarter of Gala Bingo 
and in the fourth quarter of vernons.com and 
our mobile bingo offering, which is available  
on Android and Apple iOS, supported by 
promotional activity during the final two  
weeks of the year.
Playtech’s bingo brand, VirtueFusion, has  
once again won a number of industry awards, 
including eGaming Review’s Bingo Network  
of the Year, and the Bingo Summit’s Best Bingo 
Software, for the third year running.
Poker 
The international poker market remained 
challenging throughout the year. However, 
Playtech recorded an uplift in revenue in  
the latter part of the fourth quarter and  
the beginning of 2013 following a number  
of new licensees joining the iPoker network.
During the year, as part the phased migration 
plan, Gala Coral launched on the iPoker network 
followed by Betclic and Everest who launched 
on the iPoker.fr and iPoker.com networks and 
Betfair.com, which launched on iPoker.com and 
iPoker.es. These licensee wins in conjunction 
with Playtech’s poker liquidity programme 
initiated in August, significantly increase the 
poker network’s liquidity, which is seen as  
key to attracting poker players and licensees 
when choosing a supplier, and supported the 
on-going improvement in poker performance. 
In addition, Playtech also introduced a variation 
of Speed Holdem which increased revenue from 
cash games.
iPoker remains the largest and leading 
worldwide independent poker network.  
A number of significant licensees are in 
discussion with Playtech regarding joining  
the network. During the year a number  
of new CRM tools and an improved user 
interface supported by a revamped version  
of the poker client were launched. 
“ The acquisition of  
PTTS has been highly 
successful, delivering 
outstanding results.”
Once again Playtech had a very substantial presence at the ICE gaming show in London in January 2012. 8 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
return on invested marketing. Playtech’s 
experience so far is that mobile presents an 
incremental opportunity as revenues, margins 
and activity levels are higher compared with 
other interactive channels. Mobile remains a  
key focus for the Company and development 
continues of the next generation of the mobile 
offering that will be even more exciting and 
appealing to a larger audience.
Live
Playtech was the first company to introduce  
live gaming products specifically tailored for 
local markets. As technology has evolved, the 
popularity of live gaming formats has grown 
significantly. In 2012, the live gaming product 
underwent a comprehensive redevelopment  
to include new features and functions appealing 
specifically to live gaming players and designed 
to capitalise on our first mover advantage  
in order to retain that lead. In parallel, we 
introduced a mobile version for the live gaming 
product complementing the product offering 
available on other interactive channels. In 2012, 
Gala Coral migrated its live casino across its 
brands and we expect additional licensees to 
migrate to our live gaming offering in the near 
future. In Spain, Playtech partnered in January 
2013 with Casino Gran Madrid to offer live dealer 
services to the Spanish market.
Sports 
Sports is one of the largest gaming markets  
and frequently acts as the gateway for  
players to access other gaming experiences. 
Furthermore, recent events have shown that 
sports is typically one of the first products to  
be approved in newly regulated markets. In line 
with our strategy to provide a comprehensive 
solution, and our focus on regulated markets, 
the Company acquired Geneity, a world class,  
fully integrated and complete sports platform. 
There are significant opportunities for this 
business, which has been integrated with both 
the Mobenga mobile sports product and IMS, 
and which has already won its first two sports 
licensees. We expect to see significant growth 
from sports over the next quarters as more 
licensees are added.
Videobet
In 2012, Videobet technology was deployed  
in more than 400 additional terminals, ending 
the year with approximately 23,000 machines. 
The expansion of Videobet into emerging and 
other markets, such as Mexico and Puerto Rico, 
together with location growth by some existing 
licensees and new markets currently in test, 
provide a solid pipeline for 2013.
Mobile
The growth of mobile continues to outperform 
all other product channels. The success by 
different operators has led to significant 
investments by the Company to ensure that  
it captures the market leading position in the 
space. Following the acquisition of Mobenga, 
the market leader in mobile sports betting,  
the Company has initiated an innovative internal 
programme, called the Mobile Hub, converging 
mobile sports betting and mobile gaming 
products into one offering. Enabled by mobile 
touch screen functionality, the new Mobile Hub 
creates an exciting new experience for players, 
with the same products that are available 
through other interactive channels and share 
the same poker and bingo pools and jackpots.  
It also creates for the first time in our industry 
the ability to acquire players through the sports 
betting vertical and then offer other verticals 
within the same application, maximising the 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report (continued)
Business Review
Mobile and Mobile Hub
The Mobile Hub combined  
with the market-leading mobile 
sportsbook provider and 
Playtech subsidiary Mobenga,  
is an open framework  
designed to integrate content 
and deliver players a seamless 
user experience on mobile 
devices. Through a branded 
and unified interface, an 
operator’s full product offering 
is available to players on  
their smartphone or tablet  
and can be customised and 
managed through a centralised 
management system.
As an open platform, the Mobile Hub allows 
operators to integrate any software and content 
using standard and friendly API’s. The new 
technology has made it quick and easy to  
plug-and-play both Playtech and third party  
mobile content minimising the work load for 
operators. Built on HTML5 technology, the Mobile 
Hub is compatible with web browsers, native 
applications and across all HTML5 ready devices. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
People
Playtech’s people remain key to the Company’s 
continued success. A great example of the 
quality of the Company’s employees are their 
great achievement to ensure that Playtech 
established itself as market leader in the mobile 
gaming space, following the introduction  
of mobile technologies. When the Company 
assesses potential acquisition targets or 
potential joint ventures, it places a high  
value on the existence of a complementary 
culture of employee service and innovation.
In terms of delivery, human capital is as critical 
as financial capital. Playtech has continued  
to invest significantly in human resources  
to maintain its position as a leading quoted 
supplier of software and services to the online 
gaming industry by delivering innovative high 
quality products and services to its clients. 
William Hill Online
With the agreed valuation of approximately 
£424 million for its 29% stake in William Hill 
Online, together with dividends received  
over the four years since inception, Playtech  
has generated a cash return on investment  
of more than 3.5 times. The success of the  
joint venture demonstrates the potential of 
creating significant value by combining a well- 
established brand with Playtech’s best of breed 
technologies, products and services. Through 
participation in this joint venture, Playtech 
widened the breadth of its expertise and proved 
how successful and valuable a partnership of 
this nature can be for its stakeholders. While  
the sale of its stake will bring to a close a highly 
successful and profitable joint venture for 
Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy  
a close working relationship with William Hill, 
which will remain a top-five licensee.
The sale process is expected to complete by  
the end of April 2013, and the Board, with its 
advisers, is undertaking a broad review of the 
most effective use of the proceeds from the 
disposal, taking into consideration feedback 
from shareholders and the Company’s 
requirements going forward. The Board  
will, amongst other strategic options, assess  
the potential for further value-enhancing 
acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, 
focusing on regulated markets, together  
with the possibility of a return of capital to 
shareholders. Playtech has a proven ability to 
provide shareholder value through successful 
acquisitions and management is confident  
that this will continue.
Outlook
Playtech has made a strong start to 2013,  
with average daily revenues for the first 1 1 
weeks of 2013 up over 15% on Q1 2012 and  
up 5% on Q4 2012.
The anticipated revenue from the number of 
new licensees who launched during the last 
quarter of 2012, the introduction of slots in Italy 
and the extension of existing relationships, such 
as the migrations of Betfair poker and unibet.fr 
followed by the progress made in the year  
to date, such as the landmark agreement with 
Ladbrokes, secures the Company’s position  
in 2013 and beyond. Playtech is in a prime 
strategic position and is well capitalised to take 
advantage of opportunities from the evolving 
global regulatory landscape and we look 
forward to the future with confidence. 
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
14 March 2013 10 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Betting €11.5bn  45.2% 
Poker €3.1bn 12. 1 % 
Casino €5.6bn 21.7% 
Bingo €1.6bn 6.4% 
Skill-Based, Commercial  €1.5bn  5.8%  
Lotteries and Other Gaming
State Lotteries €2.2bn 8.8%
Total €25.5bn 100%
The market continues to benefit from improved
broadband penetration and capacity, mobile 
penetration, a growing number of market 
participants, and greater acceptance of online 
gaming as a mainstream leisure pastime. Since 
the passing of the Unlawful Internet Gambling 
Enforcement Act in 2006, which outlawed 
online gaming in the US, the main focus of 
operators has been on Europe and in particular 
on markets where legislation allows various 
forms of online gaming on a locally regulated 
basis. As the US now begins to regulate on  
a state-by-state basis, the overall interactive 
gaming market may grow more quickly than 
rates seen in the last three years, which is in-line  
with forecasts by H2 Gambling Capital.
 
As further countries regulate, H2 Gambling 
Capital forecast interactive regulated revenue  
to grow at a CAGR of 20% over the next three 
years, whereas total interactive revenue is 
forecast to grow at 9% over the next three years.
 
Regulating Markets
The regulation of online gaming in a national 
market, historically has been a catalyst to 
substantial market change. Once regulated, 
typically new entrants are attracted to the 
market including major local gaming companies 
such as betting shop operators, lotteries and 
local casino groups who have historically  
not been willing to operate online in an 
unregulated format.
The ability to advertise more freely across  
a broad range of media formats, such as TV  
and online, raises awareness of online gaming  
as a leisure activity and drives an increase  
in player interest, which is also underpinned  
by a perceived safer player environment. It is  
the combination of these factors that have led 
to major growth in players and revenues in 
markets such as the UK and Italy. For Playtech 
the opportunities across a range of newly 
regulated and soon to be regulated markets  
are substantial as a broad range of providers 
look to participate.
While global statistics are hard to verify,  
it is believed that onshore interactive gross 
gaming win (GGW) reported by the global 
gambling industry, including sports betting, 
casino, poker and bingo, from regulated 
jurisdictions increased to €7 .8 billion in 2012 
from €6.6 billion in 201 1 (Source: H2 Gambling 
Capital). The UK, a fully regulated market, is 
predominantly offshore, and adds a further €2.5 
billion to the €7 .8 billion stated above. Over  
the last five years, the GGW referred to above
has grown at a compound annual rate of 12.2%.
The figure for 2012 comprises €6.5 billion 
(82.8%) from sports betting operations, which 
Playtech views as a significant opportunity since 
acquiring Geneity and integrating its products 
onto Playtech’s IMS platform. The remainder 
comprises €343 million (4.4%) from casino, €804 
million (10.3%) from poker and €197 million 
(2.5%) from bingo.
H2 Gambling Capital estimates that the 
interactive gaming sector, including sports 
betting, casino, poker and bingo achieved  
€21.8 billion in GGW in 2012 (2011: €20.5  
billion), comprising 53.1% from sports betting,  
25.4% from casino, 14.1% from poker and  
7.4% from bingo.
Adding skill-based, commercial lotteries,  
state lotteries and other gaming to the above, 
total interactive GGW in 2012 was €25.5 billion. 
Interactive GGW as a percentage of total  
GGW (land-based and interactive) was 8.1%. 
Interactive is growing at a higher rate than  
the land-based retail sector, evidenced in the 
adjacent graph, and this trend is forecast by H2 
Gambling capital to continue into the future.
 
Online Development
The online gaming market developed in
the mid-1990s, first with online casinos and
then with poker from 1998. In 2004 the market
was estimated by H2 Gambling Capital as
having revenues of approximately €9.3 billion, 
and it grew substantially throughout the second
half of that decade, to a total of €25.5 billion in 
2012, as stated above.
Industry Overview
The pace of change within the gambling industry  
is increasing as regulation increases. Playtech  
is determined to retain its leadership in providing 
the widest range of software and services to  
the broadest range of participants worldwide.
Business Review
 
Interactive Gross Gaming Win by Product
Source: H2 Gambling Capital Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012P 2013E 2014E 2015E
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
The tax regime within a jurisdiction has a 
material impact in determining whether online 
gaming is likely to be commercially attractive  
in the longer term. In addition, the products  
that are permitted when a market regulates  
will also determine its attractiveness for 
potential participants.
 
The implementation of regulation is expected 
to remain a key focus for market participants 
and an important driver of online gaming 
revenue growth over the next few years.  
As markets move from a ‘dot.com’ to a ‘dot. 
national’ regime, there are expected to be 
notable opportunities together with some 
potential headwinds and uncertainties through 
the transition period.
Over the past two years there has been 
considerable momentum in countries 
regulating or looking to become regulated  
in online gaming, and in 2012 regulation was 
introduced in Spain, Belgium and Denmark, 
while Italy introduced more products to  
an already regulated regime. In Germany, 
Schleswig-Holstein issued a number of licenses 
(including two to a joint venture vehicle of 
Playtech and Gauselmann), but the overall 
regulatory environment in Germany remains 
unclear. The Netherlands and Greece are 
proceeding in becoming regulated markets. 
Countries around the world continue to 
regulate, using as a model, the experience of 
other countries that have already undergone 
regulation. At 31 December 2012, there  
were 12 counties that were regulated for some  
form of online gaming (31 December 201 1:  
9 countries).
“ For Playtech the 
opportunities across a 
range of newly regulated 
and soon to be regulated 
markets are substantial.”
Market Participants
The online gaming industry accommodates   
a wide range of participants, who choose  
on entry whether to develop the necessary 
software, content, systems and marketing 
themselves, or to outsource various elements 
to providers such as Playtech.
Industry participants have traditionally been 
defined within two categories:
B2C: 
The B2C sector includes all player-facing 
activities such as marketing and delivery of  
the gaming experience. Operators typically 
have a strong marketing-led business model  
and seek to attract players to their website  
and encourage ongoing loyalty from their 
active players.
In addition to commercial operators,  there is a 
growing B2G segment, comprising state-owned 
or state-controlled entities such as lotteries and 
other organisations.
B2B: 
Supporting the aforementioned operators  
are a number of technology providers offering 
software platforms, specialist products and 
services and games content.
Such providers compete in offering  
the highest-quality gaming products or  
systems capable of achieving the operators’ 
business objectives.
Playtech is the largest listed B2B  provider, 
offering a full product suite that includes  
the world’s largest bingo and poker networks. 
These networks provide Playtech’s licensees 
with the benefits of increased liquidity, joint  
marketing, plus networked jackpots. Unlike  
a B2C partnership, licensees can still manage  
their own business activities and maintain  
their independence from the platform provider.
Interactive Gross Win by Regulated vs. Unregulated
Source: H2 Gambling Capital 12 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012P 2013E 2014E 2015E
0
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
Source: H2 Gambling Capital
Industry Overview (continued)
“ Advances in technology 
have also improved 
the operator’s player 
management systems, 
delivering features such 
as real-time analytics and 
VIP management tools. 
A significant milestone  
has been the ability  
to offer a single wallet  
across all platforms.”
Business Review
Turnkey Services
Online gaming is a relatively new, dynamic, 
industry that requires differentiated specialist 
skills and assets, from traditional land-based 
operations. As local or land-based operators 
seek to add a complementary online offering  
to their existing business, or as media 
companies seek to enter the industry, they  
have increasingly looked for help from an 
experienced partner with the ability to offer a 
range of services up to a full turnkey solution. 
Such a solution would include the know- 
how and manpower necessary to ensure  
the new business can comply with any  
relevant legislation and compete against  
the sophisticated marketing capabilities  
of well-established online operators  
from day one. 
Competition and Market Position
Playtech has traditionally faced competition 
for B2B mandates from other software 
providers, typically of smaller scale. More 
recently there have been B2C operators  
that are looking to minimise their own risk  
when entering a newly-regulated market  
by partnering with substantial and well- 
recognised local businesses. 
This gives them access to a local profile and 
enhanced player liquidity, which they might  
not otherwise enjoy themselves. In return they 
typically look to offer a white-label turnkey 
solution for their local partner.
Playtech’s positioning in the industry remains 
constant as a B2B provider, focusing on 
providing scale and breadth of product offering, 
and ensuring that licensees have the most 
advanced technology and operator platform  
in the industry with best-of-breed tools   
and content.
Player Management
Advances in technology have also improved  
the operator’s player management systems, 
delivering features such as real-time analytics 
and VIP management tools. A significant 
milestone has been the ability to offer a  
single wallet across all platforms and product 
segments. This enables players to move  
across games or products without changing 
user account.
This technology is also used to provide greater 
player protection to prevent under-age and 
problem gaming, and includes age verification 
tools, tracking player activity and self-exclusion 
tools. It also monitors the network for evidence 
of money laundering.
Interactive Gross Win Margin (all products) Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Sustainability rnance Accounts
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
Improved player management systems  
are key elements in increasing player loyalty  
and enhancing an operator’s cross-selling 
potential as players are encouraged to play 
more frequently and for longer periods. This  
can now be combined with cross-platform 
capabilities through server-based gaming 
terminals, mobile phones and tablets using 
browser-based technology, and download.
Convergence of Online and Land-Based
A significant industry trend is the growing 
convergence of land-based and online market 
segments. This is principally as a result of many 
new entrants in regulated online markets being 
existing land-based gaming, betting and lottery 
operators, who already have a substantial local 
presence, well-recognised brands, existing 
player databases and are familiar with the  
local regulatory environment.
Historically separate in their philosophy  and 
systems, there has been a fundamental shift in 
both segments towards common techniques 
for player attraction and retention, such as  
VIP levels and loyalty schemes. Operators  
are becoming more aware of the importance  
of player retention and of incentivising the 
player on an individual basis regardless of 
channel. The retention of players and the ability 
to cross sell them onto other products provides 
opportunity for operators, but also presents 
substantial technical challenges for them.
Playtech has focused much of its recent 
development efforts on ensuring that it is able 
to deliver functionality, player management  
and content across the full range of distribution 
channels, and to capitalise on this trend of 
convergence. It has proactively developed 
the most sophisticated of server-based  
gaming systems; unique capabilities in TV  
and broadcast; and cutting-edge mobile  
and online products. All are managed by  
a single operator platform with a single  
player wallet across all formats. 
The gaming industry is undergoing 
fundamental and structural change and 
Playtech is determined to remain a market 
leader in providing technology and services  
to the broadest range of participants with  
a focus on regulated business.
Consolidation of the Gaming Market 
As evidenced by the recent offers for 
Sportingbet plc and betdaq.com, the industry  
is beginning to show signs of consolidation. 
Driving these trends is the increase in licensing 
costs, the limited number of licenses issued by 
regulated countries, decreasing margins in  
part because of increased taxes as a result  
of regulation and B2C market saturation  
in certain verticals. Keeping up to date  
with technology, the need for player liquidity 
and marketing spend are also believed to  
be contributors to market consolidation.  14 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 eport and Accounts 2012
Turnkey Solutions (PTTS)
Joint Ventures
Products
Live & TV 
Gaming
Internet
Mobile
TV 
Broadcast
Social
Gaming 
Machines
Lottery
Casino
Games
Poker
Bingo
Sport
IMS 
Information 
Management 
Solution
Business Model & Strategy
Playtech’s strategy, supported by its strong balance 
sheet, centres on developing three highly complementary
business channels: products and services; turnkey 
solutions; and joint ventures, with organised growth  
and targeted acquisitions.
Shareholder Value
Maximising Opportunities
Business Review Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
Playtech offers a full suite  
of gaming products, including 
casino, bingo, poker and  
sports along with ancillary 
services including marketing, 
operational support, advisory 
and network management 
services, all of which are 
supported by the highly 
sophisticated information 
management solution. The  
IMS is the core component  
and key differentiator of 
Playtech’s offering, and can  
be customised through a 
variety of network management 
tools and features.
Through PT Turnkey Services 
(PTTS), Playtech has a 
comprehensive single source 
solution to the online gaming 
industry; of particular interest  
to the growing number of new 
entrants targeting regulated 
online markets.
Playtech’s strategy is to 
identify new partners with  
which to establish long-term 
ventures. In markets such  
as the UK, Germany and  
South Africa, Playtech  
has been chosen as a joint 
venture partner by leading  
land-based operators. 
Playtech is the supplier of choice to over 1 10 
licensees in the gaming industry, because of the 
best of breed products, scale and breadth of 
player networks in bingo and poker, the industry’s 
largest content library, and most importantly, the 
cutting-edge information management solution. 
The IMS, which is Playtech’s key competitive 
advantage, acts as a backbone for the entire 
Playtech business model, allowing operators to 
acquire, convert and retain players using specific 
tool and services, thereby maximising player 
value and lifetime, as well as enhancing the player 
experience. The IMS provides a single account 
registration or sign-on for multiple products 
(casino, bingo, poker etc.), a single wallet with 
multiple balances, enabling players to make a 
seamless transition between products, which  
can be accessed through multiple distribution 
channels, including download, web, mobile, TV 
and land-based. This functionality is enhanced  
by Playtech’s services solution, which provides 
marketing, CRM, operational support and 
payment advice up to a full turn-key solution.
 
Through ongoing R&D and bolt-on acquisitions, 
Playtech will continue to develop its product  
and content offering into new or complementary 
areas, including expanding its cross-platform 
capabilities. In 2012 Playtech added two product 
verticals, Social Gaming and Binary Options, 
which are still in their infancy. It also acquired 
Geneity, which increased the sportsbook offering, 
creating a one-stop shop for gaming operators. 
Playtech’s focus remains on regulated markets, 
with a dynamic product and services offering fully 
compliant with the evolving regulatory landscape.
As a result of more than a decade of experience, 
PTTS offers a number of value adding services 
including affiliate marketing penetration, the 
most advanced player management systems, 
operational support including fraud, network 
management, hosting, reconciliation and 
payment advisory services, all designed to 
leverage the market-leading tools delivered  
by Playtech’s IMS.
 
For many operators, particularly in emerging  
and newly-regulating markets, there is a clear 
need for a partner that, along with a premier 
product offering, can deliver the very best 
marketing and operational support services  
to compete in highly competitive new  
markets. Recently, Playtech signed a structured  
agreement with Ladbrokes to provide  
marketing and advisory services, including 
sophisticated business intelligence and CRM 
systems along with access to Playtech’s full 
product suite, technology and the IMS back  
office system. This offering is expected to 
accelerate Ladbrokes’ online and mobile  
revenues and grow the lifetime values of 
Ladbrokes’ digital customers.
These partners are looking to develop a 
market-leading online offering, supported  
by highly experienced marketing and player 
management capabilities. Joint venture partners 
recognise the benefits of Playtech’s expertise 
when they are competing against established 
international businesses transitioning from  
being offshore dot.com operators to local  
market participants. 
In each case Playtech will provide its localised 
service expertise while its local partners  
commit their gaming brand, any online 
operations, customer lists and management  
to the new joint venture. It is anticipated that  
both parties’ interests are aligned through  
the injection of working capital and/or certain 
assets into the venture. 
IMS and Products
Turnkey Solutions
Joint Ventures 16 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Products
The IMS is a cross-platform infrastructure,  
enabling online, broadcast, mobile and  
land-based platforms to be managed  
through a single administrative system.  
Sophisticated CRM tools enable operators  
to better understand players’ gaming  
behaviour, using a single interface that  
generates reports to analyse every player  
on the network, or a predefined segment.  
Recent innovations include a quick deposit  
feature located in all lobby and game  
windows, making depositing an easy  
and immediate process, a mobile hub linking 
Playtech’s award winning Mobenga platform  
to the rest of Playtech’s product verticals and 
the Playtech portal which enables operators to 
provide players with a bespoke user-interface.  
In addition, a ring-fencing feature enables  
players who are registered at a multi-product  
brand to facilitate play and bonusing without  
the need for funds transfer. Together, these  
tools enhance an operator’s ability to attract,  
convert and retain their player base, while  
encouraging players to try new or unfamiliar  
products, enhancing player yields.  
With its open gaming platform, the  
Playtech casino offers the best games library  
in the industry, including unrivalled branded 
content, and hundreds of games integrated 
from various third-party developers.  
A best-of-breed back office system  
provides unique bonusing capabilities.
Open Gaming Platform
Powered by Playtech’s EdGE technology, 
Playtech’s open platform offers operators  
the opportunity to enjoy Playtech’s own 
extensive content library, as well as new  
games from various third-party providers,  
all developed using the same EdGE technology. 
Combined with the strength and capabilities  
of Playtech’s IMS, this open platform is 
unrivalled in the industry.
Dashboard for KPI Monitoring 
Enhanced analysis tools allow licensees  
to generate reports and statistics on all  
aspects of their players’ activity, enabling  
segmentation of the player base, in order  
todefine marketing strategy and future  
spend. The dynamic operational dashboard  
provides an at-a-glance view of KPIs, using  
clear graphs and charts to display key business 
trends including player numbers and activity, 
earnings per active player, player churn, bonus 
costs, deposits, withdrawals and declines.  
These real-time reporting and advanced 
marketing tools play a key role in player 
retention and conversion. 
Player Engagement
By providing the tools to understand their 
players, Playtech assists licensees to devise 
appropriate marketing strategies accordingly. 
Furthermore they can communicate these 
promotions in the most relevant way to a 
particular player segment, through offline  
and online communication tools, and chat 
applet, all  in multiple languages.
Games Portfolio
Playtech’s expanding games library continues  
to incorporate a careful selection of branded  
games designed to help licensees draw in new  
players and to excite their existing players 
through mass-market appeal.
The most notable 2012 releases include Monty 
Python’s Spamalot, The Sopranos, Cowboys  
& Aliens, Baywatch, Little Britain, John Wayne, 
Thor, Captain America and Marilyn Monroe.
Business Review
Highlights:
 > Migration of Gala Coral onto the IMS platform
 > Development of improved IMS through the 
launch of the mobile hub and portal
Highlights:
 > Now includes all Ash Gaming products
 > Revamped live dealer offering
 > Winner of EGR slot provider of the year
The IMS is the backbone of 
Playtech’s offering controlling 
all products and generating 
higher levels of player 
conversion and retention 
potential, it drives profitability 
through maximising cross-
selling opportunities.
Playtech’s casino is
the Company’s flagship
product, and continues
to be the leading online
casino in the industry.
IMS (Information Management Solution)
Casino Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
client or web-based product. The fast and 
seamless integration allows games to be 
implemented across the entire product 
portfolio, enabling valuable operator  
cross-selling opportunities. 
The incorporation of the EdGE system  
into Playtech’s IMS provides licensees with 
additional tools to manage their online 
operations, including comprehensive reporting, 
account management, customer support and 
promotional tools. EdGE also forms part of 
Playtech’s cross-platform solution; games on 
the platform can be played using download, 
web, mobile and tablet, TV and land-based  
VLTs using a single account with one wallet.
Games Tab
Playtech’s open platform was developed by 
Gaming Technology Solutions (GTS) which  
was acquired in December 2009. GTS partners 
with industry-leading game developers around 
the world, and through its Enhanced Gaming 
Engine (EdGE), operators have access to content 
from these third-party suppliers, enabling  
a regular offering of new games in addition  
to localised content for particular markets.
The games library is continually expanding, 
as developers come up with new and  
exciting games and variations. Games on  
the EdGE Platform support multiple domains, 
are available in 30 different languages  
in most currencies.
Via the EdGE platform operators can choose 
from over 500 games, from more than  
20 different content providers. Along with 
integration to any games, bingo or casino 
offering, operators have the option of 
embedding ‘mini’ or popup formats into  
their live sportsbook application.
The platform was designed as a cross-channel 
content delivery solution, with the ability to 
seamlessly integrate games to new and existing 
online operations, either as a downloadable 
The live dealer and TV formats attract a broad  
range of participants who enjoy interaction  
with the dealers, the sense of trust when playing 
with real cards on real tables, and the enhanced 
community-feel of the playing experience, 
across a range of casino table games.
Live Dealer Games 
Playtech’s live dealer centres are designed  
as real, land-based casinos, which enable 
operators to attract traditional land-based 
players into the online arena. Live games also 
play a key part in an operator’s conversion 
strategy; the option to use a private table area 
allows operators to fully promote their brand 
and other product offerings, through specific 
targeted promotions.
Operators can offer fully-integrated casino  
mini games alongside the live dealer games, 
generating valuable cross-selling opportunities. 
The product is updated regularly to enhance 
and maximise player engagement, including 
much faster streaming capabilities. The live 
product has a clear and efficient user interface, 
and the use of top of the line cameras 
positioned at multiple viewpoints delivers  
HD broadcast quality, enabling players to 
immediately experience the live land-based 
‘look & feel’ of the studio.
Highlights:
 > Easy integration of games onto Playtech’s 
IMS either as a downloadable client or 
web-based product
 > Largest library of games with over 500 
games available
 > Content from 20 different content providers
Highlights:
 > Underwent a comprehensive redevelopment
 > Includes new features and functions 
designed to capitalise on Playtech’s first 
mover advantage
 > Partnered with Casino Gran Madrid to offer 
live games to the Spanish market
Ash Gaming provides an entire 
new portfolio of proven content, 
which is embedded in the 
casino platform and offered 
to all casino licensees.
Bringing live games to
multiple platforms including
web, TV, mobile, and tablets,
Playtech’s live product  
takes the authenticity of the  
land-based experience into 
the home and on the go.
Games
Live Games 18 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Products (continued)
Virtue Fusion’s product offers the industry’s  
largest range of bingo variants, branded content  
and side games which delivers peak traffic of up 
to 16,500 concurrent daily players.
Product Development
Virtue Fusion has continued to focus on adding 
value across its licensee network through 
ongoing product development. A notable 
development being the launch of mobile bingo 
on Apple iOS and Android for use on tablets  
and smartphones. Virtue Fusion’s loyalty system 
also allows each licensee to set up a completely 
bespoke loyalty programme for their players by 
assigning specific programme names, different 
numbers of loyalty levels, a range of accrual 
rates per level, and various redemption rates  
per level and per bonus category.
The popularity of side games, which account  
for approximately 38% of total bingo revenues, 
give the players access to the more than 500 
leading games and over 60 embedded mini 
games, specifically designed for the bingo 
playing audience. GTS EdGE with Virtue  
Fusion give licensees access to Playtech’s  
ever increasing suite of market-leading  
branded and proprietary games in mini  
and full-screen formats.
Enhancements
The iPoker network has the leading liquidity  
and offers a vast range of tournaments.  
The player experience was enhanced during 
2012 by improving the user interface and the 
ecology of the network through the poker 
liquidity programme.
Superior performance, memory utilisation  
and high-resolution options ensure a smoother 
game flow for players, delivering continuous, 
uninterrupted gameplay. The lobby integrates  
cutting-edge design elements with slide  
animation, reflecting iPoker’s forward-thinking  
approach when it comes to player retention.
Additional developments have added greater 
personalisation to the network to drive deeper 
player engagement and achieve higher player 
retention and lifetime value.
With the unrivalled liquidity of the network 
supporting a huge international prize pool, 
licensees can deploy quickly in all markets, 
offering the most attractive promotion and  
life changing prizes. 
Regulated Markets
Playtech provides operators with exciting 
opportunities as newly-regulated bingo 
markets start to open up. Playtech’s Italian 
bingo network already has the region’s leading 
operators on board, including SNAI, SISAL, 
Eurobet and Codere, with more major licensees 
set to join the network. 
Improved User Experience
The fully customisable client supports multiple 
languages and currencies and offers exclusive 
side games, a tournament calendar and  
the fastest poker variation, speed Hold’em. 
Regular online satellites, land-based events,  
plus daily, weekly and monthly tournaments 
have a guaranteed prize fund of over €10 million 
a month. 
Business Review
The bingo network of choice for 
blue-chip gaming companies 
worldwide, Playtech’s Virtue 
Fusion networks provide an 
award-winning bingo offering, 
connected to the industry’s 
largest bingo liquidity pool  
with over 65,000 daily players.
Home to Europe’s leading 
operators, Playtech’s  
iPoker network is the  
largest independent poker 
network in the world, with 
over 35,000 concurrent 
players at peak time.
Poker
Highlights:
 > Enhanced liquidity programme initiated  
in August
 > Launched a variation of speed hold’em 
 > Betclic Everest Group launches its Everest  
and Betclic poker brands with Playtech
 > Betfair launched with iPoker in early 2013
 > Easy integration of new licensees
Bingo
Highlights:
 > Further strengthened its position as the 
largest bingo network in the .com market
 > Launch of Gala Bingo in May 2012
 > Launched mobile bingo on 24 August Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Pl t ch Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 h Li it d A l R t d A t 2012 19
The Videobet product encompasses both  
terminal software and control systems.  
These can be configured to meet a wide range  
of operational requirements, from VLT or  
remote multi-site operations to casino and  
slot hall management. Videobet provides  
access to the entire Playtech games portfolio,  
including all branded and licensed content. 
For an operator, the core of the offering is  
the server-based technology that allows for  
remote management or on-demand changes.  
These range from real-time management  
of games or bonuses, remote updating  
of software, or full terminal-level financial  
reporting and control.
Videobet works closely with its licensees  
to ensure that the product is localised to  
meet their specific requirements. The unified  
back office system allows for real-time 
monitoring, control and updating of all  
gaming machines from a single application  
and has the ability to connect to, and monitor,  
machines from third-party vendors.
2012 Performance
By the end of 2012, in conjunction with  
The Global Draw, the UK’s leading provider  
of server-based gaming terminals, Videobet  
had deployed over 23,000 terminals in the UK, 
Mexico and Puerto Rico. 
Videobet provides a complete 
end-to-end solution for land-
based gaming operations, 
ranging from standalone 
gaming machines to server 
supported fixed odds betting 
terminals (FOBT) and full 
server-based Video Lottery 
Terminals (VLT).
Videobet
Highlights:
 > Added approximately 400  
additional terminals 
 > Over 23,000 machines deployed
 > Offers true server-supported and  
server-based gaming solutions 
 > Game optimisation and remote software 
updates lead to reduced downtime  
and increased revenue 
Cross Platform Capability
Playtech Mobile enables valuable operator 
cross-selling opportunities across casino games, 
poker and live sports betting and offers players 
a seamless transition between web and mobile, 
using the same account and wallet. 
In what is a very fast-growing gaming channel, 
Playtech has significantly enhanced its mobile 
offering through the introduction of the Mobile 
Hub, which links Mobenga’s sportsbook 
offering to the remainder of Playtech’s product 
verticals. This gives players access to Playtech’s 
full offering through high-end smartphones 
and tablets, including iPhone, iPad, and  
Andriod devices. 
Mobile Marketing 
A range of specialised marketing tools, 
including Web2mobile user conversion tools, 
targeted promotions via SMS and an ‘Invite a 
friend’ feature, allow operators the ability to 
leverage the mobile platform and maximise 
cross-sell opportunities. 
Mobile Bingo
Mobile bingo was launched on 24 August 2012, 
enabling access to Playtech’s bingo network, 
accessing the same jackpots and prizes found 
online, with the ability to pre-purchase tickets 
via the mobile device.
Complete Solution
Through Playtech’s exceptional mobile betting 
channels and cross-product opportunities,  
a wide range of choices is become available  
to players, eliminating the need for different 
mobile applications. Another implication  
of this development is that those who 
download the mobile application will 
automatically have access to Playtech’s 
complete suite of products, regardless  
of which channel was originally chosen. 
In-line with Playtech’s strategy, 
the addition of the Mobile Hub 
and Mobenga’s world class 
mobile sports betting platform, 
Playtech’s mobile products  
play an integral part of the
cross-platform offering.
Mobile
Highlights:
 > Significant enhancement of mobile 
gaming capabilities
 > Launch of Playtech’s Mobile Hub,  
linking Mobenga and Playtech’s other 
product verticals 
 > Launch of mobile bingo 20 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In June 2012, Playtech entered into a software 
licence agreement with Skywind Holdings, 
providing the Company with a wide range  
of both social gaming and real money  
software, primarily focused on the rapidly 
expanding social gaming market and 
strengthening the Company’s mobile  
gaming product range respectively.
Access to a Large Developed Market
Social gaming has experienced significant 
growth over the last two years and is now  
a multi-billion dollar market with revenues 
generated in a number of ways, including the 
real money purchase by end users of social 
currency such as Facebook credits. Playtech  
has been monitoring developments in the social 
gaming arena closely, analysing a number of 
ways to offer current licensees and third party 
brand access to the social gaming market. 
The software licence agreement provides 
Playtech with access to a broad range of social 
gaming platforms and products in addition  
to complementary real money products and 
further development potential giving them  
a unique position in the market. 
Positioning Playtech for the Future
The combination of Playtech’s wide distribution 
channels, expertise in content development, 
back end and online marketing capabilities,  
and the broad range of products licensed under 
the software agreement, positions the Group 
the amongst the leading B2B providers to the 
social gaming market. Playtech will have the 
ability to offer cross platform capabilities for  
a full suite of products, including social casino, 
poker, bingo and rummy.
Business Review
With the industry turning its 
attention to social gaming, 
Playtech is at the cutting edge 
of this movement, penetrating 
the market to offer our 
licensees a range of leading 
social products.
Social
Highlights:
 > Licensing deal with Skywind Holdings  
to offer social gaming and real money 
software to the market
 > Potential for building a significant new 
stream of additional earnings for Playtech
Products (continued)
Sports
Playtech has substantially increased its sports  
betting capabilities in the past year and now  
has a highly sophisticated solution across both  
online and mobile channels. 
Geneity
In January 2012, Playtech acquired Geneity,  
the developer of a next generation and 
fully-featured sportsbook GenBet. Geneity’s 
platform is a highly competitive, flexible 
offering, designed to take advantage of the 
latest trends, concepts and technologies. Its 
sportsbook platform, GenBet, has sought to 
provide significant structural improvements  
on existing management systems to take 
Playtech’s sportsbook offering to the next level.
The GenBet architecture is modular in design, 
robust, proven and highly scalable allowing the 
same basic system to be tailored to both large 
and small operators. The platform has been 
designed to address bottlenecks experienced  
in traditional sportsbook platforms, whether  
in terms of speed of pricing or bet placement,  
or in development time-to-market for 
client-facing tools and features.
Mobenga
Playtech’s leading mobile sportsbook  
platform allows operators to have a fully  
integrated mobile sports betting offering, 
delivered seamlessly onto handheld devices 
including smartphones and tablets, across  
a number of operating systems (see further 
information on the following page). With 
further mobile growth being forecast, 
Mobenga coupled with Geneity’s leading edge 
technology is well placed to deliver to of those 
licensees wanting to gain further market share.
Playtech’s sports betting 
capability has been transformed 
with the acquisition of two 
market-leading developers 
focusing on mobile and  
online segments.
Sports Betting
Highlights:
 > Launched the mobile hub, linking 
Mobenga’s leading sportsbook offering  
to Playtech’s other product verticals
 > Full integration of the most exciting sports 
betting platform developer, Geneity
 > Launched 2 licensees with Geneity, with 
further licensees to join in the near future Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
RELAXING STAYS. EXCITING TIMES.
Partnerships
Two joint venture partnerships and a  
structured agreement with Ladbrokes  
signed in past 14 months. 
Highlights:
 > Accelerates ability to drive online and  
mobile revenues using Playtech’s highly 
sophisticated products and services
 > Interests closely aligned through structure  
of success fee
It is anticipated that over the medium-term, 
Playtech’s industry-leading IMS will become  
the foundation of Ladbrokes’ digital back-end, 
enabling Ladbrokes and its customers to enjoy 
the benefits of a fully integrated experience 
across all products and channels.
From May 2013, PTTS will advise and assist 
Ladbrokes in driving its digital revenues by 
introducing sophisticated methodologies and 
business intelligence systems, developed by 
PTTS, in order to maximise customer lifetime 
values accelerating the growth of Ladbrokes’ 
digital business.
In addition to the royalties to be generated 
under the terms of the software agreement,  
the Group will be entitled to a success fee for  
the advisory services provided by PTTS, based 
upon the improvement in Ladbrokes’ digital 
EBITDA between FY2012 and FY2017 , with 
interim instalments falling due if EBITDA uplifts 
of £35 million, £70 million and £100 million are 
achieved in an earlier year. 75% of the success 
fee is payable in cash, with the balance payable 
in Ladbrokes shares, with Playtech able to elect 
to receive a greater proportion of the success 
fee in Ladbrokes shares.
The success fee is calculated in accordance  
with the following formula: 27 .5% x increase  
in adjusted EBITDA over Base EBITDA x the then 
prevailing Group EBITDA multiple of Ladbrokes. 
75% of any interim instalment is payable 
immediately with the remaining 25% deferred 
until the earlier of the achievement of the next 
interim instalment or the end of the period over 
which the success fee is measured.
If by 31 December 2017 the adjusted EBITDA 
uplift reaches more than £100 million, Playtech 
would be entitled to an additional bonus fee, 
calculated as 75% of the amount exceeding 
£100 million, subject to a cap of £50 million.  
The aggregate success fees payable to PTTS 
under the advisory services agreement are 
capped at a level that does not require 
Ladbrokes’ shareholder approval.
Gauselmann
The joint venture with Gauselmann was  
signed in January 2012, and was awarded  
casino and sports betting licenses from the  
state of Schleswig-Holstein in early 2013.
Founded in 1957 , Gauselmann has developed its 
laughing Merkur sun into the most recognizable 
German domestic gaming brand. With Group 
revenues in excess of €1.7 billion in 2011 and 
over 6,300 employees, Gauselmann is one  
of Europe’s leading gaming groups, with 
operations across Germany focused on the 
development and production of amusement 
and gaming machines and related gaming 
content, along with over 200 gaming arcades 
operated by its Merkur Spielothek division.
While the regulatory position remains unclear,  
a number of license holders are planning to 
launch services across Germany in 2013 utilising 
their Schleswig-Holstein licenses.
Peermont
Peermont is the second largest land-based 
casino operator in South Africa, entered into  
a joint venture with Playtech in January 2012. 
Regulation of online gaming is not expected  
in the short-term.
 
Ladbrokes
In March 2013, Playtech announced a landmark 
agreement that expands its existing software 
and technology agreements with Ladbrokes 
and separately that Playtech’s PTTS will provide 
Ladbrokes with advisory services to assist in the 
development and growth of its digital business.
The new software agreement, which provides 
Ladbrokes with access to Playtech’s full 
technology and product suite, will commence 
with the launch of a new ‘Vegas’ tab on 
Ladbrokes’ digital platforms, offering a suite  
of casino and games products across online, 
mobile and tablet, with the other products  
to follow in due course.
“ The breadth and depth of  
the software and services  
to be provided under these 
agreements are unique to 
Playtech, and reflect the 
Group’s successful 
acquisition strategy.” 22 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was up by 49% 
to €186.7 million (201 1: €124.9 million), and 
adjusted net profit increased by 49% to €168.5 
million (2011: €112.8 million). Excluding the 
impact of acquisitions in 2011 and 2012,  
Playtech achieved 22% growth in both adjusted 
EBITDA and adjusted net profit. After further 
excluding the share of profit of William Hill 
Online, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net profit 
increased by 13% and 1 1% respectively, which  
is after the effect of the increased costs in  
2012 following an expansion in operations  
to enable continued development of existing 
products, investment into new products such  
as mobile and supporting the Gala Coral project 
among others.
Adjusted EPS rose by 26% to 58.1 € cents (201 1: 
46.2 € cents) and diluted adjusted EPS increased 
by 25% to 57.1 € cents (2011: 45.7 € cents).  
The growth rates of the adjusted and diluted 
adjusted EPS were lower than the growth  
rate of the adjusted net profit due to the full 
year effect on the weighted average number  
of shares following the £100 million share 
placement of 46.5 million shares undertaken  
in December 2011.
Playtech remains highly cash generative,  
with a cash conversion rate of 88% from 
adjusted EBITDA (2011: 88%). Cash balances  
on 31 December 2012 were €120.9 million  
(2011: €164.8 million) after payments of  
€143.1 million (2011: €97.2 million) related to 
acquisitions made during the year. Net cash 
(defined as cash and cash equivalents less  
bank borrowings) on 31 December 2012  
was €51.7 million (2011: €137.3 million). 
Playtech has again delivered an exceptional 
financial performance, with gross income for 
FY2012 increasing by 51% to €368.1 million 
(201 1: €243.6 million), and total revenues for  
the year increasing by 53% to €317 .5 million 
(201 1: €207 .5 million) driven by both strong 
organic growth, introduction of new business 
and the full year effect of acquisitions 
undertaken during 201 1.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions in 201 1 
and 2012, which include PTTS, Mobenga, Ash 
Gaming, Geneity and IGS, Playtech achieved 
23% growth in gross income and 19% growth 
in revenues.
The directors believe that in order to best 
represent the underlying trading performance 
and results of the Group, the following cash 
and non-cash charges should be excluded: 
professional and finance costs on acquisitions, 
one-off legal costs related to litigation with 
William Hill in 201 1, costs relating to the move 
to a Premium Listing on London’s Main Market, 
decline in fair value of available for sale 
investments and employee stock options 
expenses (adjustments to EBITDA), amortisation 
of intangibles on acquisitions, amortisation  
of intangibles in William Hill Online, one-off  
tax credit and exchange differences on  
deferred consideration (adjustment to net 
profit). A reconciliation of these adjustments  
are set out in the table below and in Note 5  
to the financial statements.
Financial Review
 “In my first full-year report as Chief 
Financial Officer, I am very pleased 
to be able to report that Playtech  
has again delivered an exceptional 
financial performance.”
Business Review
Adjusted Basic EPS 
Adjusted EBITDA
€186.7m 
+49% 
2011: €124.9m
Total Revenue
€31 7 .5m 
+53%
2011: €207.5m
58.1 € cents 
+26%
2011: 46.2 € cents Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
Revenues
Total revenues increased by 53% to €317.5 
million (2011: €207.5 million). As indicated  
above, revenues excluding acquisitions, 
increased by 19% to €194.8 million (201 1: €163.1 
million). Of the increase, 1 1% was derived from 
organic growth from existing licensees and 8% 
from new business, defined as new licensees  
or new products that were launched in the  
past 18 months.
Casino revenues were €151.7 million (201 1: 
€1 14.4 million), an increase of 33% over 201 1. 
After excluding the impact of the Ash Gaming 
acquisition, casino revenues increased by 27%, 
of which 6% derived from live casino, 3% from 
mobile casino, and 4% from branded games 
where an additional premium is charged.
Services revenues grew by 147% to €106.3 
million (201 1: €43.0 million) reflecting a full year 
contribution from PTTS, acquired on 1 July 201 1, 
organic growth and new business consisting 
mainly of the Asian marketing agreement 
entered into at the beginning of 2012. 
Bingo revenues were up by 19% to €18.0 million 
(201 1: €15.1 million), mainly as a result of organic 
growth, with a further contribution from  
the launch of Gala Bingo in Q4 2012 and the 
introduction of mobile bingo in the second 
half of the year.
Poker revenues decreased by 18% to €17.8 
million (2011: €21.8 million) reflecting market 
trends, however, following the poker liquidity 
programme changes made during the third 
quarter, and Betclic Everest and Betfair joining 
the iPoker network during the fourth quarter, 
the trend of revenues changed to growth 
towards the end of 2012.
Videobet revenues increased by 39% to  
€10.8 million (2011: €7.8 million) reflecting  
a full year impact of the UK contract with  
SG Games (previously called The Global Draw). 
In June 2012, William Hill terminated its contract 
with SG Games, which decreased the number  
of machines deployed by SG Games by 
approximately 2,000. This was offset by further 
deployment of machines by Ladbrokes, Coral, 
and other operators in Mexico and Puerto  
Rico, eventually resulting in a net increase  
in machines deployed of over 400 in 2012. 
As anticipated, the inclusion of revenues from 
acquisitions undertaken during 201 1 increased 
the revenue contribution from top licensees in 
2012. This was mostly caused by the acquisition 
of PTTS where two significant existing software 
licensees were also significant PTTS licensees. 
The number of licensees generating over €1.0 
million of revenues grew from 32 to 41 and 
those over €4 million increased from 10 to 12.
The adjusted EBITDA margin remained flat 
compared to 201 1. After excluding Playtech’s 
share of profit from William Hill Online, the 
adjusted EBITDA margin was 43% (201 1: 43%).
Excluding acquisitions completed in 201 1  
and 2012, the adjusted EBITDA margin was 56% 
(201 1: 57%), and when excluding acquisitions 
and Playtech’s share of profit from William Hill 
Online, the margin was 45% (201 1: 47%). This 
small decrease is a result of the incremental 
costs related to the licensing agreement with 
Skywind Holdings, and an increase in employee 
and outsourcing costs in 2012 related to an 
expansion of operations for the development 
and deployment of existing products and 
investment into new products, such as mobile 
and sports.
Following the growth of PTTS in 2012, which 
triggered acceleration of the consideration due 
on its acquisition in the middle of 2012, adjusted 
EBITDA for the year was €42.1 million (201 1: €1 1 
million), representing a margin of 40.5% (201 1: 
26.3%). As indicated, the increase in margin of 
PTTS was significantly influenced by the Asian 
marketing agreement signed in the beginning 
of 2012.
Cost of Operations
Adjusted operating expenses, before 
depreciation and amortisation, increased by 
54% to €181.3 million (201 1: €1 16.8 million) 
mainly due to additional operating expenses 
associated with the acquisitions made in 201 1 
and 2012. 
Revenue-driven costs are mostly comprised of 
direct marketing costs related to PTTS affiliate 
fees, and license fees paid to third parties 
including games developers and branded 
content, which are typically calculated as a share 
of the revenues generated. These costs have 
increased due to acquisitions, and as a result of 
an increase in popularity of branded games and 
live games. Revenue driven costs in 2012 reflect 
1 1.4% from revenues (201 1: 12.1%) and after 
excluding the impact of acquisition, these costs 
reflect 9.1% from total revenues (201 1: 9.7%).
Employee and outsourcing costs totalled  
€99.9 million (201 1: €64.3 million), net of €10.6 
million capitalised development costs, which 
represents 1 1.2% of total employee-related 
costs (201 1: 12.2%). These costs have increased 
mainly due to acquisitions undertaken in 201 1 
and 2012, but have remained consistent at 
approximately 70% of adjusted non-revenue 
related costs, despite the Group’s average 
headcount increasing by 183% over the past 
two years. After excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, employee related costs have 
increased by 59% as a result of the Group 
bolstering its operations for the continued 
development of its existing offering, launching 
significant projects (including Gala Coral), new 
products and platforms, such as mobile and 
sports which are the foundations for future 
growth. Such investment allows the Group to 
penetrate new markets, facilitate future organic 
growth through the improvement of its overall 
product offering, increasing the portfolio of its 
licensees, thereby gaining additional market 
share and increased revenues. As stated above, 
this has resulted in a margin decline when 
excluding WHO and acquisitions.
Playtech has maintained a careful focus on 
managing cost inflation across the business,  
and other cost line items have remained stable. 24 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial Review (continued)
Business Review
Adjusted Net Proﬁt and Adjusted Earnings per Share
 
 
2012
€’000
2011
€’000
Net proﬁt 86,755 77,696 
Amortisation on acquisitions 26,656  15,838 
Amortisation of intangibles in William Hill Online 5,729 5,729 
Finance costs – movement in deferred and contingent consideration  44,184  6,075 
Employee stock option expenses 2,403 4,678 
Admission to Premium Listing on the Main Market 2,098 –
Professional costs on acquisitions 496  1,488 
One-oﬀ legal costs relating to the litigation with William Hill – 1,389
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments –  551 
Exchange diﬀerences on deferred consideration – (26)
One-oﬀ tax credit – (571)
Adjusted net proﬁt 168,321 112,847
Adjusted net proﬁt margin 46% 46%
Adjusted basic EPS (in euro cents) 58.1 46.2 
Adjusted diluted EPS (in euro cents) 57.1 45.7
Analysis of Adjusted Operating Expenses 
2012
€’000
2011
€’000
Adjusted operating expenses 181,291 118,086
Revenue-driven costs 36,215 25,091
Adjusted operating expenses excluding revenue driven costs 145,076 92,995
Employee-related costs 99,868 68.8% 64,309 69.2%
Administration and oﬃce costs 15,484 10.7% 11,872 12.7%
Travel, exhibition and marketing costs 6,775 4.7% 4,730 5.1%
Cost of service 11,720 8.1% 4,266 4.6%
Other operational costs 11,229 7.7% 7,818 6.4%
Adjusted EBITDA
2012
€000
2011
€000
EBITDA 181,723 116,818
Employee stock option expenses 2,403 4,678
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments – 551
Admission to premium listing on the main market 2,098 –
One-off legal costs relating to litigation with William Hill – 1,389
Professional expenses on acquisitions 496 1,488
Adjusted EBITDA 186,720 124,924
Adjusted EBITDA margin 51% 51% Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
In 2012, cost of service increased to €1 1.7 million 
(201 1: €4.3 million) due primarily to the PTTS 
acquisition undertaken in 201 1 and the social 
and real money gaming software license 
entered into in June 2012. 
After excluding the impact of acquisitions in 
201 1 and 2012, adjusted operating expenses 
were 25% higher, mainly due to increased 
employee-related costs as the Group invested  
in its operations. As the market is seeing a very 
strong trend towards mobile, Playtech has 
invested further resources into this channel 
across all product verticals. Playtech has also 
secured its position in the social gaming market, 
by signing a software license agreement with 
Skywind Holdings, providing the Company with 
a wide range of both social gaming software 
and real money software, primarily focused  
on the rapidly expanding social gaming market 
and strengthening the Company’s mobile 
gaming product range respectively. 
Financial Income and Tax
Financial income was €4.1 million (201 1: €4.0 
million), €3.6 million of which was received as  
a dividend from the investment in Asian Logic 
Limited (201 1: €3.1 million). Financial expenses 
comprise €44.2 million (2011: €6.1 million) 
relating to the movement in deferred and 
contingent consideration, mainly affected by 
the recognition of approximately €39.8 million 
as a result of the deferred consideration of PTTS 
and the continued strong performance and 
related triggering of the acceleration payment.
The Group is tax registered, managed and 
controlled from the Isle of Man, where the 
corporate tax rate is set at zero. The Group’s 
subsidiaries are located in other jurisdictions 
and operate on a cost plus basis, and are taxed 
on their residual profit.
The tax charge in 2012 was €2.1 million  
(2011: €1.0 million, net of a credit correction  
to previous years of €0.6 million). The effective 
rate, excluding the exceptional finance costs  
on the movement in consideration to PTTS,  
was 1.7% (2011: 1.9%). 
Net Profit and Earnings Per Share
Reported net profit for the year attributable  
to owners of the parent increased by 12% to 
€86.8 million (201 1: €77 .7 million) and includes 
certain cash and non-cash costs relating to 
current and historic acquisitions and fair value 
adjustments to investments. A significant 
adjustment made during the year was the 
recognition of €39.8 million of finance costs  
in respect of the movement in fair value  
of contingent consideration relating to  
the acquisition of PTTS, which fulfilled the 
conditions relating to the acceleration of the 
additional consideration earlier than originally 
expected. In accordance with IFRS 3 revised,  
the increase in fair value due to the acceleration 
of the payment is charged to the income 
statement rather than capitalised as an increase 
in the cost of acquisition. In addition, there  
was a €4.0 million change in fair value relating  
to the acquisition of Mobenga. 
Reported EPS for the year was 30.0 € cents 
based on a weighted average number of shares 
of 289.5 million (201 1: 31.8 € cents, 244.1 million 
shares). Diluted EPS for the year was 29.4 € cents, 
based on a weighted average number of shares 
of 294.7 million (201 1: 31.4 € cents, 247 .2 million 
shares). The growth rates of EPS and diluted  
EPS were lower than the growth rate of the net 
profit due to the full year effect on the weighted 
average number of shares of the £100 million 
share placement of 46.5 million shares 
undertaken in December 201 1.
Total amortisation in 2012 was €35.6 million 
(2011: €23.8 million). Amortisation on 
acquisitions of €26.7 million (201 1: €15.8 million) 
is comprised of amounts relating to Tribeca 
(€3.2 million), Virtue Fusion (€3.3 million), GTS 
(€1.4 million), PTTS (€16.5 million), Ash Gaming 
(€1.3 million) and other acquisitions (€1.0 
million). Of the remaining €8.9 million (2011:  
€7.9 million), €6.8 million (2011: €5.8 million)  
was from internally generated development 
costs and €2.1 million (2011: €2.1 million)  
related to other intangibles. 
Acquisition of Geneity Limited
On 23 January 2012, the Group acquired 100% 
of the shares of Geneity Limited, a provider of 
e-gaming software products, focused primarily 
on the sportsbook and lottery sectors. The 
Group paid an initial cash consideration of €15.1 
million (£1 1.4 million), including working capital 
adjustments, €4.7 million (£4.0 million) which  
is held in escrow for 30 months. A further €4.7 
million (£4.0 million) was also held in escrow  
and to be released subject to certain agreed 
deliverables being met. These deliverables  
were met in September 2012, and the funds 
were released.
Acquisition of Businesses and Assets of PTTS 
Completed in July 201 1
On 1 July 201 1 the Group acquired 100% of the 
issued share capital of PTTS from Worldwide 
Online Enterprises Limited, a company which 
owns various assets of associated businesses, 
including certain companies related by virtue  
of a significant common shareholder. The initial 
cash consideration for the acquisition was €140 
million (subject to working capital adjustment) 
deferred over a period of two years, and an 
additional performance related consideration, 
capped at €140 million payable to the extent 
that the adjusted EBITDA of PTTS exceeded 
certain targets. 
 
During the first half of 2012, Playtech entered 
into an agreement to aggregate the outstanding 
balance of the Initial Consideration into one 
payment of €76 million, which reflects both  
a nominal discount of €4.2 million and also  
an effective discount to the net present value  
of the outstanding balance using the Group’s 
actual borrowing rate. The Group has utilised 
part of its available banking facilities in order  
to finance the payment of the discounted  
initial consideration. 26 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
173.1 2010
2011
2012
243.6
368.1
Financial Review (continued)
Business Review
PTTS’s continued strong performance in  
2012 has, under the terms of the acquisition, 
triggered the accelerated payment of the  
entire contingent consideration of €140 million. 
The acceleration has occurred following the 
achievement of an annualised adjusted EBITDA 
in excess of €40 million in the first two quarters 
of 2012, which represents an approximate  
100% increase in its adjusted EBITDA run rate 
since completion of the acquisition. This has 
resulted in the immediate recognition of 
approximately €34 million as finance cost 
charged to the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income.
The increase in PTTS adjusted EBITDA in 2012 
was significantly contributed from the Asian 
marketing agreement entered into in the 
beginning of 2012, and combined with the 
organic growth since acquired, has resulted  
in approximate 100% increase in its adjusted 
EBITDA run rate since completion of the 
acquisition in July 2011.
License Agreement with  
Skywind Holdings Limited
On 1 1 June 2012, Playtech entered into a  
license agreement with Skywind Holdings 
Limited (“Skywind”), to provide the Group with 
a wide range of social and real money gaming 
software, which will enable the Group to gain 
access to and offer its licensees a broad range 
of social gaming platforms and products and 
complementary real money products. Apart 
from the ability to sell-on the products, the 
license agreement also provides Playtech access 
to more than 150 developers whose primary 
focus is on social and real money gaming.  
The consideration payable for the license is a 
combination of a fixed consideration of €0.5 
million per month and a royalty fee of 20% 
payable on revenue generated from the social 
gaming assets only. In the fourth quarter  
of 2012, the Group commenced generating 
revenues from licensing real money iOS mobile 
originally licensed through Skywind.
Cash Flow
As repeated in the past, Playtech continues  
to be a highly cash generative business.  
Cash as at 31 December 2012 was €120.9 million 
(31 December 201 1: €164.8 million), representing 
15% (201 1: 21%) of the Group’s total assets.  
The decrease in the year end cash balance is  
due mainly to acquisition payments, including 
€118.0 million in respect of the PTTS early 
payment of initial consideration and payment 
due to accelerated contingent consideration 
noted above. Dividends of €70.4 million were 
paid during the year (2011: €23.4 million). 
In the year ended 31 December 2012, the  
Group generated €1 12.8 million from operating 
activities (2011: €74.4 million). In addition it 
received €47.3 million (2011: €35.1 million) of 
dividends from William Hill Online, together 
representing a cash conversion rate from 
adjusted EBITDA of 88% (2011: 88%).
The Group’s cash outflow from investing 
activities (excluding the dividends received 
from William Hill Online) was €176.3 million 
(2011: €135.1 million), consisting of mostly 
acquisition payments of €143.1 million (2011: 
€97 .2 million), of which €76.0 million related to 
the early payment of the initial consideration for 
PTTS, €42.0 million paid as the first instalment  
of the PTTS accelerated contingent consideration 
and €25.1 million for new acquisitions in 2012. 
Cash outflow from financing activities was €27 .8 
million (201 1: €122.0 million), comprising €70.4 
million (201 1: €23.4 million) paid in dividends 
during the year, €47 .9 million as the final 
dividend for 2011 and €22.5 million as interim 
dividend for 2012 and the repayment of the 
borrowings for the acquisition of Ash Gaming  
in December 2011 of €27.5 million and the 
partial repayment of the borrowing for the early 
payment of PTTS initial consideration of €6.3 
million, offset by funds withdrawn from credit 
facility of €75.0 million.
Balance Sheet
The Group held cash balances of €120.9 million 
(2011: €164.8 million) that included monies  
held on behalf of operators in respect of 
operator’s jackpot games and poker operations 
in the amount of €32.0 million (2011: €36.3 
million). Trade receivables were €47.8 million 
(2011: €30.9 million) mostly in respect of 
December licensee fees principally paid one 
month after invoicing and increased as a result 
of acquisitions, mainly PTTS.
Intangible assets as at 31 December 2012 were 
€372.4 million (201 1: €365.2 million), the majority 
of which comprised assets acquired from PTTS 
(€201.1 million), together with assets acquired 
and related goodwill from the acquisitions of 
Tribeca, GTS, VF, IGS, Mobenga, Ash Gaming, 
Geneity and JuegoOnline, patent and 
intellectual property rights and development 
costs of new games and products.
Available for sale investments were €35.3 million 
(2011: €12.4 million) comprising of holdings  
in Sportech plc, AsianLogic and PhilWeb.
Investments in equity-accounted associates 
were €156.0 million (2011: €163.0 million),  
of which €150.7 million (2011: €156.6 million) 
related to the investment in William Hill Online.
Gross Income by Product  
(€ millions)
Casino Bingo Other Videobet WHO Services Poker Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
Revenue-driven costs 36.2  20% 
Employee related costs 99.9  55%
Administration and office costs 15.5 9%
T ravel, exhibitions & marketing  6.8  4%
Cost of services 11 .7 6%
Other 11 .2  6%
 181.3 100%
Long and short-term deferred consideration 
balances of €96.5 million (201 1: €75.3 million) 
relates principally to the present value of the 
accelerated contingent consideration of PTTS. 
The prior year balance included the fair value  
of the PTTS initial consideration, which was  
fully settled in the beginning of the year. 
Long and short-term contingent consideration 
of €16.8 million (201 1: €1 1 1.9 million) represents 
the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that may become due for investments in 
Mobenga and IGS. The prior year balance related 
mainly to PTTS. This was converted to deferred 
consideration in June as explained above.
Post Balance Sheet Events
On 1 March 2013, Playtech was informed by the 
board of William Hill that it intended to exercise 
its call option to acquire Playtech’s 29% stake in 
William Hill Online for a total consideration of 
approximately £424 million. In December 2008 
when William Hill Online was formed, Playtech 
injected assets then worth €177 .7 million into 
the joint venture. Since then, until 31 December 
2012, Playtech’s share of profit has been €140.0 
million. As a result, ignoring the software 
royalties generated, William Hill Online has 
delivered a cash return to Playtech greater than 
3.5 times its original investment in the four years 
since inception of the joint venture.
Until completion, Playtech will continue to  
be entitled to a proportionate share of the 
FY2013 profits of William Hill Online and will 
continue to receive software royalties for the 
foreseeable future.
Dividend 
In October the Group paid an interim dividend 
for 2012 of €22.5 million, representing 7 .8 € 
cents per share. The Board has recommended  
a final dividend of 15.4 € cents per share, giving 
a total 2012 dividend of 23.2 € cents per share 
(201 1: 16.5 € cents per share), an increase of  
41%, reflecting the Board’s confidence in the 
strong underlying growth in earnings, and the 
Company’s dividend policy of paying out 40% 
of adjusted net earnings. This would represent  
a payment of €44.8 million.
Ron Hoffman
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
14 March 2013
Analysis of Costs and Expenses  
(€ millions) 
Adjusted Operating Expenses FY2012 (excluding depreciation and amortisation)   28 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Board of Directors
The current Board of Directors consists of:
Roger Withers (aged 70)
Non-Executive Chairman
Roger started his career with Booz, Allen & 
Hamilton as an international management 
consultant and, subsequently, has over 30 years 
experience in the leisure and gaming industries. 
In 1973, Roger joined Ladbrokes where he held  
a number of senior positions in the bookmaking, 
casino, lottery and gaming machine divisions.  
In 1986, he joined Bass where his roles included 
managing director of BMLS and Coral Racing 
and executive chairman of Bass Leisure, South 
Africa. He retired from Bass in 1998. Since then, 
he has held a number of other non-executive 
directorships, including chairman of Arena 
Leisure plc as well as with a number of 
substantial privately held companies in  
the property, technology, publishing and 
exhibitions sectors. He is also currently a 
non-executive chairman of Sportech plc,  
the pools and tote betting company. 
Mor Weizer (aged 37)
Chief Executive Oﬃcer 
Mor was appointed as the Group’s Chief 
Executive Officer in May 2007. Prior to this he 
was the chief executive officer of one of the 
Group’s subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing Ltd 
which required him to oversee the Group’s 
licensee relationship management, product 
management for new licensees and the Group’s 
marketing activities. Prior to joining the Playtech 
Group, Mor worked for Oracle for over four 
years, initially as a development consultant  
and then as a product manager, which involved 
creating sales and consulting channels on 
behalf of Oracle Israel and Oracle Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. Before this, he worked  
in a variety of roles, including as an auditor and 
financial consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers 
and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic 
Systems Limited, an Israeli company that 
designs electronic warfare systems. Mor is  
also a non-executive director of Sportech PLC.
Ron Hoffman (aged 36)
Chief Financial Oﬃcer
Ron was appointed as the Group’s Chief 
Financial Officer following the retirement of 
David Mathewson on 31 December 2012, having 
joined the Group in 2004. He spent the last eight 
years at Playtech as VP of Finance, managing  
the finance department, including its listing on 
AIM in 2006, the transition to the Main Market in 
2012 and supporting the growth of the business 
through its operations, financial planning and 
reporting. Prior to joining the Playtech Group, 
Ron previously held the position of Senior 
Manager at Ernst & Young.
Alan Jackson (aged 69)
Senior Non-Executive Director
Alan has over 30 years experience in the leisure 
industry. From 1973 to 1991, he occupied a 
number of positions at Whitbread, principally  
as managing director of Beefeater steakhouse 
and also the Whitbread restaurant division 
where he was responsible for the creation  
and development of the Beefeater, Travel Inn 
and TGI Friday brands. In 1991, he founded  
Inn Business Group plc, which was acquired  
by Punch Taverns plc in 1999. He has been 
chairman of The Restaurant Group plc since 
2001. He is also chairman of Charles Wells 
Limited and deputy chairman and senior 
non-executive director at Redrow plc.
Andrew Thomas (aged 69)
Non-Executive Director
Andrew has enjoyed a career as an accountant 
and businessman, much of which within in the 
leisure industry. Andrew is currently chairman of 
Randalls Limited, a family-owned pub company 
in Jersey, where he has his home. Andrew 
previously served as chairman of the The 
Greenalls Group PLC and as a non-executive 
director of JJB Sports PLC and of The Restaurant 
Group PLC, as well as serving on the boards  
of a number of private and public companies. 
He is the founding partner in the Cheshire-
based accountant firm, Moors Andrew Thomas 
& Co. LLP . Andrew is a member of the Institute  
of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales 
and a member of the Institute of Taxation. Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
Sustainability
Roger Withers 
Non-Executive Chairman
Mor Weizer 
Chief Executive Officer 
Ron Hoffman 
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew Thomas 
Non-Executive Director
Alan Jackson 
Senior Non-Executive 
Director 30 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The directors are pleased to present to shareholders their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Principal Activities and Business Review
The Group’s principal activities are the development and licensing of software and the provision of ancillary services for the online and 
land-based gaming industries. Playtech Limited is a public listed company, listed on the London Stock Exchange; it is incorporated and 
domiciled in the Isle of Man.
The information that fulfils the requirement for a management report as required by Rule 4.1.5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
applicable to the Company can be found in the Chairman’s statement and the Business Review on pages 2 to 27 , which also includes an analysis, 
using financial key performance indicators, of the development, performance and position of the Company’s business. A statement of the key 
risks and uncertainties facing the business of the Company at the end of the year is found on pages 48 and 49 of this report and accounts, and 
details of the Company’s risk management objectives and policies are set out in Note 30 to of the Financial Statements.
Details of all important post-balance sheet events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries are set out in Note 31 to the Financial Statements.
Results
The results of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out on pages 58 to 97 show total gross income (total 
revenue plus the Group’s share of profits in William Hill Online before non cash amortisation of intangibles) of €368.1 million (201 1: €243.6 
million) and a net profit after tax of €86.8 million (201 1: € 77 .7 million).
Dividends
The Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 15.4 € cents per share which will be 
paid to shareholders on the register as at 26 April 2013. The payment of this dividend requires shareholder approval which will be sought at 
the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man on 8 May 2013. If approved, the 
final dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013, and together with the interim dividend of 7 .8€ cents per share paid on 19 October 2012 makes a total 
dividend of 23.2€ cents per share for the year. 
Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in a currency other than euros will be required to return currency election forms to the 
Company’s registrars by 3 May 2013.
Directors and Directors’ Interests
The directors of the Company who held office during the 2012 year and to date are:
Appointed Resigned
Roger Withers 28.3.2006
Alan Jackson 28.3.2006
David Mathewson 10.6.2010 31.12.2012
Mor Weizer 2.5.2007
Andrew Thomas 19.6 2012
Ron Hoﬀman 1.1.2013
The interests of the directors who held office during 2012 and to date, in the share capital of the Company and details of their service 
agreements are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 40 and 43. There are no agreements between the Company and any of 
its directors providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs because of a take-over bid.
Significant Shareholdings
As of 14 March 2013 the Company had been advised of the following significant shareholders each holding more than 3% of the Company’s 
issued share capital:
Shareholders %*
No. of ordinary 
shares
Brickington Trading Limited 49.3 143,645,782
BlackRock Investment Management (Institutional Group) 5.4 15,699,402
Capital (Institutional Group) 4.9 14,311,675
Greenlight Capital 3.8 11,029,476
Fidelity (Institutional Group) 3.6 10,625,334
Interexpo Trading Limited 3.0 8,774,200
 
* Based on 291,137 ,964 ordinary shares in issue on 28 February 2013
Directors’ Report
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
Sustainability
The persons set out in the table above have notified the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of their interests  
in the ordinary share capital of the Company. 
Capital Structure
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had 290,236,870 issued shares of no par value. The Company has one class of ordinary shares and each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company and to participate in any dividends declared in accordance with the articles of 
association. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital. 
The authorities under the Company’s articles of association granted at the last Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase its own shares 
and for the Directors to issue new shares for cash remains valid until the forthcoming Annual General Meeting when it is intended that a resolution  
will be put forward to shareholders to renew the authority to issue shares for cash. The Company did not acquire any of its shares during the year.
The Company’s articles of association do not contain any specific restrictions on the size or a shareholder’s holding or on the transfer of shares.  
There are no restrictions on amending the articles of association other than the requirement to pass a special resolution of the shareholders.
Significant Agreements
There are no agreements or arrangements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change in control of the Company following  
a take-over bid, and which are considered individually significant in terms of their impact on the business of the Group as a whole, other than the 
Company’s €50 million facility from Bank Hapoalim B.M. which provides that the outstanding facilities may become immediately due and payable  
on the occurrence of a change in control.
Related Party Transactions
Details of all related party transactions are set out in Note 28 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance
The Directors’ statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 33 to 36 and forms part of this report.
Political and Charitable Donations
The Company made a charitable donation of £30,000 to the Responsible Gaming Trust (formerly the Great Foundation), a charity which funds the 
research into and treatment of problem gambling during the year ended 31 December 2012, and made further donations to a variety of charities 
operating in countries in which the Company’s subsidiaries are based. 
The Company made no political donations during this period.
Employees
The Corporate Social Responsibility Report provides information with respect to the Group’s impact on the environment and can be found on  
pages 50 to 55. Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered, bearing in mind the aptitude and ability  
of the applicant concerned. The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed  
of matters affecting them as employees and on the performance of the Group.
Policy on Creditors
The Group and Company do not follow any code or standard on payment practices and there is no fixed policy for payment for goods and services, 
though generally terms of payment are agreed when commencing trading and, subject to any genuine dispute, the policy is to adhere to such 
payment terms. Payment is made promptly once authorisation of the invoice is obtained. 
Land and Buildings
The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the book and market value of the land and buildings owned  
by the Group.
Future Prospects
The Board is confident of its performance for 2013. Its aim in 2013 is to further enhance Playtech’s market leading position with a focus on regulated 
markets and using its strong cash position, if appropriate, to look at the acquisition of complementary businesses. 
Directors’ Statement Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 28 and 29 confirm that, to the best  
of their knowledge:
 The Group and Company Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view  
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
 The Directors’ Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The 2012 AGM was held in May in Douglas, Isle of Man. All directors were present, and made themselves available to answer questions from 
shareholders. The AGM provides an opportunity for the directors to communicate personally performance and future strategy to non-institutional 
shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with and question the board. All directors again plan to be present. All results of proxy votes are read 
out, made available for review at the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and communicated to the market and via the Group website.
The 2013 AGM will be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at 1 1:30am. The notice 
convening the 2013 AGM, and an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out in the circular that accompanies this Annual Report. 32 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Auditors
So far as each director is aware, at the date of the approval of the Financial Statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware. Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Company’s auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board
Paul Wright
Company Secretary and Legal Counsel
14 March 2013
Directors’ Report (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
Sustainability
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased on behalf of the Board to present the Company’s Corporate Governance Report to shareholders.
Introduction
The purpose of corporate governance is to ensure that companies protect the sustainability of their businesses and the communities in which they 
operate, while maximising shareholder value and treating all shareholders fairly. The Board recognises that high standards of corporate governance 
have become a necessary condition for sustainable success in business. The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which  
it considers to be central to the effective stewardship of the business and to maintaining the confidence of stakeholders.
While the Company’s shares were traded on AIM, the Board was not required to follow the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) although  
it did take account of a number of its principles to the extent it was deemed appropriate for a young, entrepreneurial company operating in a rapidly 
changing environment. However, with a view to the Company’s development and following its graduation from AIM to the premium segment of the 
official list of the UKLA in July 2012 (“Admission”), Playtech is required to follow the provisions of the Code, and the Board has sought to move towards 
full compliance with it.
The directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Code as it applies to the Company reporting on its financial year ended  
31 December 2012 and believe that, since Admission, the Company has been fully compliant with the Code for the remainder of the financial year. 
However, the Company recognises that there were some areas of non-compliance which occurred during the financial year prior to Admission  
(i.e. while the Company was on AIM) as follows:
 As disclosed on page 42, until 2 May 2012, the Chairman, Roger Withers held options over a total of 300,000 ordinary shares of the Company, some  
of which were granted to him shortly after the Company’s admission to AIM in 2006 and so he could not be considered to be fully independent  
on appointment (provision A.3.1 of the Code). These option arrangements were terminated prior to Admission and Mr Withers is now considered  
to be fully independent.
 Until the appointment of Andrew Thomas as a non-executive director on 19 June 2012, the Board, the audit committee and the remuneration 
committee did not consist of at least two independent non-executive directors (excluding the Chairman) (provisions B.1.2, C.3.1 and D.2.1 of the 
Code), and the nomination committee was not made up of a majority of independent non-executive directors (excluding the Chairman) (provision 
B.2.1 of the Code). However, since Mr Thomas’ appointment, Playtech has complied with those provisions of the Code for the remainder of the 
financial year. 
 As disclosed on page 39, certain historic option awards made to executive directors (all of which were made while the Company was on AIM)  
do not contain any performance-related vesting conditions. The current policy of the remuneration committee as stated in its report on page 39  
is that vesting of all awards to directors and senior management should be dependent on the achievement of challenging performance criteria 
reflecting Playtech’s objectives, including non-financial performance metrics where appropriate to align with the interests of shareholders generally.
 For the financial year, the Company has been regarded as a ‘smaller company’ for the purposes of the Code. Prior to the end of the financial year,  
the Company graduated to the FTSE 250 and, therefore, will not be treated as a smaller company for its financial year ending 31 December 2013.
The Board is accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good governance and the statement set out below describes how the Group applies the 
principles identified in the Code.
The Board Constitution and Procedures
Composition
The composition of the current Board of Directors and biographical information concerning them is given on pages 28 to 29.
As at 31 December 2012, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, together with two independent 
non-executive directors. The list of directors holding office during the year to 31 December 2012 and the committees on which they served are set  
out in the table below.
Position Independent
Remuneration 
Committee Audit Committee
Risk & Compliance 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
Executive directors
Mor Weizer CEO
David Mathewson CFO
Non-executive directors
Roger Withers Chairman * Chairman
Alan Jackson Senior Non-executive Director Chairman Chairman Andrew Thomas Non-executive Chairman
  
* With effect from 3 May 2012.
All of the directors served throughout the financial year, with the exception of David Mathewson who resigned on 31 December 2012 and was  
formerly the Chief Finance Officer and Andrew Thomas who was appointed on 19 June 2012. Ron Hoffman was appointed to the Board with effect 
from 1 January 2013 on the retirement of David Mathewson.
Corporate Governance
Governance 34 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The non-executive directors are all considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship, which could materially 
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment. 
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the Board 
as a whole. The Company Secretary is a member of Group’s senior management team and all the directors have access to his advice and services.
Board Operation
The roles of the Chairman (Roger Withers) and the Chief Executive Officer (Mor Weizer) are separated, clearly defined and their respective 
responsibilities are summarised below.
Chairman
 Overall effectiveness of the running of the Board;
 Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full part in the development and determination of the Group’s strategic objectives;
 Keeping the other directors informed of shareholders attitudes towards the Company;
 Safeguarding the good reputation of the Company and representing it both externally and internally;
 Acting as the guardian of the Board’s decision-making processes; and
 Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
Chief Executive Officer
 Executive leadership of the Company’s business on a day-to-day basis;
 Developing the overall commercial objectives of the Group and proposing and developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the  
Board as a whole;
 Responsibility, together with his senior management team, for the execution of the Group’s strategy and implementation of Board decisions;
 Recommendations on senior appointments and development of the management team; and
 Ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
How the Board Functions
In accordance with the Code, the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company. The Board provides entrepreneurial 
leadership for the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed. The Board  
sets the Company’s strategic aims, and ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews 
management performance.
The Board meets regularly and frequently, with 10 meetings scheduled and held in 2012. It was also necessary for the Board to hold an unscheduled 
Board meeting in the year in connection with the re-domicile of the Company to the Isle of Man and the issue of a prospectus in connection  
with Admission. 
During the year, the Chairman met the other non-executives in the absence of the executive directors to re-confirm and take account of their views.  
All the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
Board meetings are held at the registered office of the Company on the Isle of Man, though occasional meetings are held at the Group’s operations or 
at other locations. Directors are provided with comprehensive background information for each meeting and all directors were available to participate 
fully and on an informed basis in the Board decisions. In addition, certain members of the senior management team including the COO, the Group 
General Counsel and the Head of Investor Relations are invited to attend the whole or parts of the meetings to deliver their reports on the business. 
Any specific actions arising during meetings are agreed by the Board and a comprehensive follow-up procedure ensures their completion.
Details of the attendance of the directors at meetings of the Board and its committees are set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk
Number of Meetings 112622
Roger Withers 112521
Alan Jackson 10 2 6 2 2
Mor Weizer 11
Andrew Thomas 6 1 4 2
David Mathewson 9
    
Responsibility and Delegation
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the efficient functioning of the Board. He ensures that all directors receive sufficient relevant information on 
financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings. The Chief Executive Officer’s responsibilities focus on coordinating the Group’s business and 
implementing Group strategy. Regular interaction between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer between meetings ensures the Board remains 
fully informed of developments in the business at all times.
Corporate Governance (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
Sustainability
There remains in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board consideration and approval, which includes the matters set  
out below:
 Approval of the Group’s long-term objectives and commercial strategy;
 Approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any changes to them;
 Major investments or capital projects;
 The extension of the Group’s activities into any new business or geographic areas, or to cease any material operations;
 Changes in the Company’s capital structure or management and control structure;
 Approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and half-yearly financial statements, interim management statements and announcements 
regarding dividends;
 Approval of treasury policies, including foreign currency exposures and use of financial derivatives;
 Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management;
 The entering into of agreements that are not in the ordinary course of business or material strategically or by reason of their size;
 Changes to the size, composition or structure of the Board and its committees; and
 Corporate governance matters.
In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authorities’ memorandum which sets out levels of authority for employees in the business.
The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to committees of the Board. These committees currently are the Audit Committee, the 
Remuneration Committee, the Risk & Compliance Committee and the Nomination Committee. The composition of these committees is set out  
in the table on page 33 and each committee reports separately on its work in the following pages. The minutes of each committee are circulated  
to and reviewed by the Board. The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the committees. The Terms of Reference for each of the committees  
are available to view on the Company’s website www.playtech.com.
Board Tenure
In accordance with the articles of association, every new director appointed in the year is required to stand for re-election by shareholders at the AGM 
next following their appointment. Accordingly, Andrew Thomas and Ron Hoffman will stand for re-election at this year’s AGM. For those not subject  
to this obligation, the Board has decided to comply with the Code requirements that directors of companies in the FTSE350 Index submit themselves 
for re-election annually. Accordingly, all the directors are seeking their re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
The Board has collectively agreed that the directors proposed for re-election in 2013 have made significant contributions to the business since their 
appointment their last re-election and each has a key role to play in the formulation of the Group’s future strategy.
Insurance and Indemnity
In accordance with Article 162 of the Company’s articles of association, and subject to the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006, the 
directors and officers of the Company are entitled to an indemnity from the Company against liabilities incurred by them in the actual or purported 
exercise of their duties, or exercise of their powers including liability incurred in defending any proceedings (whether civil or criminal) which relate  
to anything done or omitted to be done and in which judgment is given in his favour, or in which he is acquitted, or which are otherwise disposed of. 
In addition, the Company has purchased and maintained directors’ and officers’ liability insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs  
for claims incurred in respect of any act or omission in the execution of their duties and which has been in place throughout the year.
In certain circumstances, directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice under an agreed board procedure, which would then  
be organised by the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel, and in this regard the Company would meet their reasonable legal expenses.
Board Effectiveness
Board Balance
The Board comprises individuals with wide business experience gained in various industry sectors related to the Company’s business and it is the 
intention of the Board to ensure that the balance of the directors reflects the changing needs of the Group’s business. The Board considers that it  
is of a size and has the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence that is appropriate for the Company’s business. While not having  
a specific policy regarding the constitution and balance of the Board, potential new directors are considered on their own merits with regards to  
their skills, knowledge, experience and credentials. Female candidates or candidates from any particular ethnic or national background would each  
be considered equally. 
The non-executive directors continue to contribute their considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to the Board and provide a 
valuable independent perspective; where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management. In addition, 
they helped formulate the Group’s strategy. 
Evaluation
The Board is committed to an ongoing evaluation process of itself and its committees to assess their performance and identify areas in which their 
effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, in discussion with the Senior Non-Executive 
Director, intend to undertake a review of the performance of individual directors. The Senior Non-Executive Director will consider the performance  
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Newly-appointed directors can expect a detailed and systematic induction on joining the Board. They meet various members of senior management 
and familiarise themselves with all core aspects of the Group’s operations. On request, meetings can be arranged with the major shareholders.  
In 2012, following his appointment, visits were arranged for Andrew Thomas to the Group’s offices in Estonia, Israel and Cyprus to better understand 
the operations and financial controls of the Group. 36 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Relationship with Shareholders
Primary responsibility for effective communication with shareholders lies with the Chairman, but all the Company’s directors are available to meet  
with shareholders throughout the year. In particular the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer prepare a general presentation for analysts 
and institutional shareholders following the interim and preliminary announcements. Further presentations are also prepared following significant 
acquisitions and whenever the Board considers it beneficial to shareholders to do so. Regular meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders 
are also held by the Head of Investor Relations. 
The Company endeavours to answer all queries raised by shareholders promptly.
The Company’s largest shareholder is Brickington Trading Limited (“Brickington”). Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary of a trust, one of the 
ultimate beneficiaries of which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Group’s founders. In connection with the Company’s Admission, the Company and Brickington 
have entered into a relationship agreement, pursuant to which Brickington has agreed that: (i) it will vote its shares in such a manner so as to procure 
that each member of the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Brickington and its associates; and (ii) it will not exercise any  
of the voting rights attaching to its shares in such a manner so as to procure any amendment to the articles of association which would be inconsistent 
with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the relationship agreement. Brickington has also agreed that all transactions and relationships 
between it (or any of its associates) and the Company will be on arm’s length terms and on a normal commercial basis. The Board believes that the 
provisions of the relationship agreement provides reassurance that Brickington will not seek to exercise its shareholding capriciously and the 
independence of the Company.
In connection with the relationship agreement mentioned above, Mr. Sagi has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which  
Mr. Sagi will, as and when requested to do so by the Company, provide advisory services to the Company for a nominal fee of €1.00 per annum until 
either Mr. Sagi ceases to be interested (whether legally or beneficially) in any ordinary shares or either party terminates the agreement following  
its fifth anniversary, whichever is the earlier. The Company has not sought any advisory services under these arrangements during the year.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the Chairman will present the key highlights of the Group’s 
performance. The Board will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Investor Relations (IR) and Communications
The Company has well-established IR processes, which support a structured programme of communications with existing and potential investors and 
analysts. Executive directors and members of the IR team participated in a number of investor events, attending industry conferences and regularly 
meet or are in contact with existing and potential institutional investors from around the world, ensuring that Group performance and strategy  
is effectively communicated, within regulatory constraints. Other representatives of the Board and senior management meet with investors from  
time to time. The IR team provides regular reports to the board on related matters, issues of concern to investors, and analyst’s views and opinions. 
Whenever required, the executive directors and the Chairman communicate with the Company’s brokers to confirm shareholder sentiment and  
to consult on governance issues. 
During 2012, 36 regulatory announcements were released informing the market of acquisitions, corporate actions, important customer contracts, 
financial results, the results of annual general meetings and Board changes. Copies of these announcements, together with other IR information  
and documents, are available on the Group website www.playtech.com. 
Summary
In presenting this report, and having monitored, reviewed or approved all shareholder communications in 2012 and since the end of the financial year, 
the Board is confident that it has presented a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s position and prospects.
By order of the Board
Roger Withers
Chairman
14 March 2013
Corporate Governance (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
Sustainability
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the directors’ remuneration report for the year to 31 December 2012 to shareholders on behalf of the Board. 
This report, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 (the “Code”), describes  
how the Board has applied the principle of the Code to director’s remuneration. While Playtech, as a company incorporated in the Isle of Man,  
is not required to comply with the requirements set out in Part 15 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies  
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (“2008 Regulations”), the Board has sought to do so in all material respects in this report.  
In addition, consistent with the draft proposals on directors’ pay published by the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, the report has been 
split into two sections: a Remuneration Policy Report, which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors  
and an Implementation Report, which discloses how the current remuneration policy has been implemented in the year ended 31 December 2012.
This has been an important year in the development of Playtech, with the move from the AIM to a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange,  
and significant growth in the revenues and adjusted EBITDA of the Group, which have been achieved through the efforts of a talented leadership team. 
For the Remuneration Committee, this has meant a major focus on ensuring appropriate remuneration practises are in place both to retain and 
develop our key talent and also, as our business expands, to attract new talent when required. Our policies are designed to reward and retain those  
key individuals who we hope are with us for a number of years as the Company develops further in new channels and markets. 
Our remuneration policy, which is set out in more detail in the report, is designed to reward the contributions of senior management but also to 
incentivise them to maintain Playtech’s position as the software and services provider of choice to the gaming sector. Accordingly, remuneration is 
delivered via modest fixed remuneration delivered via salary and benefits, and incentive-based remuneration enabling the executives to be rewarded 
for delivering superior financial performance and returns to shareholder. The committee believes these measures reinforce the Company’s strategy  
to create a business with significant scale and a full product and service capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent technology platform.
During the year, and prior to the transfer to a premium listing, the committee undertook a review of the suitability of the Company’s existing share 
option plan. Following this review it was decided that the Company should adopt a new long-term incentive plan with the necessary flexibility to 
deliver longer-term incentive arrangements for executive directors and senior managers that would reward them appropriately for growth in key 
performance metrics, such as adjusted EBITDA or Earnings per share, and provide a strong retention tool that a traditional option plan dependent  
to some extent on fluctuations in the stock market generally, cannot provide. Accordingly, in March 2012 the Board, on the recommendation of the 
remuneration committee adopted the Playtech 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2012 Plan”) intended to largely replace the Playtech 2005 Global  
Share Option Plan (“Option Plan”). 
One of the key features of the 2012 Plan is that it allows options to be either granted at nominal or nil cost and/or to be settled in cash, which greatly 
reduces the dilutive impact on existing shareholders generally of the issue of shares on the exercise of options. With this in mind, it was also agreed  
to amend the rules of the Option Plan to allow for the cash value of an award to be paid to a participant with their agreement when they exercise  
an option instead of the participant being issued with new shares and for him or her to realise the value by selling the shares in the market.
Further details of the Company’s remuneration policy and structure are provided in this report.
We believe that the remuneration policy and incentive framework currently in place is working well to support the Company’s strategy in the current 
economic environment, is helping to retain and motivate our management team and is helping to drive strong returns for our shareholders. A single 
advisory resolution will be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 8 May 2013 inviting them to approve the Remuneration Policy Report 
and the Implementation Report. 
Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the Remuneration Report has not been audited.
The Company’s remuneration policy is designed to ensure that the Group has the ability to attract, retain and motivate individuals to ensure the 
continued success of the Company. Remuneration packages are designed to reward the executive directors and members of the senior management 
team fairly for their contributions, whilst remaining within the range of benefits offered by similar companies in the sector. 
The committee believes that the individual contributions made by the executive directors and senior management are fundamental to the successful 
performance of the Company. The committee after discussion with the executive directors and its advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore adopted  
a remuneration policy with the following objectives:
 Pay executives fairly, but recognising that they have highly marketable skills to companies already in (and those considering entry to)  
the online gaming industry, but acknowledge local market levels, and where appropriate, practices;
 Incentivise and reward behaviours that will contribute to superior Company performance;
 Avoid the need to make ad hoc payments outside the formal structure;
 Enable the Company to attract and retain international executives at the required calibre, particularly in potential new markets, such as the USA;
 Be simple and understandable;
 Provide good lock-in of key employees through deferred elements; and
 Avoid reward for failure.
The committee believes that its remuneration policy creates a coherent and appropriate framework for remunerating executive directors and senior 
managers of the Company and draws a clearer link between performance and reward. 
Remuneration Report
Governance 38 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
At a Glance
Element & Maximum
Purpose and 
Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Performance Targets Changes for 2013
Salary To attract, retain and 
motivate high calibre 
individuals for the role 
and duties required
To provide market-
competitive salary 
relative to the  
external market
To reﬂect appropriate 
skills, development and 
experience over time
Reviewed annually
Takes account of 
the external market 
and other relevant 
factors including 
internal relativities and 
individual performance
Other than when an 
executive changes roles 
or where benchmarking 
indicates individual 
salaries require 
realignment, annual 
increases will not 
exceed the general  
level of increases for  
the Group’s employees
N/A CEO’s current salary 
£450,000
CFO’s current salary 
£200,000
Bonus Clear and direct 
incentive linked to 
annual performance 
targets
Incentivise annual 
delivery of ﬁnancial 
measures and personal 
performance
Corporate measures 
selected were  
consistent with  
and complemented  
the budget and 
strategic plan
Paid in cash 150% of salary for  
the CEO, 100% of  
salary for other 
executive directors
70% based on ﬁnancial 
performance measures
30% based on personal 
performance
No change
Long-Term  
Incentive Plan
Aligned to key strategic 
objective of delivering 
strong returns to 
shareholders and 
earnings performance
Grant of performance 
shares
Shares generally settled 
unless use of shares 
would exceed the free 
ﬂoat limit for inclusion 
in the FTSE 250 index  
in which case the gain  
is cash settled
Between 150%  
to 300% of salary 
performance shares
Performance measured 
over three years
Performance targets 
aligned with the Group’s 
strategy of delivering 
strong returns to 
shareholders and 
earnings performance
No change
Pension None N/A N/A N/A N/A
Other beneﬁts To help attract and 
retain high calibre 
individuals
Provision of private 
medical, permanent 
health insurance and  
life insurance 
N/A N/A No change
     
Remuneration Report (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Sustainability
New appointments:  Base salary levels will be set to reflect the experience of the individual, appropriate market data and internal relativities.  
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary, they may be subject to a series of increases  
to a desired salary positioning over an appropriate time frame (e.g. up to two to three years) subject to performance in post. 
 
Normal policy will be for the new director to participate in the remuneration structure detailed above. 
 
The committee may consider it necessary to make an exceptional grant of shares in order to compensate the individual for 
awards that would be forfeited from the current employer or in order to secure the individual’s appointment. Where possible, 
such awards would be structured to mirror the form and structure of the forfeited awards or to provide alignment with  
existing shareholders.
Exits:   Executive directors’ service contracts are terminable by six months notice from either the Company or the executive.  
The Company may also make a payment in lieu of notice equal to six months salary and benefits and any applicable  
statutory payments due to them. 
 
Executive directors may also receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the period worked in the financial year subject  
to performance. 
 
Standard ‘good leaver’ definitions are included in the 2012 Plan rules in relation to long-term incentives.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors
Salary and Beneﬁts in Kind
Salaries are reviewed annually for each executive director with effect from June each year. The committee takes into account individual  
performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative performance of the Company, pay policy within the Company  
and salaries in comparable companies. 
The current basic salary levels of the executive directors are:
 M. Weizer: £450,000
 R. Hoffman: £200,000
Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, and life insurance. 
Annual Bonus
Executive directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan based on a combination of corporate financial goals and individual 
achievements. The maximum level of bonus that could have been awarded for the financial year 2012 was 150% of base salary for the CEO  
and 100% of base salary for the CFO. Any bonus payments are made in cash.
For 2013, bonuses for the executive directors will be based 70% on a financial performance measure, comprising adjusted EBITDA, with the remaining 
30% being based on personal objectives. 
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the Company will be determined on a sliding scale based around the  
‘target’ number, set by reference to the Company’s budget for the forthcoming financial year. The achievement of the target is not “all or nothing”,  
but instead would be on a sliding scale, with no bonus being paid until at least 90 per cent of target is achieved and rising on a straight line basis  
with the maximum paid out only if 120 per cent of target budget is achieved.
Pensions
None of the executive directors are members of any Company pension plans.
Long-Term Incentives
Share Option Plan
The Company operates an unapproved share option scheme in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech Limited 2005 Global Share Option Plan (the 
“Option Plan”), pursuant to which the senior management and where relevant, the Remuneration Committee, makes recommendation to the Board 
concerning the allocation of share options to employees of the Company. Options under the Option Plan are granted at market value and in the case  
of executive directors exclusively, and in most instances for senior managers, the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the 
relevant grant date. In limited instances options granted to senior managers vest in equal proportions on the first three anniversaries of the relevant 
grant date. Unexercised options expire ten years after the date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Group’s employment, in which case 
the unvested options lapse and any vested options lapse three months after the date that the employment ends.
It is not intended that the Option Plan will be used for future share option grants for executive directors or for members of senior management.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
Given the dilutive effect of share options and the increasing disconnect between the financial performance of companies generally and the 
performance of their share prices in the current turbulent economic times, the Board decided in March 2012, after discussions with certain of  
its key shareholders and its advisers, New Bridge Street, to adopt a new long-term incentive plan, the Playtech Long Term Incentive Plan 2012. 
Under the 2012 Plan, a range of share-based awards can be made to executive directors and senior managers of the Group, including conditional 
awards, nil-cost options, market value share options or forfeitable share awards. It is intended that initial awards to executive directors will be in the 
form of nil cost options and the face value of such awards will be 150% and 100% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively.
Awards made to executive directors vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to (i) participants remaining in employment (other than in certain 
‘good leaver’ circumstances) and (ii) achievement of challenging performance targets. Awards that are structured as options can be exercised up to  
ten years after the date of grant (or such shorter period in respect of vested options held by a leaver).  40 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Exercise of any awards granted to executive directors under the 2012 Plan, will be subject to performance conditions. It is intended that the first  
awards under the plan will be subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions based in part on total shareholder return relative to  
a comparator group and part in the growth in earnings per share over the period. The committee will determine the appropriate targets immediately 
prior to grant. 
Awards made to the executive directors will also be subject to clawback provisions for a period of three years following vesting. The committee  
may decide to clawback awards in the event of misconduct or material misstatement of the Group’s financial results resulting in an award vesting  
to a greater degree than would otherwise have been granted. 
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be settled in cash subject to the tax treatment in the hands  
of the recipient. 
Share Ownership Guideline
The Board has recently adopted a policy that will require any executive director on exercise of an award under the 2012 Plan, to retain a portion  
of the net of tax vested shares until he has build-up and retain a shareholding roughly equivalent in value to one times his base salary.
Other Incentive Schemes
In December 2009, the Board approved the establishment of a phantom share plan for the senior executives of Video B Holdings Limited (“Videobet”), 
in order to retain and incentivise the management team. The overall size of the plan is limited to an amount equal to 2.5 per cent of the share capital  
of Videobet. Awards will vest once the Company has received in cash an amount equal to its total investment in Videobet plus an amount equal to base 
rate plus 10 per cent p.a. compound on such invested amount. Participants will be able to exercise their awards on a share sale, listing of Videobet or 
such earlier date as is agreed between the participant and the Company acting through the Remuneration Committee. No current executive director 
participates in this plan.
The Company also established an HMRC approved Company Share Option Plan (CSOP) in 2010, to retain and incentivise key employees based in the  
UK in the Group’s UK businesses. The rules of the CSOP were approved by HMRC in August 2010. Under the CSOP options can be granted to UK-based 
employees up to a maximum of £30,000 and, subject to compliance with the rules of the CSOP , subject only to capital gains tax on any growth in value. 
Under the rules of the CSOP options may not be exercised until the third anniversary of grant and will lapse if the employee leaves their employment  
in the Group, except in certain limited circumstances, such as death or disability. No current executive director participates in this plan. 
Directors Service Contracts
The service agreements of the executive directors are for an indefinite term and provide for formal notice periods of six months to be served to 
terminate the agreement, either by the Company or the director. Set out below are the other key terms of the executive directors’ terms and conditions 
of employment:
Name Date Termination payment Non-compete Change of control payment
Mor Weizer 2.5.2007 Payment in lieu of notice  
of up to six months basic 
salary and beneﬁts
During employment and  
for six months thereafter
None
David Mathewson 25.5.2011 Payment in lieu of notice  
of up to six months basic 
salary and beneﬁts
During employment and  
for twelve months thereafter 
save that the restriction is six 
months in the case of customers 
None
Ron Hoﬀman 1.1.2013 Payment in lieu of notice  
of up to six months basic 
salary and beneﬁts
During employment and  
for six months thereafter
None
Executive directors may also receive a pro-rated annual bonus for the period worked in the financial year up to departure, subject to performance. 
In the case of David Mathewson, whose employment ceased on 31 December 2012, he was paid his basic salary, but no other benefits, for his 
contractual notice period. The remuneration committee will consider his performance against targets in assessing the appropriate level of bonus 
payment in respect of the financial year when the bonus payments to other executive directors and senior managers are decided. In respect of his 
outstanding share options under the 2005 Plan, in accordance with the terms of the 2005 Plan, the committee has decided that these options may 
become exercisable for a period of six months following announcement of the 2012 results.
The non-executive directors each have specific letters of appointment, rather than service contracts. Their remuneration is determined by the Board 
within limits set by the Articles of Association and is set taking into account market data as obtained from independent non-executive director fee 
surveys and their responsibilities. Non-executive directors are appointed generally for an initial term of three years and, under normal circumstances 
would be expected to serve for additional three year terms, up to a maximum of nine years, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting as required.
Remuneration Report (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
Sustainability
The following is a summary of the key terms of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors:
Name Date Term Termination
Roger Withers 14.03.06 No stated term but stands for  
re-election every three years
90 days notice on either side or  
if not re-elected, disqualiﬁcation  
or commits gross misconduct 
Alan Jackson 14.03.06 No stated term 90 days notice on either side or  
if not re-elected, disqualiﬁcation  
or commits gross misconduct
Andrew Thomas* 19.06.12 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side or  
if not re-elected, disqualiﬁcation  
or commits gross misconduct
* Andrew Thomas was appointed to his position as a non-executive director on 19 June 2012.
Notwithstanding the terms of the letters of appointment for Roger Withers and Andrew Thomas, all directors will stand for re-election by shareholders 
on an annual basis in accordance with the Code.
Implementation Report
Role and Membership
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of three independent non-executive directors. The committee is chaired by Alan Jackson, the senior 
independent non-executive director and the other members are Andrew Thomas, who joined on his appointment to the Board in June 2012,  
and Roger Withers. Details of attendance at the committee are set out on page 34. 
The committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities. The committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed at the time of the move to a premium listing and are available for inspection on the Company’s website www.playtech.com and include:
 Determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, the Chairman and other senior managers;
 Review the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant;
 Review the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans;
 Review the design of and approve any changes to long term incentive or option plans; and
 Ensure that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded.
The committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of the executive directors, the Company Secretary  
& Legal Counsel and other key members of executive management and has regard to the Company’s overall approach to the remuneration of  
all employees. Within this context the remuneration committee determines the overall level of share options, salaries, incentive payments and 
performance related pay due to the executive directors and senior management. The committee also determines the performance targets and the 
extent of their achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the executives. No director  
is involved any decisions as to his/her own remuneration.
The committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of matters, including the scale and composition of the total 
remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable companies that have extensive operations 
outside the UK. 
During the year, the committee received material assistance and advice from the CEO and from the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel (who is also 
secretary to the committee). 
The committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings held when necessary. During the year, 
the committee met six times and these meetings addressed wide variety of issues, including:
Month Principal Activity
March Approving the terms of the New Plan for the directors and senior managers
 Approving the payment of bonus payments to executives
 Instructing Canaccord to undertake a valuation of the Chairman’s options using the Black Scholes methodology
April To approve continuation of options granted to ‘good leavers’
 To approve proposed changes to the rules of the Share Plan so as to allow awards to be settled in cash
June To approve the award of options to key employees of Ash Gaming Limited following its acquisition
October To consider proposals for the structure of incentives to be granted to senior managers under the New Plan and appropriate 
performance targets
November To agree the variation of commission arrangements for certain members of the senior management team
December To consider and agree terms for the termination of the service agreement of David Mathewson
 Approve the proposed package for the appointment of Ron Hoﬀman as the new CFO
 
In addition, the remuneration committee met informally and resolved by written resolution to agree to the exercise by the CEO of certain options and 
the payment to him by the Company of the cash equivalent of the gain on exercising the options, being the closing market value of the Company’s 
ordinary shares on the day immediately prior to the date of exercise of the option, £4.27 , less the cost of exercising the options. 42 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
20.0  
40.0  
60.0  
80.0  
100.0  
120.0  
140.0  
160.0  
Dec-07 Jun-08 Dec-08 Jun-09 Dec-09 Jun-10 Dec-10 Jun-11 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 
Playtech FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure (rebased) 
External Advisers
New Bridge Street (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited) is the committee’s independent adviser. New Bridge Street does not provide any other 
services to the Company. 
Performance Graph
The following graph shows the Company’s total shareholder return (TSR) performance over the past five years: the Company’s TSR is compared with  
a broad equity market index. The index chosen here is the FTSE350 Travel & Leisure Index, which is considered the most appropriate published index.
Audited Information
The following information in this part of the Remuneration Report has been audited by BDO LLP , the Company’s auditors. 
The Directors’ emoluments, benefits and shareholdings during the year ended 31 December 2012 were as follows:
1. Directors’ Emoluments (in euros) 
Director Salary Bonuses Beneﬁts
Total (excluding 
option charges)
Option  
charges
2012 Total 
emoluments
Executive
Mor Weizer 571,649 208,518 20,009 800,176 100,402 900,578
David Mathewson 368,384 183,515 76,590 628,489 130,850 759,340
2. Non-Executive Directors’ Emoluments (in euros)
Non-Executive Fees
Roger Withers
(1)
537,668 – –537,668 –537,668
Alan Jackson 185,072 – – 185,072 – 185,072
Andrew Thomas
(2)
61,520 – – 61,520 – 61,520
     
Notes
(1) On 2 May 2012 the Company reached agreement with the Chairman, Roger Withers, to purchase his 300,000 shares under option for a cash payment of £500,000. The cash 
payment was determined based on the approximate expected value of the share option using the Black-Scholes formula and taking into account the contribution and time  
Mr. Withers has devoted to the Company. 
(2) Andrew Thomas was appointed to the Board on 19 June 2012.
Remuneration Report (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
Sustainability
3. Annual Bonus
In 2012 the Chief Executive Officer and David Mathewson had the opportunity to earn bonuses of 150 per cent and 100 per cent of their respective 
salary. The structure of the annual bonus plan was the same as that described in the Policy Report on page 39.
The Committee determined that the bonuses payable for 2012 was 150 per cent of salary for the CEO (100 per cent of the maximum) and 75 per cent  
of salary for David Mathewson. These bonus payments were determined against corporate financial performance, which was significantly ahead  
of budget with an adjusted EBITDA of €186.7 million representing a 49 per cent increase on the prior year and 122 per cent of target, and full 
achievement of personal objectives.
In 2012, the Chief Executive Officer waived his entitlement to €600,000 of bonus.
4. Termination Payment
As disclosed above, David Mathewson was paid a sum of £100,000 in lieu of notice on the termination of his employment on 31 December 2012.
5. Directors Interests
5.1. Interests of directors in ordinary shares
Ordinary shares
As at 31.12.12 As at 31.12.11
No. shares Percentage** No. Shares Percentage*
Mor Weizer nil nil
David Mathewson nil nil
Ron Hoﬀman nil nil
Roger Withers 19,333 0.008 19,333 0.008
Alan Jackson 5,000 0.002 5,000 0.002
Andrew Thomas 7,500 0.003 n/a n/a
   
*  Based on the total issued share capital of 289,316,948 as at 31.12.1 1.
**  Based on the total issued share capital of 290,236,870 as at 31.12.12.
There has been no change in the directors’ beneficial interests between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
5.2. Table of interests of directors in options
(1)
 
Number of 
Options at 
1 January 
2012 or date of 
appointment Date of grant Exercise price 
Exercised during  
the year
Number of options  
at 31 December  
2012 or cessation  
of employment
Earliest 
exercise date
Expiry of  
exercise period
Mor Weizer
200,000 6 February 2006 £2.55 200,000
(2)
–––
200,000 11 October 2006 £1.72 200,000
(2)
–––
600,000 16 May 2007 £3.79 NIL 600,000 16 May 2008 16 May 2017
200,000 6 November 2009 £3.70 NIL 200,000 6 November 201 2 6 November 2019
David Mathewson
(3)
100,000 26 August 2011 £3.03 NIL 100,000 15 March 2013 30 June 2013
Notes:
(1) Share options are granted for nil consideration.
(2) The share options were exercised on 27 December 2012 and the share price on that date was 423p.
(3)  The Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board have agreed as part of the arrangements for the termination of his contract that David Mathewson may retain these options 
and exercise them following the end of the Company’s close period for a period of six months following his departure.  44 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The closing share price on 31 December 2012 was 426.6p and the share price ranged from 277 .3p and 432.7p during the year.
The options granted under the 2005 Plan have not been subject to performance conditions, as noted in the corporate governance report.  
It is intended that any awards made to executive directors and members of the senior management team of the Company under either the new  
plan or the 2005 plan will be subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions based in part on total shareholder return and  
part in the growth in earnings per share over the period, as the Remuneration Committee determines to be appropriate.
At 31 December 2012 no awards had been made under the 2012 Plan.
None of the non-executive directors have any options over shares in the Company.
By order of the Board
Alan Jackson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14 March 2013
Remuneration Report (continued)
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
Sustainability
The Board is required by the Code to establish a nomination committee which should lead the process for board appointments and  
make recommendations for appointments to the Board. A majority of members of the nomination committee should be independent  
non-executive directors.
The nomination committee is comprised of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Roger Withers. The committee met twice in 2012:  
first to consider candidates for the appointment of an additional non-executive director, which led, after a process involving the review, led by  
the Chairman, of a number of potential candidates, to the appointment of Andrew Thomas; and secondly, to consider the appointment of the  
Chief Financial Officer following the decision of David Mathewson to step down at the end of the year. In the light of Ron Hoffman’s extensive 
experience within Playtech’s business, his close in involvement with all of the Group’s successful acquisitions over the last few years and close  
working relationship with David Mathewson over the previous couple of years, the committee felt that Ron had the correct balance of skills,  
industry knowledge and experience to fulfil this important role. 
In the future the committee will continue to meet whenever necessary during the year, and not less than twice a year.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee include: 
 Leading the selection process of candidates and propose to the Board any new Board appointments, whether of executive or non-executive directors; 
 Considering the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, and in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment; 
 Making recommendations to the Board for succession plans for executive management, executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, 
the CEO; and
 Making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment by shareholders of any directors standing for re-election at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting.
Nominations Committee Report
Governance 46 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply required financial reporting 
standards and internal control principles and also for maintaining appropriate relationships with the Company’s external auditors, BDO LLP .
The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who as a qualified Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation has recent 
relevant financial experience, and he was appointed to chair the committee on his appointment to the Board in June 2012. The other members of the 
Audit Committee are Alan Jackson and Roger Withers, both non-executive directors. The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent 
non-executive directors should serve on the Audit Committee. From 1 January 2012 to 19 June 2012, the Company was not compliant with this 
recommendation because there were only two non-executive directors serving on the Board, however since the appointment of Andrew Thomas  
the Company believes it is compliant with this recommendation.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year, the first meeting which was prior to the appointment of Andrew Thomas, was chaired by Alan 
Jackson. The CFO and Group Financial Controller were both invited to attend the meetings of the committee as was the external auditor, BDO LLP .  
On both occasions, the members of the committee were able to meet the auditors without any executive directors being present.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee included: 
 Monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of internal control and associated functions; 
 Approving and amending Group accounting policies; 
 Reviewing and ensuring the integrity of interim and annual financial statements in particular the actions and judgments of management  
in relation thereto before submission to the Board;
 Monitor the implementation of the Company’s Code of Business Ethics (“Code”) and compliance with their provisions;
 Review the Company’s arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, anonymously or in confidence and without fear of retaliation,  
about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters arising under the Code;
 Review promptly all reports on the Company from the internal auditors and reviewing and assess the annual internal audit plan;
 Monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit; and 
 Ensuring audit independence and pre-approving any significant non-audit services to be provided by the auditor in accordance with the 
appropriate committee policy to limit the value of any non-audit services provided by the auditors to 100% of the audit fees in the absence  
of any exceptional circumstances. 
A summary of non-audit fees incurred during 2012, including due diligence, tax advisory and tax compliance work, is included in Note 6 to the Financial 
Statements on page 72. 
Internal Control
The Company has established a co-sourced internal audit function responsible for reviewing, reporting and monitoring improvements in internal 
control performance across its operations, involving PricewatershouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and the Group’s Chief Security Officer, Jochanan 
Sommerfeld. During the year PwC reviewed and updated the existing Group risk register to produce an updated risk register and fully mapped risk 
wheel. Further work being undertaken focuses on key risk processes and is intended to provide an on-going independent assurance that these key 
processes are effective. 
The Board confirms that an internal audit programme has been agreed by the Audit Committee and any necessary action will be taken to remedy any 
significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review. This system of internal controls and audit is designed to ensure local legal and regulatory 
compliance and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. It can therefore only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group has a widely publicised Code of Conduct, approved by the Risk & Compliance Committee, a specific delegated authorities framework,  
and a dedicated compliance function, managed by an experienced Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance, to ensure that the Company meets 
with all applicable regulatory requirements wherever it operates. Performance across the Group is also closely scrutinised against budget and 
forecasts. These initiatives help establish and promote an improved control environment and working practices. 
The Board undertakes a formal assessment of the auditor’s independence each year, which includes:
 A review of non-audit related services provided by the Company and related fees;
 Discussion with the auditor of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties which could affect independence 
or the perception of independence;
 A review of the auditor’s own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the 
rotation of the audit partner;
 Obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that they are independent; and
 A review of fees paid to the auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services.
The audit engagement partner, having acted in this role for five years, would cease to act in this capacity in accordance with Auditing Practices  
Board (APB) Ethical Standards. Due to the recent changes made to the Group, principally the move to a premium listing, the significant acquisitions  
and restructuring activity that has taken place during the current and previous financial year the Group’s Audit Committee has determined, with  
the agreement of BDO LLP , that it is necessary for the current audit engagement partner to continue in this role until the AGM in 2013 in order to 
safeguard audit quality, as permitted by the APB Ethical Standard 3 (Revised). This will allow him to sign the report and accounts for the year ended  
31 December 2012.
Audit Committee Report
Governance Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
Sustainability
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take  
in achieving its strategic objectives. The Board should maintain a sound system of risk management and internal control systems (Main Principle C.2).
As part of its processes in connection with the move of Playtech from AIM to a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, and 
ensuring compliance with the principles of the Code, the Board conducted a review of it’s processes for identifying and managing the significant risks 
impacting on the business of the Group. In carrying out this review, the Board concluded that the remit of the previous Risk Committee of the Board 
should be expanded to encompass a review of the risks which could impact on the Group’s businesses arising from changes in the regulation of the 
market for online gambling in which it’s licensees operate. 
In carrying out its review, the Board were assisted by DLA Piper LLP who prepared a detailed review of the legal and regulatory environment as it 
applies to the supply of remote gambling services and the associated supply of software and services to remote gambling operators, with a particular 
focus on those jurisdictions from which the Group, via its licensees, derives or is expected to derive over 3% of its revenues.
The revised Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired by Alan Jackson. The other members of the Risk & Compliance Committee are Andrew Thomas 
and Roger Withers, both non-executive directors, David McLeish, General Counsel and the Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance. The Company 
Secretary, Paul Wright is also the secretary to the committee. In addition, the Internal Auditor and other executives including the CFO, CEO or COO may 
be invited to attend meetings to present matters or for the committee to have the benefit of their experience.
The revised Risk & Compliance Committee met twice during the year, the first meeting which was in June following the receipt of the report from DLA 
Piper LLP and the issue of the Company’s prospectus and the second in August at the time of the interim announcement to review and approve the 
statement of risks set out in the interim report and to review progress on agreed actions arising from the prior meeting. The committee has been kept 
informed of any changes to the regulatory position in any significant jurisdiction where the Group, through its licensees, may be exposed and updated 
on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis, and the item is a standing agenda item for consideration at each Board meeting. 
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee include: 
 Review management’s identification, and mitigation of key risks to the achievement of the Company’s objectives;
 Review of the most significant risks to the achievement of strategic objectives; 
 Review of the processes for management and mitigation of most significant risks; 
 Monitoring incidents and remedial activity;
 Agreeing and monitoring the risk assessment programme including, in particular, the assessment of licensees’ suitability;
 To agree on behalf of the Board and continually review a risk management strategy and relevant policies for the Company; and
 To satisfy itself and report to the Board that the structures, processes and responsibilities for identifying and managing risks are adequate.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee is available on the investors page of the Company’s website at www.playtech.com. 
Principal Risks
A table setting out the principal significant risks identified by the Risk & Compliance Committee and the mitigating actions that have been undertaken 
by the Board in relation to these are set out on pages 48 and 49 of this document.
Risk & Compliance Committee Report
Governance 48 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Playtech Board Audit Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Integrated  
Business Risk 
Management 
System 
Regulatory Risk
Financial Risk
Other Risks
The risks outlined here are those  
principal risks and uncertainties that 
are material to the Group. They do  
not include all the risks associated with  
Group activities and are not set out in  
any order of priority. How these risks are  
identified is described in the Corporate 
Governance section on pages 33 to 36.
Business Risk Management at Playtech
The Regulatory Environment: Impacts on Reputation and Revenues
Risk
The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from  
regulators, principally for its activities as a software provider issued  
by the UK Gambling Commission and the Alderney Gambling  
Control Commission. Loss of all or any of these licences may  
adversely impact on the revenues and/or reputation of the Group.
Mitigation
The Group has an established compliance function that maintains 
relationships with regulators, monitors the regulatory environment 
closely and ensures continuation of all necessary licences and permits  
that allow the Group to continue its current business.
Risk
The Group licences its products to operators in the online gambling 
industry whose ability to operate in any jurisdiction may be impacted by 
changes in regulations, or failure to obtain any necessary licences. Laws 
and regulations relating to the supply of gambling services are complex, 
inconsistent and evolving and the Group may be subject to such laws 
indirectly, insofar as it has assisted the supply to licensees who are 
themselves subject to such laws and so subject to enforcement risks.
Mitigation
As an established regulated supplier to the online gambling industry,  
the Company is vigilant over legal and regulatory issues that could apply  
to its activities not only in those jurisdictions where the Company is 
located, but also in the jurisdictions where its licensees are operating 
using Playtech’s software and services. Under the terms of its licences,  
the Group prohibits the acceptance of players from jurisdictions such  
as the US where the acceptance of bets is clearly prohibited and the 
enforcement risk is considered to be highest.
Risk
New licensing regimes may impose licensing conditions, such  
as the requirement to locate significant technical infrastructure  
within the relevant territory or establish and maintain real-time data  
interfaces with the regulator that present operational challenges,  
or may prohibit the ability of licensees to offer the full range of the  
Group’s products.
Mitigation
The Group closely monitors developments in jurisdictions seeking  
to introduce new licensing regimes and seeks to establish joint venture 
relationships, or other close contractual relationships, with key local 
operators with influence on the development of local regulation.  
In addition, through the participation of the Group in industry bodies  
such as the Remote Gambling Association, it seeks to influence the  
shape of new licensing regulations.
Governance
Key Risks
Achieving Playtech’s strategic goals  
while minimising some of the key  
risks the business faces will deliver  
sustainability and long-term growth.
Changes in Taxation of Group Revenue: Impacts on Net Earnings
Risk
The Group benefits from favourable arrangements in some of the 
jurisdictions in which it is established. Changes in taxation legislation  
and rates may impact the Group’s net earnings and cash flows.
Mitigation
The Group works closely with its tax advisers to review its tax  
position, undertake periodic tax audits and monitor any changes  
in tax rates. Overview Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
Sustainability
Risk
Following William Hill’s exercise of it’s call option over the Group’s stake in 
WHO, that the Board cannot replace the revenue derived from that stake 
and the Group’s performance declines.
Mitigation
The Board intends to use the cash proceeds, in the best interests of 
shareholders at that time, which may include all or any of the following: 
funding of further acquisitions, the establishment of new joint  
ventures, the development of new technologies or a capital return  
to shareholders.
Business Continuity and Technology Risk: Impacts on Revenues
Reliance on Key Personnel: Impacts on Revenues
The Competitive Landscape: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues
The Economic Climate: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues
Risk
The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is the related 
software and services industry that supports it. Failure to compete 
effectively may result in the loss of licensees and also the inability  
to attract new licensees.
Mitigation
The Group continues to invest significant resources in research  
and development in order to enhance its technology, products  
and services, and in making strategic acquisitions to broaden the  
range of technologies and products that it can offer to licensees.
Risk
The economic climate remains challenging and uncertain. While the 
performance of the business has been resilient so far, that may not always 
be the case and consumer discretionary spending could be diverted away 
from gaming and the Group’s revenues would fall.
Mitigation
Playtech’s licensees are geographically diverse, which should mitigate 
relianace on any particular region. Management closely monitors 
business performance and if a downturn were to occur remedial action, 
comensurate with the nature and scale of the slow down, could be taken.
Risk
The Group derived material levels of profit from associates, and  
failure to manage effectively the Group’s Partnerships may reduce  
these levels of profit, and/or damage to the Group’s ability to  
enter into future such relationships.
Mitigation
The Group is committed to the success of all of its customers and partners 
and meets regularly with them to agree strategies to increase the 
profitability of the ventures and to maintain good working relationships.
Risk
The Group’s future success depends in large part on the continued  
service of executive directors, senior managers and key personnel,  
the retention of whom cannot be guaranteed.
Mitigation
The Group has introduced a comprehensive performance evaluation 
system to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are 
appropriately rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of annual 
bonuses and long-term incentives linked to the attainment of  
business objectives and revenue growth.
Risk
The Group’s ability to compete effectively depends amongst 
other things, on its ability to protect, register and enforce,  
as appropriate, its intellectual property rights.
Mitigation
The Group registers patents and trademarks, where this is possible,  
to protect key aspects of its intellectual property. In addition,  
proprietary and/or confidential information, and IP is protected 
through legal and physical security process and Playtech vigorously 
defends itself against third-party claims. 
Risk
The Group and its licensees are constantly vulnerable to hacking, 
Distributed Denial of Service (“DDoS”) attacks, malicious acts  
and cybercrime.
Mitigation
The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect any  
intrusion or other security breeches, together with preventative  
measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and 
cybercrime. The Group works continuously to improve the robustness 
and security of the Group’s information technology systems. In  
addition, the Group has put in place disaster recovery processes. 50 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Social Responsibility
Overview
Playtech’s continued commitment to  
integrating corporate social responsibility  
into its businesses supports its ability  
to generate sustainable long-term value,  
enhancing delivery on its strategic objectives.
Sustainability
The issues of interest to the Company’s  
stakeholders can be grouped into five areas:
#1 
Workplace
The well being 
of our employees,  
and how we attract, 
develop and retain  
the best talent
#3 
Marketplace
Working with regulators,  
partners and licensees to  
further responsible gaming
#2 
Governance
Maintaining high standards  
of corporate governance  
to monitor and mitigate  
risks associated with  
the business
#5
Environment
Mitigating the Company’s  
environmental impact,  
where relevant and 
appropriate, to reflect  
the nature and scale  
of its business
#4
Community
Our broader community- 
related obligations in  
those locations where  
our employees, business  
partners and licensees  
live and work
The programme to put in place consistent 
documentation and Group-wide policies  
and procedures that started in 201 1,  
as well as a number of employee-related 
improvements continues. 
Alan Jackson, chairman of the Risk  
Committee, has Board-level responsibility  
for the programme.
Workplace
Playtech understands that the success of  
its business is due to the vital contribution  
made by its employees. It is therefore essential 
to the Company’s continued growth and 
development that it is able to attract and  
retain talented employees who will contribute 
to the long-term success of the business. 
The Group is fully committed to equality  
of opportunity and dignity at work for all.  
Its primary aim in this area is to recruit the best  
and most appropriate employees, irrespective 
of race, religion, ethnic or national origins, 
gender, sexuality, disability, class or age, 
working to the highest standards across  
the Group. 
Playtech operates in a highly-competitive 
industry and so retaining key staff is a priority. 
The Company provides financial rewards and  
a positive working environment, developing 
employees’ skills for improved performance  
and increased job satisfaction levels. 
Governance
Playtech’s Board is responsible for the Group’s 
financial and operational performance, ensuring 
the success and sustainability of the business  
by directing and supervising the Company’s 
policies and strategies. 
In an industry which continues to undergo 
significant structural changes, the Board’s  
role has never been more important, not least 
following the Company’s move in July 2012 to a 
Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange. 
The identification of significant risks facing  
the business, and processes to monitor and 
mitigate them, is covered in more detail on 
pages 48 and 49.
The Company believes that its true value is 
not solely demonstrated by its balance sheet 
and financial results, but should include 
other, more intangible attributes, such  
as its people, brand and reputation.
By embracing policies and behaviours  
that govern responsible conduct, the  
Company creates more valuable relationships  
with its stakeholders, enhancing trust by
demonstrating its focus on, and management 
of, the material non-financial risks in the 
business. Playtech believes that a responsible 
approach to these challenges, together with  
risk assessment and mitigation, will positively 
impact its ability to succeed operationally  
and strategically. 
Focus on Sustainability
Playtech continues to improve its 
understanding and monitoring of  
material non-financial risks, despite  
operating in a highly-dynamic and  
rapidly-changing environment. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
Male 66% 
Female 34% 
Below 30 49% 
30-45 49%
Above 45 2%
The Group has an experienced Chief 
Compliance Officer who focuses the Company’s 
efforts on regulatory matters, and this is of 
particular significance as Playtech continues  
to expand its regulated markets offering. 
Community
Playtech recognises its responsibility to  
support the local and international communities 
in which it operates, and employs a social 
involvement (SI) programme accordingly.  
The Company values the positive influence  
on its employees’ personal and professional 
development that can be found through 
volunteer work, and sees it as important  
for the business over the long-term. The 
Company’s employees are actively engaged  
in supporting charities and Playtech has 
expanded its SI programme to focus on 
initiatives that deliver educational support  
and assistance to disadvantaged children  
in those countries where the Group  
has operations.
In 2012 Playtech gave approximately  
€50,000 to charitable organisations working  
in the fields of education and research  
into, and treatment of, problem gambling  
(201 1: €100,000). Playtech also provided 
non-financial support to these causes,  
including computer hardware and training. 
Environment
In comparison to other global companies, 
Playtech has a relatively low environmental 
impact, by virtue of the fact that it is an online 
business with a limited number of office 
locations. The day-to-day running of the 
business will inevitably have consequences, 
particularly in terms of energy consumption  
and travel, and the Company has put in place 
processes to monitor its carbon dioxide 
emissions from air travel and reduce any 
unnecessary travel. 
Where it is necessary to take new office space, 
consideration is made for the implementation 
of greater energy-efficient measures. In Estonia, 
the building was designed with a highly 
efficient cooling system for the computer room, 
and in all new locations there has been a move 
to reduce energy consumption. With a ratio  
of employees to printers of over 30, the offices 
can be seen to be increasingly paperless 
environments. In addition, bottled water has 
been largely replaced by water fountains, and 
where local schemes exist, waste is separated 
and recycled.
Marketplace 
Playtech’s CSR marketplace metrics  
focus on stakeholder perceptions of the 
Company’s relationships with licensees and  
its responsiveness to their requirements; and  
on Playtech’s relationships with regulators  
and other industry bodies. 
The Company will look to report on these, and 
include cause, conduct surveys to ensure that  
it properly understands external perceptions  
of the business and manages its reputation.
Playtech delivers a high quality service to  
its licensees so that they can offer the best 
customer experience. The Company works  
to monitor customer satisfaction levels across 
the licensee base as the retention of licensees  
is central to the sustainability of its business 
model. Playtech places great value on its 
relationships with gaming regulators around 
the world and works with them to ensure  
all aspects of the business meet or exceed  
their standards. 
In a rapidly changing industry environment, 
where newly-regulating markets play a central 
role, it is critical that the Company’s reputation 
as the best quality partner in the industry  
is maintained and promoted. Playtech’s 
customers are its licensees and the Company 
plays a central role in helping them to  
manage their gaming operations responsibly. 
The Company’s approach to Responsible  
Gaming is discussed in detail on pages  
54 and 55.
 
Gender 
 
Age
 
Employees Profile 52 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012
2011 1,737
2010 1,1 12
2,828
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
Playtech’s people 
Attracting the best talent, together with 
motivating and retaining employees,  
is fundamental to Playtech’s business  
sustainability and industry leadership. 
Sustainability
Product Development
Playtech’s software business is structured  
along product lines, with separate business 
units for each product area, such as the IMS, 
casino, poker, bingo and sports, and across  
the online, live dealer, mobile and land-based 
delivery channels. This structure aims to  
ensure that Playtech can manage the demands 
of increasing operational scale, as existing 
licensees develop and new customers migrate 
to the Company’s gaming platform.
In practice, this approach co-locates product 
teams so that, for example, those employees 
working on Playtech’s casino product are  
all located in Tartu, Estonia, with content  
and software developers, quality assurance  
and product delivery teams working closely 
together on the same office floor. This  
approach enhances collaboration and  
enables the team to quickly identify and  
resolve any technical issues that may arise.
Since 201 1, Playtech has deployed a software 
delivery management process which has 
reduced the time-to-market for new games  
and launch time for new licensees. The 
Company’s intelligent approach to managing 
project workflows is a significant competitive 
advantage when compared to its peers. 
Playtech has also looked to utilise outsourcing 
resources, or to deliver a greater ability to 
licensees to self-manage their content. This 
greater degree of control has benefits for the 
licensee in terms of faster deployment time  
for new content and helps to maximise the 
productivity of Playtech’s development teams.
Playtech’s R&D operations are among  
the biggest in the online gaming industry  
and employ over 850 people, principally 
devoted to software development. The scale  
of Playtech’s R&D function helps it to maintain  
a competitive advantage in technology 
innovation, content development and  
product pipeline.
The Company’s extensive experience and 
capabilities enable it to be neutral as to  
the technology platform or system when 
developing new solutions for licensees  
so that it is able to offer its market-leading 
products and services to the widest possible 
customer base. This flexibility offers a 
substantial advantage as licensees increasingly 
look for a combination of both download and 
browser-based formats for the same games,  
and across platforms ranging from online to 
mobile and gaming terminals.
Locations and People
Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of  
Man and has seven main offices, including 
principal software development centres  
in Estonia (Tartu and Tallinn), Bulgaria, the  
UK (London, Manchester and Ipswich) and  
Israel. PTTS has substantial offices in Bulgaria 
and the Philippines as well as a corporate  
centre in Cyprus.
 
In 2012, Playtech employed an average  
of 2,828 people. At the end of the year,  
total headcount was over 2,600 people.
In addition to the permanent headcount, 
Playtech has a programme to outsource  
certain ancillary development and service 
activities, which are predominately  
production-related rather than software 
development. This speeds up time-to- 
market for routine upgrades and frees  
up key development resources. Playtech’s 
outsourcing partner, Ciklum, is an experienced 
service provider with a facility based in the 
Ukrainian city of Kiev. PTTS also outsources 
some basic emarketing processes and  
reconciliation activities. 
Average Number of Employees
2,828  
+63%
2011: 1,737 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53
Playtech’s culture focuses on the continued 
improvement of its workforce, driven by  
a strong ethos of innovation, technological 
development and the delivery of market-
leading performance. Many of Playtech’s  
new employees are referred by existing  
staff, reflecting the Company’s focus on 
developing a close-knit collegiate corporate 
culture. Ongoing training and career 
development are important elements  
of Playtech’s sustainability efforts.  
Employee Performance
While the development of market-leading 
software and products is at the heart of 
Playtech’s growth, licensees naturally expect 
24/7 operational performance and efficient 
delivery. The Company’s business units are 
integral to ensuring Playtech meets the 
requirements of its licensees and employees  
are rewarded accordingly.
Playtech’s appraisal system is based around 
individual business unit and Group-wide 
objectives, which are directly aligned  
to Group strategy and specific areas of 
implementation and execution. Employees 
have clearly defined objectives and targets  
that are set in each review period, and their 
performance is routinely measured against 
these objectives. 
Employee remuneration includes  
competitive salaries and cash bonuses,  
which are set by reference to the achievement 
of the aformentioned objectives, and by  
the demonstration of other competencies  
and contributions to the Group. A revised 
long-term, share-based incentive scheme  
to attract and retain the best operational  
and business managers was implemented  
in 2012.
Customer Service 
The service-orientated philosophy 
underpinning Playtech’s content development 
activities can also be found in its product  
and infrastructure operations, with a team  
of over 150 people providing a 24/7  
support service to licensees. 
From the beginning of every project,  
Playtech supports its licensees, drawing on  
over a decade of experience and more than  
1 10 licensees. Dedicated teams, staffed by 
professionals from all disciplines, provide 
complete project and launch management, 
assisting with strategy, business planning, 
compliance and regulatory requirements, 
through to recruitment and team building. 
Playtech provides its customers’ operational 
teams with an intensive two-week training 
programme ahead of launch. Thereafter, each 
licensee is assigned an experienced account 
manager who provides day-to-day support  
and a point of contact. Customers can draw  
on a pool of product and technology specialists 
to advise on any issues, and a consulting team 
provides value-added input to optimise the 
tools available on the Playtech platform.
 
Valuing Our People
Playtech’s market-leading position is a 
significant asset in its efforts to attract the  
best talent in the industry. Candidates are  
drawn to Playtech by the combination of  
its highly motivated, entrepreneurial team 
culture and its breadth of knowledge and ability 
to harness cutting-edge technology. This has 
also been an important factor in Playtech’s 
corporate acquisitions, where the potential  
to benefit from such a large and experienced 
support network has been a key discussion 
point and decision factor for a management 
team assessing the benefits of joining Playtech. 
Once again, Playtech’s 
people were well 
represented in leading 
gaming magazine G1Q’s 
‘Hot 50’ talented people. 54 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 54 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Social Responsibility (continued)
Responsible Gaming
As a leader in the online gaming industry, 
Playtech takes its responsibilities to operators 
and regulators seriously and is focused  
on co-operating with both parties on issues  
of responsible gaming. 
Sustainability
Responsible Gaming
The Company’s fully-integrated management 
system provides operators with the latest 
responsible gaming protocols. Embedded 
systems and controls ensure fair play and 
facilitate responsible gaming for players and 
ensure a safe playing environment for all. 
Playtech’s software and services provide 
operators with the means to deploy advanced 
responsible gaming protocols and sophisticated 
player tracking, across all products and 
platforms, to control and prevent issues such  
as compulsive usage and under-age access of 
the Company’s gaming products. The Group  
has contributed financially to the work of the 
Responsible Gambling Trust (formerly the Great 
Foundation), a UK charity dedicated to 
supporting research into problem gambling, 
education and training.
Playtech is also an associate member of the  
World Lottery Association (WLA), the global 
professional association for state lottery  
and gaming organisations. The WLA and  
its members are committed to maintaining  
the highest ethical standards of gaming.
Certification and Regulation
As a responsible supplier to the regulated 
gaming industry, Playtech’s systems comply 
with all the guidelines published by the variety 
of well-regulated jurisdictions in which its 
licensees operate. The Company partners with 
regulatory and governmental bodies, and all  
its products undergo comprehensive testing  
by independent third parties. 
Playtech is an active member of the Remote 
Gambling Association (RGA), which has 
developed an industry code of practice  
on social responsibility and age verification,  
which the Company fully supports. As part  
of the certification process, Playtech’s games 
and their software engines – including the 
random number generators – are regularly 
tested and certified by leading industry  
bodies to ensure consistency and fair play.
Philosophy
Responsible gaming is an integral part  
of Playtech’s institutional mindset and a 
significant factor in all of its activities. As a 
software provider, the Company is not directly 
in contact with players, but responsible gaming 
nonetheless remains a fundamental issue for 
the Company in safeguarding its business and 
reputation, and for the continued responsible 
development of the industry.
 
Within PTTS, Playtech has a greater degree  
of contact with players on behalf of its licensees, 
and is consequently dedicating, with its 
operators, a substantial focus on the proper 
management of the relevant responsible 
gaming protocols.  Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
This activity focuses on the early identification 
of the small percentage of players that have  
the potential, under certain circumstances,  
to develop gambling-related problems  
and the much smaller group who demonstrate 
an inability to control their gaming habits  
or actions. 
In addition to the self-help tools above, the 
customer services team is trained in their 
interactions with players to identify certain 
actions or comments that indicate a current  
or emerging problem. For those displaying 
problem gambling characteristics, the team is 
trained to manage their exclusion and provide 
information on how to seek necessary help.
Fraud, Money Laundering and Fair Play
An integral part of Playtech’s technology 
platform is its ability to monitor and identify 
fraud and money laundering. Playtech  
employs a dedicated security team focused  
on ensuring that it is at the forefront of  
industry best-practice. With comprehensive 
monitoring of transactions and gaming 
behaviour, licensees are able to ensure that 
players cannot gain an advantage through 
unfair means. This is a particular focus  
in player-to-player games such as poker,  
to minimise any risk of player collusion.
The Group holds a certificate of evaluation  
from the accredited testing facility TST  
which is part of Gaming Laboratories 
International (GLI), the world’s largest 
independent gaming testing and certification 
laboratory. Playtech also holds an official 
Certificate of Prior Approval from the Alderney 
Gambling Control Commission (AGCC).  
In regulated markets, such as Italy, France,  
Spain, Estonia and Finland, Playtech’s software 
has been reviewed and passed for use by  
the local regulators.
Operator and Player Toolkit
Every licensee is provided with Playtech’s 
transparency toolkit, which is embedded  
in the Company’s software and includes 
viewable player protection content and 
the following tools:
 Compulsive gambling prevention
 Age verification
 Deposit limits
 Bet limits
 Session time limits
 Self-exclusion tools
The Company also provides comprehensive 
training and ongoing support to licensees  
to ensure that they are providing the maximum 
protection to their customers.
Where Playtech provides external and/or  
internal marketing services to a licensee, it  
puts in place clear protocols and procedures  
for player engagement. Playtech’s technology 
platform provides the tools to identify and 
manage any player thought to be showing 
indications of problem gaming, and regular 
dialogue, reporting and joint training  
exercises with licensees address any  
concerns that arise.
“ Playtech’s software 
and services provide 
operators with the means 
to deploy advanced 
responsible gaming tools 
to control and prevent 
issues such as compulsive 
usage and under-age 
access. The Group has 
contributed financially  
to the work of the 
Responsible Gambling 
Trust, a UK charity 
dedicated to supporting 
research into problem 
gambling, education  
and training.”
Certification Charities supported 56 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
The directors have elected to prepare the financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)  
as adopted by the European Union. 
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position  
of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standard 1 (revised) requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Group’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance 
with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s 
’Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards. A fair presentation also requires the directors to:
 Select and apply appropriate accounting policies;
 Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; and
 Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact  
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.
All of the current directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Group’s 
auditors for the purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information. The directors are not aware of any relevant 
audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
The financial statements are published on the Group’s website. The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is the responsibility of the 
directors. The directors’ responsibility also extends to the continued integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
We have audited the financial statements of Playtech Limited for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash flow and the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable  
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as a body, in accordance with Section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006. Our audit  
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report  
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company,  
and the Company’s members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinion we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance 
with applicable Isle of Man company law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm
Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion: 
 The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the 
Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board; and
 The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
BDO LLP
Chartered Accountants
London
United Kingdom
14 March 2013
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127).
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders of Playtech Limited 58 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
2012 2011
Note
Actual
€’000
Adjusted*
€’000
Actual
€’000
Adjusted*
€’000
Revenues 4 317,504 317,504 207,485 207,485
Distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation (156,658) (154,841) (100,830) (98,019)
Administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation (29,630) (26,450) (25,364) (20,069)
Operating proﬁt before depreciation and amo rtisation 6 131,216 136,213 81,291 89,397
Share of proﬁt of associate 13a 44,824 50,553 30,344 36,073
Amortisation of intangibles in associate 13a 5,729 – 5,729 –
Income from associate 13a 50,553 50,553 36,073 36,073
Share of loss from joint ventures, net (46) (46) (546) (546)
EBITDA 181,723 186,720 116,818 124,924
Depreciation and amortisation, including amortisation of intangibles in associate (49,493) (17,108) (34,866) (13,299)
Financing income 7 4,096 4,096 3,972 3,946
Finance cost – movement in deferred and contingent consideration (44,184) – (6,075) –
Finance cost – other (3,112) (3,112) (1,186) (1,186)
Total ﬁnancing cost 7 (47,296) (3,1 12) (7,261) (1,186)
Proﬁt before taxation 89,030 170,596 78,663 114,385
Tax expense 8(2,101) (2,101) (957) (1,528)
Proﬁt for the year 86,929 168,495 77,706 112,857
Other comprehensive income for the year:
Adjustments for change in fair value of available for sale equity instruments 15 15,227 15,227 1,995 1,995
Total comprehensive income for the year 102,156 183,722 79,701 114,852
Proﬁt for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent 86,755 168,321 77,696 112,847
Non-controlling interest 174 174 10 10
86,929 168,495 77,706 112,857
Earnings per share for proﬁt attributable to the owners of the parent during 
the year:
Basic (cents) 930.0 58.1 31.8 46.2
Diluted (cents) 9 29.4 57.1 31.4 45.7
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 101,982 183,548 79,691 114,842
Non-controlling interest 174 174 10 10
102,156 183,722 79,701 114,852
* Adjusted numbers relate to certain non-cash and one-off items including amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions, amortisation of intangibles in associate, professional costs on acquisitions, 
finance costs on acquisitions, legal costs related to the litigation with associate and costs of admission to a premium listing on the main market, and additional various non-cash charges. The directors 
believe that the adjusted profit represents more closely the underlying trading performance of the business. A full reconciliation between the actual and adjusted results is provided in Note 5.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Financial Statements Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
Additional 
paid in capital 
€’000
Available for 
sale reserve 
€’000
Retained 
earnings 
€’000
Total equity 
attributable 
to holders of 
parent €’000
Non-
controlling 
interest 
€’000
Total equity
€’000
Balance at 1 January 201 1 189,690 – 110,260 299,950 – 299,950
Changes in equity for the year    
Total comprehensive income for the year – 1,995 77,696 79,691 10 79,701
Dividend paid – – (23,377) (23,377) – (23,377)
Issue of share capital (net of issue costs) 117,549 – – 117,549 – 117,549
Exercise of options 614–– 614– 614
Acquisition of non-controlling interest –––– (59) (59)
Purchase of treasury shares – – (366) (366) – (366)
Employee stock option scheme – – 4,678 4,678 – 4,678
Balance at 31 December 2011 307,853 1,995 168,891 478,739 (49) 478,690
Balance at 1 January 2012 307,853 1,995 168,891 478,739 (49) 478,690
Changes in equity for the year    
Total comprehensive income for the year – 15,227 86,755 101,982 174 102,156
Dividend paid – – (70,440) (70,440) – (70,440)
Prior period share issue cost (41) – – (41) – (41)
Exercise of options 3,023–– 3,023– 3,023
Purchase of share options – – (1,616) (1,616) – (1,616)
Cancellation of treasury shares (366) – 366 – – –
Employee stock option scheme – – 2,403 2,403 – 2,403
Balance at 31 December 2012 310,469 17,222 186,359 514,050 125 514,175
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012 60 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Balance Sheet
As at 31 December 2012
Financial Statements
Note
2012 
€’000 
2011*
€’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Property, plant and equipment 11 20,304 21,548 
Intangible assets 12 372,387 365,201
Investments in equity accounted associates & joint ventures 13 156,036 162,997 
Available for sale investments 15 35,333 12,376 
Other non-current assets 16 5,175 2,820
 589,235 564,942 
CURRENT ASSETS 
Trade receivables 17 47,784 30,939
Other receivables 18 26,560 20,228 
Cash and cash equivalents 19 120,880 164,832 
 195,224 215,999
TOTAL ASSETS 784,459 780,941
EQUITY 
Additional paid in capital 310,469 307,853 
Available for sale reserve 15 17 ,222 1,995
Retained earnings 186,359 168,891
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 20 514,050 478,739
Non-controlling interest 125 (49)
TOTAL EQUITY 514,175 478,690
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Loans and borrowings 22 31,250 13,746
Other non-current liabilities 21 215 1,423
Deferred revenues 9,092 8,919 
Deferred tax liability 24 5,232 5,287 
Deferred consideration 14 26,735 41,752
Contingent consideration 14 15,826 1 10,985
 88,350 182,112
CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Loans and borrowings 22 37,970 13,787
Trade payables 32 14,522 13,056
Progressive,operators’ jackpots and security deposits 31,607 36,053
Tax liabilities 1,946 1,837 
Deferred revenues 3,679 4,986
Deferred consideration 14 69,749 33,591
Contingent consideration 14 – 929
Other payables 25 22,461 15,900 
 181,934 120,139
 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 784,459 780,941
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 14 March 2013.
Mor Weizer   Ron Hoffman
Chief Executive Oﬃcer  Chief Financial Oﬃcer
* See Note 2 for details of the reclassifications. Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 
€’000 
2011 
€’000 
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit after tax 86,929 77,706
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities (see overleaf) 29,041 (1,525)
Income taxes paid (3,174) (1,821)
Net cash provided by operating activities 112,796 74,360
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Long term deposits and loan advances (2,393) 2,593
Dividend received from equity-accounted associate 47,334 35,087
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (8,007) (12,562)
Investment in joint ventures (note 13b & c) –(6,108)
Acquisition of intangible assets (2,210) (79)
Return on investment in joint ventures 1,027 1,663
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (143,148) (97,189)
Capitalised development costs (14,851) (9,542)
Investment in available for sale investments (7,730) –
Investment in equity-accounted associates (note 13a) – (15,001)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,046 1,138
Net cash used in investing activities (128,932) (100,000)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid to the holders of the parent (70,440) (23,377)
Issue of share capital, net of issue costs – 117,549
Purchase of treasury shares – (366)
Purchase of share options (1,616) –
Proceeds from bank borrowings 75,000 27,533
Repayment of bank borrowings (33,783) –
Exercise of options 3,023 614
Net cash (used in)/from ﬁnancing activities (27,816) 121,953
(DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (43,952) 96,313
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 164,832 68,519
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 120,880 164,832 62 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 
€’000 
2011 
€’000 
ADJUSTMENT TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Income and expenses not affecting operating cash flows:
Depreciation 8,118 5,364
Amortisation 35,646 23,773
Income from associate (50,553) (36,073)
Amortisation of intangibles in associate 5,729 5,729
Share of net loss in joint ventures 46 547
Decline in fair value of available for sale investment –551
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration 44,184 6,075
Employee stock option plan expenses 2,403 4,678
Income tax expense 2,101 957
Other 74 105 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
Increase in trade receivables (17,603) (5,662)
Increase in other receivables (3,024) (5,461)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 1,122 (17 ,359)
(Decrease)/increase in progressive, operators’ jackpot and security deposits (3,034) 9,056
Increase in other payables 4,966 8,126
Decrease in deferred revenues (1,134) (1,931)
 29,041 (1,525)
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired
Note
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
A. Acquisition of Geneity Limited 26a 18,200 –
B. Acquisition of Juego Online EAD 26b 5,996 –
C. Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited 27a 952 2,836
D. Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 27b 118,000 44,314
E. Acquisition of Mobenga AB Limited 27c – 7,830
F . Acquisition of Ash Gaming Limited 27d – 27,027
G. Acquisition of S-Tech Limited 27e – (339)
H. Acquisition of GTS Limited –7,399
I. Acquisition of Virtue Fusion –8,122
143,148 97,189 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
Financial Statements
NOTE 1 – GENERAL
On 21 June 2012 Playtech Limited (the “Company”) re-domiciled as a company in the Isle of Man. Prior to this date it was a company domiciled in the 
British Virgin Islands and was incorporated on 12 September 2002 as an offshore company with limited liability. 
Playtech and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) develop unified software platforms for the online and land-based gambling industry, targeting online and 
land-based operators. Playtech’s gaming applications – online casino, poker and other P2P games, bingo, mobile, live gaming, land-based kiosk networks, 
land-based terminal and fixed-odds games – are fully inter-compatible and can be freely incorporated as stand-alone applications, accessed and funded 
by the operators’ players through the same user account and managed by the operator by means of a single, powerful management interface. 
Basis of Preparation
The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. 
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The significant accounting policies followed in the preparation of the financial statements, on a consistent basis, are:
Accounting Principles
This financial statements has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting standards and 
interpretations (collectively IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union (“adopted IFRS”).  
In the current year the Group has adopted all of the new and revised standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of the IASB, as they have been adopted by the European Union, that are relevant to its operations and 
effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2012. 
Changes in Accounting Policies
a) New standards, interpretations and amendments eﬀective from 1 January 2012
The following new standard, interpretation and amendment, applied for the first time from 1 January 201 2, have had an effect on the financial statements:
 IFRS 7 (Amended) – Transfers of Financial Assets (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 201 1).
None of the other new standards, interpretations and amendments effective for the first time from 1 January 2012, have had a material effect on the 
financial statements.
b) New standards, interpretations and amendments not yet eﬀective
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments, which have not been applied to these financial statements, will or may have an effect 
on the Group’s future financial statements:
 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to IAS 1) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012);
 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014);
 IFRS 1 1 Joint Arrangements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014);
 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014);
 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013);
 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014);
 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014);
 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities (Amendments to IFRS 7) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013); and
 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS 32) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014).
The following new standards, interpretations and amendments, which have not yet been endorsed by the EU, are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013:
 Annual Improvements to IFRS (2009 – 201 1 Cycles) (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013); 
 Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: Transition Guidance (Amendments to IFRS 10, 
IFRS 1 1, and IFRS 12); and
 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015).
The Group is currently assessing the impact, if any, that these standards will have on the presentation of its consolidated results.
None of the other new standards, interpretations and amendments, which are effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2012 and which have not 
been adopted early, are expected to have a material effect on the Group’s future financial statements. 64 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Foreign Currency
The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are prepared in euros (the functional currency), which is the currency that best reflects the 
economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances relevant to the Group transactions and balances in foreign currencies are converted 
into euros in accordance with the principles set forth by International Accounting Standard (IAS) 21 (“The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates”). Accordingly, transactions and balances have been converted as follows: 
 Monetary assets and liabilities – at the rate of exchange applicable at the balance sheet date; and
 Income and expense items – at exchange rates applicable as of the date of recognition of those items. Non-monetary items are converted at the rate 
of exchange used to convert the related balance sheet items i.e. at the time of the transaction. Exchange gains and losses from the aforementioned 
conversion are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Basis of Consolidation
Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain 
benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements present the results of the Group as if they formed a single 
entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore eliminated in full.
Revenue Recognition 
Income receivable from contracting parties comprises a percentage of the revenue generated by the contracting party from use of the Group’s 
intellectual property in online gaming activities and land-based gaming operations, and from fees charged for services rendered. Income is recognised 
in the accounting periods in which the gaming transactions occur or the services are rendered. Royalty and other income receivable under fixed-term 
arrangements are recognised over the term of the agreement on a straight line basis.
Distribution Costs
Distribution costs represent the direct costs of the function of providing services to customers, costs of the development function and advertising costs.
Share-based Payments
Certain employees participate in the Group’s share option plans which commenced with effect from 1 December 2005. The fair value of the options 
granted is charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the vesting period and the credit is taken to 
equity, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest. Fair value is determined by the Black-Scholes and Binomial valuation model. 
The share options plan does not have any performance conditions other than continued service. 
Income Taxes and Deferred Taxation
Provision for income taxes is calculated in accordance with the tax legislations and applicable tax rates in force at the balance sheet date in the 
countries in which the Group companies have been incorporated. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet differs from  
its tax base, except for differences arising on:
 The initial recognition of goodwill;
 The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects  
neither accounting or taxable profit; and
 Investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and  
it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are 
expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred 
tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
 The same taxable Group Company; or
 Different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities 
simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Dividend Distribution
Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Group’s shareholders. Interim 
dividends are recognised when paid.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprise computers, leasehold improvements, office furniture and equipment, and motor vehicles and are stated  
at cost less accumulated depreciation. Carrying amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date for impairment. Where the carrying amount  
of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.  
The principal annual rates used for this purpose, which are consistent with those of the previous years, are: 
%
Computers and gaming machines 33
Office furniture and equipment 7-20
Building and leasehold improvements 10-20, or over the length of the lease
Motor vehicles 15
Subsequent expenditures are included in the asset carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged  
to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount and are included in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income.
Business Combinations
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. In the consolidated  
balance sheet, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.  
The results of acquired operations are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is obtained. 
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recognised at cost less, if any, provision for impairment.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets comprise externally acquired patents, domains, and customer lists. Intangible assets also include internally generated capitalised 
software development costs. All such intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Where intangible assets are acquired as part  
of a business combination they are recorded initially at their fair value. Carrying amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date for impairment. 
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method at annual rates estimated to write off the costs of the assets over their expected useful  
lives and is charged to operating expenses from the point the asset is brought into use. The principal annual rates used for this purpose, which are 
consistent with those of the previous years, are:
 %
Domain names Nil
Internally generated capitalised development costs 33
Technology IP 20-33
Customer list 7-12.5
Affiliate contracts 5-12.5
Patents and license Over the expected useful lives 10-33
Intangible assets identified under the investment in equity accounted associates:
%
Software 10
Customer relationships 71
Affiliate contracts 52
WH Brands 7
Purchased assets brands 10
Covenant not to compete 20
Management believes that the useful life of the domain names is indefinite. Domain names are reviewed for impairment annually. 66 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Intangible Assets (continued)
Expenditure incurred on development activities including the Group’s software development is capitalised only where the expenditure will  
lead to new or substantially improved products, the products are technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources  
to complete development. 
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from  
the asset to which it relates. All other expenditure, including that incurred in order to maintain an intangible assets current level of performance,  
is expensed as incurred.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over, in the case of business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, the 
Group’s interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and, in the case of business combinations completed 
on or after 1 January 2010, the total acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, cost comprised the fair value of assets given, and liabilities assumed, plus any direct 
costs of acquisition. Changes in the estimated value of contingent consideration arising on business combinations completed by this date were treated 
as an adjustment to cost and, in consequent, resulted in a change in the carrying value of goodwill.
For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, cost comprises the fair value of assets given and liabilities assumed, plus the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquired business. Contingent consideration is included in cost at its acquisition date fair value and, in the case 
of contingent consideration classified as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through profit or loss. For combinations completed on or after  
1 January 2010, direct costs of acquisition are recognised immediately as an expense in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, within 
administrative costs.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated income statement. Goodwill  
is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment, annually or more specifically if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may be impaired.
Impairment
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually at the financial year end.  
Other non-financial assets are subject to annual impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. – the higher of value in use and fair value less costs  
to sell), the asset is written down accordingly.
Where it is not possible to establish the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the asset’s cash-generating 
unit (i.e. – the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows). Goodwill is allocated on initial 
recognition to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving rise to the 
goodwill.
Impairment charges are included in the administrative expenses line item in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except to the 
extent they reverse gains previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill 
is not reversed.
Associates
Where the Group has the power to participate in (but not control) the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it is classified as  
an associate. Associates are initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost. The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits and losses  
is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income except that losses in excess of the Group’s investment in the associate are  
not recognised unless there is an obligation to make good those losses.
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors’ interests in the 
associate. The investor’s share in the associate’s profits and losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the associate.
Any premium paid for an associate above the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is 
capitalised as goodwill and included in the carrying amount of the associate. The carrying amount of investment in associate is subject to impairment 
in the same way as goodwill arising on a business combination described above.
Joint Ventures
The Group’s investment in a jointly controlled entity is included in the financial statements under the equity method of accounting. The Group includes 
the assets it controls, its share of any income and the liabilities and expenses of jointly controlled operations and jointly controlled assets in accordance 
with the terms of the underlying contractual arrangement.
Financial Assets
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the asset was acquired. The 
Group has not classified any of its financial assets as held to maturity. The Group does not hold any financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Loans and Receivables 
These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They arise principally 
through the provision of services to customers (e.g. trade receivables), but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset. They are initially 
recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to their acquisition or issue and are subsequently carried at amortised cost 
using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
The Group’s receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and loans to customers in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables which principally represent amounts due from licensees are carried at original invoice value less an estimate made for bad and 
doubtful debts based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the year-end. An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence 
that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. Where cash is on deposit with maturity dates greater than three months, it is disclosed within other receivables. 
Loans to customers are in respect of formal loan agreements entered into between the Group and its customer, which are carried at original advanced 
value less a provision for impairment. They are classified between current and non-current assets in accordance with the contractual repayment terms 
of each loan agreement.
Available-for-Sale Financial Assets
Non-derivative financial assets classified as available-for-sale comprise the Group’s strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, 
associates or jointly controlled entities. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value generally recognised in other comprehensive income 
and accumulated in the available for sale reserve. In accordance with IAS 39, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale 
financial asset is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 
Purchases and sales of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and 
settlement date being recognised in the available for sale reserve. On sale, the amount held in the available-for-sale reserve associated with that  
asset is removed from equity and recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve except to the extent that  
any decrease in value in excess of the credit balance on the available-for-sale reserve, or reversal of such a transaction, is recognised in profit or loss.
Share Capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are stated at the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Financial Liabilities
Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
Several of the Group’s licensees participate in progressive jackpot games. Each time a progressive jackpot game is played, a preset amount is added  
to a cumulative jackpot for that specific game. The accrual for the jackpot at the consolidated balance sheet date is included in progressive jackpot  
and other operator’s jackpot liabilities.
Loans and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of the instrument. Such 
interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense 
over the period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability carried in the consolidated balance sheet. Interest expense in this context 
includes initial transaction costs and premia payable on redemption, as well as any interest or coupon payable while the liability is outstanding.
Fair Value Measurement Hierarchy
IFRS 7 requires certain disclosure which require the classification of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value using a fair  
value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the fair value measurement (see Note 30). The fair value hierarchy  
has the following levels:
a)  Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1);
b)  Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly  
(i.e. – derived from prices) (Level 2); and
c) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) (Level 3).
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the financial asset or financial liability is categorized is determined on the basis of the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement. Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety into only one of the three levels. 68 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 2 – SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Long-term Liabilities
Long term liabilities are those liabilities that are due for repayment or settlement in more than 12 months from balance sheet date.
Provisions 
Provisions, which are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount, are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of past events,  
if it is probable that an outflow of funds will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Leases
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the Group (an “operating lease”), the total rentals  
payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis over the lease term.  
The aggregate benefit of lease incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Non-controlling Interests
Non-controlling interest is recognised at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. The total comprehensive income of non-wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and to the  
non-controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests.
Treasury Shares
Consideration paid/received for the purchase/sale of treasury shares is recognised directly in equity. The cost of treasury shares held is presented  
as a separate reserve (the “treasury share reserve”). Any excess of the consideration received on the sale of treasury shares over the weighted average 
cost of the shares sold is credited to retained earnings.
Reclassifications in the Prior Year
The Group has reclassified some of the comparatives in the balance sheet to show all security deposits along with progressive and other jackpots  
owed to customers. For the year ended 31 December 201 1, trade receivables have increased by €9.9 million as a result of the reclassification  
of security deposit payables, which are now included within progressive, operators’ jackpots and security deposits. In addition, for the year ended  
31 December 201 1, security deposit payables of €5.6 million have been reclassified from trade payables to progressive and other operators’ jackpots 
within current liabilities. 
There has been no impact on the net assets of the Group in the current or prior year as a result of these reclassifications.
NOTE 3 – CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgments that may potentially have a significant impact on the Group’s earnings and financial 
position are impairment of goodwill, the recognition and amortisation of development costs and other intangible assets, and the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment, the fair value of available-for-sale investments, share-based payments, legal proceedings and contingent liabilities, determination  
of fair values of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, income tax, and determination of fair value of contingent consideration.
 
Estimates and Assumptions
Impairment of goodwill
The Group is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment. The recoverable amount is determined based on 
value in use calculations. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a discount rate in order to calculate the 
present value of the cash flows. Such estimates are based on management’s experience of the business, but actual outcomes may vary. More details 
including carrying values are included in Note 12.
Amortisation of development costs and other intangible assets and the useful life of property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based on management’s 
estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness. 
Changes to estimates can result in significant variations in the amounts charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in specific 
periods. More details including carrying values are included in Notes 1 1 and 12.
Fair value of available-for-sale investments
The Group determines the fair value of available-for-sale investments that are not quoted using valuation techniques. Those techniques are 
significantly affected by the assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates for future cash flows. In that regard, the derived fair  
value estimates cannot always be substantiated by comparison with independent markets and, in many cases, may not be capable of being  
realised immediately. 
The methods and assumptions applied, and the valuation techniques used, are disclosed in Note 15.
Share-based payments
The Group has a share based remuneration scheme for employees. The fair value of share options is estimated by using the Black-Scholes and  
Binomial models, on the date of grant based on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are described in Note 10 and include, among others,  
the dividend growth rate, expected share price volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest. 
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69
NOTE 3 – CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Estimates and Assumptions (continued)
Legal proceedings and contingent liabilities
Management regularly monitors the key risks affecting the Group, including the regulatory environment in which the Group operates. A provision  
will be made where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer 
can be estimated reliably. In instances where the criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. 
More details are included in Note 32.
Determination of fair value of intangible assets acquired 
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired is based on the discounted cash flows expected to be derived from the use of the asset. Further information 
in relation to the determination of fair value of intangible assets acquired is given in Note 27 .
Income taxes
The Group is subject to income tax in jurisdictions in which it is registered and judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. 
During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the 
Group recognises tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. The Group believes that its accruals for tax 
liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law.  
More details are included in Note 8.
Determination of the fair value of contingent consideration
The fair value of contingent consideration is based on the probability of expected cash flow outcomes and the assessment of present values using 
appropriate discount rates. Further information in relation to the determination of the fair value of contingent consideration is given in Note 26.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and 
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge 
of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
NOTE 4 – SEGMENT INFORMATION
Management considers that the Group’s activity as a single source supplier of online gaming solutions constitutes one operating and reporting 
segment, as defined under IFRS 8. 
Management review the performance of the Group by reference to Group-wide profit measures and the revenues derived from six (2011: six)  
main product groupings:
 Ca s i no
 Poker 
 Bingo
 V i de ob et
 Ser v ic es
 O t her
The Group-wide profit measures are adjusted net profit and adjusted EBITDA (see Note 5). Management believes the adjusted profit measures 
represent more closely the underlying trading performance of the business. No other differences exist between the basis of preparation of the 
performance measures used by management and the figures in the Group financial statements.
There is no allocation of operating expenses, profit measures, assets and liabilities to individual product groupings. Accordingly the disclosures  
overleaf are provided on an entity-wide basis. 70 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 4 – SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
Revenue by Product
 
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Casino 151,745 1 14,385
Poker 17 ,840 21,793
Bingo 17,954 15,064
Videobet 10,761 7 ,769
Services 106,326 43,012
Other 12,878 5,462
Total revenues 317,504 207,485
In 2012, there were three licensees who individually accounted for more than 10% of the total revenue of the Group (201 1: two licensees). Revenue from 
these licensees totalled €162.2 million (201 1: €77 .6 million).
Geographical Analysis of Revenues by Jurisdiction of Gaming License
Analysis by geographical regions is made according to the jurisdiction of the gaming license of the licensee. This does not reflect the region of the end 
users of the Group’s licensees whose locations are worldwide.
2012 
€’000 
2011 
€’000
Antigua 102,947 57 ,090
Gibraltar 80,386 54,776
Alderney 38,214 24,358
Curacao 15,069 14,567
Philippines 38,626 21,391
Rest of World 42,262 35,303
317,504 207,485
Geographical Analysis of Non-Current Assets
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
British Virgin Islands 351,727 439,033
Isle of Man 187 ,901 75,802
Sweden 19,081 19,167
Cyprus 17 ,889 14,418
Estonia 7,349 7 ,020
UK 3,544 5,698
Rest of World 1,744 3,804
589,235 564,942
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
NOTE 5 – ADJUSTED ITEMS
The following tables give a full reconciliation between adjusted and actual results:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation – actual 156,658 100,830
Employee stock option expenses (1,817) (2,81 1)
Distribution costs before depreciation and amortisation – adjusted 154,841 98,019
Administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation – actual 29,630 25,364
Employee stock option expenses (586) (1,867)
Professional fees on acquisitions (496) (1,488)
Admission to premium listing on main market (2,098) –
One-oﬀ legal costs related to the litigation with associate – (1,389)
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments –(551)
Total adjusted items (3,180) (5,295)
Administrative expenses before depreciation and amortisation – adjusted 26,450 20,069
 
Depreciation – distribution costs 6,913 4,537
Depreciation – administrative costs 1,205 827
Amortisation – distribution costs 8,990 7,935
Depreciation and amortisation – adjusted 17 ,108 13,299
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions – distribution costs 26,656 15,838
Amortisation of intangibles in associate 5,729 5,729
Total depreciation and amortisation including amortisation of intangibles in associate 49,493 34,866
EBITDA 181,723 1 16,818
Employee stock option expenses 2,403 4,678
Professional fees on acquisitions 496 1,488
Admission to a premium listing on the main market 2,098 –
One-oﬀ legal costs related to the litigation with associate – 1,389
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments –551
Adjusted EBITDA 186,720 124,924
Proﬁt for the year – attributable to owners of the parent 86,755 77,696
Employee stock option expenses 2,403 4,678
Professional fees on acquisitions 496 1,488
Admission to a premium listing on the main market 2,098 –
One-oﬀ legal costs related to the litigation with associate – 1,389
Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions including amortisation on investment in associate 32,385 21,567
Decline in fair value of available for sale investments –551
Movement in deferred and contingent consideration 44,184 6,075
One-oﬀ tax credit – (571)
Exchange diﬀerences – on deferred consideration – (26)
Adjusted proﬁt for the year – attributable to owners of the parent 168,321 112,847 72 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 6 – OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit is stated after charging:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Directors compensation
Short-term benefits of directors 1,821 1,603
Share-based benefits of directors 231 748
Bonuses to executive directors 392 438
2,444 2,789
Auditor’s remuneration
Audit services
Parent company and Group audit 225 204
Audit of overseas subsidiaries 221 138
Total audit 446 342
Non-audit services
Other acquisition and assurance services 357 379
Taxation compliance 22 86
379 465
Development costs (including capitalised development costs of €14.8 million (2011: €9.5 million)) 34,657 22,844
NOTE 7 – FINANCING INCOME AND COSTS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
A. Finance income
Interest received 71 475
Dividend received from available for sale investments 3,625 3,075
Exchange diﬀerences 400 422
4,096 3,972
B. Finance cost
Finance cost – movement in deferred and contingent consideration (44,184) (6,075)
Bank charges and interest paid (3,112) (1,186)
(47,296) (7,261)
Net ﬁnancing expense (43,200) (3,289)
NOTE 8 – TAXATION
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Current income tax
Income tax on profits of subsidiary operations 3,562 1,866
Previous year taxes – (571)
Deferred tax (Note 24) (1,461) (338)
Total tax charge 2,101 957
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73
NOTE 8 – TAXATION (CONTINUED)
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to accounting profit as follows:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Profit before taxation 89,030 78,663
Tax at effective rate in Isle of Man ––
Higher rates of current income tax in overseas jurisdictions 3,562 1,866
Adjustments in respect of previous periods – (571)
Effect of deferred tax originating in overseas jurisdictions (1,461) (338)
Total tax charge 2,101 957
The Group is tax registered, managed and controlled from the Isle of Man where the corporate tax rate is set to zero. The majority of profits arise in  
Isle of Man which is the Company’s country of incorporation. The Group’s subsidiaries are located in different jurisdictions. The subsidiaries are taxed 
on their residual profit.
The tax credit in 201 1 of €0.6 million related to the creation of deferred tax asset in one of the Group’s subsidiaries. 
The deferred tax is due to the reversal of temporary differences arising on the acquisition of certain businesses in the current and prior year.
NOTE 9 – EARNINGS PER SHARE
A. Earnings per share have been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the relevant financial periods. The weighted 
average number of equity shares in issue and the earnings, being profit after tax is as follows:
2012 2011
Actual
€’000
Adjusted
€’000
Actual
€’000
Adjusted
€’000
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 86,755 168,321 77,696 112,847
Basic (Cents) 30.0 58.1 31.8 46.2
Diluted (Cents) 29.4 57.1 31.4 45.7
    
Number
2012
Number
2011
Denominator – basic
Weighted average number of equity shares 289,416,759 244,113,262
Denominator – diluted
Weighted average number of equity shares 289,416,759 244,113,262
Weighted average number of option shares 5,296,536 3,066,593
Weighted average number of shares 294,713,295 247,179,855
As at 31 December 2012, out of the entire share options outstanding of 4,616,691 (201 1: 9,716,729) have been excluded from the calculation of diluted 
EPS as their exercise price is greater than the weighted average share price during the year (i.e. – they are out of the money) and therefore it would not 
be advantageous for the holders to exercise those options. The total number of options in issue is disclosed in Note 10.  74 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 10 – EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Total staff costs comprise the following:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Salaries and employee-related costs 98,973 65,630
Employee stock option costs 2,403 4,678
101,376 70,308
Average number of employees
Distribution 2,630 2,145
General and administration 183 1 10
2,813 2,255
The Group has the following employee share option plans (ESOP) for the granting of non-transferable options to certain employees: 
 Playtech 2005 Share Option Plan (the “Plan”) and Israeli plans, options granted under the plans vest on the first day on which they become 
exercisable which is typically between one to four years after grant date. 
 GTS 2010 Company Share Option Plan (CSOP), options granted under the plan vest on the first day on which they become exercisable which  
is three years after grant date.
The overall term of the ESOP is five to ten years. These options are settled in equity once exercised. Option prices are either denominated in USD  
or GBP , depending on the option grant terms.
During the year, the Group amended some of the rules of the Plan. The amendments allow the Group, at the option holders consent, to settle fully 
vested and exercisable options for cash instead of issuing shares. As disclosed in the remuneration report, some of the executive directors during  
the year received cash instead of shares.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
NOTE 10 – EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
At 31 December 2012, options under these schemes were outstanding over:
2012 
Number
2011 
Number
Shares vested on 30 November 2008 at an exercise price of $2.5 per share 135,734 141,067
Shares vested on 30 November 2008 at an exercise price of £1.45 per share 304,915 410,250
Shares vested on 30 November 2008 at an exercise price of £2.32 per share – 133,334
Shares vested between 1 December 2006 and 6 February 2009 at an exercise price of $4.50 per share 25,000 282,046
Shares vested between 1 December 2006 and 6 February 2009 at an exercise price of £2.55 per share 410,000 610,000
Shares vested between 1 December 2006 and 1 December 2009 at an exercise price of £2.29 per share – 200,000
Shares vested between 28 March 2007 and 28 March 2009 at an exercise price of £2.57 per share – 200,000
Shares vested between 21 June 2007 and 21 June 2009 at an exercise price of $5.75 per share 11,000 11,000
Shares vested between 21 June 2007 and 21 June 2009 at an exercise price of £3.16 per share 60,334 60,334 
Shares vested between 1 1 October 2007 and 1 1 October 2009 at an exercise price of £1.72 per share – 208,334 
Shares vested between 1 1 December 2007 and 1 1 December 2009 at an exercise price of $4.35 per share 25,000 65,000
Shares vested between 1 1 December 2007 and 1 1 December 2009 at an exercise price of £2.21 per share 182,668 254,669
Shares vested between 31 December 2007 and 31 October 2010 at an exercise price of $7 .48 per share – 75,000 
Shares vested between 16 May 2008 and 16 May 2010 at an exercise price of $7 .50 per share 20,000 20,000 
Shares vested between 16 May 2008 and 16 May 2010 at an exercise price of £3.79 per share 890,000 1,143,000
Shares vested between 18 June 2008 and 18 June 2010 at an exercise price of $7 .79 per share 8,501 9,468
Shares vested between 18 June 2008 and 18 June 2010 at an exercise price of £3.96 per share 97,768 110,252 
Shares vested between 18 June 2008 and 18 June 2010 at an exercise price of £3.30 per share 10,000 10,000 
Shares vested between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2010 at an exercise price of $7 .68 per share 18,000 18,000 
Shares vested between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2010 at an exercise price of £3.86 per share 34,000 41,000 
Shares vested between 10 October 2008 and 10 October 201 1 at an exercise price of £3.51 per share 92,500 112,500 
Shares vested between 20 November 2008 and 20 November 201 1 at an exercise price of $7 .19 per share 30,000 30,000 
Shares vested between 20 November 2008 and 20 November 201 1 at an exercise price of £3.51 per share – 55,500 
Shares vested between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 201 1 at an exercise price of £3.1725 per share 200,000 200,000 
Shares vested between 25 April 2009 and 25 April 2012 at an exercise price of £4.35 per share 522,667 522,167 
Shares vested between 21 May 2009 and 21 May 2012 at an exercise price of £5.31 per share 500,000 500,000 
Shares vested between 28 November 2009 and 28 November 2012 at an exercise price of £3.20 per share 1,311,786 1,502,725 
Shares vested on 22 May 2012 at an exercise price of £4.155 per share 740,000 765,000 
Shares vested on 22 May 2012 at an exercise price of £4.05 per share – 75,000 
Shares vested on 6 November 2012 at an exercise price of £3.7 per share 870,000 1,130,000 
Shares vest between 18 April 2012 and 18 April 2013 at an exercise price of £5.12 per share 844,000 1,063,000
Shares vest between 3 June 2012 and 3 June 2013 at an exercise price of £4.84 per share 220,000 220,000
Shares vest between 26 August 2012 and 26 August 2013 at an exercise price of £4.16 per share 225,780 264,725
Shares will vest on 26 August 2013 at an exercise price of £4.16 per share 158,642 180,275
Shares will vest on 10 March 2014 at an exercise price of £3.5225 per share 1,562,850 1,999,950
Shares will vest on 25 August 2014 at an exercise price of £3.0325 per share 100,000 100,000
Shares will vest on 16 December 2014 at an exercise price of £2.3 per share 120,000 120,000
Shares will vest on 23 June 2015 at an exercise price of £3.48 per share 380,000 –
10,111,145 12,843,596
Total number of shares exercisable as of 31 December 2012 is 7 ,262,253 (201 1: 6,220,707). The total fair value of the options that were granted in respect 
of equity settled schemes for 2012 is €0.6 million (201 1: €4.1 million), of which €0.1 million (201 1: €1.0 million) has been recognised as an expense in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 76 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 10 – EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices of shares options for the ESOP .
2012 2011 2012 2011
Number of 
options
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 12,843,596 11,592,082 $4.58, £3.59 $4.57, £3.62
Granted during the year 420,000 2,331,650 £3.478 £3.44
Forfeited (1,538,261) (876,434) $6.76, £3.74 £3.87
Exercised (1,614,190) (203,702) $4.44, £2.55 $4.50, £2.22
Outstanding at the end of the year 10,111,145 12,843,596 $4.36, £3.7 $4.58, £3.59
Included in the number of options exercised during the year is 591,668 (201 1: nil) where a cash alternative was received. 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of options was £4.47 (201 1: £3.47). 
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year at the date of grant was £1.4124 (201 1: £1.78).
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices:
Expiry date Exercise price
2012 
Number
2011 
Number
Between 15 May 2012 and 31 December 2012 Between $7 .19 and $7 .79 and between £3.30 and £3.96 – 310,333
Between 25 April 2013 and 31 December 2013 $4.35 and between £3.17 and £5.31 357,800 1,323,002
Between 22 May 2014 and 6 November 2014 Between £3.70 and £4.16 – 740,000
1 December 2015 $2.50 and between £1.45 and £2.32 440,649 684,651
Between 6 February 2016 and 1 1 December 2016 Between $4.35 and $5.75 and between £1.72 and £3.16 714,002 1,891,383
Between 15 May 2017 and 31 December 2017 Between $7 .19 and $7 .79 and between £3.39 and £3.96 1,200,769 1,314,387
Between 25 April 2018 and 31 December 2018 $4.35 and between £3.17 and £5.31 2,176,653 1,401,890
Between 22 May 2019 and 6 November 2019 Between £3.70 and £4.16 1,610,000 1,230,000
Between 18 April 2020 and 26 August 2020 Between £4.16 and £5.12 1,448,422 1,728,000
Between 10 March 2021 and 16 December 2021 Between £2.30 and £3.52 1,782,850 2,219,950
21 June 2022 £3.48 380,000 –
10,111,145 12,843,596
The fair value of the options granted under the ESOP is estimated as at the date of grant using the Binomial model. The following table gives the 
assumptions made during the years ended 31 December 201 1 and 2012:
For options granted on 11 Mar 2011, 26 August 2011 and 16 December 2011
Dividend yield 2.76%-2.81%
Expected volatility 49.8%-50.5%
Risk-free interest rate 2.15% to 3.78%
Weighted average exercise price £3.44
For options granted on 21 June 2012
Dividend yield 2.95%
Expected volatility 48.88%
Risk-free interest rate 1.82%
Weighted average exercise price £3.4775
The volatility assumption, measured at the standard deviation of expected share price return, is based on a statistical analysis of daily share price over  
a period starting from the initial date of flotation through to the grant date.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77
NOTE 1 1 – PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Computers 
and gaming 
machines
€’000
Oﬃce 
furniture and 
equipment
€’000
Motor 
vehicles
€’000
Building and 
Leasehold
improvements 
€’000
Total
€’000
Cost
At 1 January 201 1 17,056 1,131 154 3,040 21,381
Additions 8,855 403 64 3,240 12,562
Acquired through business combinations 2,066 219 110 322 2,717
Disposals (1,410) (165) – – (1,575)
At 31 December 2011 26,567 1,588 328 6,602 35,085
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 201 1 7,738 495 63 209 8,505
Charge 4,457 176 56 675 5,364
Disposals (262) (70) – – (332)
At 31 December 2011 11,933 601 119 884 13,537
Net Book Value
At 31 December 2011 14,634 987 209 5,718 21,548
Computers 
and gaming 
machines
€’000
Oﬃce 
furniture and 
equipment
€’000
Motor 
vehicles
€’000
Building and 
Leasehold
improvements 
€’000
Total 
€’000
Cost
At 1 January 2012 26,567 1,588 328 6,602 35,085
Additions 5,764 490 96 1,657 8,007
Acquired through business combinations 26––– 26
Disposals (1,403) (97) (121) (202) (1,823)
At 31 December 2012 30,954 1,981 303 8,057 41,295
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 11,933 601 119 884 13,537
Charge 7,350 206 72 490 8,1 18
Disposals (352) (63) (47) (202) (664)
At 31 December 2012 18,931 744 144 1,172 20,991
Net Book Value
At 31 December 2012 12,023 1,237 159 6,885 20,304 78 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 12 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Patents, 
domain 
names and 
license
€’000
Technology IP
€’000
Development 
costs
€’000
Customer list 
and aﬃliates
€’000
Goodwill
€’000
Total
€’000
Cost
As of 1 January 201 1 7,897 7,702 24,086 52,414 36,635 128,734
Additions 79 – 9,542 287 – 9,908
Assets acquired on previous year business combinations – – – – (1,200) (1,200)
Assets acquired on business combinations 965 4,721 655 144,256 129,285 279,882
As of 31 December 2011 8,941 12,423 34,283 196,957 164,720 417,324
Accumulated amortisation
As of 1 January 201 1 1,857 1,986 9,113 15,394 – 28,350
Provision 836 2,570 5,805 14,562 – 23,773
As of 31 December 2011 2,693 4,556 14,918 29,956 – 52,123
Net Book Value
As of 31 December 2011 6,248 7,867 19,365 167,001 164,720 365,201
Patents, 
domain 
names and 
license
€’000
Technology IP
€’000
Development 
costs
€’000
Customer list 
and aﬃliates
€’000
Goodwill
€’000
Total
€’000
Cost
As of 1 January 2012 8,941 12,423 34,283 196,957 164,720 417,324 
Additions 2,130 – 14,753 – – 16,883
Assets acquired on previous years business combinations –––– 178 178
Reclassification – 2,300 (2,300) – – –
Assets acquired on business combinations 4,514 3,528 – 400 17,329 25,771
Disposals – (308) – – – (308)
As of 31 December, 2012 15,585 17,943 46,736 197,357 182,227 459,848
Accumulated amortisation 
As of 1 January 2012 2,693 4,556 14,918 29,956 – 52,123
Provision 935 3,627 6,787 24,297 – 35,646
Disposals – (308) – – – (308)
As of 31 December 2012 3,628 7,875 21,705 54,253 – 87,461
Net Book Value 
As of 31 December 2012 11,957 10,068 25,031 143,104 182,227 372,387
Management believes that domain names, with a carrying value of €0.2 million (201 1: €0.2 million) have an indefinite life due to their nature. 
Amortisation of intangible assets is included in distribution costs. 
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group regularly monitors the carrying value of its intangible assets, including goodwill. Goodwill is allocated to eight cash 
generating units (CGU) (201 1: six). Management determines which of those CGU’s are significant in relation to the total carrying value of goodwill as follows:
 Carrying value exceeds 10% of total goodwill; or
 Acquisition during the year; or
 Contingent consideration exists at the balance sheet date.
Based on the above criteria, management has concluded that the following CGUs are significant:
 PTTS, with a carrying value of €93.4 million (201 1: €93.4 million);
 Geneity, with a carrying value of €14.8 million (201 1: €nil); and
 Mobenga, with a carrying value of €15.9 million (201 1: €15.7 million).
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
NOTE 12 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The recoverable amounts of all the above CGUs have been determined from value in use calculations based on cash flow projections from formally 
approved budgets covering a four year period to 31 December 2016. Beyond this period, management has applied an annual growth rate of 2%  
based on the underlying economic environment in which the CGU operates. Management has applied a discount rate to the cash flow projections  
of 15.5% (201 1: 15.5%) for both PTTS and Mobenga, and 15% (201 1: nil%) for Geneity.
The results of the review indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill at 31 December 2012. Management has also reviewed the key 
assumptions and forecasts for the customer lists, brands and affiliates, applying the above same key assumptions. The results of the reviews  
indicated that there was no impairment of the intangible assets at 31 December 2012.
NOTE 13 – INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED ASSOCIATES & JOINT VENTURES
 
2012 
€’000
2011
€’000
Investment in equity accounted associates and joint ventures comprise:
A. Investment in William Hill Online 150,692 156,618
B. Investment in Sciplay –332
C. Investment in International Terminal Leasing 5,344 6,047
156,036 162,997
A. Investment in William Hill Online
The investment in William Hill (WH) Online has been accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements and has  
been recognised initially at cost being the Group’s 29% share of the fair value of the total net assets of the associate together with the goodwill  
on acquisition. In accordance with IAS 28, profits distributed to the Group in proportion of their respective shareholding have been recognised  
as share of profits of associates. Software license royalty fees charged to WH Online have been recognised as revenues in the Group accounts.
WH Online has an option to acquire the Group’s interest in WH Online on an independent fair value basis, exercisable after four or six years  
from 31 December 2008 (the “Option”). Upon exercise of the Option, the Group has the right to receive a portion of the proceeds in WH shares,  
not exceeding 10% of William Hill Plc’s outstanding share capital at the time of issue. On 1 March 2013, the Group was informed by William Hill Plc  
that it will exercise its call option to acquire the Group’s 29% stake in WH Online for a total consideration of approximately £424 million.
WH Online entered into a contract with the Group for a minimum term of five years from 31 December 2008 for the provision of online gaming 
software for poker and casino. 
Movements in the carrying value of the investment during the year are as follows:
€’000
Investment in equity accounted associates at 1 January 201 1 162,245
Income from associate 36,073
Amortisation of intangibles in associate (5,729)
Dividend (35,971)
Investment in equity accounted associates at 31 December 2011 156,618
Income from associate 50,553
Amortisation of intangibles in associate (5,729)
Dividend (50,750)
Investment in equity accounted associates at 31 December 2012 150,692
Management has reviewed the key assumptions and forecasts for the abovementioned assets and the result of the review indicated that there was  
no impairment of the Group’s investment in WH Online at 31 December 2012. 80 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 13 – INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED ASSOCIATES & JOINT VENTURES (CONTINUED)
Aggregated amounts relating to associates are as follows:
 
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Total assets 134,856 167 ,337
Total liabilities 84,936 113,388
Revenues 567,294 369,945
Profit 167,005 122,970
B. Investment in Sciplay
On 21 January 2010, the Group formed a strategic partnership with Scientific Games Corporation to jointly develop and market next-generation 
internet and land-based gaming products and services to regulated gaming operators in the US and other countries.
The investment in Sciplay was sold to Scientific Games on 23 January 2012 for €nil consideration.
The Group’s loss on the sale was €0.1 million (2011: share of loss of €0.6 million) and has been recognised in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income.
C. Investment in International Terminal Leasing
On 8 March 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with Scientific Games to form a partnership called International Terminal Leasing (ITL)  
which relates to the strategic partnership with Scientific Games Corporation.
The Group’s future profit share from this joint venture varies depending on the commercial arrangements in which ITL and its partners enter into  
with third parties. However, the Group’s share of profit is expected to be between 20%-50%. 
The Group received a return on initial investments of €0.9 million during the year (201 1: €1.7 million). 
Movements in the carrying value of the investment during the year are as follows:
€’000
Reclassification of non-current asset as at 8 March 201 1 2,430
Additional contributions payable 5,209
Share of profit in joint venture 71
Return of initial investment (1,663)
Investment in joint venture at 31 December 2011 6,047
Share of profit in joint venture 156
Return of initial investment (859)
Investment in joint venture at 31 December 2012 5,344
Aggregated amounts relating to the ITL joint venture are as follows:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Total assets 27,215 28,764
Total liabilities 614 226
Revenues 4,388 2,881
Profit 634 400
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 81
NOTE 14 – DEFERRED AND CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION
Note
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Non-current deferred consideration consists:
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 27 26,735 41,752
26,735 41,752
Current deferred consideration consists:
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 27 69,015 33,591
Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited 734 –
69,749 33,591
Non-current contingent consideration consists:
Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited 27 400 709
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 27 – 98,643
Acquisition of Mobenga AB Limited 27 15,426 11,633
15,826 110,985
Current contingent consideration consists:
Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited 27 – 929
–929
NOTE 15 – AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS
 
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Available-for-sale investments comprise:
A. Investment in AsianLogic 12,513 2,054
B. Investment in Sportech PLC 17 ,148 10,322
C. Investment in PhilWeb 5,672 –
35,333 12,376
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments during the year, net
A. Investment in AsianLogic 10,459 –
B. Investment in Sportech PLC 6,826 1,444
C. Investment in PhilWeb (2,058) –
15,227 1,444
The fair value of quoted investments is based on published market prices. The fair value of unquoted investments is based on valuation techniques  
as described below.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of the financial assets classified as available-for-sale.
A. As at 3 July 2009, AsianLogic shares were delisted from AIM. At that date, the share price was £0.245. The directors do not consider there  
to have been any further impairment in the investment since 3 July 2009. 
 The Group has increased the carrying value of the investment in AsianLogic to €12.5 million (201 1: €2.1 million). The valuation technique used  
to determine the fair value as at 31 December 2012 was the dividend income approach. In valuing the investment, management applied a discount 
rate of 28% to future dividend income, with an annual growth rate of 2%. The increase of €10.5 million has been recognised in equity, within the 
available-for-sale reserve. 
 During the year, the Group received a dividend of €3.6 million (201 1: €3.1 million) that has been reflected in the consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income as finance income. 82 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 15 – AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)
B.  On 27 January 2010, the Group acquired a 9.99% stake in Sportech PLC, a UK’s leading pari-mutuel football gaming business, and owner of  
The New Football Pools, for a total consideration of €1 1.3 million. As at 31 December 2012 the market value of this investment was €17 .1 million  
(201 1: €10.3 million) and the increase of €6.8 million has been recognised directly in equity, within the available-for-sale reserve. During the prior  
year the movement of €1.4 million represented an increase in the investment of €2.0 million, recognised in equity, and an impairment in the first  
half of 201 1 of €0.6 million, which was recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
 Roger Withers, chairman of the Group during the year, was appointed as non-executive chairman of Sportech PLC in 201 1. Mor Weizer was 
appointed as a non-executive director of Sportech PLC on 23 March 201 1.
C. On 30 October 2012, the Group acquired a 1.75% stake in PhilWeb, a leading gaming technology provider in the Asia Pacific Region, for a total 
consideration of €7 .7 million. As at 31 December 2012, the market value of this investment was €5.7 million. An amount of €2.0 million has been 
recognised directly in equity, within the available-for-sale reserve. 
 As at 12 March 2013, the closing price of PhilWeb shares was PHP 14.56 compared to PHP 12.56 as at 31 December 2012. This has resulted in an 
increase in the fair value of the available for sale investments of €1.0 million since the balance sheet date. This increase in value is a non-adjusting 
post balance sheet event and has not therefore been accounted for as at 31 December 2012.
NOTE 16 – OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Loan to customer 221 221
Loan to affiliate 2,255 1,845
Rent and car lease deposits 642 743
Other 2,057 11
5,175 2,820
 
NOTE 17 – TRADE RECEIVABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Customers 45,981 26,531
Related parties (Note 28) 1,803 4,408
47,784 30,939
NOTE 18 – OTHER RECEIVABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Prepaid expenses 6,120 4,871
VAT and other taxes 2,064 3,643
Short-term deposits 6,490 2,106
Advances to suppliers 389 152
Related parties (Note 28) 6,203 2,871
Loan to customer 530 530
Loan to affiliate 3,390 4,700
Other receivables 1,374 1,355
26,560 20,228
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 83
NOTE 19 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Cash at bank 96,473 111,492
Deposits 24,407 53,340
120,880 164,832
The Group held cash balances which include monies held on behalf of operators in respect of operators’ jackpot games and poker operation. The balances 
held at the year-end are set out below and the liability is included in trade payables:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Funds attributed to jackpots 15,339 20,491
Poker security deposits 16,268 15,562
Other 430 272
32,037 36,325
NOTE 20 – SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
A. Share Capital
Share capital is comprised of no par value shares as follows:
2012 
Number of 
shares
2011 
Number of 
shares
Authorised N/A(*) N/A(*)
Issued and paid up 290,236,870 289,314,348
(*) The Group has no authorised share capital but is authorised under its memorandum and article of association to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares  
of no par value.
 
B. Treasury shares
On 25 June 2012 the Group cancelled all of the 100,000 ordinary shares of no par value held by the Company in treasury. These shares were purchased 
in June 201 1. The weighted average cost of own shares held in treasury was £3.28 per share.
C. Share options exercised
During the year 1,022,522 (201 1: 203,702) share options were exercised.
D. Distribution of dividend
In May 2012, the Group distributed €47 ,889,585 as a final dividend for 201 1. 
In October 2012, the Group distributed €22,550,631 as an interim dividend for 2012.
E. Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within owner’s equity:
   
Reserve Description and purpose
Additional paid in capital Share premium (i.e. amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value)
Available-for-sale reserve Changes in fair value of available-for-sale investments (Note 15)
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 84 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 21 – NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Long-term trade payables –756
Severance pay 215 667
215 1,423
NOTE 22 – LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Current bank borrowings 37,970 13,787
Non-current bank borrowings 31,250 13,746
69,220 27,533
The loans are repayable in eight quarterly instalments and two annual instalments starting July 2012.
The rate at which the liabilities are payable is a fixed-rate plus movements in the Euribor and Euro Libor rates.
The Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2012 of €35.0 million.
NOTE 23 – TRADE PAYABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Suppliers 12,259 8,577
Customer liabilities 1,373 3,293
Related parties (Note 28) 23 75
Other 867 1,111
14,522 13,056
NOTE 24 – DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY
The deferred tax liability is due to temporary differences on the acquisition of certain businesses.
The movement on the deferred tax liability is as shown below:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
At the beginning of the year 5,287 1,950
Arising on the acquisitions during the year (Note 26) 1,406 3,675
Reversal of temporary differences, recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income ( 1,461) ( 338)
 5,232 5,287
NOTE 25 – OTHER PAYABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Payroll and related expenses 11,750 10,262
Accrued expenses 7,165 4,104
Related parties (Note 28) 506 –
Other payables 3,040 1,534
22,461 15,900
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 85
NOTE 26 – ACQUISITIONS DURING THE YEAR
A. Acquisition of Geneity Limited
On 23 January 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Geneity Limited (“Geneity”). Geneity is a provider of e-gaming software products, 
focused primarily on the sportsbook and lottery sectors.
The Group paid an initial consideration, including working capital adjustments, of €15.1 million (£1 1.4 million) in cash of which €4.7 million (£4.0 million) 
is held in escrow for 30 months. A further €4.7 million (£4.0 million) was also being held in escrow to be released subject to certain agreed deliverables 
being met. These deliverables were met in September 2012.
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill are as follows:
Book value 
prior to 
acquisition 
€’000
 Adjustments 
€’000
 Fair value on 
acquisition
€’000 
Property, plant and equipment 26 – 26
Intangible assets 65 3,864 3,929
Trade and other receivables 654 – 654
Cash and cash equivalents 1,657 – 1,657
Deferred tax liability (138) (966) (1,104)
Trade payables (1 10) – (1 10)
Net identiﬁed assets 2,154 2,898 5,052
Goodwill 14,805
Fair value of consideration 19,857
Cash purchased (1,657)
Net cash paid 18,200
 
Adjustments to fair value include the following:
 
Amount 
€’000
Amortisation
%
IP Technology 3,464 8
Customer list 400 8
Total intangible assets 3,864
The main factors leading to the recognition of goodwill are the synergistic growth and revenues expected to be created by the combined highly 
complementary business activities and the strengthening of the Group’s position in comparison to its competitors in the market. In accordance  
with IAS36, the Group will regularly monitor the carrying value of its interest in the Geneity business.
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the IP Technology and customer list within the Geneity business  
are as follows:
 The income approach, in particular, the relief of royalty approach was applied for the valuation, considering projected revenues derived  
from the business;
 The royalty rate was based on a third-party market participant assumption for use of the IP Technology, considering market competition,  
quality, absolute and relative profitability;
 The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC for the IP Technology and the customer relationships; and
 The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
Management has disclosed neither Geneity’s contribution to Group profit since the acquisition date nor the impact the acquisition would have  
had on the Group’s revenue and profits if it occurred on 1 January 2012, because the amounts are not material. 86 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 26 – ACQUISITIONS DURING THE YEAR (CONTINUED)
B. Acquisition of Juego Online EAD
On 27 December 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Juego Online EAD (“Juego”). Juego is a provider of online gaming services for the 
Spanish market.
The Group paid a consideration, including working capital adjustment, of €10.9 million. €6.2 million was paid in cash and the remaining amount  
was paid by conversion of a prior year loan to Juego’s ultimate parent company.
Details of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill, which are all provisional, are as follows:
Book value 
prior to 
acquisition
€’000 
 Adjustments
€’000 
 Fair value on 
acquisition
€’000 
Intangible assets –4,514 4,514
Trade and other receivables 4,553 – 4,553
Cash and cash equivalents 174 – 174
Trade payables (443) – (443)
Deferred tax liability –(451) (451)
Net identiﬁed assets 4,284 4,063 8,347
Provisional goodwill 2,523
Fair value of consideration 10,870
Conversion of prior year loan (4,700)
Cash purchased (174)
Net cash paid 5,996
Adjustments to fair value include the following:
Amount
€’000
Amortisation
%
License 4,514 10
The main factors leading to the recognition of goodwill are time to market advantage and the option for the renewal of the license in the future.  
In accordance with IAS36, the Group will regularly monitor the carrying value of its interest in the Juego business.
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the gaming license within Juego business are as follows:
 The income approach, in particular, the relief of royalty approach was applied for the valuation, considering projected revenues derived from 
the business;
 The royalty rate was based on a third party market participant assumption for use of the IP License, considering market competition, quality, 
absolute and relative profitability;
 The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC; and
 The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
Management have not disclosed Juego’s contribution to Group profit since the acquisition date nor have they disclosed the impact the acquisition 
would have had on the Group’s revenue and profits if it occurred on 1 January 2012, because the amounts are not material.
NOTE 27 – ACQUISITIONS IN PRIOR YEAR
A. Acquisition of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited
On 26 January 201 1, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited (“IGS”). IGS is a provider of software-based casino 
management systems to land-based casinos.
The Group paid an initial consideration of €2.8 million (£2.5 million) in cash, and additional contingent consideration of up to €3.5 million (£3.0 million) 
was payable in respect of the adjusted PBT performance in 201 1-2013 at the start of each following year. During the year, the Group signed a deed of 
variation to vary the conditions of the contingent consideration. It was agreed that a sum of €1.4 million (£1.2 million) will be paid in two instalments, 
according to the original terms and the remaining contingent consideration amount is now based on adjusted income and product deliverables.  
The movement in contingent consideration in the year of €0.4 million is included in finance costs.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87
NOTE 27 – ACQUISITIONS IN PRIOR YEAR (CONTINUED)
B. Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited
On 10 March 201 1 the Group entered into an agreement to purchase 100% of the issued share capital of PT Turnkey Services Limited (“PTTS”) from 
Worldwide Online Enterprises Limited (“WOE”). On completion, 1 July 201 1, PTTS, a newly-incorporated holding company established in connection 
with the acquisition, owned a group of new companies (together the PTTS Group) which owned the assets carrying out a range of complementary  
B2B online gaming service operations that provide support to the Group’s licensees.
WOE is related to Playtech by virtue of a significant common shareholder.
The PTTS Group provides marketing and ancillary services to operators of online gaming businesses, and comprises four separate service offerings 
– marketing, operations, payment advisory and network management.
In consideration, the Group paid an initial amount of €140 million as follows:
 
€’000
Working capital adjustment 14,800
Paid in 201 1 45,000
Paid in 2012 as early settlement 76,000
Discounting of initial consideration 4,200
Total initial consideration 140,000
In addition to the initial amount, the Group will pay a further €140 million contingent consideration, which became payable during the year, and thus 
treated as deferred consideration as at 31 December 201 2, after meeting the accelerated payment mechanism. The acceleration has occurred by virtue  
of PTTS having achieved an annualised adjusted EBITDA in excess of €40 million by reference to its actual performance for the period ended 30 June 201 2. 
In accordance with the original acquisition terms, the deferred consideration is payable in four non-interest bearing instalments over the following  
18 months from the 31 July 2012 as detailed in Note 14. The movement in fair value of contingent and deferred consideration in the year of €39.1 million 
is included in finance costs. The finance cost related to initial consideration in the year amounts to €0.7 million.
C. Acquisition of Mobenga AB Limited
On 31 August 201 1 (“Completion”) the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Mobenga AB (“Mobenga”), the leading mobile sportsbook betting 
platform provider.
Immediately prior to Completion, the Group acquired the Intellectual property and Technology (“IP Technology”) of Mobenga for cash consideration 
of €1 million. An initial consideration, including working capital adjustments, of €8.2 million was paid in cash and additional contingent consideration 
of up to €15.8 million may be payable in the first quarter of 2014. 
Management has determined the fair value of contingent consideration using valuation techniques taking into account the probability of expected 
outcomes and appropriate discount rates. The computed fair value at the balance sheet date is €15.4m (201 1: €1 1.6m), and the undiscounted range of 
possible payments is between €nil and €15.8 million. The movement in contingent consideration in the year of €3.8 million is included in finance costs.
D. Acquisition of Ash Gaming Limited
On 15 December 201 1 the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Ash Gaming Limited (“Ash Gaming”), the leading developers of interactive gambling 
and betting games.
The total consideration of €27 .4 million (£23.0 million) was paid in cash, of which €8.9 million (£7 .5 million) was paid into an escrow account to be  
held and released to the venders over the next three years, depending upon the successful completion of certain conditions and indemnities.  
If such conditions are not satisfied, some of the funds held in escrow may be repaid back to the Group. 
E. Acquisition of S-Tech Limited
On 24 November 201 1 the Group acquired 85% of the shares of S-Tech Limited (“S-Tech”), a live games provider in Asia. As of the purchase date S-Tech 
had net liabilities and therefore the consideration paid was the $1 par value of 85 shares.
During the year, the Group recognised a non-controlling interest of €0.2 million (201 1: €nil) owing to the 15% minority shareholder. 88 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 28 – RELATED PARTIES AND SHAREHOLDERS
Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party making  
financial or operational decisions, or if both parties are controlled by the same third party.
Gamepark Trading Ltd, Tech Corporation and 800pay Ltd were previously related by virtue of a common significant shareholder, however on 1 July 
201 1, they sold their assets to PTTS subsidiary companies immediately prior to the acquisition by Playtech (as referred to in note 27b). Netplay TV PLC, 
Skywind Holding Limited (“Skywind”) and Anise Development Limited (“Anise”) are related by virtue of a common significant shareholder. 
Sportech PLC is related by virtue of common non-executive directors. WH Online, Sciplay and International Terming Leasing (ITL) are associates  
of the Group. 
The following transactions arose with related parties:
2012
€’000
2011
€’000
Revenue including income from associate
Sportech 1,31 1 167
Skywind 120 –
Netplay TV PLC 3,366 2,266
William Hill Online 82,806 58,497
Share of proﬁt (loss) in joint venture
ITL 155 72
Sciplay (164) (618)
Operating expenses
Gamepark Trading Limited –95
Tech Corporation –136
800pay Ltd –63
Anise 538 –
Skywind 3,333 –
Additions to property, plant and equipment
Anise 396 –
  
The following are year-end balances:  
  
Tech Corporation –43
800pay Ltd –32
Total related party payables –75
Sciplay –39
Skywind 20 –
Netplay TV PLC 484 270
Sportech 31 73
William Hill Online 7,471 6,897
Total related party receivables 8,006 7,279
Sportech PLC (Note 15b) 17 ,148 10,322
Total investment in related party 17 ,148 10,322
The details of key management compensation (being the remuneration of the directors) are set out in Note 6.
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89
NOTE 29 – SUBSIDIARIES 
Details of the Group’s principal subsidiaries as at the end of the year are set out below:
Name Country of incorporation
Proportion of 
voting rights 
and ordinary 
share capital 
held Nature of business
Playtech Software Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Main trading Company of the Group, owns the intellectual property 
rights and licenses the software to customers
OU Playtech (Estonia) Estonia 100% Designs, develops and manufactures online software
Techplay Marketing Limited Israel 100% Marketing and advertising
Video B Holding Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Trading company for the Videobet software, owns the intellectual 
property rights of Videobet and licenses it to customers
OU Videobet Estonia 100% Develops software for ﬁxed odds betting terminals and casino 
machines (as opposed to online software)
Playtech Bulgaria Bulgaria 100% Designs, develops and manufactures online software
PTVB Management Limited Isle of Man 100% Management
Evermore Trading Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holding company
Genuity Services Limited British Virgin Island 100% Holder of investment in WH Online 
Playtech Services (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% Activates the ipoker Network in regulated markets. Owns the 
intellectual property of GTS, Ash and Geneity businesses
VB (Video) Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100% Trading company for the Videobet product to Romanian companies
Techplay S.A. Software Limited Israel 100% Develops online software
Technology Trading IOM Limited Isle of Man 100% Owns the intellectual property rights of Virtue Fusion business
Gaming Technology Solutions 
Limited
UK 100% Holding company of VS Gaming and VS Technology
VS Gaming Limited UK 100% Develops software and casino games
VS Technology Limited UK 100% Develops EdGE platform 
Virtue Fusion (Alderney) Limited Alderney 100% Online bingo and casino software provider
Virtue Fusion CM Limited UK 100% Chat moderation services provider to end users of VF licensees
VB CMS OU Estonia 100% Develops software for ﬁxed odds betting terminals and casino 
machines
Playtech Software (Alderney) 
Limited
Alderney 100% To hold the Company’s Alderney Gaming license
Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited UK 100% Casino management systems to land-based businesses
VF 2011 Limited Alderney 100% Holds license in Alderney for online gaming
PT Turnkey Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holding company of the Turnkey Services Group
PT Turnkey EU Services Limited Cyprus 100% Turnkey services for EU online gaming operators
PT Entretenimiento Online EAD Bulgaria 100% Poker and Bingo network for Spain
PT Marketing Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Marketing services to online gaming operators
PT Operational Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Operational and hosting services to online gaming operators
Tech Hosting Limited Alderney 100% Alderney Hosting services
Paragon International Customer 
Care Limited
British Virgin Island & 
branch oﬃce in the 
Philippines
100% English Customer support, chat, fraud, ﬁnance, dedicated employees 
services to parent company
CSMS Limited Bulgaria 100% Consulting and online technical support, data mining processing and 
advertising services to parent company
TCSP Limited Serbia 100% Operational services for Serbia 90 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Name Country of incorporation
Proportion of 
voting rights 
and ordinary 
share capital 
held Nature of business
S-Tech Limited British Virgin Islands 
and branch oﬃce in 
the Philippines
85% Live games services to Asia
PT Advisory Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holds PT processing Advisory Ltd
PT Processing Advisory Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Advisory services for processing and cashier to online gaming 
operators
PT Processing EU Advisory Limited Cyprus 100% Advisory services for processing and cashier for EU online gaming 
operators
PT Network Management Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Manages the ipoker network
Playtech Mobile (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100% Holds the IP of Mobenga AB
Playtech Holding Sweden AB 
Limited
Sweden 100% Holding Company of Mobenga AB
Mobenga AB Limited Sweden 100% Mobile sportsbook betting platform developer
Ash Gaming Limited UK 100% Develops interactive gambling and betting games
Geneity Limited UK 100% Develops Sportsbook and Lottery software
Factime Limited Cyprus 100% Holding company of Juego
Juego Online EAD Bulgaria 100% Gaming operator. Holds a license in Spain
PlayLot Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Distributing lottery software 
NOTE 30 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, which results from its financing, operating and investing activities. The objective of financial risk 
management is to contain, where appropriate, exposures in these financial risks to limit any negative impact on the Group’s financial performance  
and position. The Group’s financial instruments are its cash, available-for-sale financial assets, trade receivables, loan receivables, bank borrowings, 
accounts payable and accrued expenses. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operation. The Group 
actively measures, monitors and manages its financial risk exposures by various functions pursuant to the segregation of duties and principles.  
The risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are credit risk and market price risk, which include interest rate risk, currency risk and equity 
price risk. The risk management policies employed by the Group to manage these risks are discussed below. 
A. Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates. The Group’s income and 
operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest changes. The management monitors interest rate fluctuations  
on a continuous basis and acts accordingly. 
Where the Group has generated a significant amount of cash, it will invest in higher earning interest deposit accounts. These deposit accounts are  
short term and the Group is not unduly exposed to market interest rate fluctuations.
During the year the Group advanced loans to affiliates and customers for a total amount of €2.3 million (201 1: €5.0 million). The interest on the loans is 5%.
During the year the Group drew down €75.0 million from its available credit facilities (201 1: €5.0 million). The rate at which the liabilities are payable  
is a fixed rate plus movements in the Euribor and Euro Libor rates.
The loans are repayable in monthly instalments.
A 1% change in deposit interest rates would impact on the profit before tax by €23,000.
A 1% change in Euribor and Euro Libor interest rates would impact on the profit before tax by €750,000.
As at 31 December 2012 the Group holds undrawn credit facilities of €35.0 million (201 1: €82.6 million).
NOTE 29 – SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91
NOTE 30 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
B. Credit risk
Credit risk arises when a failure by counterparties to discharge their obligations could reduce the amount of future cash inflows from financial assets  
on hand at the balance sheet date.
The Group closely monitors the activities of its counterparties and controls the access to its intellectual property which enables it to ensure the prompt 
collection of customers’ balances.
The Group’s main financial assets are cash and cash equivalents as well as trade and other receivables and represent the Group’s maximum exposure  
to credit risk in connection with its financial assets. Trade and other receivables are carried on the balance sheet net of bad debt provisions estimated 
by the directors based on prior year experience and an evaluation of prevailing economic circumstances.
Wherever possible and commercially practical the Group invests cash with major financial institutions that have a rating of at least A- as defined by 
Standard & Poors. The Group maintains monthly operational balances with banks that do not meet this credit rating in Israel and in the Philippines  
to meet local salaries and expenses. These balances are kept to a minimum and typically do not exceed €1 million at any time during the monthly 
payment cycle. Group holds approximately 30% of its funds in financial institutions below A- rate (201 1: 14%).
 
Total
€’000
Financial 
institutes 
with A- and 
above rating
€’000
Financial 
institutes 
below  
A-rating
€’000
At 31 Dec 2012 120,880 84,710 36,170
At 31 Dec 201 1 164,832 141,463 23,369
The ageing of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired can be analysed as follows:
Total
€’000
Not past due
€’000
1-2 months 
overdue
€’000
More than 2 
months past 
due
€’000
At 31 Dec 2012 47,784 27,840 15,788 4,156
At 31 Dec 201 1 30,939 20,048 7,920 2,971
The above balances relate to customers with no default history.
A provision for doubtful debtors is included within trade receivables that can be reconciled as follows:
2012
€’000
2011
€’000
Provision at the beginning of the year 1,829 121
Charged to income statement 29 2,019
Utilised (1,029) (31 1)
Provision at end of year 829 1,829
Related party receivables included in Note 17 are not past due.
C. Currency risk
Currency risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates. 
Foreign exchange risk arises because the Group has operations located in various parts of the world. However, the functional currency of those 
operations is the same as the Group’s primary functional currency (euro) and the Group is not substantially exposed to fluctuations in exchange  
rates in respect of assets held overseas.
Foreign exchange risk also arises when Group operations are entered into in currencies denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. 
The Group’s policy is not to enter into any currency hedging transactions. 92 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 30 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
D. Equity price risk
The Group’s balance sheet is exposed to market risk by way of holding some investments in other companies on a short-term basis (Note 15).  
Variations in market value over the life of these investments have or will have an impact on the balance sheet and the income statement.
The directors believe that the exposure to market price risk is acceptable in the Group’s circumstances.
The Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2012 includes available for sale investments with a value of €35.3 million which are subject to fluctuations  
in the underlying share price. 
A change of 1% in share price will have an impact of €0.4 million on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the fair value of the 
available for sale investments will change by the same amount.
E. Capital disclosures
The Group seeks to maintain a capital structure which enables it to continue as a going concern and which supports its business strategy. The Group’s 
capital is provided by equity and debt funding. The Group manages its capital structure through cash flow from operations, returns to shareholders 
primarily in the form of dividends and the raising or repayment of debt.
The Group has net cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date of €52.1 million (2011: €137.3 million), which includes loans and borrowings  
of €68.8 million (2011: €27.5 million). Accordingly, management do not believe that there are significant capital risks.
F. Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the financial charges on its debt instruments. 
The Group’s policy is to ensure that it will have sufficient cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. 
The following are the contractual maturities (representing undiscounted contractual cash flows) of the Group’s financial liabilities:
Total
€’000
Within 1 year
€’000
1- 2 years
€’000
2-5 years
€’000
2012
Trade payables 14,522 14,522 – –
Loans and borrowings 69,220 37,970 31,250 –
Other accounts payable 22,461 22,461 – –
Progressive, operators’ jackpots and security deposits 31,607 31,607 – –
Deferred consideration 98,000 70,000 28,000 –
Contingent consideration 16,950 737 413 15,800
Other non-current liabilities 424 – – 424
201 1
Trade payables 13,056 13,056 – –
Loans and borrowings 27 ,533 13,787 13,746 –
Other accounts payable 15,900 15,900 – –
Progressive, operators’ jackpots and security deposits 36,053 36,053 – –
Deferred consideration 80,194 35,195 45,000 –
Contingent consideration 131,331 929 768 129,634
Other non-current liabilities 1,423 – 756 667
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 93
NOTE 30 – FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
G. Total financial assets and liabilities
The fair value together with the carrying amount of the financial assets and liabilities shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
2012 
€’000 
Fair Value
2012 
€’000 
Carrying 
amount
2011 
€’000 
Fair Value
2011 
€’000 
Carrying
amount
Cash and cash equivalent 120,880 120,880 164,832 164,832
Available for sale investments 35,333 35,333 12,376 12,376
Other assets 79,619 79,619 52,575 52,575
Deferred consideration 95,750 95,750 75,343 75,343
Contingent consideration 16,560 16,560 111,914 111,914
Loan and borrowings 69,220 69,220 27,533 27,533
Other liabilities 56,796 56,796 56,500 56,500
Included in available for sale investments is €22.8 million and €12.5 million measured at fair value using level 1 and level 2 respectively. Contingent 
consideration of €16.6 million is measured at fair value using level 3 in accordance with IAS 39. These are the Group’s only financial assets and liabilities 
which are measured at fair value.
NOTE 31 – POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 1 March 2013, Playtech was informed by the board of William Hill Plc (“William Hill”) that it intended to exercise its call option to acquire Playtech’s 
29% stake in William Hill Online for a total consideration of approximately £424 million. The Group will continue to be entitled to a proportionate share 
of the FY2013 profits of William Hill Online, until the date of completion.
NOTE 32 – CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Group is not a gaming operator and does not provide gaming services to players. As part of the Board’s ongoing regulatory compliance process, 
the Board continues to monitor legal and regulatory developments and their potential impact on the Group.
Management is not aware of any contingencies that may have a significant impact on the financial position of the Group.
NOTE 33 – OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
The Group has a variety of leased properties. The terms of property leases vary from country to country, although they tend to be tenant repairing 
within rent reviews every two to five years and many have break clauses.
The total future value of minimum lease payments is due as follows:
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Not later than one year 5,246 2,887
Later than one year and not later than ﬁve years 13,380 7,312
Later than ﬁve years 10,184 2,956
28,810 13,155 94 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Note
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS 
Property, plant and equipment 87 84
Intangible assets 261 290
Investments 1208,642 208,543
Available for sale investments 229,661 12,376
Other non-current assets 241 7
238,892 221,300
CURRENT ASSETS 
Trade and other receivables 3275,994 275,229
Cash and cash equivalents 432,096 84,757
308,090 359,986
TOTAL ASSETS 546,982 581,286
EQUITY 
Additional paid in capital 310,469 307 ,853 
Available for sale reserve 19,280 1,995
Retained earnings 29,539 52,593
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 5 359,288 362,441
NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Loans and borrowings 631,250 13,746
Deferred consideration 726,735 41,752
Contingent consideration 7–98,643
57,985 154,141
CURRENT LIABILITIES 
Loans and borrowings 637,970 13,787
Trade and other payables 8 22,724 17,326
Deferred consideration 769,015 33,591
129,709 64,704
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 546,982 581,286
Parent Company Financial Statements
Company Balance Sheet 
As at 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 95
NOTE 1 – INVESTMENTS
2012  
€’000
2011  
€’000
Investment in subsidiary undertakings – cost 208,642 208,543
Details of investments in subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Activity Holding (%)
Playtech Software Limited British Virgin Islands Main trading company of the Group, owns the intellectual property 
rights and licenses the software to customers
100%
Video B Holding Limited British Virgin Islands Trading company for Videobet software, owns the intellectual property 
rights of Videobet and licenses it to customers
100%
PTVB Management Limited Isle of Man Management 100%
Playlot Limited British Virgin Islands Distributing lottery software 100%
Trading Technology IOM Ltd Isle of Man Owns the intellectual property rights of Virtue Fusion business 100%
PT Turnkey Services Limited British Virgin Islands Holding Company of the Turnkey Services Group 100%
Playtech Holding Sweden AB Sweden Holding company of Mobenga AB 100%
NOTE 2 – AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Available for sale investments comprise:
A. Investment in AsianLogic 12,513 2,054
B. Investment in Sportech PLC 17 ,148 10,322
29,661 12,376
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Change in fair value of available for sale investments during the year, net
A. Investment in AsianLogic 10,459 –
B. Investment in Sportech PLC 6,826 1,444
17,285 1,444
NOTE 3 – TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Other receivables 284 832
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 275,710 274,397
275,994 275,229
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012 96 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
NOTE 4 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Cash at bank 20,977 44,906
Deposits 1 1,1 19 39,851
32,096 84,757
NOTE 5 – SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
A. Share Capital
Share capital is comprised of no par value shares as follows:
2012 
Number of 
Shares
2011 
Number of 
Shares
Authorised N/A
(*)
N/A
(*)
Issued and paid up 290,236,870 289,314,348
(*) The Group has no authorised share capital but is authorised under its memorandum and article of association to issue up to 1,000,000,000 shares of no par value.
B. Treasury shares
On 25 June 2012 the Group cancelled all of the 100,000 ordinary shares of no par value held by the Company in treasury. These shares were purchased 
in June 201 1. The weighted average cost of own shares held in treasury was £3.28 per share.
C. Share option exercised
During the year 1,022,522 (201 1: 203,702) share options were exercised.
D. Distribution of Dividend
In May 2012, the Group distributed €47 ,889,585 as a final dividend for 201 1. 
In October 2012, the Group distributed €22,550,631 as an interim dividend for 2012.
E. Reserves
The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within owner’s equity:
Reserve Description and purpose
Additional paid in capital Share premium (i.e. amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value)
Available-for-sale reserve Changes in fair value of available-for-sale investments (Note 15)
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
NOTE 6 – LOANS AND BORROWINGS
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Current bank borrowings 37,970 13,787
Non-current bank borrowings 31,250 13,746
69,220 27,533
The loans are payable in eight quarterly instalments and two annual instalments starting July 2012.
The rate at which the liabilities are payable is a fixed rate plus movements in the Euribor and Euro Libor rates.
The Company has undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2012 of €35.0 million.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 97
NOTE 7 – DEFERRED AND CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Non-current deferred consideration consists:
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 26,735 41,752
Current deferred consideration consists:
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited 69,015 33,591
Non-current contingent consideration consists:
Acquisition of PT Turnkey Services Limited –98,643
NOTE 8 – TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2012 
€’000
2011 
€’000
Suppliers and accrued expenses 2,418 1,499
Payroll and related expenses 5,970 5,816
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 14,336 10,01 1
22,724 17,326 98 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes Overview Sustainability Governance Accounts Business & Financial Review
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 99
Notes 100 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Copyright
The Avengers: front cover, front ﬂap 
© MARVEL
Spiderman: front cover 
© MARVEL
Pink Panther: front ﬂap 
TM & © 1964 - 2013 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
Studios Inc. All rights reserved.
The Six Million Dollar Man: front ﬂap
TM & © 2013 Universal Studios. Licensed by 
NBCUniversal Television Consumer Products 
Group 2013. All Rights Reserved.
Captain America: page 13 
© MARVEL
Hot 50: page 53
© 2012 Gaming Intelligence
www.GamingIntelligence.com 2012 
€m
2011 
€m
2010 
€m
2009 
€m
2008
€m
2007 
€m 
Income statement
Total revenues 317.5 207.5 142.3 114.8 111.5 65.7
Associate income (William Hill Online) 50.6 36.1 30.8 22.5 – –
Gross income 368.1 243.6 173.1 137.3 111.5 65.7
Adjusted EBITDA 186.7 125.5 103.1 93.7 74.7 43.0
Adjusted net proﬁt 168.3 112.8 93.2 89.4 78.6 43.9
Balance sheet
Non-current assets 589.2 564.9 292.8 252.0 235.2 42.4
Current assets 195.2 206.1 91.3 75.1 44.4 88.4
Current liabilities 181.9 110.2 64.3 32.1 17.7 28.6
Non-current liabilities 88.4 182.1 19.8 25.1 31.7 22.1
Net assets 514.2 478.7300.0 269.9230.2 80.1
Equity 
Additional paid-in capital 310.5 307.9 189.7 183.6 180.1 39.1
Available-for-sale reserve 17.2 2.0 – 1.0 – 0.2
Retained earnings 186.4 168.9 110.3 85.3 50.1 40.9
Statistics 
Basic adjusted EPS (in euro cents) 58.1 46.2 38.5 37.3 34.5 20.4
Diluted adjusted EPS (in euro cents) 57.1 45.7 37.1 36.0 33.4 19.5
Dividend per share (in euro cents) 23.2 16.5 19.0 18.3 15.2 10.1
Share price low/high 277.3p/432.7p 215.5p/420p 390p/548p 291.75p/482p 305p/550p 242p/412.5p
Five- Y ear Financial Summary Registered Office 
2nd Floor 
St George’s Court 
Upper Church Street 
Douglas 
Isle of Man IM1 1EE
Stockbroker
Canaccord Genuity 
9th Floor 
88 Wood Street 
London EC2V 7QR
Auditors 
BDO LLP 
55 Baker Street 
London W1U 7EU
Financial PR 
Pelham Bell Pottinger 
5th Floor 
Holborn Gate 
330 High Holborn 
London WC1V 7QD
Solicitors 
Berwin Leighton Paisner LLP 
Adelaide House 
London Bridge 
London EC4R 9HA
Registrars 
Computershare Investor Services 
(Isle of Man Limited) 
International House 
Castle Hill 
Victoria Road 
Douglas 
Isle of Man IM2 4RB
www.playtech.com
