 PREMIER FARNELL PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
“PREMIER FARNELL UNDERST ANDS WHA T WE NEED
TO MAKE OUR BUSINESS SUCCESSFUL”
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
www.premierfarnell.com
Group Headquarters
25/28 Old Burlington Street
London
W1S 3AN
UK
T +44 (0) 20 7851 4100
F +44 (0) 20 7851 4110
150 Armley Road
Leeds
LS12 2QQ
UK
T +44 (0) 870 129 8608
F +44 (0) 870 129 8611 CONTENTS
01 CALENDAR HIGHLIGHTS
02 GROUP A T A GLANCE
04 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
05 CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
06 A WINNING STRA TEGY
07 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
12 OPERA TING REVIEW
20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 
26 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
28 FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
32 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
34 REMUNERA TION REPORT
40 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
42 CONSOLIDA TED PROFIT
AND LOSS ACCOUNT
42 ST A TEMENT OF TOT AL RECOGNISED
GAINS AND LOSSES
43 CONSOLIDA TED BALANCE SHEET
44 COMP ANY BALANCE SHEET
45 CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
46 ST A TEMENT OF ACCOUNTING
POLICIES
47 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
69 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
69 AUDITORS’ REPORT 
70 SHAREHOLDER INFORMA TION
71 ADVISERS
72 FIVE YEAR RECORD
COVER STORY
NEWARK INONE’S DIRECT SHIP SERVICE  PROVIDES EUROPEAN CUSTOMERS
WITH RAPID DIRECT DELIVERY ON A RANGE OF OVER 70,000 US PRODUCTS.
IT ENABLED UK-BASED TRIFIX ELECTRONIC SERVICES TO SOURCE A SPECIFIC
PART FOR A TIME CRITICAL REPAIR – SAVING ITS CUSTOMER FROM POTENTIAL
PRODUCTION DOWNTIME PENAL TIES RUNNING INTO MANY THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS. YEAR AT A GLANCE PREMIER FARNELL PLC 01
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
YEAR A T A GLANCE
CALENDAR HIGHLIGHTS 2003/2004
FEB
The InOne brand is launched to enable
us to communicate our full range of
products and services more effectively.
Four businesses are rebranded with the
InOne suffix.
MA Y
Newark InOne launches additions
to its product range expanding its
semiconductor offering by 50%.
The new Farnell InOne catalogue is
published with a total offer of 150,000
products, incorporating the full
BuckHickman InOne range.
AUG
Steve Canham is appointed Managing
Director of the Marketing and Distribution
Division, Europe and Asia Pacific. 
CPC launches its new 2,800 page
catalogue with the addition of 13,500
new products. It is split into seven main
product areas for easy reference.
NOV
Paul Tallentire is appointed President of
Newark InOne. 
A tornado hits Akron Brass’ manufacturing
site at Wooster in Ohio. Significant damage
is caused but, as a result of well-rehearsed
drills, there are no injuries to personnel.
MAR
Customer relationship management
software is implemented across Newark
InOne’s 46 sales branches and two
call centres.
JUN
The Group renews its global supply
agreement with Philips, adding Newark
InOne and BuckHickman InOne to the
contract along with Farnell InOne, further
evidence of our wide geographical and
service capability for multinational
customers.
SEP
Premier Farnell is named Electronics
Industry European Distributor 2003, a
newly created award for the electronics
industry developed to promote best
practice in customer care, sales growth,
innovation and employee motivation.
DEC
To facilitate faster and more efficient
deliveries, a distribution centre and sales
office is opened in the Free Trade Zone
in Shanghai. 
A Communication Excellence Award is
won for the internal communication of the
new branding to employees. 
The National Electronic Distributors
Association awards Newark InOne seven
out of nine awards for direct marketing
and advertising.
APR
BuckHickman InOne launches a specialist
320-page Health and Safety Catalogue
introducing 1,600 new health, safety and
hygiene products to bring the total product
range to 12,000 items.
JUL
The Newark InOne Direct Ship service is
launched giving customers in Europe and
Asia Pacific easy access to an additional
70,000 products delivered direct from
the US.
OCT
Investment at the Newark InOne North
American distribution centre is completed.
The Premier Farnell core values
programme is launched. Interactive small
group sessions are held with employees
throughout the Group to explore and
understand the values.
JAN
Akron Brass wins a contract valued
at $600,000 to supply a Storm Remote
Control Vapor Mitigation system to
Exxon Mobil Corporation.
FEB JUN AUG 02 PREMIER FARNELL PLC GROUP AT A GLANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
PREMIER FARNELL
GROUP A T A GLANCE
Marketing and Distribution Division
Five closely related businesses providing
marketing and distribution services
primarily within industrial and electronic
sectors. Customers typically need a broad
product range, fast delivery and specialist
technical support. These are delivered
through a combination of extensive product
and market knowledge and investment 
in software systems and warehouse
automation.
Industrial Products Division
A group of businesses that supply
high-performance products to
specialist industrial markets in Europe
and North America.
A leader in the marketing and distribution of electronic
components, test equipment, maintenance and repair
products in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. The
business also provides procurement services and
technical support tailored to individual customer needs.
www.farnellinone.com
A leading North American marketer and distributor
of electronic components through call centres, via
the web, and through a network of sales offices
across the US and in Canada, Mexico and Brazil. 
www.newarkinone.com
A leading UK business in the marketing and
distribution of tools, consumables and health and
safety equipment typically needed in industrial
working environments. A specialist in supply chain
management and vendor managed inventory. 
www.buckhickmaninone.com
A North American distributor of quality electronic
equipment and related products to engineers who
install and repair consumer electronics and 
similar equipment.
www.mcminone.com
A leading distributor of electrical and electronic
equipment, components and accessories to smaller
companies across the UK. A specialist in the
promotion of new products and special offers through
direct mail and via the web.
www.cpc.co.uk
A world-leader in the design and manufacture of 
fire-fighting systems, based in Ohio, USA.
Customers include fire departments, fire-truck
manufacturers and industry worldwide.
www.akronbrass.com
A pan-European distributor of high-performance
own-brand consumables (including tools, adhesives
and chemicals) for the automotive servicing and
crash-repair markets.
www.kenteurope.com
A distributor of high-performance electrical 
cable and connector assemblies for use in hostile 
or heavy-duty industrial environments. Customers
include the metal, automotive and construction
industries in North America.
www.tpcwire.com
A distributor of electrical and industrial automation
products and engineered solutions to manufacturers
in the United States.
www.cadillacelectric.com GROUP AT A GLANCE PREMIER FARNELL PLC 03
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CUSTOMER CONTACTS
2,000,000
+
SUPPLIERS
3,000
+
PRODUCTS IN STOCK
400,000
PRODUCT DATABASE
4,000,000
+
EMPLOYEES
5,000
COUNTRIES WITH OFFICES
21
COUNTRIES SELLING INTO
100
+
MUL TIPLE CHANNELS
– CUSTOMER CONTACT CENTRES
– WEB SITES
– EPROCUREMENT
– FIELD SALES
– CORPORATE ACCOUNT SALES
MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
– 70,000 DATASHEETS
VALUE ADDED SERVICES
– PRODUCTWATCH
– PRODUCTFIND
– VENDOR MANAGED INVENTORY
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
SALES
£668.2m
+3.2%
†
1 Americas 43%
2 UK 39%
3 Continental Europe & Asia Pacific 18%
OPERATING PROFIT
£67.6m*
*before rebranding costs and amortisation
of goodwill
EMPLOYEES
4,050
2
3
1
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
SALES
£96.4m
+5.6%
†
1 Americas 59%
2 Europe & Asia Pacific 41%
OPERATING PROFIT
£13.7m
EMPLOYEES
950
†
year on year sales per day growth for
continuing businesses at constant exchange
rates
2
1
DIVISIONAL GROUP 04 PREMIER FARNELL PLC FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2
3
1
2
3
1
Group operating profit*
£74m
$123m
Group net operating assets
£287m
$523m
1 Americas 49%
2 UK 41%
3 Europe & Asia Pacific 10%
2
3
1
Group sales
£765m
$1,269m
+3.5%
†
1 Americas 45%
2 UK 35%
3 Europe & Asia Pacific 20%
1 Americas 37%
2 UK 46%
3 Europe & Asia Pacific 17%
Gross margin
40.2%
41.1%
2003
Basic earnings per share
8.9p
9.3p
2003
†
year on year sales per day growth for continuing
businesses at constant exchange rates
* before rebranding costs and amortisation 
of goodwill
** before rebranding costs, amortisation of 
goodwill and disposal of businesses
Operating margin*
9.7%
10.9%
2003
Adjusted earnings per share**
10.1p
11.2p
2003
Interest cover* 
5.2x
5.3x
2003
Dividend per share
9.0p
9.0p
2003 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 05
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
REAL PROGRESS IN A DIFFICUL T YEAR
Sir Malcolm Bates
Chairman
Overview
This year can be characterised as one of
significant achievement in difficult trading
environments. Whilst our markets remained
weak or patchy for most of the year, the Group
achieved a 3.5 per cent increase in sales per
day year-on-year. This reflects the Group’s
progress in winning market share in Europe
and, amid signs of a recovery in the market, a
stronger performance from our North American
operations in the final quarter of the year.
During the year, the Group also concluded a
four year investment programme. Activities this
year have included the implementation of major
information systems in the UK and US, the
opening of a new distribution centre in China,
the full automation of the new distribution
centre in Europe and a substantial increase in
product ranges. This programme has
transformed the Group’s potential. Our
businesses are now equipped with a far greater
ability to understand the needs of their
customers and the flexibility to offer products
and services that meet those needs. In
addition, the brands of some of the Group’s
major businesses were brought together under
a new brand suffix, InOne, reflecting the
increasing co-ordination of our activities.
Financial results
Group sales for the year were £764.6 million
(2003: £759.0 million). This comprised sales of
£668.2 million in the Marketing and Distribution
Division and sales of £96.4 million in the
Industrial Products Division.
Operating profit for the year was £68.8 million
(2003: £80.3 million), producing an operating
margin of 9.0 per cent (2003: 10.6 per cent).
Adjusted operating profit for the year was
£73.8 million (2003: £82.9 million) before
rebranding costs of £2.4 million and goodwill
amortisation of £2.6 million, producing an
adjusted operating margin of 9.7 per cent
(2003: 10.9 per cent). Operating profit was
affected by the increased depreciation following
the roll-out of the customer relationship
management software and investment in the
Liège distribution centre.
Profit before tax in the year was £54.6 million
(2003: £59.8 million). Profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and gain/loss on business
disposals was £57.1 million (2003: £67.2 million).
Earnings per share for the year were 8.9 pence
(2003: 9.3 pence). Adjusted earnings per share
for the year (before rebranding costs,
amortisation of goodwill and the gain/loss on
business disposals) were 10.1 pence
(2003: 11.2 pence).
The Board is recommending a final dividend of
5.0 pence (2003: 5.0 pence) making a total for
the year of 9.0 pence (2003: 9.0 pence). The
dividend is covered 1.0 times by profit
attributable to ordinary shareholders and
1.1 times by profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders before goodwill amortisation and
profit on disposal of businesses. The final
dividend is payable on 23rd June 2004 to
shareholders on the register on 28th May 2004.
Balance Sheet
The Group’s financial position is sound. Net
debt at 1st February 2004 was £201.9 million
(2003: £209.2 million) and interest was covered
5.2 times by operating profit before one-off
rebranding costs and goodwill amortisation. In
June 2003, the Group raised $225 million of
new financing in the US private placement
market. The funds raised were used to repay
other borrowings.
Business progress
During the year, the Group has focussed on
growing business with larger corporate
accounts, developing its eCommerce capability
and extending its product portfolio.
We achieved strong growth in corporate
accounts by strengthening existing relationships
and winning significant new business. Our
capabilities in vendor-managed inventory and
eProcurement create a powerful proposition
that has enabled us to add customers
including Bombardier, The UK Atomic Energy
Authority and Tarmac. In addition, sales to the
US Federal Government, Newark InOne’s
largest customer, increased by over 14 per cent
during the year.
eCommerce sales per day were up 52 per cent
year on year within the Marketing and
Distribution Division, reaching £71 million during
the period. This business was transacted
through the 282 live eProcurement partnerships
that we have in place with larger customers,
and with many other customers via our
web sites.
In order to support higher levels of customer
service, we extended product ranges across
the Marketing and Distribution Division during
the year. This was most evident in the
Americas, where we added a total of 56,000
products to Newark InOne’s portfolio, bringing
the total to some 160,000.
Staff
The commitment of staff across the Group has
been impressive and, on behalf of the Board, I
would like to thank all our employees for their
effort during a demanding year. This effort has
also been recognised externally by a number of
prestigious awards from suppliers and industry
bodies alike, discussed in the Operating Review.
We were pleased to welcome Laurence Bain,
Group Chief Operating Officer, to the Board on
1 July 2003. Sir Robert Horton, Deputy
Chairman, is retiring from the Board after
completing nine years of distinguished service
and we are grateful to him for his sterling
contribution and wise counsel throughout his
time as a Director.
Outlook
The investment programme of the past few
years has provided a platform from which to
drive growth. It has also created capacity in
systems and distribution centres to
accommodate sales increases. The Group
has already demonstrated the ability to assist
large and small customers to improve their
productivity and is well positioned to take
advantage of growth opportunities in its key
markets as they develop during the current
year. Our focus is now firmly on disciplined and
efficient programmes to ensure that those
opportunities are seized.
We enter a new year confident that, should the
market recovery be sustained, the Group’s
operational gearing should enable us to deliver
value for customers and shareholders alike. 06 PREMIER FARNELL PLC A WINNING STRATEGY
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
A WINNING STRA TEGY
BROADENING OUR OFFER
WHILST THERE ARE FEW INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS OF OUR OFFER THAT
ARE UNIQUE, WHERE THEY ARE COMBINED, OUR BREADTH OF PRODUCT ,
CHOICE OF CHANNEL, HIGH LEVELS OF CUSTOMER SERVICE AND INCREASING
RANGE OF SPECIFIC SERVICES, PROVIDE REAL DIFFERENTIAL ADVANTAGE.
OUR NEWARK INONE DIRECT SHIP SERVICE IS MAKING A REAL DIFFERENCE TO
CUSTOMERS SUCH AS TRIFIX ELECTRONIC SERVICES.
FULL STORY ON PAGE 08
SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
WE CAN NOW SEGMENT OUR CUSTOMERS QUICKL Y AND ACCURATEL Y IN
ORDER TO OFFER MORE TARGETED SUPPORT AND RELEVANT TELESALES, FIELD
AND DIRECT MAIL CAMPAIGNS. THIS ABILITY ENABLES US TO BUILD AND
STRENGTHEN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR CUSTOMERS.
OUR INVESTMENT IN CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS WAS
CRITICAL WHEN HURRICANE ISABEL HIT THE US.
FULL STORY ON PAGE 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 07
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
WELL POSITIONED FOR GROWTH
John Hirst
Group Chief Executive
Market Dynamics
Although less volatile than the semi-conductor
market, our trading environment is determined in
part by the cyclical nature of the global electronic
components market. Regionally, the timing of the
cycle creates different impacts. Whilst Asia has
been growing for over 18 months, fuelled by the
rapid growth in China, and there have been the
first signs of improvement in North America since
the middle of last year, there are still no notable
signs of growth in Europe.
This pattern has undoubtedly been influenced
by the continued migration of production to low
cost economies – from Western Europe and
North America to Mexico, Eastern Europe and,
in particular, China.
The shift towards greater volumes of business
being conducted on the web and through
eProcurement is gaining momentum. Our
customers are continually driving to reduce
the costs of procuring consumables and
looking for productivity improvements and
waste elimination, including supplier base
rationalisation. Increasingly, they are focussing
on their key skills and out sourcing non-strategic
skills, relying on companies like ours to provide
efficient sourcing.
In Europe and several US States, legislation is
pending which restricts the use of heavy metals
like lead and cadmium in electrical and
electronic equipment. Further laws are designed
to govern the disposal of waste electronic and
electrical goods. We estimate this will affect
between 25 per cent and 30 per cent of the
products we sell. As manufacturers determine
their individual responses, customers are
looking for information and guidance. We are
establishing a leadership position by using
our knowledge and expertise to help
customers and suppliers prepare for this
change through web sites and an active
communications programme.
Our Proposition
For some years, we have defined our market
proposition as one of providing economic
benefit and peace of mind to our customers
and suppliers. Our customers come to us for
three main reasons – a broad product range,
available on demand, and quick and effective
delivery. From this, our customers can be more
efficient and have greater reassurance than if
they had to search less reliable sources for
product. The range of additional services we
have developed to strengthen this basic
proposition enables us to build much stronger
and more permanent customer relationships.
These services include vendor managed
inventory systems, which reduce our customers’
need to hold stock, and tailored eProcurement
and web site solutions, which help save time
and reduce administration costs.
Over recent years, we have built upon our
relationship with suppliers, adding value by
providing marketing services. With two million
customer contacts on our database, our
suppliers understand and appreciate the
unparalleled reach that we now have in the
market place.
Progress against our strategy
Our strategy is to drive for sales and profits
growth, by increasing spend from existing
customers, recruiting new customers,
developing new markets and acquisitions.
A key element in winning business with existing
and new customers is adding products to our
range to satisfy more needs for more customers.
We have made significant progress this year in
expanding our product range, particularly to
strengthen our offer to design engineers and we
will continue to push these product expansions.
From our North American inventories, we are
now able to ship direct to customers in Europe
and Asia Pacific in three days. This has added
70,000 products to our offer in these markets.
Rebranding four of our businesses under the
InOne label has enabled us to communicate
more effectively the full range of products and
services we offer across our businesses to both
our customers and suppliers.
As the shift to eCommerce continues,
reaching 11% of total sales of the Marketing
and Distribution Division this year, the level of
business we transact with our customers
through eProcurement channels continues to
grow, delivering cost efficiencies. We have also
seen progress with our global and major
customers, where our ability to provide a
customised eProcurement solution has
delivered significant sales growth rates.
Our suite of customer relationship management
systems is now fully implemented in Newark
InOne in the US and Farnell InOne in the UK
and we are seeing some real benefits in our
service to customers, our own productivity and
the intelligence we have readily available to
enhance our customer offer.
Our global product database and publication
management systems are delivering
genuine improvements in our productivity,
significantly reducing the time and resources
required to prepare product catalogues and
promotional materials.
We are well positioned to respond to our
customers’ drive to reduce the overall costs of
procuring indirect materials, taking our inventory
management and procurement skills into the
heart of our customers’ businesses.
We have made good progress identifying and
penetrating new markets. We have expanded
our operations in China, with the opening of a
sales office and distribution centre in Shanghai,
and sales in Mexico are building satisfactorily as
our new office and distribution centre becomes
established. Each time we identify a new
customer group or segment and focus our skills
upon it, we make particularly good progress.
Looking ahead
As momentum builds in our markets, we are
well positioned to benefit. Our new systems are
fully operational, with the right people in place
to exploit the opportunities they present. By
gaining market share through the downturn, we
have demonstrated our successful strategy of
focussing on specific groups of customers –
understanding their needs and deploying our
resources to respond to them.
There are still uncertainties around the duration
and scale of the market upturn in North
America, so we will continue to manage our
costs carefully. Then, as we grow, a significant
proportion of sales growth, from our efforts and
the improved market, falls to the bottom line.
This year has seen solid results in a tough
market and good progress against our
objectives. We have the capacity in both
infrastructure and people to continue to build
on the market share gains we have seen in
Europe and to take advantage of the market
upturn we are beginning to see in North
America. We have continued to upgrade our
management team and have some outstanding
people working in our business.
Notwithstanding the considerable organic
growth potential, we will continue to review good
quality acquisition opportunities as they arise. 08 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW BROADENING OUR OFFER
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
“WITH SUPPORT LIKE THIS WE CAN CONTINUE
TO PROVIDE FIRST CLASS SERVICE AND IMPRESS
OUR GROWING NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS.”
MARK A. FERGUSON
DIRECTOR
TRIFIX ELECTRONIC SERVICES L TD
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
BROADENING OUR OFFER
Business issue
Specialising in industrial electronics, Trifix
Electronics Services Ltd. based in the North of
England provides hi-tech repairs to items such
as sophisticated pressing machinery, test and
measurement and robotics equipment. 
Trifix started business in 2003 and is rapidly
building a reputation for the speed and
professionalism of its service – crucial factors
for its customer base.
Late one Monday afternoon, Trifix had a call
from an automotive component manufacturing
company that had an urgent repair need for
part of its manufacturing equipment. The speed
of repair to this equipment was of the essence,
as potential production downtime penalties,
running at thousands of pounds per minute,
could be levied on the automotive component
manufacturer.
Typically, this type of expensive capital
equipment comes from outside the UK and
replacement component lead times from the
manufacturers can be 12-14 weeks.
Trifix needed to identify and source the repair
components rapidly.
The solution
As part of the InOne family of businesses,
Farnell InOne has access to millions of products
from around the world. 
More specifically, its Newark InOne Direct Ship
service gives customers easy access to an
additional 70,000 products from Newark InOne
in the US.
The sales team from Farnell InOne was able to
locate the specific components required, which
were not available anywhere in the UK, from
Newark InOne. Trifix placed the order at
6.30 pm on Monday and received delivery by
9.30 am on Wednesday. By mid afternoon, Trifix
had completed the repair and had the
equipment back on site with its customer.
The benefits
– Easy access to a huge range of products not
available in the UK
– Technical data available from Farnell InOne to
enable the correct products to be ordered
quickly and easily
– Rapid delivery direct from the US
– Ability to service its own customers, meeting
their critical needs for urgent solutions  Where we add value
400,000 products in stock,
access to over 4 million more,
same day despatch and
fast delivery
I have easy access to a huge
breadth and range of
components and products,
leading brands and new
technology all from one
supplier available on the web,
on CD and in catalogues.
Benefit
This enables me to focus my
time on my design work. I save
time and money sourcing all
the products I need in
one place.
Design engineer
ProductWatch
I am notified if a component
I want to specify is becoming
obsolete or out of stock and
a replacement is suggested
to me.
Benefit
I save time, money and effort
which would otherwise be
wasted using a component
which is becoming obsolete
and finding a replacement.
Design engineer
ProductFind
I have assistance in locating,
and can get a quotation on,
not-in-catalogue products
quickly and from one source.
Benefit
I can deal with one supplier
for all my product requirements
and save time searching for
unusual products.
Design engineer
Technical advice
I can get good technical advice
over the phone and easily
obtain relevant technical data
and information on the web.
Benefit
The free and readily
available advice means I
can make a more informed
product selection.
Design engineer
Cu
ca
W
ca
pr
bu
pr
Be
W
vis
ca
co
or
Pu
+
+
+ + + Where we add value
400,000 products in stock,
access to over 4 million more,
same day despatch and
fast delivery
I have easy access to a huge
breadth and range of
components and products,
leading brands and new
technology all from one
supplier available on the web,
on CD and in catalogues.
Benefit
This enables me to focus my
time on my design work. I save
time and money sourcing all
the products I need in
one place.
Design engineer
ProductWatch
I am notified if a component
I want to specify is becoming
obsolete or out of stock and
a replacement is suggested
to me.
Benefit
I save time, money and effort
which would otherwise be
wasted using a component
which is becoming obsolete
and finding a replacement.
Design engineer
ProductFind
I have assistance in locating,
and can get a quotation on,
not-in-catalogue products
quickly and from one source.
Benefit
I can deal with one supplier
for all my product requirements
and save time searching for
unusual products.
Design engineer
Technical advice
I can get good technical advice
over the phone and easily
obtain relevant technical data
and information on the web.
Benefit
The free and readily
available advice means I
can make a more informed
product selection.
Design engineer
Customised electronic
catalogue
We can have an electronic
catalogue of just those
products required in our
business and our orders are
processed electronically.
Benefit 
We have better control and
visibility of purchases and
can reduce the administration
costs in placing and processing
orders.
Purchasing professional
Quote, kit and supply
We can get all the components
in a bill of materials priced,
bagged into the quantity needed
for each unit of production and
supplied by one supplier.
Benefit
We can reduce the number of
suppliers we deal with, and
save time searching for products
and obtaining price quotations.
We save time in production
having all the parts we need for
an item together and to hand.
Purchasing professional
Line-side inventory and
daily replenishment
Products required for fast
moving lines and critical
spares are located next to
production areas.
Benefit
We save time spent walking
to, and waiting at stores, and
the cost of extra products
and spares being hoarded in
the production area.
Maintenance engineer
Stockroom management
We use the Premier Farnell
stockroom management
system to manage the
engineering stores and stocks.
When a product is used it is
automatically replaced within
a specified time.
Benefit
We save cost and production
downtime. Automatic
replenishment enables us to
reduce the stocks of products
held in stores whilst making
sure that products don’t go
out of stock.
Maintenance engineer
+
+
+ + + + + + + BROADENING  OUR OFFER CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 09
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 10 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS
WHEN HURRICANE ISABEL HIT NORTH CAROLINA
AND VIRGINIA LAST YEAR, IT LEFT  36 HOMES
DESTROYED, 1,800 PEOPLE IN TEMPORARY
SHEL TER AND 4.5 MILLION WITHOUT POWER. 
THE DESPERA TE SITUA TION GENERA TED A NEED
FOR A WHOLE RANGE OF EMERGENCY
REPLACEMENT AND REP AIR ITEMS – URGENTL Y .
Business issue
When Hurricane Isabel hit North Carolina and
Virginia, it left a trail of devastation – and an
urgent requirement for emergency repair and
replacement items.
Newark InOne needed to make contact with
specific customers to make them aware of the
products available on demand and the special
services arranged to help them deal with the
impact of the disaster.
The solution
Using its customer relationship management
systems, Newark InOne had a fully operational
solution in place within 48 hours:
– Targeting over 17,000 specific contacts
– Creating tailored eMails and call scripts to
facilitate communication with each of these
contacts
– Making customers aware of the specific
products available to meet the needs of this
situation and special emergency delivery
services 
– Tracking the follow-up actions required to
ensure customer needs were met.
The benefits
– Without the investment in systems, a huge
undertaking such as this could have taken
as much as 14 days to organise – too long
given the seriousness of the situation
– Newark InOne was able to provide rapid and
proactive solutions to the urgent and specific
needs of particular customers
“I am convinced our customer relationship
management systems played a critical
role in supporting our customers. It
enabled us to identify a specific group
of customers who were experiencing a
difficult situation and respond to
their needs.”
John Dougherty
Sales Manager
Newark InOne 1) On Thursday 17th September 2003, Hurricane Isabel
hit North Carolina and Virginia
5) …involving 42 staff communicating
with 17,000 customers 
10) Service hours were extended throughout
the emergency period
11
3) 
8) 
2) Leaving 1,800 people in temporary shelter
and 4.5 million without power, it created a
desperate situation
6) A special “Next Flight Out” service was
promoted for emergency needs 
7) Customers were made aware of the
specific products available to meet their
urgent requirements… 1) On Thursday 17th September 2003, Hurricane Isabel
hit North Carolina and Virginia
5) …involving 42 staff communicating
with 17,000 customers 
10) Service hours were extended throughout
the emergency period
11) Newark InOne was able to act
quickly and decisively to meet its
customers’ needs
3) Urgent contact with specific customers
was required
9) …from uninterruptible power supplies
to high voltage transformers
8) …from Newark InOne’s offer
of 160,000 products from over
400 manufacturers…
4) Within 48 hours an action plan was being
rolled out…
2) Leaving 1,800 people in temporary shelter
and 4.5 million without power, it created a
desperate situation
6) A special “Next Flight Out” service was
promoted for emergency needs 
7) Customers were made aware of the
specific products available to meet their
urgent requirements…
17,000 PEOPLE
CONT ACTED THANKS
TO OUR NEW SYSTEMS SUPPORTING OUR CUSTOMERS CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 11
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 12 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
OPERA TING REVIEW
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
AMERICAS
SALES £286.1M
GROWTH -0.9%
OPERATING PROFIT* £27.0M
*Before rebranding costs
EUROPE AND ASIA PACIFIC
SALES £382.1M
GROWTH +6.8%
OPERATING PROFIT** £40.6M
**Before rebranding costs and amortisation of
goodwill
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
SMALL SCALE 
PRODUCTION
DESIGN 
ENGINEER
PURCHASING 
PROFESSIONAL
PRODUCT QUALITY AND
TIME TO MARKET
EASY AND RELIABLE
SUPPLY
FINANCE OR 
PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR
FINANCE OR 
PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR
FINANCE OR 
PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR
PLANT AND FACILITY
MAINTENANCE, PRODUCT
SERVICE AND REPAIR
MAINTENANCE OR 
SERVICE ENGINEER
MINIMISE PRODUCTION
DOWNTIME
– Large breadth and range 
of products in stock
– Swift delivery
– Easily viewed and accessed 
on web and catalogue
– Leading brands and new technology
– T echnical advice
– Unusual product search
– Obsolescence notification
– Sourcing
– Unusual product search
– Quote, supply and kit to a bill 
of materials
– Pricing options
– Easy to find and buy 
– Stockroom management
– Stockroom management
– Unusual product search
– Low minimum order quantity
– Late order capability – same 
day dispatch
– Local customer support
– Ease and speed of finding product
OUR CUSTOMERS
THEIR NEEDS
OUR RESPONSE
OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR NEEDS MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 13
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
OPERA TING REVIEW
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
What we do
Representing 87 per cent of the Group’s sales,
the Marketing and Distribution Division consists
of five businesses – all specialising in the
marketing and distribution of a wide range of
electronic components and maintenance, repair
and operations (MRO) products. Between
them, they serve most of the countries of the
world with specialist service propositions
tailored to customers’ needs.
Our high service, small volume distribution
proposition is underpinned by a broad range of
400,000 stocked products – branded and own
branded, including the latest new products,
available for same day despatch and rapid
delivery. Our customers now also have easy
access to millions of additional products held
on our database. (See case study 1)
This customer base is large and active with
two million customer contacts on our
database. Varying in size and scope from
small manager-owned enterprises to large
multi-nationals, our customers’ businesses
represent nearly all industries and our contacts
correspond to a wide range of different job
roles. Our typical customer contacts are
engineers and buyers in electronics design,
small-scale production and maintenance. Our
task is to understand their requirements and
ensure that our offer delivers benefits to them.
A maintenance engineer, for example, relies on
the availability of specific products and swift
and reliable delivery, whereas a design engineer
needs accurate technical support and rapid
access to the latest technology advances
through new products.
Large corporate customers derive significant
benefit from our services which enable them to
reduce the total cost of procuring their indirect
materials. These include the components,
products and spares required for maintenance,
repair and operations activities. Procurement
and finance specialists want visibility and
control so that they can reduce the administration
costs of purchasing these materials.
We continue to segment the market and tailor
our proposition to meet the needs of each type
of customer. Strategically, this ability to
communicate with and service a large number
of customers represents a source of significant
value to our suppliers.
Our role in the market
As a distributor, we must create efficiencies and
add value in the chain between our customers
and suppliers.
To our customers, we offer economic benefit
and peace of mind:
– Reduced stockholding costs through easy
access to a huge range of products in the
quantities required
– Reduced transaction costs through
eProcurement and vendor reduction
– Secure, reliable and rapid supply of products
which are easy to identify, select and order
– Technical information and support
– Wide choice of sales channels to match their
needs
– Supply chain management solutions
To our suppliers, we represent the most
effective means of reaching a valuable and
diverse customer base:
– Effective targeted marketing to customers
grouped according to their requirements
– Market intelligence and feedback
– Product launches
– Multi-channel marketing
– Reliable and swift global distribution
– Technical support to customers
Our trading environment
Global influences
Despite depressed markets in recent years,
we have continued to invest in strengthening
our business offering in order to drive increased
market share.
A number of market drivers and dynamics are
also directing our focus.
The large scale manufacture of electronic
products is migrating to low cost economies
such as China, Mexico and Eastern Europe.
We have established sound relationships with
many of the companies who are making this
shift in their production and are maximising the
opportunities it presents to supply their
maintenance, repair and operations
requirements. However, research and design
of new products, an important part of our
primary market, is largely continuing in
the West.
A major new phenomenom is the role of China,
which accounts for around a third of the
consumption of semi-conductors in production.
We are building our infrastructure in this market,
augmenting our sales representation in Beijing
with the opening of a sales office and
distribution centre in Shanghai.
Supply chain influences
Our customers are constantly seeking to
improve their productivity and reduce costs.
Large and small manufacturing companies
are increasingly focussing on their core
processes to maximise profitability and looking
for ways of streamlining or outsourcing
non-core activities. This trend is particularly
evident in the procurement of indirect materials.
The administrative cost of acquisition can be
disproportionate to the individual cost of these
types of products, for example, hand tools and
consumables, in part because of the large
number of suppliers typically involved.
Case study 1
Business issue
The work of Keele University’s Central Technical
Services is very wide ranging: from using a
portable appliance tester to test electrical items,
to design and build projects using the skills and
facilities of the mechanical workshop, to making
CDs for physiotherapy course handbooks.
Within this environment, Andrew Mansbridge,
Electronics/IT supervisor of Keele University’s
Central Technical Services, has a need to
source a wide variety of products.
Inevitably, there are times when the product
required is outside Farnell InOne’s stocked
range. For example, while preparing a quotation
for a research grant submission, a specific chip
was required to make an amplifier used in a
piezo electronic device.
The solution
Andrew called upon Farnell InOne’s
ProductFind service, a database of over
four million products and, we were able to
identify and source the specialist product
required, located at Apex Microtechnology
in the US.
“Trawling the web, searching through
catalogues and even managing to track
down and speak to the UK agents of a
US manufacturer had produced no
results,” explained Andrew.
“For an operation like ourselves, with
diverse product needs, ProductFind can
save hours of searching and frustration.
It’s good to know that we can get rapid
quotes on prices and availability on
hard-to-find products.”
Andrew Mansbridge
Electronics/IT Supervisor
Keele University 14 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
OPERA TING REVIEW
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
CONTINUED
The drive to eliminate administration costs and
reduce the number of suppliers, sourcing a
wider range of products from one distributor, is
a trend to which we can fully respond with our
broad range of electronic components and
industrial products. (See case study 2)
The consolidation of electronic component
manufacturers creates an opportunity for us.
Successful suppliers want to work with a
limited number of capable distributors who
have global reach and are adding value in the
supply chain through sophisticated marketing.
The larger, multi-national distributors have
competitive advantage over regional and local
distributors who are unable to meet the
increasing expectations of suppliers. Our
breadth of product, choice of sales channel,
high levels of customer service and increasing
range of specific services, provide real differential
advantage in meeting these requirements.
Legislation
European Directives restricting the use of
hazardous substances (RoHS) and imposing
obligations in respect of waste electronic and
electrical equipment (WEEE) are due to be
implemented in the UK during 2004. The RoHS
Directive bans the use of substances such as
lead, mercury and cadmium in electronic and
electrical products and will have a major impact
on our industry. Equivalent legislation is also
pending in a number of US States and in
China. We are working with our customers and
suppliers to provide information and assistance
in this complex area.
Our progress this year
Communicating our global offer
The rebranding of four of our businesses to
become Farnell InOne, Newark InOne,
BuckHickman InOne and MCM, an InOne
company, has enabled us to communicate
the power and resources of our global
operations – increasingly important to
customers, suppliers and employees.
InOne customers now have access to over
3,000 suppliers, 400,000 stocked products
and an unparalleled range of specialist services
worldwide, while suppliers benefit from
increasing access to global coverage.
The launch of the Newark InOne Direct Ship
service is a typical example of the way we are
benefiting from close collaboration between the
InOne businesses. Our InOne customers in
Europe and Asia Pacific now benefit from easy
access to an additional 70,000 products –
delivered direct from the US on a low cost,
three-day delivery service.
Making the most of our customer
relationships
The primary focus of our Investment for Growth
programme announced in January 1999 has
been to move from dealing with all our
customers in the same way to treating them as
individually as we can. The way in which we
market to, and serve, our customers is
enhanced by our increasing ability to capture
and use information about them, understanding
their buying patterns and their requirements.
The prime source of this market intelligence is
the millions of transactions and other contacts
with our customers and suppliers. Our
knowledge and investment in technology
enables us to take our product and customer
data, interpret it and identify new ways in which
to improve and differentiate our offer from that
of our competitors.
The customer relationship management tools
which have been implemented in Newark
InOne in the US and Farnell InOne in the UK
are powerful and sophisticated.
When a customer calls to place an order with
either one of these businesses, the name of the
customer automatically appears on the
operative’s screen together with details of their
trading history – when they last ordered, what
they ordered and their recent transactions with
us. We can immediately recognise the
customer, their type of business and what they
have been buying from us. This rich seam of
knowledge empowers our customer care staff,
enabling them to provide unparalleled support,
offer appropriate promotional products and
direct customers to relevant new services.
The full implementation of our customer
relationship management systems in Newark
InOne and Farnell InOne in the UK this year has
enabled us to segment our customers quickly
and accurately to provide focussed web pages,
telesales, and direct mail campaigns. For
example, Newark InOne has recently launched
a new direct mail publication mailed to over
100,000 design engineer customers and
created a specialist design engineers’ web
portal with drop-down menus for conversion
tools, industry news, manufacturer selector
guides, standards and other useful information.
By gaining a much greater understanding of
our customers, we are able to target our
products and services better and earn a larger
share of customers’ spending.
As we continue to develop our customer
relationship management capabilities, we will
increasingly be able to offer our full range of
value-added services to the small and medium
sized customers who represent the largest
number of our contacts. (See case study 3)
Case study 2
Business issue
Australian mining electronics manufacturer,
Bramco Electronics, produces a broad range of
products – from simple items to complex
microprocessor-controlled communications and
conveyor management systems.
In order to concentrate on developing
innovative products, Bramco needed to
outsource its stock control and production
co-ordination.
The solution
By examining Bramco’s Bills of Materials and
required production quantities, Farnell InOne
Australia were able to offer scheduled orders
and mixed quantity pricing to deliver the best
value to the customer. We also undertook to
carry one month’s stock with the ability to draw
on that stock at 24 hours’ notice.
Complete kits of parts required to produce a
particular product are delivered together in a
box so the savings on picking parts and
ordering are immediately obvious. If Bramco is
required to fulfil an urgent order, a kit can be
called up from Farnell InOne overnight, giving
them greater manufacturing flexibility.
Manufacturing efficiency has improved and
paperwork simplified.
“We’ve found that as we get busier our
turnaround times are actually getting
shorter, because Farnell InOne are one
step ahead of us. They are totally
focussed on our needs.”
Mark Leishman
General Manager
Bramco Electronics MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 15
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Case study 3
Business issue
US Federal Government agencies have a
requirement to source thousands of different
electronic and related products. They need to
be able to manage and control their costs
of procurement by minimising the number of
vendors they deal with – relying on these
suppliers for quality products, available on
demand and delivered rapidly throughout
the US.
Without going to several different sources each
time to check prices, government purchasers
need to be confident that they are buying
across a wide range at competitive prices.
The solution
Newark InOne has created a special business
unit, Team Gov, to serve the specific needs
of this segment – operating under the General
Services Administration (GSA) Schedule:
– Offering a ‘one stop’ shop for 160,000
products from over 400 manufacturers
– Establishing a specially trained government
team well-versed in the specific requirements
of government purchasers
– Creating a unique www.teamgov.com web
site and phone number
The success of Team Gov is illustrated by
double-digit growth in sales this year.
The benefits
– A huge reduction in process costs by
reducing the number of orders placed with
different suppliers
– Spending less time locating products – 
a one-stop source for a huge range of
products at competitive prices.
– Dealing with a supplier that really
understands their needs
“The Federal Government segment is
different from any other with its own
specific requirements – so much so that
you need to be able to ‘speak
government’. It is satisfying to be able to
concentrate on meeting these special
needs with service our federal
government customers really appreciate.”
Phil Bearden
Team Gov Contact Center Manager
Newark InOne
Increasing focus on the web
Our sales via eCommerce have reached 15%
of our total sales in the Americas and 12% of
our total sales in Europe and Asia Pacific. The
shift to the Internet enables us to introduce new
products more rapidly and facilitates the provision
of technical data and information-based
services to all our customers. This is attracting
new customers as well as allowing existing
customers to move to a lower cost channel.
The majority of our customers are small
businesses. Typically, their staff are very active
users of the Internet, owing to their technical
backgrounds, and need to access the latest
technical and product information.
We continue to invest in new web technology
to provide constantly improving sites, which
offer advanced search facilities and rapid
access to technical data.
Our main area of focus in the coming year will
be to drive continuing sales growth through
technical enhancements and the addition of
facilities and services.
Exploiting our eProcurement capabilities
eProcurement provides vital links to customers’
in-house transactional systems, enabling the
automation of most of the commercial
mechanics from the ordering process to
invoicing and payment. The potential customer
benefits can be significant including:
– Reducing the cost of administering and
processing orders
– Shortening the purchasing process
– Reducing errors in ordering
– Eliminating rogue purchasing
– Ensuring only approved or contracted
suppliers are used
– Minimising the risk of buying inferior products
off-contract
– Increasing transparency of purchasing data
We are equipped to link to any purchasing
system, responding to whatever the customer
wants, quickly and at low cost.
For our larger customers, the ability to
customise our electronic catalogues to their
specific requirements is a major benefit. We
can tailor the product range and pricing to the
customer’s exact specifications. Catalogues
can sit behind the customer’s firewall to give
them greater control and we can build in
capabilities to enable data and products to be
acquired from other web sites (known as
“punch out”).
Farnell InOne has recently won a contract to
supply the UK Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA)
with electrical and electronic equipment at six
sites. We developed a tailored online catalogue
of approximately 100,000 products, which
helps to ensure that their employees buy these
categories of products only from Farnell InOne.
UKAEA benefits from better control over
spending, improved compliance with supplier
agreements and greater productivity as staff
are able to spend more time on their core
job responsibilities.
A similar approach with Transco, the UK gas
distribution company, links our customised
catalogue with Transco’s SAP enterprise
resource planning system, allowing the capture
of spending information for reporting across
the organisation.
We now have 282 live eProcurement partnerships
in place. (See case study 4)
Adding value with tailored services
This year, we rolled out our ProductWatch
service throughout Europe and Asia Pacific.
ProductWatch allows us to alert a design
engineer when a component is due to become
obsolete and advise them of a replacement.
It is becoming an invaluable tool for our design
engineer customers and helps them avoid
changes in product designs if components are
withdrawn. Over 100,000 such customer
communications have been made since the
launch of the service.
We are expanding our inventory management
skills into our customers’ premises. In the past
year, we have been able to provide these
services principally to our larger customers.
With our customer relationship management
systems in Newark InOne in the US and
Farnell InOne in the UK, and growing capability,
we will increasingly be able to offer this level of
service to the smaller customers who represent
the majority of our business.
We now supply business-critical maintenance,
repair and operations products at the point of
use to eight separate Rolls-Royce plc sites
throughout the UK, via our vendor managed
inventory stocking solution. This uses electronic
inventory control software to re-order the stock
required automatically, with next-day
replenishment of stocking locations.
There are considerable benefits to our
customers of consolidating all their consumable
requirements within a single contract, including
improved service levels, reduced total cost of
acquisition and reduced transaction levels.
Building our capabilities
This year has seen continuing investment in
building the fabric of our business by
broadening our product range and expanding
our presence in new geographies.
Newark InOne added a total of 56,000 new
products to its range this year, greatly
improving the competitiveness of our offer to
design engineers in particular. 16 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
OPERA TING REVIEW
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION
CONTINUED
In the UK, Farnell InOne launched its 2003
catalogue in May with 40,000 new products.
The seven-book catalogue and CD includes
the full range of 150,000 stocked products
from Farnell InOne and BuckHickman InOne,
the broadest offer in our market in the UK.
We will continue to add new products to our
ranges to strengthen our competitive
proposition and will be seeking opportunities
to make more of our existing product range
available to increased numbers of our
customer base.
We have expanded our presence in China in a
controlled and effective way with the opening of
a distribution centre and sales office in one of
the Free Trade Zones in Shanghai.
The decision to operate within a Free Trade
Zone has been driven by the significant benefit
of reduced import procedures which will enable
faster and more efficient delivery of product to
our customers. This is a crucial milestone in our
expansion into China, strengthening our market
position and increasing our global reach.
Our business in China is branded
Farnell-Newark InOne to capitalise on the
reputation of both Newark InOne and
Farnell InOne with multi-national customers
in China. (See case study 5)
Driving increased efficiency
During the year, new publishing systems were
implemented at Farnell InOne, Newark InOne
and CPC. Together with the creation of
comprehensive product databases designed to
support the Group’s eCommerce activities,
these new systems are reducing production
times and eliminating design duplication during
the production of catalogues and direct mail
flyers. Each business now has increased
flexibility to respond to more dynamic markets
and produce targeted promotions.
At Newark InOne’s Gaffney Distribution Centre,
an additional 32,000 square feet of usable
mezzanine space was added to accommodate
new products. This completes a four-year
programme of rationalisation and investment in
our distribution centre facilities in the Americas.
The benefits of investment in Radio Data
Terminals are being realised at CPC’s Preston
distribution centre. The new system creates
order picking lists in the most efficient sequence
to reduce walking time in the large warehouse.
At the Liège distribution centre, the Conveyor
and Radio Frequency picking system went live
in October 2003 after an extended period of
testing. This location now services all the larger
mainland European markets.
Our infrastructure will be further strengthened
as BuckHickman InOne completes its migration
onto the same transactional system as Farnell
InOne, facilitating the offer of our full range of
products and services to our customer base,
increasing process efficiencies and improving
productivity. (See case study 6)
Strengthening our supplier relationships
Almost everything we do to enhance our
customer proposition – from improving our
range, to achieving more focussed customer
relationships – makes us a more attractive
partner for our suppliers.
Our Newark InOne Direct Ship service opens
up the European market for the first time for
many suppliers. Enhanced web site capabilities
enable suppliers to launch their products
rapidly and globally via our businesses.
The value of our proposition to suppliers and
the benefits of developing long-term
relationships with them have been evident
this year.
EPCOS UK named Farnell InOne its Distributor
of the Year 2003 after twelve months in which
our sales of EPCOS products recorded growth
of 27%. Tyco Electronics made Farnell InOne
its Distributor of the Year – UK and Ireland for
the second time as a result of the successful
working relationship the two companies have
shared for over 15 years. (See case study 7)
Investing in our people
We are a service business and as such we
deliver the customer experience through many
thousands of daily contacts between customers
and our employees.
An important milestone in growing the talent of
our organisation has been the development of
a set of core values which are the guidelines
and points of reference for the behaviour which
will deliver the customer experience and drive
business performance.
We have embarked on a process of embedding
our core values – developed from research
carried out with customers, suppliers and
employees – into the fabric of our organisation.
We have started to engage our employees at all
levels of the organisation in exploring and
understanding these values, communicating our
strategy and direction, and how these values can
apply to enhance our customers’ experience.
Case study 4
BuckHickman InOne has delivered an
advanced eProcurement solution to Johnson
Matthey, the global manufacturer of catalysts,
speciality chemicals and precious metal
products, which has reduced the cost of
administering the purchase of often low value
items from an estimated £25 per order to
£5 per order.
Johnson Matthey has been provided with
two online BuckHickman InOne catalogues –
one with the 2,500 most popular products
and a second with the wider product list –
that include technical information and
product photographs.
On-line computer order points on the factory
floor are used for purchasing.
“Not only have we reduced the resources
involved in buying items which often have
a low cost, we also have access to far
more information than before. This
information helps stock control and, by
eliminating the paper trail, enables buyers
for each business unit to focus more time
on core business activities where they
add maximum value.”
Howard Jarman
Senior Buyer
Johnson Matthey.
Case study 5
“Agilent gets very strong support from
Farnell-Newark InOne Shanghai and with
the establishment of a warehouse in the
Free Trade Zone, which is just a few
steps from us, delivery is even easier and
faster, opening up the possibility of
implementing a VMI solution.”
Lynn Xu,
Supply Manager
Agilent Technologies
Shanghai MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 17
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Looking ahead
Over the next year, we will continue to strengthen
our core business and build our capabilities. We
will drive hard to improve our productivity,
particularly by exploiting the opportunities
provided by our customer relationship
management systems and eCommerce to satisfy
our customers’ requirements and deliver a
customer experience demonstrably better than
they can get elsewhere.
We will continue to seek appropriate
acquisitions that have the potential to add to
our capability in selected geographies, product
areas or specific market segments and meet
our stringent criteria.
Our primary objective remains the continued
transformation of our business into a world
leading marketing and distribution business.
We have made good progress and will achieve
our goal through the sharing and adoption of
best practice, the quality of our people and the
use of the best information technology to focus
on the needs of individual customers and
suppliers. By exploiting our skills and strengths
to outperform the competition and build loyalty
and commitment from our suppliers, customers
and employees, we aim to deliver superior
growth and profitability.
Case study 6
CPC has helped its order pickers become
more efficient by equipping them with Radio
Data Terminals (RDTs).
As orders are received at CPC’s Preston
Distribution Centre, new software now creates
picking lists in the most efficient sequence.
Each product selected is scanned by the order
picker using the RDT which confirms accuracy
before it is put into the despatch container.
Without this investment and the addition of a
new conveyor belt, CPC would have found it
difficult to handle the large number of additions
it has made to its range. Order throughput
capacity has increased to provide a better
service to CPC’s customers.
“It makes the job of order picking better
organised. Before, we found we were
retracing our steps and going back to the
same location several times when
hand-picking multiple orders.
“Now the RDT system sends us round the
warehouse to pick items in the most
efficient order so we don’t waste
any time.”
Beth Fidler
Warehouse Picker
CPC
Case study 7
“We have worked with Farnell InOne for
over a decade and always received
enthusiastic support when launching new
product lines into the market. Farnell
InOne’s active marketing campaigns
ensure that products are readily accepted
by customers while its product and
supply chain team work constantly to
enhance our relationship and sales. The
results have been clearly demonstrated
through fantastic sales growth this year.”
Keith Rogers
Distribution Manager
EPCOS UK 18 PREMIER FARNELL PLC OPERATING REVIEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
OPERA TING REVIEW
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
SALES £96.4M
GROWTH +5.6%
OPERATING PROFIT £13.7M
AKRON BRASS
A WORLD-LEADER IN THE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE OF FIRE-FIGHTING 
SYSTEMS, BASED IN OHIO, USA. CUSTOMERS INCLUDE FIRE DEPARTMENTS, 
FIRE-TRUCK MANUFACTURERS AND INDUSTRY WORLDWIDE.
TPC WIRE & CABLE
A DISTRIBUTOR OF HIGH-PERFORMANCE ELECTRICAL CABLE AND 
CONNECTOR ASSEMBLIES FOR USE IN HOSTILE OR HEAVY -DUTY 
INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTS. CUSTOMERS INCLUDE THE METAL, 
AUTOMOTIVE AND CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRIES IN NORTH AMERICA.
KENT
A PAN-EUROPEAN DISTRIBUTOR OF HIGH-PERFORMANCE OWN-BRAND 
CONSUMABLES (INCLUDING TOOLS, ADHESIVES AND CHEMICALS) FOR 
THE AUTOMOTIVE SERVICING AND CRASH-REPAIR MARKETS. INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION OPERATING REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 19
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
OPERA TING REVIEW
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
With continued reduction in spending in the
US automotive and steel industries, market
conditions have been difficult throughout
the year.
TPC has focussed on developing new
customers in the offshore drilling and mining,
food and tyre manufacturing industries and,
through sharing expertise and experience with
Newark InOne, in Government sales.
Operations have been expanded with the
addition of a warehouse and sales presence in
Mexico. New product sales accounted for
20 per cent of total revenue in the year.
With over 200 pages, a catalogue launched in
August 2003 contains the entire TPC product
line and a new Technical Data Section. Well-
organised, with comprehensive information
resources, it highlights TPC’s many product
choices and value added services.
The focus for the coming year continues to be on
new markets. TPC has been awarded a General
Services Administration (GSA) Contract under
the Federal Supply Schedule to provide all
Federal, State and Local Government facilities
with access to the entire TPC product range.
Systems are currently being put in place which
will enable the business to market effectively to all
government facilities and contractors.
“If I need to install electrical cable in a
dangerous maintenance area, that I don’t
want to go back into again, then I always
use TPC Wire & Cable. I know that it will
permanently solve the problem”
Ike Graham
Letourneau Co. Inc.
LeTourneau, Inc. is a leading provider of large
mobile equipment for Forestry, Marine and
Mining markets worldwide and also supplies
drilling products for the oil and gas industry.
KENT
Operating through an extensive network of field
sales personnel, KENT is a pan-European
distributor of high-performance own-brand
repair and maintenance products for the
transport industry. KENT’s position in the
supply of high-performance, own-brand
consumables, tools, adhesives and chemicals
to the automotive servicing and crash-repair
markets is well established. Newer target
markets within the transport industry include
marine and specialist industrial markets.
Market conditions have continued to be
depressed in KENT’s principal markets but new
customer opportunities are being identified and
tightening Health and Safety legislation creates
an opportunity for KENT’s range of more
environmentally friendly products.
KENT’s strategic focus is on developing the
strength of its organisation through the
recruitment and training of its people in order to
maximise the opportunity it faces in niche
market segments and the building of its
technical proposition.
This year has seen the implementation of new
performance management and assessment
processes which have assisted in the
recruitment of new salespeople, improved staff
retention rates and increased sales productivity.
The introduction of a new range of windscreen
tools and a strategic partnership with market
leader, Equalizer, has enabled KENT to enjoy
significant growth in the windscreen segment.
New distribution deals have been completed in
the automotive sector and progress has been
made into new target market segments with
the first sales from a major marine customer
in Croatia.
The focus for this year will continue to be on
improving the training and development of the
KENT sales force, sustaining KENT’s
automotive sector positioning through new
product introductions and key accounts and
the trialling of the product and service offering
for the marine market in a number of other
European countries.
Akron Brass
The US market leader in the manufacture and
sale of high performance fire-fighting equipment
for fire-truck manufacturers, public fire services
and industrial facilities, Akron Brass sells via its
own field sales force and distributors to
customers all over the world.
Despite the downturn in North American
fire-truck production, Akron grew its business by
8 per cent compared to last year with particularly
strong industrial and international sales.
Akron’s strategic focus is to increase market
penetration and develop new products.
Progress has been made during the year with
the introduction of new products. For example,
the in-house designed Mercury Quick Attack
monitor is light and stable and delivers a higher
flow of water than competitive products. It is
quick to set up and can be left unmanned at
the fire scene to free up valuable personnel.
Exceeding initial targets, the product has sold
well both in North America and internationally.
Akron has increased its exports into Asia and,
in particular, Malaysia where it has secured
business with three new fire-truck
manufacturers. Progress in the industrial market
has been marked by the sale of a vapour
mitigation system to Exxon Mobil Corporation
for their Joliet, Illinois facility. This is one of
Akron’s range of remote control systems
designed to deliver a quicker, hard-hitting
response to industrial fires and vapour releases.
Shortly after the year-end, Akron expanded
its product range through the acquisition of
the business of GFE Manufacturing, an
Illinois-based supplier of lighting systems and
water flow test equipment for the fire-fighting
industry, with annual sales of approximately
$4.0 million.
Akron will continue to focus on penetrating
existing markets with new products and
expanding the newly acquired product offerings.
TPC Wire & Cable
Based in the USA, a broad line supplier of high-
performance electrical and electronic cord,
cable and accessories for the industrial market,
TPC Wire & Cable has an established
reputation for product innovation, quality and
superior customer service. This has been built
on a strong foundation of application and
technical expertise, proven product
performance and unique value-added services.
The benefits TPC delivers to its customers are
measured in the reduction of production
downtime and lower overall maintenance costs.
A field based sales force and technical support
team work together with customers in
purchasing, maintenance, engineering, material
control and management to help reduce costs
through long term improved performance. 20 PREMIER FARNELL PLC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
OVERVIEW
HEAL TH AND SAFETY
PREMIER FARNELL’S ACCIDENT RATE MORE THAN 50 PER CENT LOWER THAN
THE INDUSTRY AVERAGE.
ENVIRONMENT
ISO 14001 ACCREDITATION ACHIEVED FOR A MAJOR DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
FOR THE SECOND YEAR RUNNING.
COMMUNITY
EMPLOYEES ENCOURAGED TO GIVE TIME TO GOOD CAUSES. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 21
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
This is the third year for which we have prepared a social responsibility
report and every year we continue to find that its preparation and issue
helps raise awareness of relevant issues within the Group. In preparing
this report we have, wherever practical, followed the guidelines
suggested by the UK Government through the Department for
Transport, Local Government and the Regions (DTLR).
Health and Safety
Our health and safety commitment remains the simple one of minimising
accidents and injuries in the workplace. Our occupational injury rate in
2003 was 0.70 injuries/100,000 hours worked. Although slightly above
our target of 0.60 for the year, this rate is more than 50 per cent lower
than the average for our industry (see figure 1). Our occupational injury
rate also remains very low when compared to rates for other industries
(see figure 2).
Our injury rate has risen slightly from a low of 0.63/100,000 hours
worked in 2001. This increase is largely attributable to increased
awareness, and therefore reporting, of safety issues at BuckHickman
InOne, following its acquisition in 2001.
While we will continue to strive for improvement in the absolute rate,
our immediate aim will be to continue to keep our injury rate at less than
50 per cent of our industry average.
Business segment safety risks and actions routinely taken to
prevent and minimise injuries
The Group’s principal business activity is the distribution of electronic
components and other maintenance, repair and operations products.
Distribution activities with potential for injury include manual handling,
movement of goods, lifting of products and opening of boxes.
The acquisition of Buck & Hickman Limited in 2001 brought with it a
number of vehicles used for the transport of the Group’s products and
this transport fleet has the usual associated risks, principally from road
traffic accidents.
We provide targeted safety training to affected employees in an effort to
prevent and reduce injuries in areas such as safe lifting, first aid/CPR/
infection control, emergency evacuation, spill cleanup, fire extinguisher,
forklift operation, confined space entry, electrical isolation, and the use of
personal protective equipment.
Our major distribution and manufacturing facilities are required to
conduct regular health and safety audits and to address quickly any
safety concerns that are identified. Our goal is to address safety
concerns before accidents occur. Each facility now has an active Health
and Safety Committee. These committees meet regularly and review
accident “near misses” in order to assess what lessons can be learned.
In order to ensure compliance with the large number of safety
regulations in the US, we require facilities located there to prepare and
follow annual safety compliance calendars listing the safety compliance
and employee training actions that the facility must take during the year.
A large proportion of the Group’s employees are office-based and
training is provided in the correct use of display screens and workstations.
PREMIER FARNELL HAS
BEEN A MEMBER OF
THE FTSE4 GOOD INDEX
SINCE JUL Y 2001
Fig. 1 Occupational injury and illness rate per 100,000 hours worked*
*Notes:
1. Shown are the rates at which accidents (which involve more than basic first aid
treatment) and occupational illnesses occurred per 100,000 hours worked. The
“industry average” figures were computed by taking the averages for the industry
segments in which Premier Farnell operates. Source of industry segment averages:
US Occupational Health and Safety Administration, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
2. The 2002 reported Premier Farnell injury rate was 0.68. We subsequently determined
two additional injuries warranted reporting and have amended our 2002 rate.
3. For the past two years we have reported our occupational injury rate/100,000 hours
worked. This year we have extended the report to cover occupational injuries and
illnesses/100,000 hours.
0.70
0.63
0.65
0.72
1.14
1998
0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50
1999
2000
2001
2002
2.08
1.80
1.74
1.59
1.67
0.70
2003
Industry Average
Premier Farnell
1.76 22 PREMIER FARNELL PLC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CONTINUED
Performance against 2003 safety targets
Target Result
– Occupational injury rate of – Rate of 0.7/100,000 hours
0.6/100,000 hours worked worked
– Implement “behaviour-based – No further programmes
safety” programme in one other implemented – target retained
major facility for 2004
– Active safety committees in all – All major facilities now have 
major facilities active committees
– Safety Committees to track – Committees are tracking these
“near-miss” incidents incidents and using the learning
gained
– Members of Group safety staff – Programme implemented and
to make regular visits to major continuing
facilities
Additional actions planned in 2004 to prevent and minimise
injuries
We will take three additional actions in 2004 to emphasise safety,
encourage pro-safety attitudes, and reduce injuries:
1. We will adopt MCM, an InOne Company’s innovative
“behaviour-based safety” programme in another major facility in the US.
2. We will establish a safety committee for the Americas region, with
representation from all Divisions in the region. Committee members will
participate in quarterly conference calls and share information on
year-to-date safety performance results and best practice at their
Divisions. A Group safety representative will chair the calls. The first such
conference call took place on 26th January 2004 and included
discussion of the lessons that were learned from the incident described
later in this report in which a tornado hit the new Akron Brass
manufacturing plant.
3. We intend to achieve OSHA 18001 accreditation at one of our major
facilities in the UK. OSHA 18001 is a recognised standard for health and
safety management systems and a good complement for a major facility
that already has ISO 14001 accreditation.
The Environment
We are committed to reducing the impact of our activities on the
environment.
For the past two years, we have collected and refined our data on
the amount of energy used, employee business travel, waste disposed,
waste recycled, water consumed, and greenhouse gas emitted by
Group operations.
The data is presented in this report in two ways: total quantity of
usage/generation, and unit rates based on sales turnover
(i.e. quantity per £1,000 of sales).
In order to ensure that we have representative and reliable environmental
data, our Group environmental managers reviewed the 2002 and 2003
data that was compiled by Group business units prior to preparation of
this year’s report. In some instances, we have restated the 2002 data
displayed in last year’s report.
We consider the 2002 and 2003 figures displayed in this year’s report to
be accurate and comparable.
Fig. 2 Comparing Premier Farnell plc’s occupational injury and
illness rate with rates for other industries*
Legal Services 0.40
Insurance Agents/Brokers 0.45
Premier Farnell 0.70
Banking 0.75
Electrical Goods – Wholesale trade 1.45
Chemical Industry 1.65
Electronic Equipment 2.25
Paper 2.80
Aircraft 2.85
All Manufacturing 3.60
Trucking 4.25
Steel 4.30
Rubber/Plastics 4.40
Food production 4.65
Motor Vehicles 7.40
Iron/Steel Foundries 7.90
*Shown is the Company’s occupational injury and illness rate for 2003. It is compared to
occupational illness and injury rates for other industry segments as compiled and
published by the US Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for 2002 (being
the latest statistics available). SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 23
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
PREMIER FARNELL
BECAME A MEMBER OF
THE DOW JONES
SUST AINABILITY INDEX
IN OCT 2003
Business segment environmental concerns and actions routinely
taken to manage these concerns
Environmental concerns associated with the Group’s business include
the proper handling, storage, shipping, and disposal of the chemical
products we distribute.
Returned, damaged and discontinued chemical products (e.g. electrical
cleaners, solders, batteries) must be properly handled and disposed of.
Supplier packaging must also be properly disposed of. Chemical
products must be packaged and shipped in compliance with hazardous
materials transportation laws.
Akron Brass’ manufacturing facilities generate industrial process waste
that must be properly handled and disposed of. These facilities include a
brass foundry that requires special air handling equipment and air
emission permits.
We provide environmental training to affected employees to ensure that
they comply with relevant laws and act in an environmentally responsible
manner. This includes hazardous waste, spill prevention, and hazardous
materials transportation training.
Facilities located in the US prepare an annual environmental compliance
calendar listing the compliance and employee training actions that must
be taken.
Performance against 2003 environmental targets
Target Result
– Collect 2003 environmental data – 2003 data included in this report
as for 2002 along with 2002 data
– Achieve ISO 14001 accreditation – Completed – Farnell InOne is 
at our Leeds distribution centre now accredited for all sites in
Leeds
– Increase recycling at our major – Achieved – Leeds increased
distribution centres in Leeds and recycling by over 25 per cent 
Gaffney. Begin recycling all and Gaffney by 4 per cent. All 
cardboard waste from supplier cardboard waste from supplier 
packaging at UK distribution packaging at UK distribution 
centres centres now being recycled
– Continue strong industrial process – Continued to recycle over 600
waste recycling at Akron Brass metric tons of scrap metal
Energy Used Total Amount Unit Rate
2003 2002 2003 2002
Total used (000) Amount used/£1000
Electricity (KWh) 36,333 38,058 47 49
Natural gas (cubic metres) 1,688 2,601 2.2 3.4
Propane (kilograms) 5 5 0.006 0.006
Fuel oil (litres) 25* 3 0.033 0.004
Petrol for company cars/
trucks (litres) 1,020 1,066 1 1
Diesel fuel (litres) 1,602 1,750 2 2
Employee Business Travel Total Amount Unit Rate
2003 2002 2003 2002
kilometres (000) kilometres/£1000
Business use of cars/
trucks 8,151 8,908 11 12
Business use of rented
cars/trucks 6,043 6,412 8 8
Train use 329 351 0.4 0.5
Short (intracontinent)
airline flights 5,175 13,841 7 18
Long (intercontinent)
airline flights 8,942 12,725 12 16
Total 28,640 42,237 38 55
Waste Disposed Total Amount Unit Rate
2003 2002 2003 2002
kilograms (000) kilograms/£1000
Hazardous waste 281 212 0.37 0.28
Industrial process waste 7 3 0.009 0.003
Solid waste 2,193 2,594 2.97 3.4
Total 2,481 2,809 3.3 3.6
*The increase in use of fuel oil is attributable to the opening of the Liège distribution
centre, which was not included in the 2002 figures. 24 PREMIER FARNELL PLC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CONTINUED
Additional actions planned in 2004 to manage
environmental concerns
We will take four additional actions in 2004 to manage environmental
concerns and reduce environmental impacts:
1. As part of the process for improving our environmental performance,
we have introduced the concept of “green” offices and facilities. A
questionnaire covering the main environmental impacts of our business
enables individual sites (be they offices, distribution centres or sales
branches) to self-assess their performance. Points are earned for
environmental practices that conserve energy, minimise waste disposal,
encourage recycling, and minimise water use. Sites achieving a target
score will be awarded a certificate to confirm their “green” status.
Our aim is for three sites in the Group to achieve “green” status in 2004,
and then for the programme to be rolled out more widely across the
Group in 2005. We believe that allowing each site to take responsibility
for its own environmental performance will capitalise on the enthusiasm
of individuals within Premier Farnell for sound environmental practices.
2. Two significant pieces of new European environmental legislation will
affect the Group’s business in the near future. These are the European
Directives dealing with the restriction of the use of certain hazardous
substances (RoHS) and waste electronic and electrical equipment
(WEEE). The Directives require implementation into the national law of
the EU member states and the principal provisions will take effect from
July 2006 and August 2005 respectively.
The RoHS Directive effectively prohibits the use of certain undesirable
substances (including lead, cadmium and mercury) in electronic and
electrical products from July 2006. The WEEE Directive imposes
obligations relating to the collection, recycling and disposal of waste
electronic and electrical equipment. The primary purpose of both
Directives is protection of human health and the environment.
Similar legislation has been proposed in some US states, Canadian
provinces, and in China.
A large number of the items distributed by the Group will be affected, as
will the products manufactured or assembled by the Group’s customers.
The Group has formed a management team and tasked it to work
closely with customers and suppliers to ensure compliance with the new
legislation, but also to provide information and assistance in working
through the significant changes that will be required within the
electronics industry. Regular updates are circulated and a dedicated
website has been created that can be accessed via
www.farnellinone.com.
3. We plan to achieve ISO 14001 certification at another major
distribution centre.
4. We will establish computer based safety and environmental training
programmes and add them to an existing company training web site for
use by all divisions. Courses to be provided in 2004 include occupational
injury and illness record-keeping, office ergonomics, warehouse
ergonomics, infection control for first aid volunteers, emergency
response action plans, ISO 14001 awareness, hazardous waste
handling, and hazardous materials transportation.
Waste Recycled Total Amount Unit Rate
2003 2002 2003 2002
kilograms (000) kilograms/£1000
Hazardous waste 8 3 0.010 0.004
Industrial process waste 1,207 1,295 1.6 1.7
Solid waste 1,153 821 1.5 1.1
Total 2,368 2,119 3.1 2.7
Water Used
Total Amount Unit Rate
2003 2002 2003 2002
litres (000) litres/£1000
Water used 47,445 56,491 62 73
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Total Amount Metric tons
Used (000) CO2 Emitted
Type of Energy Used 2003 2002 2003 2002
Electricity for facilities
(KWh) 36,333 38,058 22,236 23,291
Natural gas for facilities
(cubic metres) 1,688 2,739 3,638 5,902
Propane for lift trucks
(kilograms) 5 5 11 11
Fuel oil for facilities (litres)* 25 3 86 11
Petrol for company cars/
trucks (litres) 1,020 1,066 1,913 1,999
Diesel fuel (litres) 1,602 1,750 4,276 4,671
Petrol for rented cars/
trucks** (litres) 1,352 1,459 2,535 2,736
Total 34,695 38,621
Conversion factor used = 0.612 kg CO
2
/KWh (equals USA 1998-99 average per
US Dept. of Energy).
Reference: http://www.eia.doe.gov/cneaf/electricity/page/co2_report/co2emiss.pdf
*see footnote to Energy Used table on previous page
**assumed 10.5 kilometres/litre of petrol consumed SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 25
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Contribution to the Community
The Group contributes to the wider community in a number of ways.
Cash donations are made each year to a number of charities and this
year, these amounted to £24,000. Equally important are the
contributions in kind which are made by the Group. Employees are
encouraged to participate in charitable fundraising events and to give
time, both in and outside working hours, to good causes.
The following are just a few of many examples.
In the UK, Farnell InOne has been a long-term sponsor of the “Great
Yorkshire Bike Ride” which has now raised £1.0 million for a variety of
charities. As well as the Group’s sponsorship, a number of employees
take part every year. This year the event raised £98,000 for a variety of
charities.
The Group regularly donates the proceeds of sales of obsolete and
damaged stock to charities and also donates equipment to various
charitable and educational organisations to assist in research
programmes. The value of these donations made during the year was
£130,000.
In the US, all of the Group’s businesses participate in United Way, a
community-based umbrella organisation supporting various human
services organisations. Group employees have taken leadership roles in
United Way’s fundraising activities. Also in the US, employees at the
Newark InOne distribution centre in Gaffney have taken part in efforts to
provide food and clothing to local families and individuals in need.
CPC has a policy of matching charitable donations raised by its
employees, who have engaged in a multitude of fund raising events over
the year, including for Scope, the National Asthmatic Society, Lennox
Children’s Cancer Fund as well as a number of local causes.
Farnell InOne involved its suppliers in raising nearly £10,000 for the Fund
for Epilepsy.
Akron Brass managers are involved in a junior achievement programme
by teaching business practice to local high school students.
Significant Awards and Achievements in 2003
We are delighted to report that the US National Safety Council presented
its “Green Cross for Safety Excellence Achievement Awards” to four
Premier Farnell companies. These awards recognised exemplary safety
records at Newark InOne, MCM, TPC Wire & Cable and Cadillac Electric
sites.
We are particularly pleased to have achieved our target of ISO 14001
accreditation for the Farnell InOne distribution centre in Leeds. Having
obtained ISO 14001 accreditation for Newark InOne’s Gaffney
distribution centre last year, we now have accreditation for sites
representing approximately 56 per cent of Group turnover.
We are also pleased to report that we were presented with the
PricewaterhouseCoopers Social Responsibility reporting award for
Yorkshire for last year’s Social Responsibility Report.
We remain a member of the FTSE4 Good Index of Corporate and Social
Responsibility and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. We are also
among a small number of companies that have participated in the
Business in the Environment survey of Corporate Environmental
Engagement for every year since its inception.
More important than any award or inclusion in an index are the practical
benefits of the safety and environmental actions we have taken. A good
example of this occurred in November 2003 when a tornado hit the new
Akron Brass building. Part of the roof was torn off and air conditioning
units thrown some distance from the plant. Akron’s regular fire and
tornado drills demonstrated their value as everyone present quickly
moved to the area of the plant designated as a tornado shelter as
soon as warning of the tornado was received. No employees suffered
any injury.
Audit of this Report
As part of the process of ensuring that we have robust data as a
reference point, our Internal Audit Department is currently assessing the
processes used to collect and collate the information contained in this
Report. Any proposals for improvement will be taken into account for
future years.
PREMIER F ARNELL IS A
LONG TERM
P ARTICIP ANT IN THE BIE
INDEX OF CORPORA TE
ENVIRONMENT AL
ENGAGEMENT 26 PREMIER FARNELL PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
PREMIER FARNELL
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
01
02
04 05
06 07 08
09 10
03 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 27
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
01
Sir Malcolm Bates*
Hon.DLitt., MSc, FCIS, FRAeS, CCMI
Aged 69
Appointed Chairman 1997. Chairman, HHG
PLC (includes Pearl Assurance plc, National
Provident Life Limited and NPI Limited).
02
John R Hirst, BA, FCA, ACT, CCMI
Aged 51
Appointed Group Chief Executive 1998.
Appointed Non-Executive Director of
Hammerson plc February 2004. Formerly
19 years with Imperial Chemical Industries plc
where he held a number of senior posts,
including divisional Chief Executive of
ICI Performance Chemicals, Chief Executive
of ICI Autocolor and Group Treasurer.
03
Andrew C Fisher, BA, FCA
Aged 46
Appointed Group Finance Director 1994.
Previously a partner at Price Waterhouse.
04
Sir Robert Horton*, B.Sc, SM, LLD, DSc
Aged 64
Appointed Non-Executive Director 1995.
Chairman, Sporting Exchange Ltd and
Non-Executive Director Emerson Electric Co
(US). Formerly Chairman of Railtrack plc,
Chubb plc and Chairman and CEO, BP .
05
Cary J Nolan*, BA, B.S.E.E.
Aged 61
Appointed Non-Executive Director 1999. Formerly
President, CEO Picker International Inc.,
President Cooper Surgical and President Xerox
Medical Systems Division. Non-Executive
Director of T oshiba Medical and T omotherapy Inc.
06
D John S Roques*, CA
Aged 65
Appointed Non-Executive Director 1999.
Chairman, Portman Building Society.
Non-Executive Director, BBA Group plc and
HHG Plc. Formerly senior partner Deloitte &
Touche.
07
Michael Lester*, MA Oxon
Solicitor. Aged 64
Appointed Non-Executive Director 1998.
Director, BAE SYSTEMS plc. Formerly a
Director and Vice-Chairman, The General
Electric Company plc.
08
Steven Webb, LLB
Solicitor. Aged 41
Appointed Company Secretary and General
Counsel December 2000. Previously
Company Secretary and General Counsel
of Kelda Group plc and Company Secretary of
Kalon Group plc.
09
William B Korb*
Aged 64
Appointed Non-Executive Director January
2003. Formerly President and CEO of Gilbarco
Incorporated. Non-Executive Director of
Cambrex Corporation and Chairman of Moses
Cone Health System.
10
Laurence Bain, CA
Aged 50
Appointed Group Chief Operating Officer
July 2002 and joined the Board as an
Executive Director in July 2003. Previously
Vice President and Director of Operations for
Motorola in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
*Non-Executive
Audit Committee
John Roques (Chairman)
Michael Lester
Cary Nolan
William Korb
Nominations Committee
Sir Malcolm Bates (Chairman)
Sir Robert Horton
Michael Lester
Remuneration Committee
Michael Lester (Chairman)
William Korb
Cary Nolan
John Roques
Organisation & Management Development
Sir Robert Horton (Chairman)
Sir Malcolm Bates
John Hirst
William Korb 28 PREMIER FARNELL PLC FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Group sales and operating profit
Group sales for the financial year were £764.6 million
(2003: £759.0 million). Sales were reduced by £15.1 million on
translation of overseas sales into sterling, reflecting the weakness of
the US dollar partly offset by the strength of the Euro. Profit before
taxation in the year was £54.6 million (2003: £59.8 million). Profit before
taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of £57.1 million
(2003: £67.2 million) benefited by £0.2 million on translation of overseas
profits into sterling.
Group sales for the year, based on year on year sales per day for
continuing businesses and at constant exchange rates, increased by
3.5 per cent with fourth quarter sales increasing by 4.8 per cent.
Following the severe decline in worldwide demand for electronic
components, the Group has achieved positive sales growth in each of
the last six quarters in markets which have remained difficult.
Group year on year sales growth rates (%)*
*based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant
exchange rates
The Marketing and Distribution Division contributed 87 per cent of the
Group’s sales. Whilst general industrial demand and activity in the
electronics industry remained subdued for most of the year, significant
progress was made in growing eCommerce sales, winning large
corporate account business and developing sales to specific customer
segments such as the US Federal Government. In addition, signs of
recovery were seen in the North American market in the second half of
the year. In the Americas, sales per day were 0.9 per cent below the
prior year, although sales per day in the fourth quarter increased 3.3 per
cent over the prior year. In Europe and Asia Pacific, year on year sales
per day increased by 6.8 per cent, showing consistent growth
throughout the year.
The Industrial Products Division achieved year on year sales per day
growth for continuing businesses of 5.6 per cent. Sales at Akron Brass,
which manufactures high-performance fire-fighting equipment, increased
8.3 per cent assisted by strong sales development in territories outside
its primary North American market. Sales at TPC Wire & Cable, a
distributor of high specification cable to the North American automotive
and steel industries, increased by 1.8 per cent and sales at KENT which
distributes high performance consumable products to the automotive
repair industry, increased by 3.7 per cent.
Despite the difficult trading environment, the Group’s gross margin has
been stable throughout the year, although the full year gross margin of
40.2 per cent is 0.9 per cent down on the previous year due to the mix
of business and a more aggressive promotional stance in North America.
-15.0
-10.0
-5.0
0.0
5.0
10.0
Q1 Q2
2002/3 2003/4
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Andrew Fisher
Group Finance Director FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 29
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Gross margin (%)
On 27th February 2003, the Group announced the rebranding of four
of its businesses within the Marketing and Distribution Division to
demonstrate to customers and suppliers the close alignment and global
collaboration between them. The new trading names are Newark InOne,
Farnell InOne, BuckHickman InOne and MCM, an InOne Company. The
operating profit of the Marketing and Distribution Division reflects the
one-off cost of the rebranding of £2.4 million.
Restructuring costs of £0.8 million, relating primarily to headcount
reductions resulting from sales branch consolidations in North America,
were incurred during the year. The Group also realised profits of
£1.1 million on the disposal of surplus properties.
The Group’s operating margin, before goodwill amortisation and
rebranding costs, was 9.7 per cent. This compares with 10.9 per cent in
the previous year and reflects a step-up in the cost base of some
£8 million relating mainly to the commencement of depreciation following
deployment of customer relationship management systems in North
America (March 2003) and the UK (November 2002), and establishing a
second European full service warehouse near Liège.
Operating margin (%)*
*based on operating profit before goodwill amortisation and
rebranding costs
Acquisitions and Disposals
On 31st July 2003, the Group sold Maintenance Inc, a distributor of
asphalt resurfacing products and part of the Industrial Products Division,
for net cash proceeds of £0.7 million. The business traded at break-even
during the first six months of the financial year. The exceptional gain of
£0.1 million was after charging goodwill previously written off against
reserves of £0.4 million.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group acquired the business and
assets of GFE Manufacturing, a company based in Illinois, US, involved
in the manufacture of lighting rigs for the firefighting industry, for a
consideration of $4.5 million. This acquisition extends the product range
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
Q1 Q2
2002/3 2003/4
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
35.0
37.0
39.0
41.0
43.0
45.0
Q1 Q2
2002/3 2003/4
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
available to Akron Brass customers in North America. GFE had sales of
approximately $4.0 million in 2003.
Purchase and cancellation of preference shares
On 19th March 2003, the Company purchased and cancelled 197,000
of its own preference shares at a cash cost of £2.3 million. The total
number of preference shares in issue on 1st February 2004 was
7.6 million (2003: 7.8 million).
Interest and fixed charges
The net interest charge of £14.3 million (2003: £15.7 million) was
covered 5.2 times by operating profit before one-off rebranding costs
and goodwill amortisation.
Fixed charge (interest plus preference dividends) cover was 3.1 times.
Interest payments relate predominantly to fixed rate US dollar
borrowings. The effective interest rate on the Group’s fixed rate
borrowings was 6.6 per cent. This compares to 7.1 per cent in the prior
year and reflects the refinancing of the Group’s long term debt during the
year as explained below.
Taxation
The Group’s effective tax charge represented 27.3 per cent
(2003: 28.4 per cent) of the profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
gain/loss on disposal of businesses. The underlying tax rate, excluding
the impact of tax credits arising from the favourable settlement of earlier
years’ liabilities, was 29.3 per cent (2003: 29.9 per cent). This rate
compares favourably with the corporate tax rates of 30% in the UK and
35% in the US, the territories in which the Group earns most of its
profits. In the absence of significant changes to UK or US tax rates or
regulations, the effective rate during the coming financial year should be
no greater than 31 per cent.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.0 pence which,
together with the interim dividend, amounts to a total dividend per share
of 9.0 pence, unchanged from the previous year, at a total cost for the
financial year of £32.6 million. The dividend is covered 1.1 times
(2003: 1.1 times) by attributable profits adjusted for goodwill amortisation
and business disposals. Maintaining the dividend at last year’s level
reflects the Board’s confidence in the Group’s outlook and its strong
underlying cash flow characteristics.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 8.9 pence (2003: 9.3 pence). Adjusted
earnings per share (before rebranding costs, amortisation of goodwill
and gain/loss on disposal of businesses) were 10.1 pence
(2003: 11.2 pence).
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the
year was 362.3 million (2003: 331.6 million), the increase reflecting the
special conversion, approved by shareholders on 13th May 2002, of
19.5 million preference shares into 89.8 million ordinary shares.
Cash flow and net debt
Free cash flow available to ordinary shareholders is summarised below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 70.0 92.0
Capital expenditure (20.4) (24.9)
Sale of fixed assets 2.6 1.7
Interest and preference dividends (20.6) (26.6)
Tax (14.5) (12.7)
Free cash flow 17.1 29.5
Cash flow from operating activities represented a conversion rate of
98 per cent (2003: 111 per cent) of operating profit before goodwill 30 PREMIER FARNELL PLC FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
CONTINUED
amortisation and reflects continued tight control of working capital
across the Group. Inventories increased by £9.9 million in the year to
support expansion of the product ranges throughout the Marketing and
Distribution Division and the stocking of the Liège warehouse.
Receivable days have been maintained or improved across all major
businesses, with the group average reducing from 52 to 50 days during
the year.
Capital expenditure of £20.4 million included £13.5 million on computer
systems. £5.9 million was spent on completing the deployment of the
new front-office systems based around Siebel customer relationship
management software and a further spend of £7.6 million was incurred
in enhancing existing systems. The integrated front-office systems,
which were successfully deployed at Farnell InOne’s UK business in
November 2002, were rolled out across Newark InOne’s branch and call
centre infrastructure in March 2003. The primary contract for the delivery
of the front office suite of systems has now been completed at a total
cost of some £40 million incurred over the last four years. Capital
investment in the Liège warehouse amounted to £2.8 million in the year.
Total capital expenditure in the coming year is estimated to be between
£15 million and £20 million.
The change in net debt is summarised below:
£m
Opening net debt (209.2)
Free cash flow 17.1
Ordinary dividends (32.6)
Disposal of businesses 0.5
Purchase of own preference shares (2.3)
Issue of ordinary shares 0.9
Net cash outflow (16.4)
Exchange movement 23.7
Closing net debt (201.9)
The Group’s net debt comprises the following:
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 31.7
Bank loans and overdrafts (22.8)
US $380 million Senior Notes due 2006, 2010 and 2013 (208.9)
Other loans (1.9)
Net debt (201.9)
In June 2003, the Group raised $225 million of new financing in the
private placement market, comprising $66 million Senior Notes payable
2010 at an effective interest rate of 5.3 per cent and $159 million Senior
Notes payable 2013 at an effective interest rate of 5.9 per cent. The
funds were used to repay other borrowings, principally the $155 million
7.0% Senior Notes due June 2003.
The resulting profile of the Group’s loan finance and committed bank
facilities is illustrated in the chart below. This shows sound medium-term
funding and headroom of over £100 million.
Debt profile (£m)
a Bilateral bank facilities to 2006
b $155m 7.2% Senior Notes repayable 2006
c $66m 5.3% Senior Notes repayable 2010
d $159m 5.9% Senior Notes repayable 2013
------Gross debt at 1st February 2004
Treasury operations
The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks, including
movement in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The
Group has established policies and procedures within the treasury
function to monitor and manage the exposures arising from volatility in
these markets, with derivative instruments being entered into when
considered appropriate by management.
The Group Treasury function is responsible for sourcing and structuring
borrowing requirements, managing interest rate and foreign exchange
exposure and managing any surplus funds, which are invested mainly in
short-term deposits with financial institutions that meet the credit criteria
approved by the Board. In addition, monthly reports are produced by the
Group Treasury function which are used to monitor treasury activities.
Important treasury management decisions are approved by the Board
and an annual report detailing the Group’s debt, cash and hedging
activity is reviewed by the Board.
Group policy prohibits speculative arrangements in that transactions in
financial instruments are matched to an underlying business
requirement, such as forecast debt and interest repayments and
expected foreign currency revenues. The Group uses derivatives only to
manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from
underlying business activities. The Group Treasury function is subject to
periodic independent reviews by the internal audit department. Controls
over interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and transaction
authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with
the relevant combination of geographic presence and suitable
credit rating.
The Group continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties
and credit exposure for each counterparty.
The Group hedges transactions primarily related to the purchase and
sale of inventories denominated in foreign currencies through foreign
exchange forward contracts. These contracts reduce currency risk from
exchange rate movements with respect to these transactions and cash
flows. Gains and losses are deferred and accounted for as part of the
underlying transactions.
The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, unless there is a
corresponding cash flow, since such hedges provide only a temporary
deferral of the effect of movements in exchange rates. Similarly, whilst a
significant proportion of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in
US dollars, the Group does not specifically hedge all of its long-term
investments in overseas assets.
0
100
200
229
300
331
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012
a
b
c
d FINANCE DIRECTOR’S REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 31
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Pension accounting
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24. The
Group’s net assets include a pension asset of £79.6 million
(2003: £82.2 million) which is included in debtors due after more than
one year. The consolidated profit and loss account includes a net
pension credit of £2.9 million (2003: £4.4 million) in relation to all of the
Group’s pension schemes.
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in the UK, which was
closed to new entrants in 1998, and North America. As a result of the
April 2002 triennial valuation of the UK scheme, contributions have
recommenced at a rate of £0.7 million per annum. A contribution holiday
will continue for the foreseeable future in relation to the over-funded
US scheme.
The results do not reflect the full adoption of FRS 17, Retirement
Benefits, because this is not required until the Group’s financial year
ending 31st January 2006. If the standard had been fully adopted in
2004, profit before tax would have been reduced by £2.2 million
(2003: £3.2 million) representing the net of £7.8 million which would be
charged to operating profit and £5.6 million which would be credited to
interest. The credit to interest reflects the income attributable to the
substantial surplus which exists in the US scheme. Consolidated net
assets would have been reduced by £23.6 million and the value of the
net surplus of the UK and US defined benefit schemes would have been
£44.1 million (2003: £34.7 million), based on the market value of scheme
assets at 1st February 2004, comprising a surplus in the US scheme of
£57.8 million and a deficit in the UK scheme of £13.7 million.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
In June 2002, the European Union approved the application of IFRS for
all listed groups for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2005.
As a result, the Group will apply IFRS in its financial statements for the
year ending 31st January 2006. The primary effects of IFRS on the
Group are expected to be the following:
– the re-classification of the Company’s preference shares from
shareholders’ funds to debt;
– the introduction of pension accounting rules which broadly follow
FRS 17;
– the requirement to reflect a charge in the profit and loss account
relating to share-based incentives; and
– the cessation of amortisation of goodwill which will become subject to
an annual test for impairment.
The Group has established a project timetable to ensure the
requirements under IFRS will be met.
Andrew Fisher
Group Finance Director DIRECTORS’ REPORT
32 PREMIER FARNELL PLC DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Principal Activities and Business Review
A detailed review of the Group’s activities, the development of its
business and an indication of likely future developments are dealt with on
pages 12 to 19.
The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the
distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the design,
maintenance and repair sectors.
Profit and Dividends
The profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was
£32.4 million (2003: £30.8 million). The Directors recommend that a final
dividend of 5.0 pence (2003: 5.0 pence) per ordinary share be paid on
23rd June 2004 to those shareholders on the register of members at the
close of business on 28th May 2004. An interim dividend of 4.0 pence
per ordinary share was paid on 24th October 2003, making a total for
the year of 9.0 pence (2003: 9.0 pence) per ordinary share.
Acquisitions and Disposals
On 31st July 2003, the Group sold Maintenance Inc., a distributor of
asphalt resurfacing products (and part of the Industrial Products Division)
for a consideration of £0.9 million. After the year end, the Group
purchased the business and certain assets of GFE Manufacturing Inc., a
supplier of lighting systems and water flow test equipment for the
fire-fighting industry for a consideration of $4.5 million.
Further details of acquisitions and disposals are given in the Finance
Director’s review on page 29 and in notes 3, 24 and 30 to the Financial
Statements.
Share Capital
Details of changes in the issued share capital of the Company during the
year are set out in note 20 on page 58.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be
seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in
2003, but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
Directors
The names and biographical details of the Directors who held office
throughout the year appear on page 27.
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, Sir Robert
Horton and Mr Andrew Fisher will retire at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting of the Company and Mr Fisher will offer himself for
re-election. Sir Robert Horton will retire from the Board at the close of
the meeting. Mr Laurence Bain, who was appointed during the year, will
retire and offer himself for election. Mr Fisher and Mr Bain are executive
directors and have service contracts with the Company, further details of
which are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
Additional information relating to Directors’ remuneration, service
contracts and interests in the Company’s shares is given in the
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39. The details of Directors’
interests in the Company’s shares form part of this report.
Supplier Payment Policy
The Group’s operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms
and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers
are conducted. Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with
those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms
and conditions. At 1st February 2004, the amount the Group owed its
suppliers represented 36 working days’ purchases (2003: 33 working
days). The Company is a holding company and does not have any
trade creditors.
Research and Development
The Group’s research and development activities are restricted to the
development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass and are not
significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
Charitable and Political Donations
In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of
stock to charitable organisations. In addition, during the year the Group
made charitable donations in cash of £24,000. Further details of the
Group’s charitable activities appear in the Social Responsibility Report.
The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political
parties.
Employment
The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made
by employees at all levels around the world. A Group-wide Performance
Review and annual Management Audit process are in their fifth year of
operation. Two Leadership Development Programmes are in place for
the top 150 managers and a series of programmes for new or
inexperienced managers and supervisors has been introduced. Product
training using on line learning technology has been implemented. The
same technology has been employed to develop a Group-wide
Induction programme and a module covering the Group’s Code of
Ethics. In addition, there has been continued investment in general skill
development, with particular reference to computer skills, marketing and
customer service.
A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist
remuneration practices as well as career development and organisational
planning processes.
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a
structured communication programme allows factors affecting their
employment to be discussed.
Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from its
European operating companies, the Group’s European Works Council
(The Premier Farnell European Forum) is in its fourth year of operation.
The Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and
appropriate information and constructive dialogue between management
and employees on European issues.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for
employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular
aptitudes and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the employment of
those who become disabled during their employment. Training, career
development and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all
employees according to their skills and abilities. The Group consistently
seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation
suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age,
race, religion or sexual orientation.
Employees’ participation in the Group’s performance is encouraged
through the re-introduction of a UK savings-related share option
scheme. DIRECTORS’ REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 33
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Environment
The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental
management and its obligation to protect the environment. The Group
therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters. Further
information appears in the Social Responsibility Report.
Substantial Shareholdings
At 14th April 2004 the Company had been notified of the following
interests amounting to 3 per cent or more of the Company’s issued
ordinary share capital:
%
Prudential plc 10.05
AXA SA 6.66
Scottish Widows 4.76
Zurich Financial Services 3.93
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 3.69
HBOS plc 3.12
Legal and General plc 3.04
Independent Auditor
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditor and to
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Annual General Meeting
The notice convening the Company’s 2004 Annual General Meeting at
the Mayfair Conference Centre, Marble Arch, London on 15th June
2004 at 10.30 am is set out in a separate document issued to
shareholders.
By order of the Board
Steven Webb
Secretary
Farnell House
Forge Lane
Leeds LS12 2NE
18th March 2004 REMUNERA TION REPORT
34 PREMIER FARNELL PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Remuneration Report
This report provides information on Directors’ remuneration. A resolution
will be put to shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting
inviting them to approve this report.
Remuneration policy
The Company’s overall policy aims are to:
– attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels
throughout the Group;
– pay competitive salaries and benefits to all of its people;
– encourage the holding of shares in the Company as an effective way
of aligning the interests of employees with those of shareholders; and
– focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the Group
meet its specific targets.
The Board’s policy for executive remuneration is to:
– pay a basic salary which is competitive with other companies of similar
size and complexity;
– give executives the opportunity to increase their basic earnings by
meeting and outperforming key short-term and long-term measures,
thereby linking executive rewards to the Group’s performance and
shareholder interests;
– encourage executives to hold shares in the Company; and
– reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the
Group’s performance, without paying more than is necessary to
achieve this objective.
In framing this policy, the Board has given full consideration to the
provisions of the Combined Code, as updated in July 2003.
It is the Company’s policy that Executive Directors be permitted to hold
one non-executive directorship with another company. The fees payable
in respect of this directorship are retained by the Executive Director.
This report sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration for
2004 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years. The inclusion in
the report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2004 is
required by the legislation under which this report is prepared. The
Remuneration Committee is able to state its remuneration policy for
2004 with reasonable certainty, but is less certain that this policy will
continue without amendment in subsequent years. This is because the
Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be
sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Group’s
business environment and remuneration practice. Any changes in policy
for years after 2004 will be described in future Remuneration Reports. All
statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after
2004 should be read in the light of this paragraph.
As part of the process of keeping the Company’s remuneration policy
under review, shareholders will be asked to approve a new savings-
related (SAYE) share option scheme at the Company’s Annual General
Meeting. The current SAYE scheme expires in June 2004 and the new
scheme is proposed as a replacement. All UK employees will be entitled
to participate in the scheme, subject to a minimum qualifying period of
employment. Options granted under the scheme over the Company’s
ordinary shares may be at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the
prevailing market price.
Employees participating in the scheme will be required to commit to
regular monthly savings for three or five years and will be entitled to
exercise options over the number of shares which can be purchased
using these savings and any bonus paid at the end of the savings
period. Further information on the rules of the scheme is provided with
the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
In future, participation in the scheme may be extended to Group
employees in other countries and the resolution to be put to
shareholders seeks authority for the Directors to make necessary
adjustments to the UK rules to allow for this.
The Remuneration Committee and its Role
The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Michael Lester (Chairman),
Mr William Korb, Mr Cary Nolan and Mr John Roques. All members of
the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to discuss the
performance of other executives and to make proposals where
necessary, but is not present when his own position is discussed.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Group’s
framework of executive remuneration and its cost. The Committee
determines the specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors
and the other senior executives who form the Group Leadership Team.
During the year the Committee received advice from the Chief Executive
in respect of the remuneration arrangements for other senior executives
and from Mr Brian Lewis, Group HR Director, in respect of remuneration
arrangements generally. Since the end of the year, the Committee has
appointed KPMG People Services, a division of KPMG LLP , to advise
the Committee. REMUNERATION REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 35
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
The Current Remuneration Package
The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior
executives are as follows:
– Salary and Benefits
The Committee reviews salaries each year taking account of Group
and personal performance. The Committee also takes account of the
levels of pay awarded elsewhere in the Group.
The value of non-cash benefits for Executive Directors is included in
the table of remuneration on page 37 and, for Mr Hirst and Mr Fisher,
consists of a fully expensed car and life and health insurance. Mr Bain
does not have a Company car, but instead receives a cash allowance
which is included in the salary figure disclosed in the table. Mr Bain
does receive life and health insurance, the values of which are included
in benefits in kind. The value of these benefits is not pensionable for
any Executive Director, but is assessable to income tax.
– Short-Term Incentives
The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme
for Executive Directors and senior executives. The maximum bonus
payment under the scheme is 100 per cent of base salary for Mr John
Hirst and 70 per cent of base salary for Mr Andrew Fisher and
Mr Laurence Bain. To reach this maximum requires that the Company
exceeds its budgeted profit as well as achievement of clearly defined
individual objectives.
– Long-Term Incentives
The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and the share
option schemes described below.
Long-Term Incentives
Under the long-term incentive plan, Executive Directors and senior
executives are awarded rights to acquire ordinary shares. Each award
made under the plan is subject to performance conditions which will
determine how many (if any) of the shares under the award the
participant is entitled to acquire after the three year performance period.
The maximum award which can be made in any year to a participant is
equal to 100 per cent of base salary.
The main performance condition compares the growth of the
Company’s total shareholder return or “TSR” (share price growth and
reinvested dividends) over a three year period to that of the companies
in the FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding investment trusts). The Company’s
ranking amongst the comparator companies determines the percentage
of shares which a participant can acquire. No shares may be acquired
where the Company’s ranking is below median and, to acquire the full
number of shares awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile
of the comparator group. Between these two points, vesting is on a
straight-line basis, with 20 per cent of any award vesting where the
Company’s performance is at the median. Where performance over the
three year period does not reach the median ranking, the relevant award
lapses and there is no re-testing of performance.
In addition, shares can only be acquired under any award if the
Committee is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company
during the performance period justifies the exercise of an award.
The TSR performance condition was chosen as the Committee believes
that TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the performance of the
Company to that of its peers. The FTSE mid-250 Index (excluding
investment trusts) was chosen as the comparator group as there are a
limited number of companies which are directly comparable to the
Company and the index was therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of
relative performance.
In assessing whether such performance condition has been met, the
Committee will rely on calculations of the Company’s TSR and that of
the FTSE mid-250 Index carried out on their behalf by New Bridge
Street Consultants. The requirement that the Committee must be
satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company during the
performance period justifies the exercise of an award, is intended to give
the Committee a discretion as to whether or not to allow a particular
exercise, notwithstanding the achievement of at least a median TSR
ranking. The Committee’s view is that such circumstances are likely to
be exceptional and therefore they are difficult to determine before they
have arisen. In addition, the Committee does not wish to limit its
discretion in any way by attempting to pre-determine the circumstances
in which it might be exercised. If the Committee exercised this discretion
it would be in respect of all awards made on a particular date and not in
respect of a particular individual or individuals.
Benefits under the plan are not pensionable.
The Company currently operates an executive share option scheme,
under which both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved options
may be granted, and an SAYE option scheme. Benefits under these
plans are not pensionable. The rules of the executive scheme were
approved by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in
2003. As noted above, it is proposed to replace the existing SAYE
option scheme with a new SAYE scheme for which shareholder approval
is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of
the Company.
Annual grants are made under the executive share option scheme with a
maximum grant equal to 100 per cent of the individual’s annual salary.
Exercise of options granted under the scheme is subject to a
performance condition. This condition is that the growth in the
Company’s adjusted earnings per share (EPS) over the three
consecutive financial years starting with the year of grant exceeds the
growth in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) over the same period by at
least 9 per cent. At this level of performance half of the options granted
are exercisable. Exercise of all options granted requires that the
Company’s EPS growth exceeds RPI over the period by at least
15 per cent, with a sliding scale for performance between 9 per cent
and 15 per cent. If the performance condition is not met over this three
year period, options may also be exercised if the Company’s EPS
growth exceeds RPI by a minimum of 12 per cent over the four financial
years starting with the year of grant. The same sliding scale for exercise
applies for performance between 12 per cent and 20 per cent. If the
performance target is not met by the fourth year, the relevant
options lapse. REMUNERA TION REPORT 
CONTINUED
36 PREMIER FARNELL PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
EPS was chosen as the appropriate measure of performance as it
provides an absolute benchmark of the Company’s performance and is
therefore a suitable balance with the relative performance measurement
used in the Company’s long-term incentive plan.
Options granted under earlier schemes operated by the Company
remain outstanding. Executive options granted under such schemes
after 13th March 2001 may not be exercised unless the growth in the
Company’s EPS over a period of three consecutive financial years
exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) over the same
period by at least 9 per cent. For options granted after 20th June 1996,
but before 14th March 2001, exercise is subject to the growth in EPS
over three consecutive years exceeding the growth in RPI over the same
period by at least 6 per cent. For options granted before 20th June
1996 EPS growth over three consecutive years must match the growth
in RPI over the same period before options can be exercised. EPS was
chosen as the appropriate measure of performance at the time the
executive share option schemes were first introduced and is the most
common measure used in traditional option schemes. The Company’s
EPS performance is reported quarterly in the Company’s results
announcements.
In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors
are entitled to participate in the Company’s SAYE option scheme and will
be entitled to participate in the replacement SAYE scheme referred to
above, if it is approved by shareholders. These options are not subject to
the satisfaction of a performance condition as this scheme is not
restricted to Executive Directors and senior executives. Executive
Directors did not have any outstanding interests under the existing
scheme during the year to 1st February 2004.
The Company’s executive shareholding policy requires Executive
Directors and other senior executives to retain a number of the shares
acquired as a result of the exercise of executive share options or awards
under the long-term incentive plan until a shareholding with a value equal
to the executive’s annual base salary is reached. This level of
shareholding is then to be maintained.
Pension Arrangements
The final salary section of the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme (the
UK Scheme) was closed to new entrants during 1998. Employees who
were entitled to final salary benefits as members of the UK Scheme at
31st December 1998 now receive benefits through a combination of
final salary benefits funded by the UK Scheme and the Premier Farnell
Corp. Master Pension Plan (the US Plan). In addition, contributions are
made to the money purchase section within the UK Scheme. Employees
joining the UK Scheme since 1st January 1999 are entitled to money
purchase benefits only, and the UK Scheme is no longer
“contracted out”.
Mr John Hirst and Mr Andrew Fisher are each entitled to a combination
of final salary and money purchase benefits under the arrangements set
out above up to the limit of the Inland Revenue earnings cap (currently
£99,000). Company contributions payable into the money purchase
arrangement on their behalf amount to 19.4 per cent of the earnings cap
for Mr Hirst and 15.0 per cent of the earnings cap for Mr Fisher, with
each making an employee contribution equal to 3.0 per cent of the
earnings cap.
The Company makes further contributions on behalf of Mr Hirst and
Mr Fisher to funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes (FURBS),
determined by reference to the excess of their salaries over the earnings
cap. The cost to the Company of these further contributions was
£208,542 (2003: £244,161) for Mr Hirst and £83,842 (2003: £72,697)
for Mr Fisher.
Mr Bain is entitled to money purchase benefits from a combination of
the UK scheme and an unapproved scheme (FURBS). Total
contributions are 5.0 per cent of basic salary from Mr Bain (all paid to
the UK scheme) and 27 per cent of basic salary from the Company, of
which 4.0 per cent of basic salary is paid into the UK scheme and
23 per cent of basic salary into the FURBS. The total cost to the
Company for the period since Mr Bain was appointed a Director
was £38,400.
Relative Importance of Remuneration Elements
The Committee’s view is that the performance related elements of the
remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a significant
element of the total. This serves to align the interests of such Directors
with shareholders. Assuming full payment of all elements, more than
two-thirds of the total remuneration of Executive Directors (ignoring
pension contributions) would be performance related.
Service Contracts
In accordance with the Company’s policy, Mr Hirst, Mr Fisher and
Mr Bain have service agreements which are terminable by the Company
on twelve months’ notice. Mr Hirst’s and Mr Bain’s service agreements,
dated 13th November 1998 and 23rd April 2004 respectively, allow the
Company to make a payment of salary in lieu of the whole or part of
their notice periods and Mr Fisher’s agreement, dated 24th November
1994, contains provisions entitling him to a payment equal to
12 months’ salary and benefits in the event of early termination. The
Company’s policy is generally not to include a provision providing for
payment of a fixed sum on termination and to endeavour to minimise
any payment on early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss.
The provisions in Mr Fisher’s agreement were included as part of the
reduction in his notice period from 24 months during 2001.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board
as a whole. Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration
Committee. Business expenses are also reimbursed. In addition to the
base fee, an additional £5,000 per annum is paid to the chairmen of the
Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, but are
appointed pursuant to letters of appointment. Such appointments are
initially for a three-year term. It is normal that the appointment is renewed
for a second three-year period. Thereafter, the Company’s policy is for
re-appointments to be on an annual basis. Non-Executive Directors are
not eligible to participate in any incentive plans, share options schemes
or Company pension arrangements and are not entitled to any payment
in compensation for any early termination of their appointment.
The commencement dates for the current appointments of
Non-Executive Directors are:
Sir Malcolm Bates 11th June 2003 (annual)
Sir Robert Horton 11th June 2003 (annual) – retiring at the 2004 AGM
W Korb 21st January 2003 (three-year)
M Lester 4th August 2001 (three-year)
C Nolan 5th July 2002 (three-year)
D J S Roques 1st July 2002 (three-year)
Any Director appointed by the Board during the year holds office only
until the next Annual General Meeting and may then stand for election.
Thereafter, each Director must retire from office at every third Annual
General Meeting since he last retired, at which meeting he will be eligible
for re-election. REMUNERATION REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 37
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Directors’ Remuneration
Salary Annual Benefits Total emoluments Pension contributions
or fees bonus in kind 2004 2003 2004 2003
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive
J R Hirst 384 90 27 501 606 228 262
A C Fisher 254 83 20 357 369 99 87
L Bain (from date of appointment: 1st July 2003) 149 36 1 186 – 38 –
Non-Executive
Sir Malcolm Bates (Chairman) 110 – – 110 100 – –
Sir Robert Horton 40 – – 40 35 – –
W Korb 28 – – 28 1 – –
M Lester 33 – – 33 28 – –
C J Nolan 28 – – 28 26 – –
D J S Roques 33 – – 33 28 – –
1,059 209 48 1,316 1,193 365 349
No expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid.
There were no amounts paid or receivable in respect of compensation for loss of office or in connection with the termination of any Director.
The following table sets out the final salary pension benefits accruing to relevant Executive Directors. Mr Bain does not receive any final salary
benefits and therefore does not appear in this table.
Final Salary Additional Final Salary Transfer value of final Transfer value of final B-A*
Pension accrued as at pension earned during salary benefits as at salary benefits as at
1st February 2004 the year including inflation 2nd February 2003 1st February 2004
(excluding inflation) (A) (B)
£ p.a. £ p.a. £ £ £
J R Hirst 7,242 1,212 (1,043) 42,328 74,171 31,843
A C Fisher 19,843 1,441 (926)* 96,861 149,670 52,809
* No contribution is made by Directors to the final salary pension arrangements
For each of the Directors the main terms applying to their final salary pensions are:
– payable from normal retirement age of 60
– the Directors do not make any contribution to the final salary pension arrangements
– spouse’s pension of 50 per cent of the Director’s pension payable on death
– pensions in payment increase in line with inflation, to a maximum of 5 per cent each year
Mr Hirst is aged 51 and Mr Fisher is aged 46.
The accrued final salary pension shown at 1st February 2004 is the combined figure for the UK Scheme and US Plan defined benefit accruals and
is the amount that the Director would be entitled to from normal retirement age if he left service at the end of the year.
The increase in final salary pension during the year is the increase over the figure disclosed in last year’s accounts both including and excluding an
allowance for inflation during the year.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice. The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets
that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the scheme’s liability in respect of the Director’s final
salary pension benefits. They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and therefore they cannot be added meaningfully to annual
remuneration.
The table above shows transfer values at the beginning and the end of the year. As the transfer values are linked to investment market conditions,
the improvement in equity markets over the year will have been a significant factor in the increase in transfer values which is shown. Members’
contributions paid during the year were paid into the money purchase arrangement within the UK Scheme and as such are not included in the
transfer value. REMUNERA TION REPORT 
CONTINUED
38 PREMIER FARNELL PLC REMUNERATION REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
Directors’ Interests
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are set out below. After the
end of the financial year Mr Bain acquired a beneficial interest in 5,000 ordinary shares.
1st February 2nd February
2004 2003*
Sir Malcolm Bates – beneficial 35,000 35,000
A C Fisher – beneficial 80,000 80,000
J R Hirst – beneficial 66,050 66,050
Laurence Bain – beneficial – –
Sir Robert Horton – beneficial 13,000 13,000
W Korb – beneficial 10,000 10,000
M Lester – beneficial 30,000 30,000
C J Nolan – beneficial 7,000 7,000
D J S Roques – beneficial 10,000 10,000
* as at date of appointment for L Bain
In addition to the above beneficial interests in the Company’s Ordinary Shares, the executive Directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as
being interested in 234,000 Ordinary Shares and 35,000 ADRs (representing 70,000 Ordinary Shares) held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust. All
employees (including Executive Directors) are potential beneficiaries of the trust, the purpose of which is to satisfy awards made pursuant to the
Company’s long-term incentive plan. It is not anticipated that any employee or Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater
number of shares than that to which they are entitled on exercise of awards made to them under the long-term incentive plan.
Share Options
At At
2nd February 1st February Exercise Exercise
2003* Granted Exercised Lapsed 2004 Price (pence) Period
J R Hirst 300,000 – – – 300,000 305 July 2001 to July 2008
70,000 – – – 70,000 192 March 2002 to March 2009
125,000 – – – 125,000 153 October 2005 to October 2012
– 147,448 – – 147,448 264.5 October 2006 to October 2013
A C Fisher 30,000 – – – 30,000 682 May 2000 to May 2007
57,000 – – – 57,000 551 May 1998 to May 2005
73,000 – – – 73,000 192 March 2002 to March 2009
75,000 – – – 75,000 153 October 2005 to October 2012
– 97,353 – – 97,353 264.5 October 2006 to October 2013
L Bain 75,000 – – – 75,000 153 October 2005 to October 2012
– 92,173 – – 92,173 264.5 October 2006 to October 2013
* as at date of appointment for L Bain
The options listed above are executive options which are subject to the performance conditions described under the heading Long-Term Incentives
above.
No price was paid for any option. There were no variations to the terms and conditions of any Director’s options during the year.
The market price of the Company’s shares at 1st February 2004 was 265.5p (2nd February 2003: 174.5p) and the range during the year was
132.5p – 282.0p. REMUNERATION REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 39
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Long-term Incentive Plan
Interests of Directors in the plan are:
At Awarded Market Price Vested Lapsed At End of
2nd February at date of 1st February performance
2003* award (pence) 2004 period
J R Hirst 95,541 – 305 – 95,541 – January 2004
94,964 – 347.5 – – 94,964 January 2005
– 203,804 217.5 – – 203,804 June 2006
A C Fisher
63,694 – 305 – 63,694 – January 2004
61,870 – 347.5 – – 61,870 January 2005
– 135,870 217.5 – – 135,870 June 2006
L Bain
148,387 – 155 – – 148,387 January 2005
125,000 – 217.5 – – 125,000 June 2006
* as at date of appointment for L Bain
The conditions for the vesting of an award made under the plan are described under the heading Long-Term Incentives above.
There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any award during the year.
Performance graph
The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Company’s ordinary shares for the five financial years of the Company of
which the year to 1st February 2004 is the last. This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250
Index (excluding investment trusts). This was chosen as it is the index of which the Company is a constituent and the index used for the purposes
of the long-term incentive plan. Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the
dividends are reinvested in the Company’s shares on the day on which they are paid.
Elements of report subject to audit
The information above under the headings Directors’ Remuneration, Share Options and Long-term Incentive Plan is auditable. All other information
provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Approved by the Board on 18th March 2004
Signed on behalf of the Board by
Michael Lester
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
1st February
1999
1st February
2000
1st February
2001
1st February
2002
1st February
2003
1st February
2004
Value (£)
Premier Farnell FTSE Mid-250 Index (excl. Investment Trusts) CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
40 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance
throughout the Group. The Board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the
principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
are applied by the Company. The Combined Code has been revised
following the Higgs review and the new version was published in July
2003 (the New Code). The New Code applies for reporting years
beginning on or after 1st November 2003 and therefore the year under
review remains subject to the Code issued in June 1998. The Board
has, however, taken account of the additional requirements of the New
Code and implemented as many of these as practicable.
The Board confirms that the Company complies with all of the provisions
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in June 1998.
Directors
The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, five Non-Executive
Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent,
and three Executive Directors. In accordance with the New Code, the
Board has ceased to regard the Chairman as independent and, as a
consequence, he has ceased to be a member of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. Sir Robert Horton is the Company’s senior
independent Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
In reaching its conclusions on independence, and as suggested by the
New Code, the Board considered that Sir Malcolm Bates and
Mr Roques are both also non-executive directors of HHG plc and that
Mr Lester and Mr Nolan have family members who are employed by
firms among those which provide legal advice to the Company. The
Board considered Mr Roques’ background and experience and
determined that his holding of a cross, non-executive directorship with
Sir Malcolm Bates would not affect his independence. In the cases of
Mr Lester and Mr Nolan, the Board considered the fact that they do
not determine which legal advisers are appointed by the Company and
that their family members are not directly involved in providing advice to
the Company, in reaching its conclusion that their independence is
not affected.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 27. These indicate
the high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is kept under review
and provided where necessary.
The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors have been updated
since the end of the year to take account of the requirements of the
New Code and now include the time commitment expected of, and
confirmation from Non-Executive Directors that they have sufficient time
available to meet this commitment. Non-Executive Directors are required
to inform the Board of any changes to their other appointments.
The Board
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the
Group through the development of a strategy designed to create
shareholder value. The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis
and exercises control over the performance of each operating company
within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring
performance against those targets.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and
clearly defined. The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the
executive management of the Group’s business while the Chairman,
who has no executive management responsibilities, runs the Board.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as
required. The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for
decision, including major capital expenditure, significant investments or
disposals and treasury policy. In certain areas, specific responsibility is
delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The Audit, Remuneration and Organisation and Management
Development Committees have, respectively, five, three and two
scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings are held
where required. The Nominations Committee meets as required.
During the year, all Directors attended the five Board meetings that were
held. All of the members of the respective committees attended the five
Audit Committee and four Remuneration Committee meetings that were
held, except for one meeting of the Audit Committee that Mr Nolan was
unable to attend.
Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations and Organisation and Management Development
Committees are available on the Company’s web site at
www.premierfarnell.com. The membership of the Committees appears
on page 27.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense if necessary in the
performance of their duties. This is in addition to the access which every
Director has to the Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance policies,
including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as conflicts of
interest, fraud, whistleblowing and share dealing. A copy of the Code is
also available on the Company’s web site.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to
discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all
relevant information. In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a
comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress
reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters. In
addition, individual Directors meet with senior management and are
encouraged to make periodic site visits, including overseas where
appropriate. Senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings
and make business presentations.
Potential appointments of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors
to the Board are considered by the Nominations Committee. The
Nominations Committee consults with Executive Directors when
considering appointments and a range of candidates is considered
before any appointment is made. The Remuneration Committee will
consider any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential
appointee. The only appointment made to the Board during the year
was that of Mr Bain. This was an internal promotion, following Mr Bain’s
appointment as Group Chief Operating Officer in July 2002.
A formal induction process for new Directors has recently been
approved by the Board and this will be implemented for future
appointments. In addition, proposals for performance evaluation of the
Board, its Committees and individual Directors are being considered with
a view to implementation during the year ending January 2005.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions
of the Company’s articles of association, to retire and seek election by
shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting. The articles also
require that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every
three years.
Full details of Directors’ remuneration and a statement of the Company’s
remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing
on pages 34 to 39.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full
Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where
the recommendations have a direct bearing on his own remuneration
package. The details of each Executive Director’s individual package are
fixed by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by
the full Board. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PREMIER FARNELL PLC 41
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Communication with Stakeholders
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with
its stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well
as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results. In
1999, the Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to
improve the level of information available to all shareholders. All
Company announcements are published on the Company’s web site,
together with presentation material.
The Board regards the discussion of the Company’s strategy as primarily
part of the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of his regular
meetings with institutional shareholders. Feedback from these meetings
is provided to the Board, both by the Group Director, Communications
and by the Company’s financial public relations advisers. The Board also
regularly receives copies of analysts’ reports on the Company.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy
and governance matters. While other Non-Executive Directors do not
ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if
this was requested by shareholders.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting, at which the Group Chief Executive
makes a business presentation summarising the progress of the
Group during the year. All Directors are available to take questions at
the meeting.
As discussed in the Directors’ Report, employee communication is
given high priority. This has included the establishment of a European
Works Council.
Going Concern
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Audit and Internal Control
The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the
Group’s financial and other systems and controls and its financial
reporting procedures. In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and
reviews work carried out by the internal and external auditors and their
findings. The Company’s internal audit department works to an annual
programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as
covering specific matters arising during the year.
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference have recently been updated
to reflect the requirements of the New Code and many of the
recommendations contained in the Smith Report published in January
2003. In addition, and following a recommendation from the Smith
Report, the Committee has also adopted and implemented a
group-wide policy restricting the appointment of former employees of
the external auditor.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the
internal and external audit functions under review. This now includes an
annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditor, including its
quality control procedures.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor is also
considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of
non-audit fees. The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year
to 1st February 2004 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees
incurred appear in note 5 to the Financial Statements. The non-audit
fees were paid in respect of assurance work (including taxation) and are
considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or
objectivity of the auditors. The external auditor’s appointment is subject
to biannual review by the Committee and the lead audit partner is
rotated at least every five years. The Committee also maintains a formal
policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, which is
reviewed each year. This policy prohibits the provision of certain services
and requires that others are subject to prior approval by the Committee
or its Chairman. This policy allows specific tax compliance services
within defined monetary limits to be pre-approved by the Committee at
the beginning of the year. All other permitted non-audit services are
considered on a case by case basis.
At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information on
all non-audit services provided by the auditor and the estimated cost of
such services. The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of the
audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value of non-audit
services does not increase to a level where it has the potential to affect
the auditor’s objectivity and independence.
The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of independence
from the auditor.
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the
applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Combined
Code issued in June 1998.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal
controls and risk management. The Audit Committee reviews and
monitors the system’s effectiveness on behalf of the Board at least
annually, while responsibility for the system rests with the Executive
Directors. The system includes an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing significant business risks. However, any system
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting
internal control objectives.
The Company is subject to the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 2002 as they apply to foreign private issuers. This legislation
requires, amongst other things, annual certifications to be included
within, or attached to, the Company’s annual report on Form 20-F , which
is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. As part of the
process for ensuring that such certifications can be made, an executive
management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee, has been
formed. The Disclosure and Risk Committee has subsumed within its
terms of reference the functions previously carried out by the Risk
Committee, as well as taking responsibility for reviewing disclosures
made by the Company to regulators and the investment community. As
part of this expanded role, the Disclosure and Risk Committee monitors
and reviews disclosure and risk management processes and reports to
the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considers these reports,
alongside other reports from the internal audit department and the
external auditors, to arrive at a balanced assessment of control
effectiveness across the Group.
The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that
the Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness.
The statement of the Directors’ responsibility in relation to the accounts
appears on page 69. 42 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 1ST FEBRUARY 2004
2004 2003 2004 2003
Notes £m £m $m $m
Turnover 1 764.6 759.0 1,269.2 1,161.3
Cost of sales (457.6) (447.0) (759.6) (683.9)
Gross profit 307.0 312.0 509.6 477.4
Net operating expenses 1
– before rebranding costs and amortisation of goodwill (233.2) (229.1) (387.1) (350.5)
– rebranding costs 2 (2.4) – (4.0) –
– amortisation of goodwill (2.6) (2.6) (4.3) (4.0)
Total net operating expenses (238.2) (231.7) (395.4) (354.5)
Operating profit 1
– before rebranding costs and amortisation of goodwill 73.8 82.9 122.5 126.9
– rebranding costs 2 (2.4) – (4.0) –
– amortisation of goodwill (2.6) (2.6) (4.3) (4.0)
Total operating profit 68.8 80.3 114.2 122.9
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 3 0.1 (4.8) 0.2 (7.4)
Net interest payable 4 (14.3) (15.7) (23.7) (24.0)
Profit before taxation 5 54.6 59.8 90.7 91.5
Taxation 7 (15.6) (18.2) (25.9) (27.9)
Profit after taxation 39.0 41.6 64.8 63.6
Preference dividends (non-equity) 9 (6.6) (10.8) (11.0) (16.5)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 32.4 30.8 53.8 47.1
Ordinary dividends (equity) 9 (32.6) (32.6) (54.1) (49.9)
Retained loss for the year 22 (0.2) (1.8) (0.3) (2.8)
Earnings per share 10
Basic and diluted 8.9p 9.3p $0.148 $0.142
Earnings per share before rebranding costs, amortisation of
goodwill and disposals 10
Basic and diluted 10.1p 11.2p $0.168 $0.171
The translation of sterling into US dollars has been presented for convenience purposes only using the average exchange rate for the year of 1.66
(2003: 1.53).
There is no material difference between the results as disclosed in the profit and loss account and the results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
All of the Group’s turnover and operating profit relates to continuing operations.
STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 1ST FEBRUARY 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit after taxation 39.0 41.6
Currency translation adjustments (net of associated tax charge) 9.8 (0.3)
Total recognised gains for the year 48.8 41.3 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET PREMIER FARNELL PLC 43
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 1ST FEBRUARY 2004
2004 2003 2004 2003
Notes £m £m $m $m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 11 45.9 48.5 83.5 79.5
Tangible assets 12 107.2 112.9 195.1 185.2
Investments 13 – 0.2 – 0.3
153.1 161.6 278.6 265.0
Current assets
Stocks 14 151.0 147.8 274.8 242.4
Debtors – due within one year 15 128.5 121.8 233.9 199.8
– due after more than one year 15 79.6 82.2 144.9 134.8
Cash at bank and in hand 31.7 29.6 57.7 48.5
390.8 381.4 711.3 625.5
Creditors – due within one year 17 (159.0) (254.7) (289.4) (417.7)
Net current assets 231.8 126.7 421.9 207.8
Total assets less current liabilities 384.9 288.3 700.5 472.8
Creditors – due after more than one year 18 (230.7) (141.5) (419.9) (232.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 19 (42.1) (43.3) (76.6) (71.0)
112.1 103.5 204.0 169.7
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 20 25.7 25.9 46.8 42.4
Share premium account 22 20.1 19.2 36.6 31.5
Capital redemption reserve 22 0.8 0.6 1.5 1.0
Profit and loss account 22 65.5 57.8 119.1 94.8
Shareholders’ funds 23 112.1 103.5 204.0 169.7
Shareholders’ funds comprise:
Equity interests (9.7) (23.2) (17.7) (38.1)
Non-equity interests 121.8 126.7 221.7 207.8
112.1 103.5 204.0 169.7
The translation of sterling into US dollars has been presented for convenience purposes only using the year-end exchange rate of 1.82 (2003: 1.64).
Approved by the Board on 18th March 2004.
Sir Malcolm Bates
Chairman 44 PREMIER FARNELL PLC COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 1ST FEBRUARY 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 13 490.0 623.9
Current assets
Debtors – due within one year 15 6.3 0.8
– due after more than one year 15 420.5 322.8
426.8 323.6
Creditors – due within one year 17 (27.4) (29.4)
Net current assets 399.4 294.2
Total assets less current liabilities 889.4 918.1
Creditors – due after more than one year 18 (196.2) (183.9)
693.2 734.2
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 20 25.7 25.9
Share premium account 22 20.1 19.2
Capital redemption reserve 22 0.8 0.6
Merger reserve 22 0.6 0.6
Profit and loss account 22 646.0 687.9
Shareholders’ funds 23 693.2 734.2
Shareholders’ funds comprise:
Equity interests 571.4 607.5
Non-equity interests 121.8 126.7
693.2 734.2
Approved by the Board on 18th March 2004.
Sir Malcolm Bates
Chairman CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 45
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 1ST FEBRUARY 2004
2004 2003 2004 2003
Notes £m £m $m $m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 25 70.0 92.0 116.2 140.8
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 0.4 0.6 0.7 0.9
Interest paid (14.4) (16.4) (23.9) (25.1)
Dividends paid on preference shares (non-equity) (6.6) (10.8) (11.0) (16.5)
Net cash outflow from returns on investments and 
servicing of finance (20.6) (26.6) (34.2) (40.7)
Taxation paid (14.5) (12.7) (24.1) (19.4)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (20.4) (24.9) (33.9) (38.1)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 2.6 1.7 4.3 2.6
Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and 
financial investment (17.8) (23.2) (29.6) (35.5)
Disposals
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings 24 0.5 3.3 0.8 5.0
Net cash inflow from disposals 0.5 3.3 0.8 5.0
Equity dividends paid (32.6) (28.1) (54.1) (43.0)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow before use of liquid resources
and financing (15.0) 4.7 (25.0) 7.2
Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 20 0.9 0.7 1.5 1.1
Purchase of own preference shares 20 (2.3) (8.3) (3.8) (12.7)
Preference share conversion costs 20 – (0.9) – (1.4)
New bank loans 206.6 29.1 343.0 44.5
Repayment of bank loans (188.7) (23.0) (313.2) (35.2)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing 16.5 (2.4) 27.5 (3.7)
Increase in net cash 1.5 2.3 2.5 3.5
The translation of sterling into US dollars has been presented for convenience purposes only using the average exchange rate for the year of 1.66
(2003: 1.53).
Reconciliation of net debt:
Opening net debt (209.2) (236.4)
Increase in net cash 1.5 2.3
Increase in debt (17.9) (6.1)
Exchange movement 23.7 31.0
Closing net debt 25 (201.9) (209.2) 46 PREMIER FARNELL PLC STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
Basis of Accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. A
summary of the more important Group accounting policies, which the
Directors consider to be the most appropriate for the Group and which
have been applied consistently, is set out below.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company
and each of its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended
1st February 2004. Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or
disposed of are consolidated from or up to the date on which control
passes. Inter-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Turnover and Revenue Recognition
Turnover comprises the value of sales to outside customers, excluding
value added and sales taxes. Turnover is recognised when the risks and
rewards of ownership have passed to the customer.
Expense Classification
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers
including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
Distribution costs represent all operating company expenses including
sales, marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information
technology and e-commerce.
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head office and the
Group Board.
Goodwill
Goodwill, comprising the amount by which the consideration for
acquisitions exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, is
capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account on a
straight line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows:
BuckHickman InOne: 20 years.
As permitted by FRS10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill arising
on acquisitions prior to 1998 remains written off against reserves. Such
goodwill would be charged in the profit and loss account on subsequent
disposal of the related business.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment in
accordance with FRS10 and FRS11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and
Goodwill, at the end of the first full year after an acquisition and in other
years if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value may not be recoverable, any impairment being charged to the
profit and loss account.
Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation
Fixed assets are stated at cost. Interest is not capitalised.
With the exception of motor vehicles, which are depreciated on a
reducing balance basis at 25% per annum, depreciation is calculated to
write off the cost of individual fixed assets from the time they become
operational by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives,
which are principally as follows:
Plant and equipment: between 5 and 10 years.
Computer equipment: between 3 and 5 years.
Freehold buildings: 50 years.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Financial Instruments
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts, entered into as
hedges of future purchases and sales denominated in foreign currency,
are carried forward and taken to the profit and loss account on maturity
to match the underlying transactions.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate hedges are
recognised as adjustments to interest payable or receivable over the life
of the hedge.
Exchange gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings and
related financial instruments used to finance the Group’s foreign currency
investments are taken to reserves and reported in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses.
Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provision
is made against slow moving and obsolete stock based on analysis of
historical data.
Deferred Taxation
Full provision is made, on an undiscounted basis, for deferred taxation
resulting from timing differences between profits computed for taxation
purposes and profits stated in the accounts to the extent that there is an
obligation to pay more tax in the future as a result of the reversal of
those timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent they are expected to be
recoverable.
Pensions and Similar Obligations
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
Pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24.
Accordingly, the expected cost of providing pension benefits under
defined benefit schemes and other post-retirement benefits is amortised
in the profit and loss account over the period benefiting from the
employees’ services. Costs with respect to defined contribution
schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS17,
Retirement Benefits, details of which are given in note 28.
Foreign Exchange
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into
sterling at the average exchange rate ruling during the year. Foreign
currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Gains or losses arising in the
ordinary course of business are dealt with in arriving at operating profit.
Those arising on the translation of the assets and liabilities of overseas
subsidiary undertakings, together with the exchange differences arising
when the profit and loss accounts are translated at average rates and
compared to the rate ruling at the balance sheet date, are dealt with as
movements in reserves.
Catalogue and Advertising Costs
Catalogue costs are expensed over the life of the catalogue up to a
maximum period of one year. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Leased Assets
Payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss
account as they fall due.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the costs relating to
the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan and the consolidated and
Company balance sheets include the appropriate assets and liabilities of
the plan. Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to
administer the plan, are shown as fixed asset investments and are
amortised over the performance period of the plan to which they relate.
Where options over shares are awarded to executives, the value of the
expected award is amortised on a straight line basis over the
performance period to which the award relates.
Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included at cost. Provision is
made where, in the opinion of the directors, a permanent diminution in
value has occurred.
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1) SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
1) Turnover, Operating Profit and Net Operating Assets
a) Business Segments
Net Operating Assets
Turnover Operating Profit (excluding goodwill)
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Marketing and Distribution Division
Americas
– before rebranding costs 286.1 311.6 27.0 33.0 111.4 123.9
– rebranding costs (note 2) – – (1.2) – – –
286.1 311.6 25.8 33.0 111.4 123.9
Europe and Asia Pacific
– before rebranding costs and amortisation
of goodwill 382.1 348.6 40.6 42.2 151.6 139.6
– rebranding costs (note 2) – – (1.2) – – –
– amortisation of goodwill* – – (2.6) (2.6) – –
382.1 348.6 36.8 39.6 151.6 139.6
Total Marketing and Distribution Division 668.2 660.2 62.6 72.6 263.0 263.5
Industrial Products Division 96.4 98.8 13.7 15.2 24.3 25.8
Head Office costs – – (7.5) (7.5) – –
764.6 759.0 68.8 80.3 287.3 289.3
b) Geographical Segments by Origin
Net Operating Assets
Turnover Operating Profit (excluding goodwill)
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Americas 343.2 375.3 38.8 45.8 105.2 116.4
UK 270.6 251.6 31.7 36.4 131.4 132.1
Rest of World 150.8 132.1 8.4 8.2 50.7 40.8
Head Office costs – – (7.5) (7.5) – –
Amortisation of goodwill (UK)* – – (2.6) (2.6) – –
764.6 759.0 68.8 80.3 287.3 289.3
*Amortisation of capitalised goodwill is in respect of the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne in July 2001.
The geographical analysis of turnover by destination is not significantly different from that shown above. Turnover between segments is not significant.
2) Reconciliation of Net Operating Assets with Net Assets is as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Net operating assets (excluding goodwill) 287.3 289.3
Net debt (201.9) (209.2)
Goodwill (UK)* 45.9 48.5
Pension fund prepayment 79.6 82.2
Tax, dividends and other (98.8) (107.3)
Net assets 112.1 103.5
*Capitalised goodwill is in respect of the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne in July 2001.
3) Net Operating Expenses
2004 2003
£m £m
Distribution costs 227.1 220.5
Administrative expenses 10.1 10.1
Research and development expenditure 1.0 1.1
238.2 231.7
Distribution costs in 2004 include rebranding costs of £2.4 million (2003: £nil) (note 2).
Administrative expenses in 2004 include amortisation of goodwill of £2.6 million (2003: £2.6 million).
Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 47
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 48 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
2) REBRANDING
On 27th February 2003, the Group announced the rebranding of four businesses of the Marketing and Distribution Division to demonstrate to
customers and suppliers the close alignment and global collaboration between them. The new trading names are Newark InOne, Farnell InOne,
BuckHickman InOne and MCM, an InOne company.
The operating profit of the Marketing and Distribution Division for the year ended 1st February 2004, reflects the one-off cost of the rebranding of
£2.4 million.
3) PROFIT/(LOSS) ON DISPOSAL OF BUSINESSES
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit/(loss) on net assets sold (net of costs) 0.5 (2.3)
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves (0.4) (2.6)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses in the year (note 24) 0.1 (4.9)
Deferred consideration received from prior year disposals – 0.1
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 0.1 (4.8)
Tax credit arising on disposal of businesses – 0.9
On 31st July 2003, the Group sold Maintenance Inc., a distributor of asphalt resurfacing products and part of the Industrial Products Division in
North America, for a cash consideration of £0.9 million. In the period up to disposal, this business contributed £0.7 million (2003: £1.6 million) of
sales and incurred an operating profit of £0.1 million (2003: £0.2 million). The cash flows from this business in the period up to disposal were not
significant.
The business sold in the year ended 2nd February 2003 (part of the Industrial Products Division) contributed £5.4 million of sales and incurred an
operating loss of £0.1 million during that year in the period prior to disposal.
4) NET INTEREST PAYABLE
2004 2003
£m £m
Interest receivable on short-term deposits (0.4) (0.6)
Interest payable on bank overdrafts and loans repayable within 5 years 9.7 16.2
Interest payable on loans repayable after 5 years 5.0 0.1
14.3 15.7
5) PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
2004 2003
£m £m
Amortisation of goodwill 2.6 2.6
Depreciation 20.4 16.3
Profit on sale of fixed assets (1.1) (0.5)
Restructuring costs 0.8 0.6
Operating lease rentals
Plant and machinery 3.9 3.6
Other 5.9 6.1
Fees paid to the Group’s auditors
Statutory audit 0.6 0.5
Further assurance services 0.1 0.1
Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1
Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
Other non-audit services – 0.1
The audit fees and fees for further assurance services paid to the Group’s auditors shown above include £0.1 million (2003: £0.1 million) in respect
of the Company. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 49
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 5 CONTINUED
Tax and other fees paid to the Group’s auditors are in respect of assignments carried out on a worldwide basis. It is the Group’s policy to employ
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on assignments additional to their statutory duties where their expertise and experience of the Group are important,
or where they are awarded assignments on a competitive basis. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP are not engaged in assignments that are prohibited
under rules introduced pursuant to the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Tax services are in respect of tax compliance and tax advice in a number of territories.
Other non-audit services provided in 2003 comprised advice on the implementation of share option and long term incentive schemes.
6) EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS
2004 2003
£m £m
Staff costs during the year were as follows:
Wages and salaries 117.1 119.5
Social security costs 20.1 18.6
Other pension costs (note 28) (2.9) (4.4)
134.3 133.7
The average monthly number of persons employed was as follows:
2004 2003
Number Number
Marketing and Distribution Division
Americas 1,618 1,654
Europe and Asia Pacific 2,448 2,306
4,066 3,960
Industrial Products Division 952 991
Head Office 43 43
5,061 4,994
Directors’ remuneration
A detailed analysis of directors’ remuneration, including salaries, performance-related bonuses and long-term incentives, is provided under the
headings Directors’ Remuneration and Share Options in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39. The total remuneration of the directors
comprises:
2004 2003
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 1.3 1.2
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 0.4 0.4
1.7 1.6
Number of directors to whom retirement benefits are accruing under:
– a defined benefit scheme and a money purchase scheme 2 2
– a money purchase scheme 1 –
Details of the highest paid director are given on page 37, under the heading Directors’ Remuneration. 50 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
7) TAXATION
2004 2003
£m £m
UK corporation tax at 30% (2003: 30%):
Current tax for the year 7.1 13.5
Current tax in respect of prior years (0.8) (0.7)
Overseas corporate tax:
Current tax for the year 6.7 2.6
Current tax in respect of prior years (0.2) 0.1
Deferred taxation:
Current year 2.9 3.1
Prior year (0.1) (0.4)
15.6 18.2
No tax charge/credit arose from the disposal of businesses in 2004 (2003: credit of £0.9 million).
The rate of the current tax charge on profits before goodwill amortisation and profit/loss on disposal of businesses is lower than the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK. The differences are explained below:
2004 2003
% %
Standard rate of UK tax 30.0 30.0
Overseas tax rates 2.8 0.6
Timing differences (4.9) (4.0)
Other current year items (3.8) (1.3)
Prior year items (1.7) (0.9)
Effective rate of tax 22.4 24.4
8) PREMIER FARNELL PLC – PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Premier Farnell plc has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. The loss for the
financial year dealt with in the accounts of the Company is £0.4 million (2003: profit of £1.2 million).
9) DIVIDENDS
2004 2003
£m £m
Preference (non-equity)
Paid July 2003 (July 2002) 3.3 7.5
Paid January 2004 (January 2003) 3.3 3.3
6.6 10.8
Ordinary (equity)
Interim paid of 4.0p (2003: 4.0p) per share 14.5 14.5
Final proposed of 5.0p (2003: 5.0p) per share 18.1 18.1
32.6 32.6
Details of dividends on preference shares are given in note 20. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 51
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
10) EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary
shares in issue during the year, excluding those shares held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust (note 13). For diluted earnings per share, the
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume issue of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, i.e. those share options
granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year.
Reconciliations of earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
Basic and Basic and
diluted diluted
per share per share
Earnings amount Earnings amount
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m pence £m pence
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 32.4 8.9 30.8 9.3
Rebranding costs 2.4 0.7 ––
(Profit)/loss on disposal of businesses (0.1) – 4.8 1.4
Tax attributable to rebranding/disposal of businesses (0.7) (0.2) (0.9) (0.3)
Amortisation of goodwill 2.6 0.7 2.6 0.8
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before rebranding costs,
amortisation of goodwill and disposals 36.6 10.1 37.3 11.2
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares 362,329,619 331,570,659
Dilutive effect of share options 1,025,010 850,520
Diluted weighted average number of shares 363,354,629 332,421,179
The year on year increase in the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding results from the special conversion, approved by
shareholders on 13th May 2002, of 19.5 million preference shares into 89.8 million ordinary shares.
Adjusted earnings per share (i.e. before rebranding costs, amortisation of goodwill and profit/loss on disposal of businesses) have been provided in
order to facilitate year on year comparison.
11) INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Goodwill
£m
Group
Cost
At 3rd February 2003 and 1st February 2004 52.6
Amortisation
At 3rd February 2003 4.1
Charge for the year 2.6
At 1st February 2004 6.7
Net book amount
At 1st February 2004 45.9
At 2nd February 2003 48.5 52 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
12) TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Freehold land Plant and
and buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Group
Cost
At 3rd February 2003 72.9 136.0 208.9
Additions 1.2 18.9 20.1
Disposals (5.6) (15.0) (20.6)
Businesses sold (0.2) (0.2) (0.4)
Currency translation adjustment (3.7) (4.8) (8.5)
At 1st February 2004 64.6 134.9 199.5
Depreciation
At 3rd February 2003 22.5 73.5 96.0
Charge for the year 1.8 18.6 20.4
Disposals (4.8) (14.3) (19.1)
Businesses sold (0.1) (0.2) (0.3)
Currency translation adjustment (1.8) (2.9) (4.7)
At 1st February 2004 17.6 74.7 92.3
Net book amount
At 1st February 2004 47.0 60.2 107.2
At 2nd February 2003 50.4 62.5 112.9
Plant and equipment includes computer hardware and software with a cost of £93.6 million (2003: £87.0 million) and accumulated depreciation of
£48.9 million (2003: £43.2 million).
Capital commitments authorised and contracted at 1st February 2004 amounted to £1.1 million (2003: £3.2 million).
13) FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Shares in subsidiary undertakings – – 490.0 623.7
Interests in own shares – 0.2 – 0.2
– 0.2 490.0 623.9
1) Shares in subsidiary undertakings
£m
Company
At 3rd February 2003 623.7
Additions 760.6
Disposals (895.1)
Currency revaluation adjustment 0.8
At 1st February 2004 490.0
Additions and disposals in the year relate to the internal reorganisation of the Group’s legal structure. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 53
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 13 CONTINUED
The principal trading subsidiary undertakings of Premier Farnell plc are as follows:
Country of
incorporation
and operation
Farnell Electronic Components Ltd UK
Farnell Electronic Components Pty Ltd Australia
Farnell Electronic Components Limited New Zealand
Farnell InOne GmbH (formerly Farnell Electronic Components GmbH) Germany
Farnell Danmark AS Denmark
Oy Farnell (Finland) AB Finland
Farnell Components AB Sweden
Farnell AG Switzerland
Farnell Components (Ireland) Limited Eire
Farnell (France) SAS France
Farnell (Netherlands) BV Netherlands
Farnell-Newark InOne Distribuidora de Componentes Electronicos Ltda (formerly Farnell do Brazil Ltda) Brazil
Farnell Components Pte Ltd Singapore
Farnell Components (M) SDN BHD Malaysia
Farnell Components (HK) Ltd Hong Kong
Farnell Components SL Spain
Farnell Italia SRL Italy
Farnell (Belgium) NV Belgium
Farnell Newark InOne (Shanghai) Co Ltd China
Combined Precision Components PLC UK
Buck & Hickman Limited UK
Newark Corporation USA
Newark Electronics Corporation USA
MCM Electronics Inc USA
Premier Farnell LLC USA
Premier Farnell Canada Limited Canada
NV Premier Industrial Belgium SRL Belgium
Premier Industrial Deutschland GmbH Germany
Premier Industrial Holland BV Holland
Premier Industrial France SARL France
Premier Industrial Italia Srl Italy
Premier Industrial (UK) Ltd UK
Premierco España SL Spain
Premier Farnell Electronics de Mexico SRL Mexico
TPC Wire & Cable de Mexico SRL Mexico
All of the above are wholly owned.
Companies incorporated in the UK are registered in England.
All companies are involved in distribution activities. Premier Farnell LLC is also involved in manufacturing activities.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return. 54 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 13 CONTINUED
2) Interests in own shares
£m
Group and Company
Cost
At 3rd February 2003 and 1st February 2004 1.1
Amortisation
At 3rd February 2003 0.9
Charge for the year 0.2
At 1st February 2004 1.1
Net book amount
At 1st February 2004 –
At 2nd February 2003 0.2
The Premier Farnell Executive Trust acquires ordinary shares and ADRs (each ADR representing 2 ordinary shares) in the open market in order to
meet anticipated obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan. The cost of these shares is being amortised over the performance
period of the plan to which they relate. The costs of administering the plan are charged to the profit and loss account of the Company. The Trustees
have waived the right to receive dividends in respect of the ordinary shares and ADRs held by the Trust. At 1st February 2004 and 2nd February
2003, the Trust held 234,000 ordinary shares and 35,000 ADRs (representing 70,000 ordinary shares) with a total nominal value of £15,200. The
market value of these shares at 1st February 2004 was £806,000 (2nd February 2003: £533,000).
14) STOCKS
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials 1.4 1.8 – –
Work in progress 4.3 3.8 – –
Finished goods and goods for resale 145.3 142.2 – –
151.0 147.8 – –
15) DEBTORS
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 102.9 104.5 – –
Deferred tax asset (note 19) – – 0.1 0.3
Other debtors 12.6 5.9 5.9 0.3
Prepayments and accrued income 13.0 11.4 0.3 0.2
128.5 121.8 6.3 0.8
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 420.5 322.8
Pension fund prepayment (note 28) 79.6 82.2 – –
79.6 82.2 420.5 322.8
16) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DERIVATIVES
An explanation of the Group’s objectives, policies and strategies in the use of derivatives and other financial instruments is included in the Finance
Director’s Review under the heading Treasury Operations on page 30. The following detailed disclosures with regard to the use of financial
instruments and derivatives exclude short term trade debtors and creditors where permitted by FRS13.
1) Foreign Currency Risk
The Group hedges transactions primarily related to the purchase and sale of inventories denominated in foreign currencies through foreign exchange
forward contracts. These contracts reduce currency risk from exchange rate movements with respect to these transactions and related cash flows.
Gains and losses are deferred and accounted for as part of the underlying transactions.
The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, unless there is a corresponding cashflow, since such hedges provide only a temporary
deferral of the effects of movements in exchange rates. Similarly, whilst a significant proportion of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in
US dollars, the Group does not specifically hedge all of its long-term investments in overseas assets. Currency translation gains, amounting to
£9.8 million in the year ended 1st February 2004 and currency translation losses amounting to £0.3 million in the year ended 2nd February 2003,
have been credited/charged to reserves in relation to the translation of net assets in foreign currencies. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 55
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 16 CONTINUED
At 1st February 2004 the gross notional amount of foreign exchange forward contracts to sell foreign currencies, all of which had maturities of less
than one year, totalled £64.2 million (2003: £14.0 million) and can be analysed as follows:
Commitments to sell foreign currency
Sterling equivalent Unrecognised/deferred
gains and (losses)
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Euros 10.9 11.6 0.1 (0.1)
Australian dollars 0.6 2.4 – –
US Dollars 52.7 – – –
64.2 14.0 0.1 (0.1)
The commitment to sell US dollars is linked to the Group’s US dollar denominated borrowings referred to below which provide a hedge against the
Group’s US dollar investments. The unrealised exchange gain on this US dollar commitment has been reflected in the statement of total recognised
gains and losses.
In addition, at 1st February 2004, the Group had entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to buy £0.9 million (2003: £nil) of US dollars on
which there was an unrecognised loss of £0.1 million.
The unrecognised/deferred gains and losses in respect of foreign exchange forward contracts are estimated by reference to the amounts not yet
recognised that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the contracts based on year end rates.
During the financial year, the Group has not used any other financial instruments to hedge trading foreign exchange rate exposures.
The Group’s primary translation exposure relates to the relative values of the pound sterling and US dollar. Although the US business generates
significant US dollar trading cash flows, the Group’s borrowings are predominantly US dollar denominated. Management anticipates that the
ongoing US dollar interest and dividend obligations together with US dollar trade payments in the UK will continue to preclude the need to enter into
any significant hedging of US dollar cash flows.
At 1st February 2004 the Group had the equivalent of £4.5 million (2003: £3.6 million) of (predominantly Euro denominated) net financial assets in
non-functional currencies in relation to which future movements in foreign currencies could have a limited impact on consolidated profit.
2) Interest Rate Risk
The Group finances its operations through a combination of retained cash flow, equity and non-equity shares and short and medium term
borrowings. Procedures are in place to monitor and manage interest rate risk with derivatives being entered into when considered appropriate
by management.
Financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings is as follows:
2004 2003
Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due within one year 0.1 2.8 2.9 94.6 2.7 97.3
Due between one and two years 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 – 0.2
Due between two and five years 85.5 20.0 105.5 94.8 44.0 138.8
Due over five years 124.9 0.2 125.1 1.5 1.0 2.5
210.6 23.0 233.6 191.1 47.7 238.8
The Group’s borrowings are denominated in US dollars with the exception of the floating rate debt due within five years of £22.8 million which is
denominated in sterling.
The Group has multi-currency bilateral bank facilities of £122.5 million, which are committed until 2006. The facilities carry a LIBOR based floating
rate of interest. At the year end, £20.0 million was drawn on these facilities (2003: £44.0 million).
In June 2003, the Group raised $225.0 million of new financing in the private placement market. This comprises $66.0 million Senior Notes payable
2010 and $159.0 million Senior Notes payable 2013 at fixed interest rates of 5.3% and 5.9%, respectively. The funds raised were used to repay
other borrowings, principally the $155.0 million 7.0% Senior Notes due on 17th June 2003. The total US dollar denominated private placement debt
outstanding at the year end is $380.0 million (2003: $310.0 million).
The weighted average interest rate attributable to fixed rate borrowings was 6.6% (2003: 7.1%) and the weighted average duration of fixed rate
borrowings was 6.0 years (2003: 2.9 years).
The Group’s other financial liabilities comprise provision for dilapidation costs of £1.5 million (2003: £1.5 million).
Non-equity shares
A proportion of the Group’s share capital is attributable to non-equity interests, in the form of cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the preference shares are described in note 20. 56 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 16 CONTINUED
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand of £31.7 million (2003: £29.6 million) relates principally to overnight deposits and current account balances held in
trading operations worldwide and comprises £3.4 million (2003: £2.5 million) in sterling, £14.5 million (2003: £16.9 million) in Euros, £7.4 million
(2003: £4.2 million) in US dollars and £6.4 million (2003: £6.0 million) in other currencies. All significant balances earn interest based on local
market rates appropriate for the currency concerned.
3) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of the fair values and book values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is provided below.
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m
Assets
Cash at bank and in hand 31.7 31.7 29.6 29.6
Liabilities and derivatives
Creditors – due within one year (2.9) (2.9) (97.3) (98.6)
– due after more than one year (230.7) (234.2) (141.5) (150.0)
Commitments to sell/buy foreign currency –– – (0.1)
Provision for dilapidation costs (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5)
(235.1) (238.6) (240.3) (250.2)
Non-equity interests (121.8) (110.6) (126.7) (89.5)
The fair value of borrowings is based on estimates of the current fixed interest rates available for debt of the same remaining maturity. The fair value
of non-equity interests is based on the quoted market price as at the financial year end.
4) Credit Risk
The Group monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its forward exchange contracts
and does not anticipate non-performance by the counterparties. The Group would not realise a material loss in the event of non-performance by
counterparties. At 1st February 2004, neither the Group nor the counterparties were required to collateralise their respective obligations under these
financial instruments.
17) CREDITORS – DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts (unsecured) 2.8 2.7 4.5 6.2
Unsecured loans (note 18) 0.1 94.6 – –
Trade creditors 53.8 49.3 – –
Corporate taxes 44.8 43.4 1.7 1.5
Payroll and other taxes including social security 6.1 5.9 0.2 0.2
Other creditors 12.4 13.8 0.7 1.2
Accruals and deferred income 20.9 26.9 2.2 2.2
Proposed ordinary dividend 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.1
159.0 254.7 27.4 29.4
18) CREDITORS – DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Unsecured loans 230.7 141.5 140.3 41.0
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings – – 55.9 142.9
230.7 141.5 196.2 183.9
Unsecured loans comprise:
Bank loans 20.0 44.0 16.6 41.0
7.0% US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes payable 2003 – 94.5 – –
7.2% US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes payable 2006 85.2 94.5 – –
5.3% US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes payable 2010 36.3 – 36.3 –
5.9% US dollar Guaranteed Senior Notes payable 2013 87.4 – 87.4 –
Other loans 1.9 3.1 – –
230.8 236.1 140.3 41.0
Less: amount due within one year (0.1) (94.6) – –
230.7 141.5 140.3 41.0 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 57
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 18 CONTINUED
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts and unsecured loans are repayable as follows:
Within one year 2.9 97.3 4.5 6.2
Between one and two years 0.1 0.2 – –
Between two and five years 105.5 138.8 16.6 41.0
After five years 125.1 2.5 123.7 –
233.6 238.8 144.8 47.2
Details of the Group’s borrowing facilities are given in note 16.
19) PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Deferred taxation 35.9 36.6 – –
Overseas post-retirement obligations 4.7 5.2 – –
Dilapidation costs 1.5 1.5 – –
42.1 43.3 – –
1) Deferred taxation
At beginning of year 36.6 37.7 (0.3) (0.2)
Charge/(credit) in the year (note 7) 2.8 2.7 0.2 (0.1)
Currency translation adjustment (3.5) (3.8) – –
Provision/(asset) at end of year 35.9 36.6 (0.1) (0.3)
Deferred tax provisions/(assets) comprise:
Accelerated capital allowances 12.9 13.5 – –
Short-term timing differences (6.6) (7.6) (0.1) (0.3)
Pension prepayment 29.6 30.7 – –
35.9 36.6 (0.1) (0.3)
No provision has been made for deferred UK taxation and foreign withholding taxes relating to unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where
remittance of these earnings is not anticipated in the foreseeable future.
2) Overseas post-retirement obligations (note 28)
At beginning of year 5.2 5.0 – –
Increase in year – 1.0 – –
Currency translation adjustment (0.5) (0.8) – –
At end of year 4.7 5.2 – –
3) Dilapidation costs
At beginning and end of year 1.5 1.5 – –
Provision for dilapidation costs represents the estimated cost of dilapidation work on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated at the
end of their lease term. The average length of the remaining lease term on these properties is 12 years. 58 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
20) CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
Company Company
2004 2003
Nominal value Nominal value
£m £m
Authorised
Attributable to equity interests
500,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each (2003: 500,000,000) 25.0 25.0
Attributable to non-equity interests
32,000,000 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of £1 each (2003: 32,000,000) 32.0 32.0
57.0 57.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each (equity interests)
At 3rd February 2003 (362,438,230 shares) 18.1 13.6
Preference share conversion – 4.5
Allotted under share option schemes (510,000 shares) – –
At 1st February 2004 (362,948,230 shares) 18.1 18.1
Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of £1 each (non-equity interests)
At 3rd February 2003 (7,772,221 shares) 7.8 27.9
Preference share conversion – (19.5)
Preference share purchase and cancellation (197,000 shares) (0.2) (0.6)
At 1st February 2004 (7,575,221 shares) 7.6 7.8
Capital restructuring
On 19th March 2003 the Company purchased and cancelled 197,000 of its own preference shares at a cost of £2.3 million.
The capital restructuring in 2003 comprised the special conversion, approved by shareholders on 13th May 2002, of 19,530,070 preference shares
into 89,838,310 ordinary shares. In addition, in 2003 the Company purchased and cancelled a total of 643,964 of its own preference shares at a
cost of £8.3 million.
Allotments during the year
On various dates during the year allotments were made under the Company’s Executive Share Option Schemes totalling 510,000 ordinary shares
(nominal value: £25,500) for a cash consideration of £930,000.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the US$1.35 cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of £1 each
(the “US preference shares”) and the 89.2p cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of £1 each (the “sterling preference
shares” and, together with the US preference shares, the “preference shares”) are as follows:
1) Currency
Holders of preference shares are entitled to receive a preferential dividend, a distribution on a winding up and a payment on redemption. Holders of
US preference shares receive such payments in US dollars. Holders of sterling preference shares receive such payments in sterling.
2) Changeover
A holder of US preference shares may serve notice on the Company requiring that some or all of his US preference shares be changed to sterling
preference shares.
3) Income
a) Each holder has a right to receive a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of US$1.35 per annum for every £1 of nominal value for the
US preference shares and at the rate of 89.2p per annum for every £1 of nominal value for the sterling preference shares. Dividends on the US and
sterling preference shares are payable half-yearly in arrears in equal amounts, on 26th January and 26th July.
b) The fixed cumulative preferential dividends payable in respect of the US preference shares and sterling preference shares are paid in priority to
any dividend payable to the holders of ordinary shares and in priority to or pari passu with the holders of any other class of preference shares in the
capital of the Company.
c) If a holder of US preference shares has elected to changeover his US preference shares to sterling preference shares then the fixed cumulative
preferential dividend and any arrears payable after the changeover date will be paid at the sterling rate set out above.
4) Conversion
a) Each holder of US preference shares and sterling preference shares is entitled to convert all or any of his fully paid preference shares into fully paid
ordinary shares at the rate of 10.3432p in nominal amount of ordinary share capital for every £1 in nominal amount of preference share capital so
converted (the “conversion rate”).
b) The preference shares may be converted on any date at the option of the holder on and from the date of issue up to and including 22nd April 2016. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 59
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 20 CONTINUED
c) If at any time 75 per cent or more of all the preference shares have been converted into ordinary shares (but assuming, for this purpose only, that
any preference shares which have been converted into ordinary shares pursuant to the special conversion right referred to above had never been
issued or converted), the Company may give written notice to the remaining holders of US preference shares and sterling preference shares to
convert the remaining US preference shares and sterling preference shares into ordinary shares.
d) The conversion rate may be subject to adjustment if, inter alia, the Company makes an issue of ordinary shares by way of capitalisation of profits
or reserves, a rights issue or another offer to ordinary shareholders or if there is a change of control in the Company following a take-over offer or if a
capital distribution is made.
5) Redemption
The Company shall (subject to any statutory restrictions) on 29th April 2016 redeem all the US preference shares in issue at US$25 for every £1 of
nominal value and all the sterling preference shares in issue at £16.518 for every £1 of nominal value.
6) Voting
Each preference share entitles the holder to receive notice of but not to attend or vote at general meetings of the Company save in limited
circumstances. Subject to being entitled to vote on any resolution, each holder of preference shares has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll
every such holder has one vote for every ordinary share to which he would be entitled on conversion of his preference shares.
7) Winding Up
Subject to the rights attached to any shares issued on any special terms and conditions, on a return of capital on a winding-up of the Company the
assets available for distribution will be applied, first, in paying to each holder of a preference share any arrears and accruals of the preferential
dividend; second, in repaying US$25 for every £1 of nominal value for the US preference shares and £16.518 for every £1 of nominal value for the
sterling preference shares; third, in repaying the capital paid up on each ordinary share; and fourth, in distributing the remainder rateably among the
members of the Company according to the amounts paid up on their respective holdings of shares in the Company, each preference share being
treated for this purpose as if converted at the conversion rate applicable into fully paid ordinary shares immediately prior to the commencement of
the winding-up.
21) SHARE OPTIONS
During the year options were exercised on 393,000 5p ordinary shares at 192p, 84,000 5p ordinary shares at 153p and on 33,000 5p ordinary
shares at 193p, under the terms of the 1984 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme (as subsequently amended).
At 1st February 2004, the aggregate number of shares covered by options is 8,418,045 (2003: 7,527,593) and the total consideration of
£21.1 million (2003: £19.0 million) is made up as follows:
Number Total
of shares Option consideration
Date of grant outstanding price £m
May 1995 78,894 551p 0.4
November 1995 10,519 631p 0.1
November 1996 161,500 682p 1.1
November 1996 157,500 688p 1.1
May 1997 50,000 682p 0.3
July 1998 300,000 305p 0.9
March 1999 1,242,500 192p 2.4
July 1999 25,000 245p 0.1
December 1999 45,000 368p 0.2
April 2000 528,550 425p 2.2
June 2000 26,000 468p 0.1
September 2000 65,000 513p 0.3
December 2000 50,000 377p 0.2
July 2001 40,000 249p 0.1
September 2001 1,083,750 193p 2.1
January 2002 9,000 320p –
April 2002 50,000 337p 0.2
October 2002 2,186,000 153p 3.3
December 2002 59,700 199p 0.1
January 2003 40,000 175p 0.1
January 2003 10,000 199p –
September 2003 60,000 246p 0.1
October 2003 2,107,335 265p 5.6
January 2004 31,797 262p 0.1
8,418,045 21.1
Both approved and unapproved executive share options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. 60 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 21 CONTINUED
In addition, under the Company’s long-term incentive plan, certain individuals have been granted rights which may result in the issue of the following
ordinary shares and ADRs (each ADR representing two ordinary shares):
End of
Number of Number of performance
Date of grant ordinary shares ADRs period
March 2002 459,607 41,070 January 2005
June 2003 1,385,216 199,057 June 2006
1,844,823 240,127
22) RESERVES
Share Capital Profit and
premium redemption Merger loss
account reserve reserve account
£m £m £m £m
Group
At 3rd February 2003 19.2 0.6 – 57.8
Retained loss for the year – – – (0.2)
Premium on issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes (note 20) 0.9 – – –
Purchase of own preference shares (note 20) – 0.2 – (2.3)
Goodwill reinstated on disposal of business (note 24) – – – 0.4
Currency translation adjustment (net of associated tax charge) – – – 9.8
At 1st February 2004 20.1 0.8 – 65.5
Company
At 3rd February 2003 19.2 0.6 0.6 687.9
Retained loss for the year – – – (39.6)
Premium on issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes (note 20) 0.9 – – –
Purchase of own preference shares (note 20) – 0.2 – (2.3)
Currency translation on investments – – – 0.8
Other currency translation adjustments – – – (0.8)
At 1st February 2004 20.1 0.8 0.6 646.0
Cumulative goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings which are still part of the Group and which was charged directly against
reserves of the Group amounted to £1,593.6 million at 1st February 2004 (2003: £1,594.0 million).
23) RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
Group Group Company Company
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) after taxation 39.0 41.6 (0.4) 1.2
Dividends – preference (6.6) (10.8) (6.6) (10.8)
– ordinary (32.6) (32.6) (32.6) (32.6)
(0.2) (1.8) (39.6) (42.2)
New share capital subscribed (note 20) 0.9 0.7 0.9 0.7
Purchase of own preference shares (note 20) (2.3) (8.3) (2.3) (8.3)
Preference share conversion costs – (0.9) – (0.9)
Goodwill reinstated on disposal of business (note 24) 0.4 2.6 – –
Currency translation on investments – – 0.8 (0.1)
Other currency translation adjustments 9.8 (0.3) (0.8) 0.1
Net change in shareholders’ funds 8.6 (8.0) (41.0) (50.7)
Shareholders’ funds at the beginning of the year 103.5 111.5 734.2 784.9
Shareholders’ funds at the end of the year 112.1 103.5 693.2 734.2
Shareholders’ funds comprise:
Equity interests (9.7) (23.2) 571.4 607.5
Non-equity interests 121.8 126.7 121.8 126.7
112.1 103.5 693.2 734.2
Non-equity interests reflect the redemption cost of the cumulative convertible preference shares. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 61
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
24) DISPOSALS
Details of businesses disposed of during the year are given in note 3.
2004 2003
£m £m
Tangible fixed assets 0.1 1.7
Stocks 0.1 2.1
Debtors/creditors – 1.8
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves 0.4 2.6
0.6 8.2
Profit/(loss) on disposal (note 3) 0.1 (4.9)
Net consideration (see below) 0.7 3.3
Cash consideration 0.9 4.3
Disposal costs (0.2) (1.0)
Net consideration 0.7 3.3
Cash flow in respect of prior year disposals (0.2) –
Net cash flow from disposals 0.5 3.3
25) NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
1) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating profit 68.8 80.3
Depreciation charge (net of profit on disposals) 19.3 15.8
Amortisation of goodwill 2.6 2.6
Pension credit (6.0) (6.8)
Increase in stocks (9.9) (9.0)
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (5.3) 0.8
Increase in creditors 0.5 8.3
Net cash inflow from operating activities 70.0 92.0
2) Analysis of changes in net debt
Debt due Debt due
Cash at bank Bank within after Net
and in hand overdraft one year one year cash/(debt)
£m £m £m £m £m
At 3rd February 2003 29.6 (2.7) (94.6) (141.5) (209.2)
Increase/(decrease) in net cash 1.6 (0.1) – – 1.5
Decrease/(increase) in debt – – 92.4 (110.3) (17.9)
Other changes – – (0.1) 0.1 –
Exchange movement 0.5 – 2.2 21.0 23.7
At 1st February 2004 31.7 (2.8) (0.1) (230.7) (201.9)
26) CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has guaranteed the loans of certain subsidiary undertakings which, at 1st February 2004, amounted to £88.7 million
(2003: £189.0 million).
27) OPERATING LEASES
Land and buildings Other assets
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
The Group has annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 
which expire:
Within one year 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.9
Between one and five years 2.2 3.2 2.9 2.7
After five years 2.0 1.8 0.1 –
5.0 5.7 3.8 3.6 62 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
28) PENSION COMMITMENTS AND OTHER POST -RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS
1) Pensions
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world covering the majority of its employees. These plans are devised in accordance with local
conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include defined contribution and defined benefit schemes. The assets of the plans are
generally held in separately administered trusts. The contributions to the plans are assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice
principally using the projected unit method of valuation.
The net credit for the year relating to all of the Group’s pension plans amounted to £2.9 million (2003: £4.4 million).
The Group’s two principal plans operate in the UK and the US. Further disclosures of these plans are set out below:
UK Plan US Plan
6th April 31st October
Last valuation date 2002 2003
£m £m
Market value of investments at last valuation date 53.1 123.2
Regular pension cost 0.3 1.8
Interest on prepaid asset – (6.8)
Amortisation of variation 0.4 (1.0)
Total pension cost/(credit) 0.7 (6.0)
Level of funding, being the actuarial value of assets expressed as a percentage
of the accrued service liabilities 94% 263%
The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation of the UK Plan were a weighted average projected investment return of 6.4% per annum,
salary inflation of 4.3% per annum and pension increases of 2.8% per annum. For the US Plan, the principal actuarial assumptions were a weighted
average projected investment return of 8.5% per annum and salary inflation of 5.0% per annum.
Variations from regular cost are spread over the remaining service lives of current employees in the plans.
The final salary section of the UK Plan was closed to new entrants in 1998 as a result of which, under the projected unit method, the current service
cost of the scheme will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement. Members at that date now receive benefits funded through a
combination of the US Plan and the UK Plan, including contributions to the money purchase section within the UK Plan. Employees joining the UK
Plan since 1st January 1999 are entitled to money purchase benefits only.
An asset of £79.6 million (2003: £82.2 million) is included in debtors, representing the excess of the actuarial value of the assets over the accrued
service liabilities of the US Plan.
Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17, Retirement Benefits
The following information is provided for disclosure purposes only in accordance with FRS17. Pension costs have been recognised in these
accounts in line with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No. 24, Accounting for Pension Costs, as described above.
The financial assumptions at 1st February 2004 used to calculate liabilities under FRS17 were as follows:
UK Plan UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plan US Plan
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Inflation 2.60 2.30 2.50 2.60 2.30 2.50
Rate of increase in salaries 4.10 3.80 4.00 4.10 3.80 4.00
Rate of increase in pensions 2.60 2.30 2.50 2.60 2.30 2.50
Discount rate 5.50 5.50 5.75 6.10 6.50 7.00
The market value of assets, the expected rate of return and the funding position at 1st February 2004 in accordance with FRS17 were:
UK Plan UK Plan UK Plan UK Plan UK Plan UK Plan
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
expected rate expected rate expected rate
of return of return of return
2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002
% pa £m % pa £m % pa £m
Equities 8.0 29.9 8.9 25.0 7.9 31.5
Bonds 4.9 19.1 4.5 18.2 5.0 21.2
Cash 4.0 0.3 4.0 0.1 – –
Average return/Total market value 6.8 49.3 7.0 43.3 6.8 52.7
Present value of plan liabilities (63.0) (58.0) (61.2)
Deficit in the plan (13.7) (14.7) (8.5)
Related deferred tax asset 4.1 4.4 2.6
Net pension liability (9.6) (10.3) (5.9) NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 63
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 28 CONTINUED
1) Pensions (continued)
Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17, Retirement Benefits (continued)
US Plan US Plan US Plan US Plan US Plan US Plan
Long-term Value Long-term Value Long-term Value
expected rate expected rate expected rate
of return of return of return
2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002
% pa £m % pa £m % pa £m
Equities 8.0 115.1 8.9 107.1 7.9 156.6
Cash –– – – 4.5 1.8
Average return/Total market value 8.0 115.1 8.9 107.1 7.9 158.4
Present value of plan liabilities (57.3) (57.7) (69.1)
Surplus in the plan 57.8 49.4 89.3
Related deferred tax liability (21.8) (18.7) (33.8)
Net pension asset 36.0 30.7 55.5
Analysis of amounts charged to the profit and loss account in respect of defined benefit schemes for the year ended 1st February 2004:
(i) Amounts charged to operating profit
UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plan
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Current service cost 0.3 0.3 2.2 2.7
Past service cost – – – 0.7
Total operating charge 0.3 0.3 2.2 3.4
(ii) Amounts credited to exceptional items
Gain on curtailments – – – 0.3
(iii) Amounts credited/(charged) to other finance income
Expected return on pension scheme assets 3.0 3.5 9.3 11.4
Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities (3.1) (3.5) (3.6) (4.4)
Net (charge)/return (0.1) – 5.7 7.0
Movements in (deficit)/surplus during the year:
UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plan
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
(Deficit)/surplus at beginning of year (14.7) (8.5) 49.4 89.3
Contributions paid by employer 0.3 – – –
Current service cost (0.3) (0.3) (2.2) (2.7)
Past service cost – – – (0.7)
Gain on curtailments – – – 0.3
Other finance (cost)/income (0.1) – 5.7 7.0
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.1 (5.9) 4.9 (43.8)
(Deficit)/surplus at end of year (13.7) (14.7) 57.8 49.4
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plan
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 5.2 (10.6) 14.2 (37.6)
Experience (losses)/gains arising on scheme liabilities (0.4) 5.2 3.1 7.1
Changes in the assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme (3.7) (0.5) (6.3) (2.6)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.1 (5.9) 11.0 (33.1)
Currency translation adjustment – – (6.1) (10.7)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.1 (5.9) 4.9 (43.8) 64 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 28 CONTINUED
1) Pensions (continued)
Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17, Retirement Benefits (continued)
History of experience gains and losses:
UK Plan UK Plan US Plan US Plan
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Difference between the actual and expected return on scheme assets:
Amount (£m) 5.2 (10.6) 14.2 (37.6)
Percentage of scheme assets 10.5% 24.5% 12.3% 35.1%
Experience (loss)/gain on scheme liabilities
Amount (£m) (0.4) 5.2 3.1 7.1
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.6% 9.0% 5.4% 12.3%
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses
Amount (£m) 1.1 (5.9) 11.0 (33.1)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 1.7% 10.2% 19.2% 57.4%
Reported net assets and profit and loss reserve can be reconciled to amounts in accordance with FRS17 as follows:
Net Profit and Net Profit and
assets loss reserve assets loss reserve
2004 2004 2003 2003
£m £m £m £m
As reported 112.1 65.5 103.5 57.8
Pension asset in accordance with SSAP 24 (79.6) (79.6) (82.2) (82.2)
Associated deferred tax liability 29.6 29.6 30.7 30.7
As reported excluding pension asset and associated deferred tax liability 62.1 15.5 52.0 6.3
Net pension asset in accordance with FRS17 26.4 26.4 20.4 20.4
Amounts in accordance with FRS17 88.5 41.9 72.4 26.7
The UK defined benefit pension plan includes certain employees of Premier Farnell plc. However, the contributions by Premier Farnell plc are
accounted for as a defined contribution scheme, as the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the plan.
2) Post-retirement medical benefits
In the US, the Group provides unfunded post-retirement medical benefits to certain US employees. The method of accounting for these obligations
is similar to that used to account for pension obligations. The principal assumptions used in the most recent actuarial valuation undertaken at
1st February 2004 were a discount rate of 7.0% per annum and healthcare costs increasing by 9.0% per annum in the short term, reducing to an
increase of approximately 5.0% per annum in the longer term. At 1st February 2004, the provision for post-retirement medical benefits based on this
valuation was £4.7 million (2003: £5.2 million). During the year the Company agreed a change to the post-retirement medical benefit arrangements
with unions and employees. This change has been reflected within the reserve at the year-end.
Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17, Retirement Benefits
The following information is provided for disclosure purposes only in accordance with FRS17.
The financial assumptions at 1st February 2004 used to calculate liabilities for post-retirement medical benefits under FRS17, were as follows:
Discount rate 7.0% (2003: 8.0%)
Medical inflation 9.0% decreasing by 0.5% each year to 5.0% over eight years (2003: 9.0% decreasing by 0.5% each year to 5.0%
over eight years)
Analysis of amounts charged to the profit and loss account in respect of post-retirement medical benefits for the year ended 1st February 2004:
2004 2003
£m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit – current service cost 0.2 0.2
Amounts charged to other finance income – interest cost on liabilities – 0.4
2004 2003
Movements in deficit during the year: £m £m
Obligation at beginning of year (5.8) (5.3)
Contributions paid 0.4 0.4
Current service cost (0.2) (0.2)
Finance cost (0.5) (0.4)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.2 (0.3)
Obligation at end of year (4.9) (5.8) NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 65
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 28 CONTINUED
2) Post-retirement medical benefits (continued)
Disclosures in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17, Retirement Benefits (continued)
2004 2003
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses: £m £m
Experience gain/(loss) on liabilities 1.3 (0.1)
Loss on change of assumptions (0.7) (1.0)
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 0.6 (1.1)
Currency translation adjustment 0.6 0.8
Total gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses 1.2 (0.3)
History of experience gains and losses: 2004 2003
Experience gain/(loss) on liabilities (£m) 1.3 (0.1)
Percentage of liabilities 26.5% 1.7%
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses (£m) 0.6 (1.1)
Percentage of liabilities 12.2% 19.0%
Had the provision for post-retirement medical benefits been calculated in accordance with FRS17, reported net assets and the profit and loss
reserve, as at 1st February 2004, would have been reduced by £0.1 million (2003: £0.4 million).
29) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS8, Related Party Transactions, from disclosing transactions between the Company
and other group undertakings as all such transactions have been eliminated fully on consolidation in these financial statements.
30) POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 6th February 2004, the Group acquired the business and assets of GFE Manufacturing, a company based in Illinois, US, involved in the
manufacture of lighting rigs for the fire-fighting industry, for a consideration of $4.5 million. The acquisition will enable Akron Brass, part of the
Industrial Products Division, to extend the product range available to customers in North America. GFE Manufacturing reported sales in 2003 of
approximately $4.0 million.
31) SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK AND US GENERALL Y ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING
PRINCIPLES (GAAP) 
The Group accounts are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP . A description of the
relevant accounting principles which differ materially is given below.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Under UK GAAP , prior to the introduction of FRS10 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” in 1998 which requires goodwill and intangible assets to be
capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, goodwill arising on acquisitions was permitted to be written off against retained
earnings. Since the introduction of FRS10, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life
which, in the case of BuckHickman InOne, is 20 years. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year
after an acquisition and in other years if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Under US GAAP , prior to the introduction of FAS142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were
capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives. Accordingly, on the acquisition of Premier in 1996, £596 million of the excess purchase
consideration over net asset value was recorded as a customer list intangible asset with the remaining £1,193 million recorded as goodwill. The
customer list was being amortised over 20 years, and goodwill amortised over 40 years.
On the acquisition of BuckHickman InOne in July 2001, £21.3 million of the excess purchase consideration over net asset value was recorded as a
definite lived customer list intangible asset, £8.2 million recognised as an indefinite lived intangible asset, with the remaining £23.1 million recognised
as goodwill.
The Company adopted FAS142 in full on 4th February 2002. FAS142 requires that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are no longer
amortised, but instead assessed annually for impairment by applying a fair value based test. Definite lived intangible assets continue to be amortised
over their estimated useful lives. FAS142 requires intangible assets to be reassessed as either definite lived or indefinite lived intangible assets on the
date of adoption of the standard. Accordingly, the Company continues to recognise the Premier customer list as a definite lived intangible asset with
no change in the estimated useful life. Similarly, the customer list intangible asset and the trademark intangible asset, recognised on the acquisition
of BuckHickman InOne, continues to be recognised as definite lived and indefinite lived intangible assets, respectively, with no change in the
estimated useful life of the customer list.
The Company performed its transitional goodwill impairment test as required by FAS142 as of 4th February 2002, being the adoption date. The
result of the transitional impairment test was the recognition of goodwill impairment of £728.0 million, which in accordance with the transitional
provisions of the standard, was recorded as a cumulative effect change in accounting principle.
The Company has elected to carry out the annual impairment test required by the standard on 31st July each year. The impairment test on 31st
July 2003 resulted in the recognition of a further goodwill impairment of £39.3 million (31st July 2002: £nil).
The indefinite lived trademark intangible asset has also been tested for impairment in accordance with the standard although no impairment was
indicated. 66 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 31 CONTINUED
The differing treatment of goodwill under US GAAP may also give rise to a different profit or loss being recorded in the income statement on the
subsequent disposal of a business.
Deferred Taxation
Under FRS19, “Deferred Tax”, accounting for deferred tax under UK GAAP is now largely consistent with US GAAP . The principal difference
recognised in the reconciliation below relates to deferred tax liabilities provided against intangible assets recorded under US GAAP on acquisition
which have been written off against retained earnings under UK GAAP and for which no deferred tax liability is therefore recorded.
Hedging of the Group’s US Dollar Investments
UK Group companies hold borrowings and forward contracts denominated in US dollars that provide a hedge against the Group’s US dollar
investments. Under UK GAAP , exchange gains or losses on these US dollar liabilities are taken to reserves and reported in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses; whereas, under US GAAP (FAS 133), such exchange gains and losses are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Pension Costs
The key differences between UK GAAP (SSAP24) and US GAAP in relation to defined benefit pension plans are:
– Under UK GAAP plan assets are valued using a discounted income valuation. US GAAP requires plan assets to be measured at market-related
value.
– Under UK GAAP the effect of variations in cost can be accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an aggregate basis. Under
US GAAP the amortisation of the transitional asset and the costs of past service benefit improvements are separately tracked, with aggregated
gains and losses amortised only if outside a 10% corridor.
Under US GAAP , an additional liability is required to be recorded when the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the plan assets.
An intangible asset is recognised when the additional liability is recorded and is adjusted as the additional liability changes. However, the recorded
intangible asset is limited to the amount of unrecognised prior service cost (including any unrecognised net obligation from transition); any excess of
the additional liability over this amount is recorded within the statement of other comprehensive income. At 1st February 2004, the cumulative
amount of additional liability, recorded within the statement of other comprehensive income, as there was no unrecognised prior service cost was
£12.9 million.
Stock Based Compensation
Under UK GAAP , a compensation cost must be calculated in respect of share options and long term incentive plans based on the difference
between the share price at the date of the grant and the option/award price and is recognised over the vesting period; whereas, under US GAAP ,
the compensation cost is based on the fair value of the option/award at the date of grant and is also recognised over the vesting period.
Under UK GAAP , own shares are carried on the balance sheet and classified as a fixed asset; whereas, under US GAAP , own shares are offset
against shareholders’ funds.
Under UK GAAP , a provision is made for the cost of acquiring further shares on the market where there is an obligation under a long term incentive
plan; whereas, under US GAAP , no such provision is recognised.
Revenue Recognition
Under UK GAAP , revenue is recognised when a seller has “performed” under the contractual terms of an arrangement. In this context, performance
occurs when all contractual obligations to a customer have been fulfilled through the supply of goods or services. Consequently, under UK GAAP ,
revenue is recognised at the point of shipment when the contractual terms of the arrangement have been satisfied.
Under US GAAP , Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104 (“SAB 104”) requires that revenue is not recognised until physical delivery to the customer. This
is because it is Newark InOne’s general practice to provide the customer with replacement products at no cost in the event of delivery failure,
notwithstanding that Newark InOne’s standard terms of trade state that title passes and risk of loss or damage transfers to the customer at the
point of shipment.
Capitalisation of Interest
Under UK GAAP , the Group does not capitalise interest; whereas, under US GAAP , the estimated amount of interest incurred on capital projects
which are prepared for use over time is included in fixed assets and depreciated over the lives of the related assets.
Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares and Preference Dividends
Under UK GAAP , cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares are included as shareholders’ funds; whereas, under US GAAP , cumulative
convertible redeemable preference shares do not form part of shareholders’ funds when the terms of redemption of such shares are outside the
control of the Company; the dividend thereon is recorded as a charge against net income.
Under UK GAAP , the special conversion right, which enabled preference shareholders to convert their preference shares into ordinary shares at an
enhanced rate of conversion, does not affect the income statement or shareholders’ funds, with the difference in the nominal value between the
preference shares converted and ordinary shares issued being credited to the share premium account. Under US GAAP , FAS84, “Induced
Conversions of Convertible Debt”, requires an expense to be recorded against net income, measured as being the difference between the fair value
of ordinary shares issued pursuant to the special conversion right and the fair value of ordinary shares issued pursuant to the original conversion
terms. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 67
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
NOTE 31 CONTINUED
Under UK GAAP , costs relating to the preference share conversion are charged against share premium; whereas, under US GAAP , such costs are
charged in arriving at net income.
Under UK GAAP , the cost of repurchasing preference shares is treated as a movement in the profit and loss reserve. On cancellation of the shares a
non-distributable reserve is created equivalent to the nominal value of the shares cancelled. Under US GAAP , as the cumulative convertible
redeemable preference shares are considered to closely resemble debt, the transaction is considered to be an early extinguishment of debt and the
difference between the cost of repurchasing the shares and the book value of the debt is recorded as a gain.
Ordinary Dividends
Under UK GAAP , provision is made for dividends in the year in respect of which they are proposed by the Directors; whereas, under US GAAP ,
provision for dividends is not made until they are formally declared by the Directors.
Effect on net income of differences between UK and US GAAP
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m $m $m
Profit after tax under UK GAAP 39.0 41.6 64.8 63.6
US GAAP adjustments
Amortisation of goodwill 2.6 2.6 4.3 4.0
Amortisation of definite lived intangible assets (28.2) (30.5) (46.8) (46.7)
Gain or loss on disposals 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.6
Goodwill impairment in accordance with FAS142 (39.3) – (65.3) –
Deferred taxation 10.9 10.3 18.1 15.8
Hedging of the Group’s US dollar investments 10.5 – 17.4 –
Pension costs (2.7) (1.3) (4.5) (2.0)
Stock based compensation (1.5) (1.0) (2.5) (1.5)
Revenue recognition (0.7) – (1.2) –
Capitalisation of interest (0.3) 1.6 (0.5) 2.4
Preference dividends (6.6) (10.8) (11.0) (16.5)
Preference share induced conversion costs – (149.5) – (228.7)
Preference share extinguishment gain 1.0 2.3 1.7 3.5
Total US GAAP adjustments (54.2) (175.9) (90.1) (269.1)
Loss after tax under US GAAP prior to cumulative effect of adoption of FAS142 (15.2) (134.3) (25.3) (205.5)
Cumulative effect of adoption of FAS142 – (728.0) – (1,113.8)
Net loss under US GAAP (15.2) (862.3) (25.3) (1,319.3)
Basic earnings per ordinary share under UK GAAP 8.9p 9.3p $0.148 $0.142
Basic loss per ordinary share ADR under US GAAP*
Prior to cumulative effect of adoption of FAS142 (8.4)p (81.0)p $(0.139) $(1.240)
Cumulative effect of adoption of FAS142 – (439.1)p – $(6.718)
Net loss per ordinary share ADR under US GAAP (8.4)p (520.1)p $(0.139) $(7.958)
*Two Premier Farnell ordinary shares are represented by each ordinary share ADR.
The translation of sterling into US dollars has been presented for convenience purposes only using the average exchange rate for the year of 1.66
(2003: 1.53). 68 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
NOTE 31 CONTINUED
Effect on shareholders’ funds of differences between UK and US GAAP
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m $m $m
Shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 112.1 103.5 204.0 169.7
US GAAP adjustments
Goodwill and intangible assets 553.6 676.3 1,007.5 1,109.2
Tangible fixed assets 1.3 1.6 2.4 2.6
Deferred taxation (109.2) (130.9) (198.7) (214.7)
Ordinary dividends 18.1 18.1 32.9 29.7
Pensions (16.8) (17.2) (30.6) (28.2)
Interests in own shares – (0.2) – (0.3)
Stock based compensation 0.8 1.0 1.5 1.6
Revenue recognition (0.7) – (1.3) –
Convertible redeemable preference shares (121.8) (126.7) (221.7) (207.8)
Total US GAAP adjustments 325.3 422.0 592.0 692.1
Shareholders’ funds under US GAAP 437.4 525.5 796.0 861.8
Total assets under UK GAAP 543.9 543.0 989.9 890.5
Total assets under US GAAP 1,080.3 1,203.5 1,966.1 1,973.7
The cumulative effects on significant balance sheet captions of differences between UK and US GAAP are as follows:
UK GAAP US GAAP US GAAP UK GAAP US GAAP US GAAP
adjustments adjustments
2004 £m £m £m $m $m $m
Goodwill and intangible assets 45.9 553.6 599.5 83.5 1,007.5 1,091.0
Tangible fixed assets 107.2 1.3 108.5 195.1 2.4 197.5
Net current assets 231.8 1.4 233.2 421.9 2.5 424.4
Creditors – due after more than one year (230.7) (121.8) (352.5) (419.9) (221.7) (641.6)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (42.1) (109.2) (151.3) (76.6) (198.7) (275.3)
2003
Fixed asset investments 0.2 (0.2) – 0.3 (0.3) –
Goodwill and intangible assets 48.5 676.3 724.8 79.5 1,109.2 1,188.7
Tangible fixed assets 112.9 1.6 114.5 185.2 2.6 187.8
Net current assets 126.7 1.9 128.6 207.8 3.1 210.9
Creditors – due after more than one year (141.5) (126.7) (268.2) (232.1) (207.8) (439.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (43.3) (130.9) (174.2) (71.0) (214.7) (285.7)
The translation of sterling into US dollars has been presented for convenience purposes only using the year-end exchange rate of 1.82 (2003: 1.64). DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES PREMIER FARNELL PLC 69
AUDITORS’ REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the
Auditors’ report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders
the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in
relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare
accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the
financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
The Directors consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 42 to 68
the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently
applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and
estimates and that all applicable accounting standards have been
followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the
financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them
to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The 2004 Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the
Company’s website (in addition to the normal paper version). The
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility
of the Directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of
Premier Farnell plc
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the
consolidated profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised
gains and losses, the balance sheets, the consolidated statement of
cash flows, related notes and the accounting policies set out in the
statement of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985
contained in the Remuneration Report (“the auditable part”).
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors’
Responsibilities. The Directors are also responsible for preparing the
Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable
part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with the relevant legal
and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as
a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the
auditable part of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared
in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. We also
report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent with
the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. The other information comprises only the Chairman’s
Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Operating Review, the
Finance Director’s Review, the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of
the Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and the
Social Responsibility Report.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all
risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s or Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued
by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to
the Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial
statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report are free
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity
or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs
of the Company and the Group at 1st February 2004 and of the profit
and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended.
– The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985.
– Those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Leeds
18th March 2004
AUDITORS’ REPORT 70 PREMIER FARNELL PLC SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
2004/2005 Financial Calendar
Quarter One results 27th May 2004
Annual General Meeting 15th June 2004
Quarter Two and interim results w/c 6th September 2004
Quarter Three results w/c 6th December 2004
Financial year end 30th January 2005
Final Ordinary Dividend Key Dates Interim Ordinary Dividend Key Dates
Ex-dividend Record Payment Ex-dividend Record Payment
Ordinary Shares 26th May 2004 28th May 2004 23rd June 2004 22nd Sept 2004 24th Sept 2004 22nd Oct 2004
Ordinary ADSs 26th May 2004 28th May 2004 23rd June 2004 22nd Sept 2004 24th Sept 2004 22nd Oct 2004
Half-yearly Preference Dividend Key Dates
Ex-dividend Record Payment Ex-dividend Record Payment
Preference Shares 30th June 2004 2nd July 2004 26th July 2004 29th Dec 2004 31st Dec 2004 26th Jan 2005
Preference ADSs 30th June 2004 2nd July 2004 26th July 2004 29th Dec 2004 31st Dec 2004 26th Jan 2005
Annual General Meeting
The 2004 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Mayfair Conference
Centre, 17 Connaught Place, Marble Arch, London W2 2EL, on
15th June at 10.30 am.
Registrar
Enquiries concerning shareholdings or dividends should be addressed in
the first instance to the Company’s Registrar, Capita Registrars Limited,
Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield
HD8 0LA, United Kingdom or telephone +44 (0) 870 1623131.
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com.
Investor Communications
Premier Farnell is committed to establishing a high-quality dialogue with its
financial communities. The Group has an in-house investor relations
function and seeks to ensure that its strategy, businesses, and markets
are well understood and fairly valued. The Group understands that
information flow is important to this process and communicates by means
of results presentations, meetings, site visits, conference calls, printed and
electronic material (e.g. corporate web site, www.premierfarnell.com) and
quarterly reporting.
Shareholder Enquiries
If you have any enquiries as a shareholder, please call James Garthwaite,
Group Director, Communications on +44 (0) 870 129 8608 or
e-mail: jgarthwaite@premierfarnell.com.
For other enquiries please e-mail:information@premierfarnell.com.
US shareholders can also contact our US office on +1 (216) 525 4263.
Additional Information for US Investors
The Company’s American Depository Shares (ADSs), which are
represented by American Depository Receipts (ADRs), are listed on the
New York Stock Exchange. Each ordinary ADS represents two ordinary
shares and each preference ADS represents one preference share and
these trade under the symbols PFP and PFPPR respectively. The ADR
programme is administered on behalf of the Company by The Bank of
New York and enquiries relating to the ADSs and dividend payments
should be addressed to The Bank of New York, American Depositary
Receipts, PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, New York,
NY 10286-1258, USA or telephone +1 (888) 269 2377.
E-mail:shareowners@bankofny.com.
ADR holders receive the reports issued to shareholders either at the
record address, if they hold the ADRs directly, or from their bank or
brokerage firm if the ADRs are held in ‘street name’.
The Company is subject to the regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission as they apply to foreign companies and will file
its annual report on Form 20-F and other information as required on or
before 1st August 2004. When filed, a copy of the Form 20-F (together
with selected financial data in US dollars and format) may be obtained
from Mr Joseph R Daprile, Vice President and General Counsel, North
America Corporate, at Premier Farnell Corp., 7061 E. Pleasant Valley
Road, Independence, Ohio 44131, USA.
E-mail: information@premierfarnell.com.
New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Rules
Updated governance rules were approved by the Securities and
Exchange Commission on 4th November 2003. As a foreign private
issuer, the Company is entitled to follow UK governance practices but
must disclose any significant ways in which these differ from the NYSE
standards.
The only significant differences in respect of the Company are:
(i) There is no nominating/corporate governance committee.
Nominations to the Board are dealt with by the Nominations
Committee. Corporate Governance is a matter for the whole Board,
with specific items relating to financial control and remuneration being
reviewed first by the Audit and Remuneration Committees
respectively.
(ii) There are no regularly scheduled meetings of the Non-Executive
Directors without management present, although it is planned that
this practice be introduced.
(iii) The corporate governance guidelines adopted by the Company
cover most, but not all, of the matters which the NYSE standards
suggest. The relevant guidelines adopted by the Company are
contained principally in its Code of Ethics, which appears on the
Company’s web site. ADVISERS PREMIER FARNELL PLC 71
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
ADVISERS
Cautionary Statement for the Purposes of the ‘Safe Harbor’
Provision of the United States Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. 
The U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a
‘safe harbor’ for forward-looking statements. This Annual Report
contains certain forward-looking statements relating to the business of
the Group and certain of its plans and objectives, including, but not
limited to, savings to be gained from certain programs targeted at the
Group’s spend on goods and services for running operations, the
introduction of new IT and eCommerce platforms, the expected benefits
and future actions to be taken by the Group in respect of certain sales
and marketing initiatives, economies of scale, operating efficiencies,
future capital expenditures, including how such expenditures are to be
funded, future ordinary expenditures and future actions to be taken by
the Group in connection with such capital and ordinary expenditures. By
their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will
occur in the future. Actual expenditures made and actions taken as well
as expected results may differ materially from the Group’s expectations
contained in the forward-looking statements as a result of various
factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Group. These
factors include, but are not limited to, the implementation of cost saving
initiatives to offset current market conditions, integration of new
personnel and new information systems, continued use and acceptance
of eCommerce programs and systems and the impact on other
distribution systems, the ability to expand into new markets and
territories, the implementation and customer acceptance of new sales
and marketing initiatives, changes in demand for electronic, electrical,
electro-magnetic and industrial products, rapid changes in distribution of
our products and customer expectations, product availability, the ability
to introduce and customers’ acceptance of new services, products and
product lines, the impact of competitive pricing, fluctuations in foreign
currencies, changes in interest rates and the impact of changes in
worldwide and national economies. We undertake no obligation to
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, after the date of
this Annual Report to conform them to actual results.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Benson House
33 Wellington Street
Leeds LS1 4JP
Bankers
HSBC
47 Market Street
Bradford BD1 1LW
Registrar & Share
Transfer Office
Capita Registrars Limited 
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Stockbrokers
Cazenove & Co. Ltd
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
ABN AMRO
Hoare Govett Limited
250 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 4AA
ADR Depository Bank
The Bank of New York
Investor Relations Dept.
PO Box 11258
Church Street Station
New York NY10286-1258
USA
Registered in England and Wales
No.876412. Registered office:
Farnell House, Forge Lane,
Leeds, LS12 2NE.
This document is
produced from 50%
recycled de-inked fibre
and 50% totally chlorine
free (TCF) pulp, which is
sourced from
sustainable forests. 72 PREMIER FARNELL PLC FIVE YEAR RECORD
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
FIVE YEAR RECORD
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 764.6 759.0 806.4 876.2 752.1
Operating profit before rebranding costs and
amortisation of goodwill 73.8 82.9 88.4 115.0 103.7
Amortisation of goodwill (2.6) (2.6) (1.5) – –
Rebranding costs (2.4) ––––
Total operating profit 68.8 80.3 86.9 115.0 103.7
Profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and
exceptional items 57.1 67.2 72.5 102.1 91.8
Amortisation of goodwill (2.6) (2.6) (1.5) – –
Exceptional items 0.1 (4.8) (11.0) – –
Profit before taxation 54.6 59.8 60.0 102.1 91.8
Profit after taxation 39.0 41.6 38.6 71.3 66.2
Preference dividends (non-equity) (6.6) (10.8) (26.1) (25.3) (23.7)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 32.4 30.8 12.5 46.0 42.5
Ordinary dividends (32.6) (32.6) (24.5) (24.5) (24.5)
Retained (loss)/profit (0.2) (1.8) (12.0) 21.5 18.0
Shareholders’ funds – equity (9.7) (23.2) (375.2) (375.4) (357.5)
– non-equity 121.8 126.7 486.7 474.4 431.3
Equity minority interests – – – 0.3 0.3
Total capital employed 112.1 103.5 111.5 99.3 74.1
Dividend per share (pence) 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0
Basic earnings per share (pence) 8.9 9.3 4.6 16.9 15.6
Exceptional items (pence) 1.2 1.9 4.6 – –
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 10.1 11.2 9.2 16.9 15.6 Designed by Bostock and Pollitt
Typeset by Pinnacle
Printed by Polestar Direct PREMIER FARNELL PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
“PREMIER FARNELL UNDERST ANDS WHA T WE NEED
TO MAKE OUR BUSINESS SUCCESSFUL”
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
www.premierfarnell.com
Group Headquarters
25/28 Old Burlington Street
London
W1S 3AN
UK
T +44 (0) 20 7851 4100
F +44 (0) 20 7851 4110
150 Armley Road
Leeds
LS12 2QQ
UK
T +44 (0) 870 129 8608
F +44 (0) 870 129 8611
