 Premier Foods plc 
Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
Stock code: PFD
The Best in British Food
Premier Foods plc   Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
The Best in  
British Food
Premier Foods is home to some of the nation’s favourite food 
brands. Every year over 99% of British households buy a 
Premier Foods’ product, so you’re likely to find us in every 
British kitchen and on every British table.
Delivering on our promises
In October 2011 we announced our five priorities to help stabilise the business:
“You’re likely to find us in every British 
kitchen and on every British table”
To read more about Premier Foods visit
www.premierfoods.co.uk/
Cautionary Statement 
The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to shareholders of Premier Foods plc (“the Company”). The Company, its direc-
tors, employees and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose 
hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed. It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect 
to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of the Company. These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty 
because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. 
Nothing in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Trademarks 
The Group’s trademarks are shown in italics. The Group has an exclusive worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name on certain 
products. Erin is a trademark of Erin Foods Ltd and was used under licence during the year.
In this annual report we make references to market size, share and growth, retail sales data and household penetration which are sourced 
from independent market research and consumer data providers including Kantar and IRI.
Cover Images:
Our eight Power Brands —  
Hovis, Mr. Kipling, Ambrosia, 
Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, 
OXO, Bisto and Batchelors
Investment behind eight Power Brands — seven Power Brands back on TV in the 
first half of 2012;
Strengthen capabilities, particularly sales  
and marketing
— new leadership team is now in place;
Divest selected businesses to sharpen focus — the Brookes Avana and Irish brands 
disposals completed;
Right-size and reduce the Group’s cost base — overhead cost reduction target doubled 
to more than £40m by 2013;
Agree a re-financing package with the banks — consent to an extended re-financing 
package obtained. Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
01
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance*
Headlines 01
The Best in British Food 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Group at a glance 06
Chief Executive’s Statement 08
— Our four strategic pillars 10
Our business*
Brands 14
Partners 18
Focus 20
Sustainability 22
Operating review 26
— Divisional review 28
Financial review 32
— Re-financing 32
Governance*
Board of directors and Group Executive 38
Corporate governance report 42
— Risk management 53
— Other statutory information 58
— Shareholder information 61
Directors’ remuneration report 64
Financial statements
Contents 77
Independent auditors’ report 78
Consolidated financial statements 80
Notes to the financial statements 85
Company financial statements 132
Notes to the Company financial statements 133
Glossary 136
Summary*
Headlines
Consent obtained for re-financing package
On 12 March 2012 we announced we had obtained unanimous 
consent from our banking syndicate, swap counterparties and 
pension schemes to the terms of a re-financing package that will 
allow the Group to execute its new growth strategies. 
	 Banking facilities of £1.4bn extended to June 2016
	 Banking covenants reset to reflect strategic plan
	 Interest rate swaps converted to additional bank term loan
	 Pension schemes to defer deficit contributions until January 
2014
2011 full year results
Sales for Ongoing business
2
 declined by 3.4% to £1,811.0m 
reflecting the challenging consumer environment and the effect 
of previous customer disputes.
	 Trading profit
3
 for Ongoing business £173.7m 
	 Impairment in Bread division
4
 of £282.0m resulted in a loss 
after tax from continuing operations of £230.0m for the year 
	 Disposals of non-core businesses realised total net proceeds 
of £394.0m
	 Net debt
5
 of £995.1m at 31 December 2011
Growth strategies
Growth strategies aligned around “Best in British Food” vision.
	 Marketing investment behind eight Power Brands will double 
in 2012 with sustainable increases planned in subsequent 
years 
	 Focus on building collaborative relationships with key 
customers to drive mutual growth
	 Targeting gross 4% year-on-year supply chain savings and 
doubling of overhead savings to more that £40m by 2013 
	 Long-term approach to deliver sustainable shareholder value
Notes:
1
 All results referred to relate to continuing operations unless otherwise stated.
2
 The results of the Group excluding the Meat-free business, East Anglian canned 
grocery operations, Brookes Avana and Irish brands businesses are shown as Ongoing 
business to illustrate business performance following recent divestment activity. In the 
financial statements the results of the Meat-free and Brookes Avana businesses are 
shown as discontinued operations. The results of the East Anglian canned grocery 
operations are included within continuing operations as a separate operating segment, 
and titled ‘Disposed of Canning Operations’. The results of the Irish brands business 
are included within continuing operations within the Grocery segment.
3
 Trading profit is defined as operating profit before refinancing costs, restructuring 
costs and losses associated with disposals, amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 
and pension credits or charges in relation to the difference between expected return on 
pension assets, administration costs and interest costs on pension liabilities.
4
 The previously named ‘Hovis’ division has been renamed ‘Bread’ divison.
5
 Net debt is defined as net borrowings.
* These sections make up the Directors’ Report and set out the information on 
the Group’s principal activities, together with a review of the developments and 
performance of the Group, including financial performance, in accordance with Section 
417 of the Companies Act 2006.
2011 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
02
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Made in Britain
The food Britain loves
Every nation has their favourite food and we are no 
different. What could be more British than:
 Roast beef and Yorkshire puddings covered in 
steaming hot Bisto Gravy;
 A spicy curry made with one of our authentic 
Sharwood’s sauces;
 Ploughman’s made with Hovis wholemeal and tangy 
Branston pickle;
 Apple crumble with thick creamy Ambrosia custard.
95
%
of our products  
produced in Britain
1
 billion
Bisto meal occasions  
each year
We are Britain’s biggest branded food producer.
 Operating from over 40 manufacturing sites we span 
the country from Plymouth all the way to Glasgow.
 This means almost all our products are produced in 
Britain.
 And because we produce our food in the UK it’s food 
you can trust and also has fewer food miles which is 
good for the environment too.
The Best in British    Food Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
03
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Britain’s favourite 
food brands
Supporting Britain
Our brands have been enjoyed by British households for 
generations.
 Five of our eight Power Brands are over 100 years old!
 To remain popular these brands have had to be 
resilient, adapting to changing consumer requirements 
through innovation.
 Our eight Power Brands hold No.1 or No.2 positions in 
their respective categories.
We employ around 12,000 people which makes us 
one of the largest food manufacturers in Britain.
 We also support the British economy by sourcing 
as many of our ingredients, goods and services 
from the UK as we can, supporting British farmers 
and British jobs.
 It’s important to know where your food comes 
from and by sourcing locally we have effective 
traceability of our ingredients. 
The Best in British    Food
99
%
of British households purchase a 
Premier Foods’ product each year
82
%
of our ingredients, goods and 
services sourced in the UK Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
04
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Chairman’s Statement
A stable platform for  
sustainable growth
“The business has significant underlying 
strengths and there are many reasons to be 
positive as we look forward to 2012 and beyond.”
Ronnie Bell
Chairman
2011 was an extremely challenging year for Premier Foods. While the 
results have been disappointing, the new management team put in place 
during the second half of the year has moved quickly to stem the decline 
in profitability and to obtain consent for a re-financing package which 
will provide a stable platform for future growth. I believe the business has 
significant underlying strengths and there are many reasons to be positive 
as we look forward to 2012 and beyond.
2011 overview
Trading in 2011 was affected by a number of significant issues. Poor 
underlying economic conditions had a significant impact on consumer 
confidence and spending whilst at the same time we experienced 
higher commodity inflation. Our price increases were not able to 
recover all of the increased input costs and this, together with an 
increase in promotional activity, had an impact on margin. In addition, 
we experienced strong competition from branded and non-branded 
competitors which was compounded by the impact of customer 
disputes. As a result sales and profitability were significantly below our 
expectations and this in turn put pressure on our banking covenants.
Stabilising the business
In July we announced the appointment of Michael Clarke as Chief 
Executive Officer. Given the challenges facing the Group it was essential 
that the Board appoint an outstanding executive with the experience 
and track record necessary to stabilise and turn around the business. I 
am delighted that Michael agreed to join Premier Foods and believe his 
skill, experience and success in managing and growing brands will be 
invaluable in returning the Group to sustainable growth. 
A huge amount has been achieved in a short space of time. Since joining 
in August, Michael has moved very quickly to review the business, to 
understand the underlying issues and to formulate a compelling growth 
strategy. The consent received for the re-financing is a major milestone 
as it removes uncertainty surrounding the Group’ s financing and provides 
a solid platform to allow management to focus fully on managing and 
growing the business. Other key achievements include:
	 The appointment of a new senior management team with 
experience in brand management and turnaround situations; 
	 Stabilising the decline in profitability;
	 Completion of a business plan to deliver long-term sustainable 
growth;
	 Focused investment behind our eight Power Brands;
	 Reducing costs, simplifying the business and improving 
competitiveness;
	 Divestment of non-core businesses to add focus; and 
	 Building more collaborative long-term relationships with 
customers. 
Consent obtained for a new re-financing package
The Group has obtained unanimous consent to the terms of a re-
financing package from its banking syndicate, swap counterparties 
and pension schemes that will allow the Group to execute its future 
growth strategies. 
The banking facilities will be extended to June 2016 and the 
covenants reset to reflect our strategic plan. Under the agreement the 
interest rate swaps will be converted to additional bank term loan and 
the amortisation payment schedule amended with payments deferred 
until mid 2014. In addition the Group’s pension schemes have agreed 
to defer deficit contributions until January 2014. 
We appreciate the support of both our banking syndicate and 
pension funds in establishing these new arrangements which 
provide the space needed to restore growth.
Further information on the re-financing can be found on pages 32 
and 33.
Best in British Food
Our vision is to be the “Best in British Food”. As Britain’s biggest 
branded food producer, Premier Foods remains fundamentally a 
sound business with a portfolio of great British brands, passionate 
employees and a significant manufacturing footprint.
Many of our brands have a strong heritage and remain the product 
of choice for British consumers — 99% of households buy at 
least one of our products each year. Our products also compare 
favourably against competitors for taste and quality — 96% of 
our top 60 SKUs test at parity or superior when tested against 
competitor products in blind tasting.
In addition, we support the British economy both as a major 
employer in the manufacturing industry with factories across the 
country and also by supporting the British businesses and farmers 
that supply 82% of our ingredients, goods and services.
More information on the four strategic pillars that are aligned around our 
vision are set out in the Chief Executive’ s Statement on pages 8 to 11. Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
05
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
who has extensive knowledge of working with global brands, was 
appointed as Chief Financial Officer. During the year we also announced 
a number of changes within senior management — details of the new 
Group Executive team are set out on pages 40 and 41. I believe we 
have in place a strong and effective Board and senior management 
team and look forward to working with them over the coming years. 
In April 2011 Robert Schofield notified the Board of his intention to 
retire and he stepped down as CEO in August having led the Group 
for ten years. In addition, following changes in our management 
structure Tim Kelly and Jim Smart resigned as directors in 
November and December respectively and we wish them well for 
the future. Finally in August we announced with great sadness that 
Paul Kitchener, our Group Technical and Innovation Director, had 
passed away after a long fight against illness.
Governance
Your Board is committed to the principles of good governance and 
transparency. We continue to review and evaluate the structure and 
quality of our governance arrangements with the aim of ensuring they 
remain robust and in line with best practice. Details of the work of the 
Board and its committees and the overall governance framework are 
covered in detail in the Governance section of this report. 
36
See Governance  
on page
2012 outlook
The economic outlook for the UK remains challenging. However, 
with consent obtained for a new re-financing package we now 
have a solid platform to stabilise the business in 2012 and a strong 
business plan from which to build momentum. Much has been 
achieved in a short space of time under Michael Clarke’s leadership 
and whilst there remain many challenges I am confident we have the 
right management team in place that will deliver sustainable growth 
and shareholder value going forward.
Ronnie Bell
Chairman
Increasing efficiency and investing in growth 
Over the year we have continued to make good progress with our 
efficiency initiatives targeting 4% year-on-year gross savings in 
manufacturing controllable costs and we announced early in 2012 
that we intend to double overhead savings to more than £40m 
by 2013 from the £20m we announced at the 2011 Half Year. 
Investment in the business is increasingly focused on supporting 
growth and productivity. For example in 2011 we completed a 
£5.5m investment in an automated packing line at our Mr. Kipling 
bakery in Stoke. The new line is able to pack 47,000 slices per 
hour in the new “snap pack” format. This is one of several major 
investments in our business and underlines our commitment to 
investing in innovation and efficiency to drive growth. For 2012 we 
have also announced a doubling of our marketing investment with 
the majority focused behind our Power Brands.
Environmental initiatives
We have continued to build on our strong track record in addressing 
environmental concerns. Of particular note is our commitment to 
sourcing 100% RSPO certified sustainable palm oil by 2015. In the 
2011 World Wildlife Fund ‘Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard’, we scored top 
marks achieving a 9 out of 9 rating. In 2011 we also moved to sourcing 
100% free range eggs across the entire Mr. Kipling range. Strong 
progress has additionally been made across all our environmental KPIs 
including CO
2
 emissions, water usage and waste to landfill. Further 
details can be found on pages 22 and 23 of this annual report and also 
in our 2011 Sustainability report which is available on our website. 
To read more about sustainability
www.premierfoods.co.uk/sustainability/
Employees
As a business we are dependent on the hard work, creativity and 
commitment of our employees. Over the year many achievements have 
been recognised particularly within the area of manufacturing excellence 
where Premier Foods was named Manufacturer of the Year at the 
European Strategic Manufacturing Awards, beating entries from across 
the European Manufacturing Industry. Continued improvements have 
also been achieved in terms of the health and safety resulting in 39 of our 
sites receiving RoSPA Gold Awards for workplace safety.
As we complete the planned divestment of non-core businesses 
and also reduce our cost base to reflect the smaller size of the 
business we recognise that this is inevitably a difficult time for 
employees. However, we believe these initiatives are in the long-term 
interests of both the business and employees as they will result in a 
stronger, more profitable business in the future.
Board changes
In addition to the appointment of Michael Clarke as Chief Executive 
Officer, there have been a significant number of changes in 
management in the year. 
David Wild joined the Board in March 2011 and brings with him a 
wealth of experience in the retail industry. In December Mark Moran, 
Significant increase in investment behind our eight Power Brands in 2012 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
06
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Group at a glance
Britain’s biggest branded  
food producer
Grocery
We operate from over 
40 sites across the UK
Bread
Meat-free
The Grocery division encompasses a wide variety of ambient grocery 
sectors including cakes, ambient desserts, cooking sauces, Asian meal 
solutions, stocks, gravies, soups, spreads, home baking and pickles. The 
division also incorporates Premier’s business in the Republic of Ireland.
 
Power Brands
Mr. Kipling, Ambrosia, Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, Bisto, OXO and Batchelors
Support brands
Include: Branston, Hartley’s, Homepride, Robertson’s, Bird’s, Angel Delight, Smash 
and Paxo 
The Bread division operates principally in the wrapped bread market 
and in addition manufactures non-branded bread and morning 
goods. The division is also the largest vertically integrated baker and 
flour miller in the UK and produces a wide range of bulk flours and 
branded and non-branded bagged flours.
 
Power Brand
Hovis
Support brands
Include: Granary and Mother’s Pride
Meat-free manufactured and sold products under the Quorn and 
Cauldron brands.
On 24 January 2011 the Group announced the sale of its Meat-free 
business to Exponent Private Equtiy and Intermediate Capital Group; 
this disposal was completed on 7 March 2011. For the purposes of the 
financial statements, the results of the Meat-free business are disclosed 
within discontinued operations.
Group
During 2011 the Group was organised into 
three segments: Grocery, Bread and Disposed 
of Canning Operations
Group trading profit
£188m
Group revenue
£2,000m
26
See Operating review  
on page
Revenue
Grocery
£1,122m
56% of total
Bread
£711m
36% of total
Disposed of 
Canning Operations
£167m
8% of total
Branded
£1,376m
69% of total
Non-branded
£624m
31% of total
Branded mix
Grocery
5,210
45% of total
Bread
5,521
47% of total
Disposed of 
Canning Operations
988
8% of total
Number of employees Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
07
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Premier Foods is Britain’s biggest branded food producer with revenue 
of £2.0 billion. We manufacture, distribute and sell a wide range of 
branded and non-branded foods. The business employs around 
12,000 people and operates from over 40 sites across the UK and 
Ireland. Our sites are dedicated to manufacturing high quality, great 
tasting food products which consumers know and love.
We have a wide portfolio of great British brands, many of which 
are market leaders and household favourites. Our business is 
focused behind eight Power Brands: Hovis, Mr. Kipling, Ambrosia, 
Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, Bisto, OXO and Batchelors. In addition, 
we have a portfolio of many other iconic British food brands and also 
an extensive non-branded food business which manufactures food in 
partnership with many of the UK’s leading food retailers.
As part of our strategy to focus investment behind our eight Power 
Brands we have undertaken a number of business disposals in 2011. 
During the year we completed the disposal of our Meat-free, East 
Anglian canned grocery and Brookes Avana businesses. In addition, 
we announced the sale of four Irish brands which completed in 
January 2012. 
For the purposes of the financial statements, the results of the Meat-
free and Brookes Avana businesses are disclosed within discontinued 
operations.
Disposed of Canning Operations Brookes Avana
On 8 February 2011 the Group announced the sale of its East  
Anglian canned grocery business to Princes Limited; this disposal was 
completed on 23 July 2011. For the purposes of the financial  
statements, the results of the canning operations up to the date of 
disposal have been disclosed as a separate operating segment.
Brookes Avana was our retailer branded chilled ready meal,  
cake and desserts business. 
On 8 December 2011 the Group announced the sale of the  
Brookes Avana business to 2 Sisters Foods Group, and this 
disposal was completed on 30 December 2011. For the purposes 
of the financial statements, the results of the Brookes Avana 
business are disclosed within discontinued operations.
Revenue
£1,122m
£1,213m 10
£1,122m 11
Trading profit
£180m
£221m 10
£180m 11
 6 Lifton
 7 Middleton
 8 Moreton
  9 Stoke
10 Worksop
 1 Ashford
 2 Bury
 3 Carlton
 4 Histon
 5 Knighton
 Manufacturing sites
 Distribution/Logistics centres
 1 Corby
 2 Rugby
 3 Wimblington
 4 Wisbech
 1 Dublin — Premier Foods  
Ireland
Ireland
5
2
1
3
7
8
9
6
10
1
2
1
4
4
3
Revenue
£711m
£688m 10
£711m 11
Trading profit
£3m
£35m 10
£3m 11
 1 Avonmouth
 2 Belfast
 3 Birmingham
 4 Eastleigh
 5 Erith
 6 Forest Gate
 Bakeries
 Mills
 1 Andover
 2 Barry
 3  Gainsborough (wheat maltings)
 4 Glasgow
 5 Manchester
 6 Selby
 7 Southampton
 8 Wellingborough
 7 Glasgow
 8 Greenford
 9 Leicester
 10 Leicester — Charnwood
 11 Mitcham — Sebon
 12 Nottingham
 13 Wigan
 1 Bradford
 2 Dagenham
 3 Mendelsham
 4 Mossend
 5 Newbridge — Fleming Howden
 6 Plymouth
 Depots/RDC
 
7
5
2
1
3
8
11
9
12
4
6
13
1
2
1
3
4
5
4
6
7
8
2
6
5
3
10
Branded 
mix
Branded revenue
£915m (82%)
Non-branded revenue
£207m (18%)
Branded 
mix
Branded revenue
£372m (52%)
Non-branded revenue
£339m (48%) Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
08
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our vision is to be  
“The Best in British Food”
2011 was clearly a challenging year for Premier Foods. Like many 
others in the industry, we felt the impact of significant commodity 
inflation and an unprecedented decline in consumer spending. 
Unfortunately, our price increases were not able to fully recover 
higher costs and were largely negated by higher promotional 
spending which affected margins. In addition, as consumers 
looked for greater value, we were unable to maintain demand for 
our brands due to reduced marketing investment. Retail customer 
support for our brands consequently declined in favour of our 
competitors and own label, a situation that was exacerbated by the 
effect of customer disputes. 
 
Our trading results for the year tell the story. They also reflect certain 
underlying challenges facing the business. Despite its significant 
scale, the Group has been unable to fully exploit revenue and cost 
synergies. The business remains complex with insufficient focus and 
has additionally suffered from a lack of investment behind its brands 
and a short-term, tactical approach to trading. The need to service 
significant debt has compounded these challenges.
Since joining the Company last August, my focus has been on 
addressing these challenges. We have a great portfolio of brands 
that remain hugely popular and employees who are passionate 
about the business. To help build on these strengths, we have 
put in place a new leadership team that has significant collective 
experience. Our initial focus is to continue the stabilisation of the 
business, to refocus the portfolio and to invest in our future growth. 
Last October, we announced five priorities to help stabilise the 
business and we are gaining momentum against each of these:
	 Invest behind eight Power Brands — seven of our Power Brands 
will be back on TV with advertising in the first half of 2012 and 
we will invest significant promotional spend behind the eighth;
	 Strengthen capabilities, particularly sales and marketing — new 
leadership is now in place and we are reorganising to improve 
effectiveness;
	 Divest selected businesses to sharpen focus — the Brookes 
Avana and Irish Brands disposals have been completed;
	 Right-size and reduce the Group’s cost base — we have 
announced a doubling of previous overhead cost reduction 
programmes to achieve more than £40m savings by 2013;
	 Agree a re-financing package with the banks — we have 
obtained consent to an extended re-financing package.
I’m delighted that we have been able to reach a positive outcome with 
our banking, swap counterparties and pension scheme partners on 
a new financing package. The consent for this re-financing package 
represents a strong sign of confidence and support for the business 
and is great news for our employees and all of our stakeholders. It 
also helps us draw a line under the performance of 2011 and will 
allow us to move forward in implementing our new growth strategies. 
Our growth strategies are aligned around four pillars to achieve our 
vision to be the ‘Best in British Food’:
	 Brands — We plan to invest behind our eight Power Brands of 
Hovis, Ambrosia, Mr. Kipling, Sharwood’s, Loyd Grossman, Bisto, 
OXO and Batchelors. Detailed brand plans have been developed 
that leverage the ‘Britishness’ of our brands as well as step-up 
our innovation in product design, packaging and promotions. 
Our marketing spend behind these brands will be doubled in 
2012, with further sustained increases in marketing investment in 
subsequent years. To help focus our efforts further we will seek 
to divest selected, non-core businesses.
“I am convinced we have the right team  
in place to turn this business around.”
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
“Seven of our eight Power 
Brands will be back on TV 
in the first half of 2012”
New TV campaign features our Sharwood’s chefs travelling the country 
to discover what makes a Great British curry Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
09
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
	 Partners — We will build more collaborative relationships with 
all of our business partners. Specifically, we will develop joint 
business plans with key customers to drive mutual growth. We 
also plan to develop specific pricing and promotional strategies 
for the fast growing discounter and wholesale segment as well 
as improve our revenue growth management through optimising 
our trade investment, systems and processes.
	 Focus — Through improving our focus, we plan to drive further 
efficiency and effectiveness. Our supply chain will continue to 
target year-on-year savings of around 4% of manufacturing 
controllable costs and capital expenditure will be skewed to 
supporting growth and productivity programmes. In addition, we 
have announced that we will accelerate planned reductions in 
overhead costs. The £20m overhead savings by 2013 that we 
announced at the 2011 Half Year will now be doubled to more 
than £40m over the same time period. The costs to achieve 
these savings are approximately £21m, the majority of which are 
expected to be taken in 2012.
	 Sustainability — We intend to take a longer term approach 
to the business by ensuring we act sustainably in everything 
we do. We will continue investing in our brands, people and 
partnerships, driving high environmental and ethical standards 
and expanding better-for-you choices as part of our portfolio. 
Together, this will help us deliver sustainable results.
We recognise that the consumer environment remains challenging. 
Consumers will continue to focus on value and convenience; and 
competition will again be intense. There is no doubt that we will 
need to work hard to make our brands stand out. Nevertheless, our 
performance thus far in 2012 is in line with our expectations. I’m 
convinced we have the right team to turn this business around and I 
am very positive about our future. I look forward to updating you as 
we progress.
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
£40m
reduction in overhead 
costs targeted by 2013
Consent has been obtained for a landmark  
4½ year re-financing package
I am delighted that we have been able to reach a positive 
outcome with our banking syndicate, swap counterparties and 
pension schemes. This has been a key priority of mine since 
joining the Group and represents a strong sign of confidence 
and support for the business, its strategies and growth plans. 
It also provides us with a stable base from which to focus 
on executing our growth strategies and is great news for 
our employees and all of our stakeholders. The re-financing 
package is subject to the formalities of final documents being 
signed and this is expected by the end of March 2012.
Headlines
	 Banking facilities of £1.4bn extended to June 2016
	 Banking covenants reset to support strategic plan
	 Interest rate swaps converted to additional bank term loan
	 Pension schemes to defer deficit contributions until January 
2014
The existing term loan (£733m) and revolving credit facility 
(£500m), previously due to mature on 31 December 2013, 
will be extended to a new maturity date of 30 June 2016. The 
current applicable bank margin of 2.25% will increase to 3.25% 
with effect from 1 January 2014. 
Additionally, the current amortisation payment schedule has 
been amended, with amortisations to occur semi-annually from 
30 June 2014. 
Banking covenants of Net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/Interest 
remain in place; they will continue to be tested biannually and 
have been reset to reflect the Group’s strategic plan. 
The total interest rate swap portfolio, including previously 
restructured swaps will be restructured into additional term loan 
totalling approximately £199m. 
The Group has negotiated and obtained a commitment to a 
new securitisation programme relating to certain receivable 
balances available up to an amount of £120m. 
Subject to the implementation of the new re-financing 
arrangements, the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes 
have agreed to defer deficit contribution payments (c.£47m 
p.a.) until 1 January 2014 and there will be no increase in the 
agreed deficit contributions before 2016.
Further details of the re-financing can be found in the Financial 
review on pages 32 and 33.
12
For more information 
about Our business 
See page Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
10
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Brands
We have a great portfolio of brands, 
many of which hold leading positions 
in their categories. We are focusing 
on those that have the best growth 
prospects.
	 Invest and grow eight Power Brands 
 We have selected eight Power Brands that we 
will focus our resources behind to drive growth: 
 Hovis, Mr. Kipling, Ambrosia, Sharwood’s,  
Loyd Grossman, Bisto, OXO and Batchelors. 
	 Support brands 
 Our support brands and customer brands have 
an important role to play. They can help build 
category share and help utilise our existing 
asset base.
	 Focused disposals
 We will actively seek to dispose of selected 
non-core businesses to deleverage the 
business and align our portfolio behind our key 
focus areas.
14
Read more 
on page
Partners
For our business to be successful 
we must develop strong long-term 
relationships with all our partners. 
These relationships must be sustainable 
and offer value to both sides.
	 Engage our employees
 We have a new management team in 
place and will increase focus on employee 
engagement at all levels, remove organisational 
complexity and simplify the reward structure to 
drive the delivery of our strategy.
	 Connect with consumers
 We must connect with consumers by 
producing products that taste great, 
are relevant to today’s eating habits, are 
convenient, have innovative packaging and 
address consumer concerns around health  
and wellness.
	 Win with customers
 Our focus going forward will be to move from a 
transactional approach to developing long-term 
sustainable relationships with customers.
	 Collaborate with stakeholders
 We will continue to collaborate and develop 
strong relationships with a wide range of other 
stakeholders including suppliers and investors. 
18
Read more 
on page
Our four strategic    pillars Our business Performance Governance Financial statements
11
Summary
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Focus
The business has a good track record 
of increasing manufacturing efficiency 
and cost cutting. We will continue our 
efforts to simplify our structure and 
processes. This will further reduce our 
cost base, increase efficiency and make 
us more competitive.
	 Lean structure
 As we resize the business following the 
rationalisation of our portfolio we will also 
reduce our cost base to reflect the smaller size 
of the business.
	 Simple processes
 Continue to target simplification across the 
business.
	 Quality, health & safety
 As we target cost savings it is vital that we 
remain totally focused and committed to food 
quality and health & safety.
	 Drive efficiency and effectiveness through 
productivity and service
 Cost savings through manufacturing 
controllable costs and procurement will be 
invested to support growth.
20
Read more 
on page
Sustainability
Ultimately our vision is to be a 
sustainable business in everything  
we do. 
	 Results (financial and productivity metrics)
 We believe our strategy will return us to 
profitable growth. Equally important it will lay 
the foundations for a more stable, sustainable 
business which will deliver shareholder value.
	 Better choice portfolio and innovation
 We will offer a wider choice of products to meet 
consumers’ requirements for healthier options 
and different portion sizes. 
	 Environmental programmes
 We will build on the strong track record of 
environmental improvement and ethical 
sourcing.
	 Scale
 We will leverage the breadth and scale of our 
portfolio with our customers, our suppliers and 
other business partners.
22
Read more 
on page
Our four strategic    pillars Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
12
Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
13
Brands 14
Partners 18
Focus 20
Sustainability 22 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
14
So what makes a Power Brand?
We have a great portfolio of brands that operate in a number of 
categories. Many of our brands have strong market positions and 
high brand awareness. To maximise our growth in the future we will 
focus on the ones that have the best growth prospects. These are 
our eight Power Brands.
Power Brands account for around 68% of our branded revenue 
and operate in large categories. They are major players within their 
respective categories holding either No.1 or No.2 positions. Most 
importantly they have the potential to expand into umbrella brands 
and broader categories.
We are significantly increasing our marketing investment behind 
the eight Power Brands, supporting new innovation in terms of 
product, packaging and promotions and ensuring our brands stand 
out in store.
We will double 
our marketing 
investment in 2012
Key statistics
•	 Heritage	dates	back	to	1886	when	miller	
Richard “Stoney” Smith developed 
a method for preserving wheat germ 
goodness in bread
•	 T oday	Hovis is Britain’s 4th largest 
Grocery brand
•	 Ar ound	8	million	Hovis loaves produced 
each week
•	 Deliver ed	daily	to	supermarkets	acr oss	
the UK
Key statistics
•	 Mr. Kipling’s “exceedingly good cakes” 
first	appear ed	in	1967
•	 Britain’ s 	 No.1 	 cake 	 brand 	 with 	 many	
classics like Cherry Bakewells, French 
Fancies, 	 Angel 	 Slices 	 and 	 Viennese 	 Whirls
•	 The 	 entir e 	 range 	 contains 	 no 	 artificial	
colours, flavours or hydrogenated fats
•	 420	million	Mr. Kipling slices baked  
each year
Key statistics
•	 Ambrosia was established in Devon  
in 1917
•	 Britain’ s	favourite	custar d
•	 Fr esh	milk	still	deliver ed	to	our	Devon	
Creamery every day
•	 Made	with	no	artificial	colours,	flavours	
or preservatives
•	 Naturally	low	in	fat
Focus for 2012
 Only Hovis has 100% British wheat and 
no artificial preservatives
 Strong marketing support
 New product launch for Hovis Farmers 
Loaf
 Improvements to supply chain 
efficiency
Focus for 2012
 High impact relaunch
 New pack design across the whole 
range  
 Investment focused on innovative new 
“snap pack” design
 New product launches including: new 
sweet shop range and British Fancies
Focus for 2012
 Major launch based around new individual 
pudding pots to suit all occasions 
 Opportunity to drive usage — Ambrosia 
offers dairy goodness throughout the 
day
 Focus on rice as a “healthy everyday 
snack”
Category position
No.2 
Wrapped bread
Category position
No.1 
Ambient 	 cake
Category position
No.1 
Ambient 	 desserts
Brands
Power Brands
are at the heart of our strategy
Power Brand revenue
£871m	(67.5%)
Support brand revenue
£419m (32.5%)
16
See case study 
on page
17
See case study 
on page
22
See case study 
on page Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
15
17
See case study  
on page
Key statistics
•	 Founded	by	J.	A.	Sharwood	in	1890
•	 Britain’ s	leading	Asian	meal	brand
•	 Compr ehensive	range	of	Indian,	Chinese	
and Thai meal time solutions
•	 21	million	Sharwood’s curries eaten  
each year
Key statistics
•	 First	sauces	launched	by	Loyd	in	1995
•	 Range	now	includes	Italian,	Indian,	Thai	
and	Mexican	sauces
•	 Recipes	specially	cr eated	for	those	who	
share a passion for flavour
•	 All	tomato	based	sauces	contain	one	of	
your 5 a day
Key statistics
•	 aah! Bisto — established in 1908 — 
Britain’s favourite gravy brings families 
and food together 
•	 Range	now	includes	Bisto Best, Bisto 
Granules, instant pour overs and Bisto 
Sauce	Mixes
•	 New	instant	r oast	Bisto gravy launched  
in 2011
•	 Used	in	mor e	than	1	billion	food	
occasions each year
Key statistics
•	 Invented	ar ound	1840;	the	OXO name 
was created in 1900
•	 OXO was an official sponsor of the 
London	Olympics	in	1908
•	 Range	extended	to	include	“Spag	Bol”	
recipe cube
•	 New 	 r educed 	 salt 	 cube 	 launched 	 in 	 Q4	
2011
•	 15	million	OXO cubes made each week
Key statistics
•	 Established	by	William	Batchelor	in	1895
•	 First	Cup a Soups introduced in 1972
•	 Range	includes	Super Noodles, Savoury 
rice and Pasta ’n’ Sauce
•	 250	million	mugs	of	Cup a Soup 
consumed each year in Britain
Focus for 2012
 New marketing campaign behind 
Sharwood’s Great British curry 
 Extension of Sharwood’s Tikka range 
 Major new launch of new Sharwood’s 
wrap kits
 Strong marketing support and in-store 
execution
Focus for 2012
 Strong marketing support
 Brand relaunch and new TV campaign 
— “share a lifetime’s passion”
 Support behind range extension under 
Loyd For One
Focus for 2012
 Strong marketing support
 Return of successful Bisto “aah Night”  
campaign 
 Focus on increasing mid-week 
consumption and seasonal activity
Focus for 2012
 Strong marketing support
 Focus behind OXO reduced salt and 
OXO Squeezy 
Focus for 2012
 Batchelors savoury rice and Pasta ’n’ 
Sauce restaging
 Major support behind “Fuelling Britain” 
promotion across the range in 2012
 New product launch of Batchelors  
Deli Box
Category position
No.1
Category position
No.2
Category position
No.1 
Ambient 	 gravy
Category position
No.1 
Dry stock
Category position
No.1 
Easy eating*
Asian 	 cooking 	 and 	 sauces	
accompaniments
Ambient 	 wet 	 cooking	
sauce
* Comprises Dry Soup, Savoury Noodles, Savoury Pasta, Pot Snacks 
and Savoury Rice.
16
See case study 
on page
27
See case study 
on page
29
See case study 
on page Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
16
Brands continued
We intend to leverage our Power Brands by extending them into 
broader target markets. 
An umbrella brand is a brand that has the potential to expand across 
a number of categories – for example Sharwood’s has expanded to 
cover sauces, noodles, breads, poppadums, crackers and now  
wrap kits. 
In addition, we have the opportunity to extend brands into broader 
areas – for example by using new packaging formats Mr. Kipling has 
the potential to move from a traditional teatime treat to lunch boxes 
and impulse channels.
Connecting with consumers
To connect with consumers we will leverage our “Britishness” which is an important point of difference with many of the 
multinational companies we compete with. 
We will expand into umbrella brands and broader categories.
“Significant opportunity exists to grow through extending 
brands into umbrella brands and broader categories.”
Case study: Hovis 100% British Wheat
Of the UK’s three major bread brands, only Hovis has 100% 
British wheat and no artificial preservatives. We are changing all 
our bread packs to incorporate the Union Jack behind the Hovis 
logo, and an eye-catching consistent blue band to flag our work 
with Britain’s farmers to develop premium wheat grown right here 
in the UK to produce loaves with flour made from 100% British 
Wheat and our “no artificial preservatives” message. 
The new packaging will be supported by TV advertising  
based on the much-loved “Go on Lad” story featuring  
a young boy’s journey through time, highlighting 
quintessential British scenes such as the Queen’s  
Silver Jubilee, in a year which will be focused on  
being British.
In addition, April 2012 sees the launch of Hovis British Farmers 
Loaf, forecast to be our biggest launch of the year. The loaves are 
a more premium proposition with a traditional shape, flour dusted 
and Hovis embossed for a unique home-baked appearance which 
taps into consumer trends of nostalgia and tradition.
Case study: Launch of new Sharwood’s wrap kits
In 2012 Sharwood’s launched six innovative new Sharwood’s 
wrap kits in two of the nation’s favourite cuisines — Indian and 
Chinese. 
This is another example of how the Sharwood’s brand can 
extend into new areas. The meal kits sector is the fastest 
growing in the cooking sauces and accompaniments category 
increasing at around 8% year-on-year. The kits also recognise 
the growing popularity with consumers for “part home-made 
foods”.  Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
17
Communicate with consumers through consistent advertising, innovation and promotions. 
In addition, over the next three years we will increase our marketing investment significantly. For 2012 spend will be doubled and the majority 
of this will focus on our eight Power Brands.
Support and customer brands 
Our support brands and customer brands have an important role 
to play helping to complement and protect our Power Brands. They 
can also help build our category share and provide total category 
solutions as well as helping us utilise our existing asset base. Finally 
they help to build and maintain relationships with customers. Our 
focus in this area is on operational efficiency and effectiveness, with 
an emphasis on selected categories where we have capacity and 
capability to compete. 
Focused disposals
Over the course of 2011 we announced the disposal of a number 
of businesses in order to increase focus behind our eight Power 
Brands, to simplify the business and also to pay down debt. We will 
continue to target selected disposals where we believe they support 
this strategy. 
Case study: Batchelors Fuelling Britain
Batchelors is giving consumers the chance to win free fuel for a whole year in the biggest on-pack promotion ever run on the brand, 
Batchelors Fuelling Britain. The promotion, which starts in March 2012, runs across the entire Batchelors range of products and every 
week gives shoppers the chance to win free fuel for a year, or a free tank of fuel every single day. To take part shoppers simply go online 
and enter a unique code that is printed on promotional packs.
Batchelors Fuelling Britain looks to engage and excite consumers around 
a subject close to their hearts and purses, namely soaring fuel prices. 
Research has shown shoppers are three times more 
likely to buy into a “free fuel” promotion than any 
previous Batchelors on-pack promotion. The 
promotion will be advertised on radio as well as 
through activity in and around stores, such as car 
park banners, posters and cash machine screens.
Align with consumer trends for value, convenience, better-for-you choices and meal solutions.
Case study: Mr. Kipling snap packs
Following major investment we have launched an innovative new 
style of packaging for Mr. Kipling cakes which is set to unlock the 
untapped potential of cake by making it more relevant to the way 
consumers choose their sweet treats. The two key areas driving 
growth are snacking and lunch boxes. 
Mr. Kipling is seen as a traditional teatime treat but not always as 
something you can easily slip into a lunch box or grab for a quick 
snack. The new style “snap pack” packaging for Mr. Kipling slices 
presents them individually wrapped in a more snacking-friendly 
format for consumers who like to eat their snacks on the go.
In trials, 78% of consumers rated the snap packs as better than the previous pack; the new format was preferred for its attractiveness, 
ease of opening and visibility of product. They also said they would be more likely to eat them as a snack or pop them in their lunch box.
To read more about our brands visit
www.premierfoods.co.uk/our-brands/ Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
18
Partners
Developing long-term 
partnerships
For our business to be successful we must develop strong long-
term relationships with all our partners. These relationships must be 
sustainable and offer value to both sides.
Winning with customers
We have a broad customer base that operates across a number of 
channels including multiple retail, wholesale, cash & carry, impulse 
retail and international.
Collaborating with customers is a vital part of delivering our overall 
growth strategy. Our focus going forward will be to move from 
a transactional approach to developing long-term sustainable 
relationships with customers. To do this we will create a clear and 
compelling strategy for each category and brand that will maximise 
the opportunities for category growth. 
We have built resource within the sales function to develop a 
strong commercially aware team. In addition, we are improving our 
information systems to improve modelling and analytical capabilities 
to enable us to optimise pack, price and promotional architecture.
For our major customers we will develop long-term joint business 
plans. This process involves:
	 Working with our customers to understand their categories and 
their strategy;
	 Developing ways that we can align to their strategic objectives;
	 Developing plans to grow key categories;
	 Using innovation and consumer insight;
	 Focusing on multi-format in-store execution;
	 Resourcing and delivering plans with excellence;
	 Reviewing progress against plan and realigning if necessary.
We are also moving to increase collaboration by creating cross-
functional business plans with inputs from many levels within both 
organisations.
Engaging our employees
Leadership
Over the year we have moved to strengthen the Group’s leadership 
team. There have been a number of changes within the Group 
Executive and senior management as a whole and we now have a 
strong team in place with significant brand experience and a focus 
on execution and delivery.
We have refined the Group’s reward structure to ensure focus on 
our strategic priorities and to further develop a strong performance 
culture. 
Employee engagement
Premier Foods has surveyed its management population annually 
since 2007 in order to monitor progress in improvements in the way 
we manage and develop our people, how we lead the business 
and the way in which we work. With a response rate of 88% the 
results in 2011 demonstrated consistent progress year-on-year in 
some key areas, with an improvement in collaboration and team 
working. The results also highlighted some areas of focus which we 
are addressing. Over the course of 2012 we will increase focus on 
employee engagement at all levels of the organisation. 
Communication
We recognise the value of good communication in engaging our 
employees in order to achieve common goals and we have a 
number of established employee communication mechanisms 
in place to achieve this goal, including: regular communication 
meetings; the Group’s intranet site; the quarterly Group magazine; 
and specific consultation and involvement regarding major changes 
to the business.
“We will develop 
sustainable relationships 
with all our partners.”
Connecting with consumers by producing products relevant to today’s 
eating habits Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
19
Recruitment
Premier Foods is committed to a fair approach to equal 
opportunities in all areas of our business. We recruit, train, promote 
and retain skilled and motivated people irrespective of sex, age, 
marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, ethnic 
or national origin. In line with this commitment we also promote a 
culture of openness and responsibility within our business.
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment received from disabled persons, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities; and wherever possible to continue the 
employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees who 
have become disabled persons during the period of their employment. 
Premier Foods provides the same opportunities for training, career 
development and promotion for disabled people as for other employees.
Development and training
We are committed to providing high quality training and 
development initiatives to ensure we are equipped to deliver 
excellence in all we do. During the year we delivered a broader 
portfolio of programmes which now includes coaching skills training, 
commercial awareness and many others.
Career progression
Premier Foods actively encourages development from within. Our talent 
identification and succession planning processes are now embedded 
across the business and our intention is to ensure we develop our internal 
pool of talent so we can resource roles internally wherever possible. T o 
support this we now offer a suite of specific programmes to develop key 
individuals.
Collaborating with stakeholders
We will continue to collaborate and develop strong relationships with 
a wide range of other stakeholders including suppliers and investors. 
Suppliers
In 2011 we spent £1.6bn on externally sourced goods and services 
and we remain committed to working in close partnership with our 
key suppliers in order to facilitate and enhance longer term and 
more sustainable relationships.
We have actively engaged with our key suppliers during the year, 
for example our annual supplier conference which was attended 
by over 200 of our suppliers. The suppliers were addressed by our 
CEO, Michael Clarke, along with the CFO and our Procurement and 
Sales Directors. The various presentations updated suppliers on our 
current corporate strategy and identified areas where they could 
best support the Group going forward, as well as identifying how 
they could align themselves with our 2012 growth plans. 
During 2011 our team of category procurement experts continued 
to consolidate our supply base, manage key supply chain risks 
through effective risk management and ensure that we have fully 
leveraged our scale across all areas of the business.
 
We have actively reduced the number of suppliers over a five year 
period by 50% to 4,634 in 2011 and we have targeted a further 
reduction of 10% during 2012. Our top 250 suppliers now represent 
some 79% of our total spend value. 
Employee Recognition Awards
The Premier Foods Employee Recognition Awards are now in 
their fourth year and recognise the outstanding achievements of 
cross-functional teams across the business. The awards cover 
areas of focus across many aspects of the Group including: 
brand and process innovation, quality, health & safety and 
manufacturing efficiency.
The overall winner was the team from our factory at Worksop for 
their impressive reduction in manufacturing controllable costs 
(“MCC”). 
Worksop achieved the biggest reduction of MCC across the Group. Through delivery of key projects, the site achieved a total MCC 
reduction of 5%, delivering an MCC per tonne of 15% lower than 2009, whilst reducing inventory by £4.5m — a huge achievement. They 
also received recognition for the impressive environment and health & safety performance at the site.   Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
20
Focus
Increasing efficiency  
and competitiveness
The business has a good track record of increasing manufacturing 
efficiency and cost-cutting. We intend to continue our focus on 
simplifying both our structure and processes to further reduce our 
cost base, increase efficiency and make us more competitive.
We are committed to delivering manufacturing efficiency and 
reducing costs within the supply chain. Over the past few years we 
have demonstrated strong delivery in the following areas:
	 Major rationalisation in operational sites;
	 Significant increase in asset utilisation;
	 Step change in safety with a 75% reduction in reported accident 
rate over three years;
	 Tight inventory control;
	 Year-on-year reductions in manufacturing controllable costs.
However, we believe that further improvements and cost reductions 
are achievable as we right-size the business. 
Controllable costs
We have had significant success at reducing controllable costs 
within our manufacturing operations. Controllable costs include:
 
	 Direct and indirect labour 
	 Business variances
	 Operational overheads 
	 Waste
We will continue to target a 4% year-on-year gross reduction.
Procurement
We have a centralised procurement team focused on specialised 
categories. We will continue to consolidate our supplier base and 
leverage our scale to achieve lower purchase costs. 
Consolidation of Grocery logistics
The business disposals announced in 2011 have provided an 
opportunity to significantly reduce the size of our Grocery logistics 
footprint reducing complexity and reducing costs going forward.
Accelerating cost savings
As announced earlier in 2012 we are accelerating overhead savings 
targeting a £40m reduction by 2013 as we further reduce complexity and 
also to reflect the smaller overall size of the Group. It is expected that this 
will result in headcount reduction largely within overhead functions.
IT investment
Further efficiency will be delivered as we complete the move from 
older legacy systems to a single central information system across 
the Group using SAP . This will also bring business reporting benefits 
simplifying the current reporting structure and aiding decision 
making with improved information available to all areas of the 
business — factory management, finance, procurement and sales. 
Investing for growth
The savings generated from improved efficiency will be used to fuel 
investment in growth behind our Power Brands. Over the year we 
commenced two major investments to fuel growth behind  
Mr. Kipling and Ambrosia. 
Quality and health & safety
As we target cost savings it is vital that we maintain totally focused 
and committed to food quality and health & safety.
Food safety and quality
Premier Foods is focused on food safety and quality as a core requirement 
throughout our organisation. We have put in place integrated monitoring 
and traceability systems from animal and crop husbandry , via delivery of 
these raw materials to our factories, through the manufacturing process 
and distribution, to our products being consumed within the home.
Over the last four years we have achieved a 20% reduction in 
consumer complaints based on sales volumes. In 2011 we achieved a 
4% reduction in complaints supported by the introduction of a quality 
benchmarking programme for the eight Power Brands, requiring daily 
product quality evaluations in all factories to ensure our products deliver 
on quality. 
During 2011, Premier Foods has carried out an extensive review 
of supply chain food safety and quality controls including the 
outsourcing of our Supplier Audit Programme to a specialist 
provider. These audits are carried out to The British Retail 
Consortium (“BRC”) Global Standard for Food Safety and/or our 
bespoke Corporate Technical Standard to guarantee the quality and 
consistency of the ingredients we use. A risk based due diligence 
chemical contaminant testing programme is in place to verify 
regulatory compliance of the ingredients we use.
Our Worksop site achieved the highest reduction in manufacturing 
controllable costs in 2011
“Premier Foods was named 
Manufacturer of the Year 
at the European Strategic 
Manufacturing Awards  
in 2011” Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
21
We have continued to see improvements in our factory standards 
reflecting the investment made in both people and infrastructure, such 
that 94% of all factories and depots achieved BRC Grade A audit 
results. We also have a rigorous internal food safety audit programme 
where factories have unannounced visits by our trained auditors to 
check that controls and due diligence requirements are being applied.
Workplace health & safety
To be “The Best in British Food”, our site management and their 
teams recognise that we must also be the best in workplace safety. 
2011 marked another successful year in Premier Foods’ health & 
safety performance with 61% of our sites recording zero RIDDOR 
reportable accidents, up from 42% in 2010.
RIDDOR Accident Frequency
Per 1,000 hours worked
0.40 08
0.26 09
0.18 10
0.12 11
At the end of 2011, at 0.12 reportable accidents per 100,000 hours 
worked, we achieved our lowest ever RIDDOR frequency rate. The 33% 
year-on-year reduction in the RIDDOR rate was also accompanied by a 
very impressive 53% reduction in major RIDDOR accidents. 
A Safe Workplace for All
Launched early in 2011, our corporate plan “A Safe Workplace for 
All” set out the array of leading and lagging indicators by which 
we would measure our performance, together with the initiatives 
through which we would deliver the improvements demanded in 
workplace safety, including:
1. T otal Observation Process (“TOPS”): During 2011, through 
TOPS our bespoke process, 27,000 workplace hazards were 
reported and resolved. Since its inception, over 100,000 hazards 
have been resolved and consequently over 100,000 potential 
accidents have been prevented.
2. BS OHSAS 18001:2007: Throughout 2011, the Health and 
Safety Management system across all our sites was successfully 
audited by an independent, accredited third party auditor.
3. ALARP risk assessment process: The Premier Foods ALARP 
process has been pivotal in delivering ground-breaking safety 
performance across our sites. To date, in excess of 1,100 risk 
assessors have received competency training in our bespoke risk 
assessment methodology.
4. Safety Leadership: Safety leadership at every level of an 
organisation is essential in driving the health & safety agenda 
and our certificated Safety Leadership Programme has been a 
vital ingredient underpinning our success. To date, over 1,000 
Premier Foods Safety Leaders have graduated through our 
bespoke Safety Leadership Programme. 
In 2011, the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (“RoSPA”) 
recognised the commitment and dedication of our managers and 
their teams to workplace safety by awarding 39 Gold and 12 Silver 
RoSPA Awards to our sites together with a RoSPA Gold Award for 
the Management of Occupational Road Risk.
It is our deeply held conviction that an excellent organisation is by 
definition a safe organisation and we believe that there must be no 
compromise where safety is concerned. We must all guard against 
complacency and will continue to drive further improvements in our health 
& safety performance; in active partnership with our employees across all 
of our sites, we will continue to strive for “A Safe Workplace for All”.
Case study: Investment in new Mr. Kipling 
automated packing line
As part of a major investment in our Cake business a £5.5m automated 
packing line was successfully installed at the Mr. Kipling Stoke bakery to 
pack cakes in the new “snap pack” format. The project underlines our 
commitment to investing in innovation and efficiency to drive growth. 
The new machinery represents the latest in food manufacturing 
technology and the fully automated line is capable of packing 47,000 
slices per hour. Sixteen robots carry out the whole operation in three 
phases. In the first, individual slices are picked and placed into trays. 
In the next phase, individual slices are top sealed in threes, then two 
stacked together and a sleeve wrapped around them. The final phase 
sees 12 packs wrapped ready for dispatch to customers.
The installation has created more skilled operator jobs at Stoke which were filled by internal recruitment giving the successful candidates 
the opportunity to acquire new skills working with the very latest technology. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
22
Sustainability
Ultimately our aim is to be a sustainable 
business in everything we do
We see sustainability as central to the way we run the business, in 
our approach to buying goods and services, in how we manufacture 
and distribute our products, in our relationships with partners and in 
the health and nutrition benefits of our products.
We believe that if we can get this right then it will in turn lead to 
sustainable financial results.
Financial and productivity KPIs 
The recent change in management has resulted in a new growth 
strategy for the Group aligned behind the four strategic pillars of 
Brands, Partners, Focus and Sustainability. As a result a new set of 
KPIs will be developed to help focus on the delivery of this strategy 
and to measure our success and we intend to report against 
them for 2012. Our environmental targets remain unchanged and 
progress against them is set out below.  
Better choice portfolio and innovation 
There is a real opportunity for us to connect with consumers and 
drive growth through offering a wider range of better-for-you options 
and a range of different portion sizes. 
Healthier choices for consumers
Our health and nutrition strategy consists of a number of strands:
Addition of positives The addition of wholesome, healthy and 
natural ingredients such as wholegrains, 
cereals, oats, pulses, fruits and vegetables
Reduction in  
ingredients  
of concern
The removal or reduction of ingredients 
where nutritional concerns exist e.g. salt, 
saturated fat, hydrogenated vegetable 
oils and non-naturally occurring trans fats
Portion size options To offer consumers a range of  
portion sizes
Clear labelling T o clearly communicate the nutrition 
content of products for example through 
front of pack % Guideline Daily Amount 
labelling complemented by detailed 
nutrition on the back of pack
Salt reduction
We are working with the Department of Health and other partners in the 
food industry to develop programmes that will help people make healthier 
choices through providing information to consumers, re-evaluating the 
nutritional content of food and promoting healthier choices. 
By the end of 2012 we will have reduced the salt in more than 639 
individual products across 53 branded categories from Hovis bread 
to Batchelors Savoury Rice. In 2011 we launched OXO reduced salt 
cubes so consumers can now enjoy OXO with reduced salt in the 
cube they know so well. OXO reduced salt cubes have shown a 
significant increase in sales over their predecessor, a granular format 
in a jar, indicating we are meeting consumer demand for lower salt 
versions of their favourite products. Already we have made salt 
reductions of 100 tonnes per annum across our brands and the 
remainder of the new recipes will roll out over 2012.
Case study: New Ambrosia range
In 2011, we started work on a range of portion sizes intended to meet the needs 
of different consumers and increasing suitability for increased eating occasions, i.e. 
snacking, in addition to the more traditional shared dessert.
 
Ambrosia rice is now available in 4 new formats. All products are naturally low in 
fat and now come in a range of flavours: 120g smaller pots, perfect for lunchboxes 
or smaller appetites; 190g pots which are great for adult snacking; 115g, which 
contains just 99 calories and is the perfect snack for weight managers; and a 
500g Sharing Rice Pot which is both re-sealable and suitable for the microwave to 
increase convenience.
“100% free range eggs  
used across entire  
Mr. Kipling range”
The entire Mr. Kipling range contains no artificial colours, flavours or 
hydrogenated fat Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Performance Summary Our business
23
Environmental programmes
We will continue to build on our strong track record of environmental improvement and ethical sourcing. 
In 2011 we made good progress against all our environmental targets details of which are set out in the table below. To build on this further, in 
2012, we launched our ‘Green Matters’ programme with an aim to create a Group-wide culture of environmental improvement and to embed 
‘green’ as a long-term strategic priority.
Target for 2011 Achievement in 2011 T arget for 2012
Energy — Energy usage
(gigawatts) -3.0%
1,586 10
1,322 11
-17% (-6.6%)*
-3.0%
Carbon — Carbon (CO
2
) equivalent 
emissions
(tonnes) -4.0% 
448,567 10
369,536 11
-18% (-6.8%)*
-4.0% 
Water — Water usage 
(excluding water embedded in our products) 
(megalitres) -3.0% 
5,320 10
3,717 11
-30% (-21.3%)*
-5.0% 
Waste — Waste to landfill 
(tonnes) -20.0%
10,246 10
6,877 11
-33% (-25.1%)*
-20.0%
Transport — Delivery miles 
(actual miles travelled (m)) -3.0%
66,784 10
58,269 11
-13% (-1.35%)*
-5.0%
* We have historically reported all environmental results in terms of absolute figures. As highlighted earlier in this annual report the Group has completed a  
 number of business disposals in 2011 which has impacted on environmental performance. For consistency we will continue to report absolute figures but we  
 have also included relative reduction figures (shown in brackets) to take into account the impact of these disposals.
Ethical sourcing
As a major British food manufacturer we are proud of the fact we 
spend 82% of our annual procurement budget with UK suppliers and 
farmers. 
In 2010, we began to develop our ‘Sustainable Procurement 
Roadmap’ (SPR) and last year we committed to embedding 
sustainability criteria within our ingredient category sourcing plans 
and risk logs. We have now completed sustainability assessments 
in 20 key categories and we will continue to roll out this innovative 
approach to sustainable procurement in 2012 and beyond.
Mr. Kipling 100% free range eggs
In January 2011, our Mr. Kipling cake brand moved to using 100% 
free range eggs across the entire range. Mr. Kipling uses the 
equivalent of over 60 million free range eggs each year. 
Manufacturer of the Year 2011
The hard work of employees operating across our supply chain was 
recognised when Premier Foods took top honours being named 
Manufacturer of the Year at the European Strategic Manufacturing 
Awards in October 2011 beating competition from across the 
European manufacturing industry. We also picked up the top award 
for Operational Excellence. The awards recognise the significant 
achievements made by the Group across a number of areas in the 
supply chain including manufacturing efficiency, cost reduction, 
environmental impact and health & safety improvements.
100% Sustainable palm oil
Premier Foods has committed to sourcing 100% RSPO certified 
sustainable palm oil by 2015. Our policy is to source palm oil only from 
suppliers who are members of the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO). In December 2011, BM TRADA, the leading independent 
certification body, recognised our efforts in getting 21 of our sites certified 
as having RSPO approved traceability systems capable of guaranteeing 
the use of palm oil from sustainable sources — more than any other 
company worldwide. In the 2011 World Wildlife Fund (WWF) ‘Palm Oil 
Buyers Scorecard’, we scored top marks achieving 9 out of 9 in the WWF 
palm oil buyers rating. The WWF Palm Oil Buyers’ Scorecard measures 
the performance of companies against strict criteria which show whether 
the companies assessed are acting responsibly.
External recognition
Our progress in sustainability received external recognition in 2011 
and we were listed on the FTSE4Good Index and Ethibel Excellence 
Register for the first time, highlighting that the Group is now meeting 
globally established corporate responsibility standards. 
More information on the work we do in this area can be found in the 
2011 Sustainability Report and also on our website.
To read more
www.premierfoods.co.uk/sustainability Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
24
Performance Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
25
Performance
Operating review 26
— Divisional review 28
Financial review 32
— Re-financing 32 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
26
Operating review
Investing for future growth
Introduction
In the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011, 
the Meat-free and Brookes Avana businesses are both treated 
as discontinued operations, reflecting their status as individual 
operating segments within the Group structure. The East Anglian 
canned grocery operations is treated as a continuing operation in 
the financial statements and reported separately as an operating 
segment, ‘Disposed of Canning Operations’. The Irish Brands 
business, the disposal of which completed on 23 January 2012, 
was a constituent part of the Grocery segment for the duration of 
2011 and is, therefore, treated as a continuing operation. 
The definition of ‘Ongoing business’ is used as a basis to illustrate 
the business performance of the Group following recent divestment 
activity. It excludes the Meat-free, East Anglian canned grocery 
operations, Brookes Avana and Irish Brands businesses. All 
commentary refers to Ongoing business unless otherwise stated.
Ongoing business revenue decreased by 3.4% to £1,811.0m in the 
year, a decrease of £63.7m compared to the prior year. Ongoing 
business Trading profit decreased by 29.3% to £173.7m in the 
year reflecting a challenging consumer environment and customer 
disputes.
Continuing operations
£m 2011 2010
Revenue
Grocery 1,121.5 1,212.6 (7.5%)
Bread 711.3 687.6 3.4%
Disposed of Canning Operations 166.7 334.2 (50.1%)
Total revenue 1,999.5 2,234.4 (10.5%)
Trading profit
Grocery 179.5 220.5 (18.6%)
Bread 3.4 35.3 (90.4%)
Disposed of Canning Operations 5.4 27.8 (80.6%)
Total Trading profit 188.3 283.6 (33.6%)
Amortisation of intangible assets (72.0) (65.8) (9.4%)
Foreign exchange valuation items 
(charge) (1.7) (2.0) 15.0%
Pension financing credit 17.0 4.1 –
Restructuring costs relating to 
disposals (10.5) – –
Re-financing fees (4.2) – –
Impairment of goodwill and 
intangible assets (282.0) – –
Loss on disposal of operations (11.2) – –
Operating (loss)/profit (176.3) 219.9 –
Ongoing business
£m 2011 2010
Revenue
Grocery 1,099.7 1,187.1 (7.4%)
Bread 711.3 687.6 3.4%
Total revenue 1,811.0 1,874.7 (3.4%)
Trading profit
Grocery 170.3 210.4 (19.1%)
Bread 3.4 35.3 (90.4%)
Total Trading profit 173.7 245.7 (29.3%)
Note: 
The Brookes Avana business is disclosed in the financial statements as a 
discontinued operation. Consequently this business is reported before the 
allocation of Group overheads. Trading profit for Grocery and Bread are 
therefore stated after the allocation of Group overheads previously assigned to 
Brookes Avana.
The previously named ‘Hovis’ division has been renamed the ‘Bread’ division.
“Our immediate priorities are to continue the stabilisation  
of the business, refocus the portfolio and invest in our future 
growth.”
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
T o read more about our financial results
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/results-and-presentations
Sharwood’s Tikka sauce range extension focusing on Britain’s  
favourite curry Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
27
Performance
Significant one-off items
The reported Ongoing business Trading profit of £173.7m in the 
year is stated after recognising pension credits of £37.4m and aged 
receivable reviews and associated commercial provisions of £37.4m.
The pension credits in 2011 include a credit in H1 2011 amounting 
to £12.1m, of which £10.0m related to the Ongoing business and 
reflected the move from final salary scheme to CARE and defined 
contribution schemes. An additional credit in H2 of £29.9m, of which 
£27.4m related to the Ongoing business, was due to changes in the 
statutory inflation assumption used in calculating certain scheme 
liabilities. The statutory inflation assumption change, prompted by 
legislation, involves replacing the retail price index (RPI) with the 
consumer price index (CPI) in calculating certain scheme liabilities. 
This amendment has been made to certain of the Premier Foods 
pension schemes liabilities only in 2011; the Group and Trustees of 
the RHM Pension Scheme are currently seeking legal clarification to 
ascertain the extent to which certain provisions of the RHM Pension 
Scheme are also affected by the move from RPI to CPI. In 2010, the 
Group’s results included a pension credit of £11.6m owing to past 
service credits.
Additionally, following recent disposal and restructuring activity, 
the Group has reassessed the recoverability of assets held on the 
balance sheet. Following this review, the Group has written off some 
aged receivable balances deemed unrecoverable and adjusted 
some associated commercial provisions. Accordingly, the Group 
recognised an expense of £37.4m in Ongoing business Trading 
profit.
The effect on Ongoing business Trading profit of these one-off items 
is neutral for the full year. Of the £27.4m pension credit recognised 
in H2, £26.0m was reflected in Ongoing business Trading profit of 
the Grocery division. The write-off of aged receivable balances and 
adjusted commercial provisions were all recognised in the Grocery 
division. A pension credit of £11.6m owing to past service credits 
was also recorded in 2010 reported Trading profit.
Group net debt as at 31 December 2011 was £995.1m. This is 
stated after gross disposal proceeds of £30.3m from the completed 
divestiture of the Brookes Avana business. Average gross borrowings 
decreased from £1,439m in 2010 to £1,194m in 2011. Historically, 
the Group has experienced a low point in the working capital cycle 
at the end of December. In future, the Group expects to have a lower 
degree of variability in net debt levels.
An impairment charge of £282.0m is attributable to the Bread 
segment as a result of the decline in profitability of the business in 
2011 compared to the prior year and hence the assessment of future 
forecasted cash flows for this segment. Additionally, and as a result 
of the sale of the Brookes Avana business, an impairment charge 
of £80.4m was taken against the assets of the business in 2011, 
reflecting the difference between the net sale proceeds and the 
carrying value of the business.
“Capital investment is 
increasingly moving 
from infrastructure to 
supporting growth and 
productivity”
Case study: Make tonight your “aah Night!”
Bisto is back on TV in 2012 with a new “aah Night!” campaign 
where members of the public commit to going home on time and 
spending time with their family. The campaign aims to encourage 
more families to use gravy as part of their evening meal to drive 
growth in the category. 
And there is definitely an opportunity to drive growth — we know that 
13.5 million Bisto users consume the brand less than once a week 
and that more than three-quarters of all sausages are eaten at home 
during the week without gravy! 
This year’s investment in TV and radio is set to keep Bisto at the 
top of the shopping list especially at Easter, as well as working on 
our longer term objective of increasing mid-week consumption.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
28
Operating review continued
Grocery division
Bread division
Sales in our Grocery division decreased by 7.4% to £1,099.7m 
compared to £1,187.1m in 2010. Trading profit was £170.3m, a 
19.1% decline in the year.
Grocery category performances in 2011 were characterised by 
the effect of challenging market conditions and high promotional 
activity. During the year, our markets declined by 2.5% in volume 
terms, significantly down on long-term averages, although this trend 
improved in the second half of 2011. Overall, branded volumes in 
the Grocery division declined year-on-year, owing to these market 
declines and a protracted customer dispute that particularly affected 
the Ambrosia, Batchelors, Loyd Grossman and Sharwood’s brands. 
The Group experienced a significant wave of input cost inflation 
during the first quarter of 2011. In response, price increases were 
negotiated and achieved, however, these only became effective 
from the beginning of the second quarter. As a result of this time lag, 
gross margins declined by £14m in the first quarter. 
During the year, promotional activity in the market continued at 
historically elevated levels. While volumes on promotion were higher 
than 2010, the annual rate of increase slowed and the depth of 
discount increased.
We continue to generate savings in the supply chain, both in 
increasing manufacturing efficiency at our sites and through 
procurement gains. Manufacturing efficiencies benefited Trading 
profit by £20m as a result of improvement programmes across a 
number of sites, while procurement gains delivered £14m.
A pension credit of £33m is recognised in Ongoing business Trading 
profit, owing to the change in inflation rate assumption from RPI 
to CPI and the movement of pension schemes from final salary to 
career average schemes.
Reported Trading profit of the Bread division in 2010 of £38.8m 
has been restated to £35.3m to reflect the reallocation of costs 
previously absorbed by the discontinued Brookes Avana business. 
Additionally, in 2010, other group and central costs have been 
allocated to the Bread division to more closely reflect support 
function activity. The net effect of these items has been to reduce 
reported Trading profit by £9.8m.
Total sales for the Bread division increased 3.4% in 2011 to 
£711.3m, while Trading profit declined from £35.3m in 2010 to 
£3.4m. Sales in our Bakery operations were down 2.9% in the year 
while Milling sales increased by 22.3%, largely due to higher pricing 
compared to the previous year to cover higher raw material costs. 
The performance of the Bakery business reflected challenging 
market conditions, with category volumes down 3.3% during the 
year. High levels of promotional activity remained a key feature of the 
market and as a result, Trading profit was lower in the year. Hovis 
branded market share was broadly flat during the year, while non-
branded volumes were lower, partly as a result of a contract loss. 
£m 2011 2010
Branded sales 892.5 972.8 (8.3%)
Non-branded sales 207.2 214.3 (3.3%)
Total sales 1,099.7 1,187.1 (7.4%)
Gross profit 331.1 408.6 (19.0%)
Trading profit 170.3 210.4 (19.1%)
£m 2011 2010
Branded bakery sales 372.0 375.6 (1.0%)
Non-branded bakery sales 128.5 139.6 (8.0%)
Total bakery sales 500.5 515.2 (2.9%)
Milling sales 210.8 172.4 22.3%
Total sales 711.3 687.6 3.4%
Gross profit 208.0 239.9 (13.3%)
Trading profit 3.4 35.3 (90.4%) Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
29
Performance
Brookes Avana
(Discontinued operation)
£m 2011 2010
Revenue 195.4 203.6 (4.0%)
Trading (loss)/profit (11.6) 11.3 –
The disposal of the Brookes Avana business to 2 Sisters Food 
Group was completed on 30 December 2011 for gross proceeds 
of £30.3m. In line with the key priorities for the Group, the disposal 
of Brookes Avana allows the business to better focus its resources 
behind growing the eight Power Brands.
Revenue for Brookes Avana decreased by 4.0% to £195.4m, down 
from £203.6m in 2010. This reflects the loss of a major pie contract 
at the Leicester site during the middle of the year, partly offset by 
pricing achieved in the first half.
A Trading loss of (£11.6m) was recorded in the year owing to 
competitive pricing pressure, significant contract churn and the 
resultant impact on supply chain efficiencies. A restructuring charge 
of £4m was taken in H1 due to redundancy costs associated with 
a lost pie contract and asset write-offs. The loss is stated before 
previously absorbed group overheads which would have amounted 
to £10.7m in 2011.
Case study: OXO Reduced Salt
Following the new launch in 2011 consumers can now 
buy reduced salt OXO in the cube shape they know 
and love. Available in beef, chicken and vegetable 
flavours, they contain 25% less salt than a standard 
OXO cube. 
We’ve been offering reduced salt OXO granules in 
jars since 2008. But now consumers can enjoy the 
signature rich OXO reduced salt flavour in the cube 
box they know so well. They will be able to find it 
easily in stores, because retailers will display all our 
cubes together. This is helping our customers by 
increasing the opportunity for multi-buy promotions 
and ensuring there is no confusion with gravy granule 
products in jars.
Reducing the salt, but retaining our favourite cube shape, was a challenge for our technical team. Salt is the ingredient which binds the 
stock granules together. So reducing salt can impact the shape and consistency of the cube. The team used their detailed knowledge 
of ingredients and how they respond in recipes to create a high quality product range.
Hovis “Go on Lad” advertising back on air in 2012 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
30
Operating review continued
Sales
£m 2011 2010
Power Brands 871.2 923.3 (5.6%)
Support brands 419.0 447.3 (6.3%)
Total Branded 1,290.2 1,370.6 (5.9%)
Non-branded 520.8 504.1 3.3%
Total Sales 1,811.0 1,874.7 (3.4%)
Branded sales % 71.2% 73.1% (1.9ppt)
Total Ongoing business sales declined 3.4% compared to the prior 
year and the branded sales mix reduced by 1.9ppt to 71.2%.
Power Brands sales declined 5.6% during the year reflecting market 
declines and the effect of major customer disputes. Support brands, 
defined as all other brands outside the Power Brands group, were 
down 6.3% to £419.0m in the year.
Non-branded sales increased by 3.3% as increased milling sales 
were partly offset by lower non-branded bakery sales and reduced 
Grocery non-branded sales.
Gross profit
£m 2011 2010
Gross profit (£m) 539.1 648.6 (16.9%)
Gross margin % 29.8% 34.6% (4.8ppt)
Gross margin movements:
Branded growth, product mix, 
manufacturing efficiency and 
procurement (1.6ppt)
Commodity costs, pricing and 
promotions (3.2ppt)
Total change (ppt) (4.8ppt)
Gross margin declined by 4.8% in 2011 to 29.8%. Manufacturing 
controllable costs improvements and procurement gains were offset 
by adverse product mix as non-branded sales increased by 3.3% 
while branded sales declined by 5.9%.
The impact of commodity costs, pricing and promotional activity 
reduced Gross margin by 3.2%. Pricing recovery to offset input 
cost inflation in the first half of the year maintained gross profit, but 
increased turnover and hence reduced the gross margin. Additionally, 
unrecovered commodity cost inflation in Q1 reduced gross margin. 
Consumer marketing
£m 2011 2010
Consumer Marketing 25.6 31.6 (19.0%)
Marketing investment declined by 19.0% during 2011 as the 
business sought to reduce costs in response to the challenging 
environment. The Group has taken the opportunity to redefine the 
definition of consumer marketing, to include, but not limited to, 
media spend, production costs, design, research, PR, sampling 
and associated fees. The table above reflects this revised definition. 
Costs of in-store marketing with our customers are not included in 
this revised definition of consumer marketing.
Cash flow
£m 2011 2010
Ongoing business Trading profit 173.7 245.7
Depreciation 41.8 39.3
Other non-cash items (25.4) 16.1
Interest (108.3) (118.0)
Taxation (2.4) (1.8)
Pension contributions (74.7) (64.3)
Regular capital expenditure (61.7) (58.7)
Working capital (0.1) 11.1
Recurring cash flow from Ongoing 
business (57.1) 69.4
Group recurring cash flow from Ongoing business before non-
recurring items in the year was an outflow of £57.1m compared 
to an inflow of £69.4m in the prior year. This adverse movement 
reflected a reduction in Trading profit in the year of £72.0m, higher 
pension contributions and an adverse movement in working capital 
of £11.2m. Historically, the Group’s working capital cycle reaches a 
low point in December, and while this remains so, the extent of this 
low point was reduced in December 2011 resulting in this working 
capital movement. 
Other non-cash items includes the add-back of the pension credit 
recognised in Trading profit, partly offset by the pension financing 
credit. Lower cash interest of £108.3m was due to lower average 
debt levels following divestitures partly offset by phasing differences.
£m 2011 2010
Recurring cash flow from Ongoing 
business
(57.1) 69.4
Trading profit & restructuring activity from 
disposed businesses
(10.3) 65.1
Other cash flows from disposed businesses (40.6) (18.9)
Operating cash flow from total group (108.0) 115.6
Disposal proceeds 400.2 9.1
Financing fees & finance leases (7.3) (39.6)
Movement in net debt 284.9 85.1
Movement in net debt in the year was £284.9m, an increase of 
£199.8m compared to 2010. Total disposal proceeds from the sale 
of Meat-free, East Anglian canned grocery and Brookes Avana 
totalled £394.8m and other smaller asset sales amounted to £5.4m. 
These proceeds were partly offset by the recurring cash outflow 
from Ongoing business of £57.1m and cash outflows from disposed 
businesses of £50.9m.
Net debt
£m 2011 2010
Gross debt 1,011.1 1,301.3
Deferred financing fees (16.0) (21.3)
Net debt 995.1 1,280.0
Group net debt at the year end was £284.9m lower in the year at 
£995.1m. Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
31
Performance
Pensions
Total cash paid to the pension schemes in the year was £77.3m, 
comprising £29.0m of regular contributions and administrative 
expenses and £48.3m of deficit contributions. This is in line with 
guidance provided at the Half Year. At 31 December 2011, the 
deficit as calculated on an IAS 19 basis was £282.4m, equivalent to 
£212.4m net of deferred tax.
£m
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2010
Assets
Equities 425.1 588.1
Bonds 472.4 445.7
Property 127.6 121.5
Absolute return 721.9 566.8
Swaps 231.6 80.9
Cash & other 1,177.4 996.4
Total Assets 3,156.0 2,799.4
Liabilities
Discount rate 4.80% 5.45%
Inflation rate (RPI/CPI) (3.15%/
1.95%)
(3.45%/
N/A)
Total Liabilities (3,438.4) (3,120.3)
Gross deficit (IAS 19) (282.4) (320.9)
Deferred tax 70.0 85.8
Net deficit (IAS 19) (212.4) (235.1)
Business disposals
The Group has stated its intention to focus on investing behind 
growing eight Power Brands. Following divestitures completed 
since the beginning of 2011, the Group expects further selected 
businesses to be divested in 2012 to increase the Group’s focus on 
its Power Brands and additionally help deleverage the business.
During the course of the year, the Group completed the disposal 
of the Meat-free, East Anglian canned grocery and Brookes Avana 
chilled ready meals and cake businesses. The disposal of Meat-free 
to Exponent Private Equity and Intermediate Capital Group was 
completed on 7 March 2011 for a cash consideration of £205.0m 
and the disposal of the East Anglian canned grocery business 
to Princes Limited was completed on 23 July 2011 for a cash 
consideration of £182.2m. Brookes Avana was sold to 2 Sisters 
Food Group on 30 December 2011 for £30.3m. Additionally, on 
23 January 2012, the Group announced the completed disposal 
of the Irish Brands business, comprising the Chivers, Gateaux, and 
McDonnell’s brands and the Erin licence to the Boyne Valley Group 
for €41.4m. Net proceeds will be confirmed in due course, following 
the completion of final working capital statements.
Meat-free
East Anglian
canned grocery Irish Brands Brookes Avana
Announcement 24 January 2011 8 February 2011 7 December 2011 15 December 2011
Completion 7 March 2011 23 July 2011 23 January 2012 30 December 2011
Gross Proceeds £205.0m £182.2m €41.4m £30.3m
Net Proceeds £196.6m £165.3m Not concluded £31.6m
Loss on disposal £12.4m £11.2m Not concluded £2.2m
Purchaser Exponent Private
Equity and
Intermediate 
Capital Group Princes Ltd
Boyne Valley 
Group
2 Sisters 
Food Group
The table below serves to illustrate key financial metrics of the four transactions outlined above; Meat-free and East Anglian canned grocery 
are based on 2010 results and Irish Brands and Brookes Avana are based on 2011 results.
£m Meat-free
East Anglian
canned grocery Brookes Avana Irish Brands Total Disposals
Branded sales 128.8 147.5 – 21.8 298.1
Non-branded sales – 186.7 195.4 – 382.1
Total sales 128.8 334.2 195.4 21.8 680.2
Trading profit/(loss) 16.2 27.8 (11.6) 9.2 41.6
EBITDA 19.3 31.7 (7.1) 9.2 53.1
Capital expenditure 1.2 2.1 5.3 – 8.6
Outlook
The recently announced re-financing package provides the foundation on which the Group’ s growth strategies can be implemented. During the 
coming year, the Group’ s priorities remain to stabilise its operational performance, while enabling the business to increase its focus through selected 
disposals. The consumer environment is expected to remain challenging with continued high levels of promotional activity and ongoing cost 
inflation, albeit at lower levels than 2011. The Group, nevertheless, believes the planned increase in marketing investment, proposed cost reduction 
programmes, better customer collaboration and renewed focus across the Group will provide the platform to deliver future branded growth. 
Consequently, over the medium term, the Group expects a return to sales growth, and higher Gross margins. This will be supported by further 
sustained increases in marketing investment and a continuation of cost reduction and efficiency programmes. Additionally, the Group will reduce 
interest charges and net debt. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
32
Financial review
All term loan and securitised debt attract interest charges based on 
LIBOR.
A sliding scale of new deferred fees at market rates will be 
applicable from 2014 through to 2016, which are payable on a 
subsequent re-financing. Planned future disposal proceeds will be 
shared between the banks in the banking syndicate (including those 
swap counterparties whose swaps have been restructured into 
additional term loans as described above).
Subject to implementation of the new re-financing arrangements, the 
Trustees of the Group’ s pension schemes have agreed to defer deficit 
contribution payments (c.£47m p.a.) until 1 January 2014 and there will 
be no increase in the agreed deficit contributions before 2016. Regular 
contributions of approximately £26m per annum will continue to be paid 
to the pension schemes.
On 31 December 2013, a ‘cash sweep’, reflecting excess cash 
generated over and above an agreed level will be calculated and 
paid in early 2014 to the banking syndicate, (including those 
swap counterparties whose swaps have been restructured into 
additional term loans as described above) and pension schemes 
in lieu of payments forgone by this date. Further cash sweeps will 
be included annually with amounts distributed only to the banking 
syndicate (including those swap counterparties whose swaps have 
been restructured into additional term loans as described above).
The Company is restricted from paying dividends under the terms of 
the re-financing package.
Capital expenditure is to be held in line with target of approximately 
3% of sales.
The Group is presenting its financial results for the year ending  
31 December 2011 with comparative information for the year ending 
31 December 2010. 
Re-financing package
The Group has obtained consent from its banking syndicate, swap 
counterparties and pension schemes on a re-financing package 
subject to the formalities of final documents being signed, expected 
by the end of March 2012. 
The existing term loan (£733m) and revolving credit facility (£500m), 
previously due to mature on 31 December 2013, will be extended to a 
new maturity date of 30 June 2016. The current applicable bank margin 
of 2.25% will increase to 3.25% with effect from 1 January 2014. 
Additionally, the current amortisation payment schedule has been 
amended, with amortisations to occur semi-annually from 30 June 
2014. Banking covenants of net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest 
remain in place; they will continue to be tested bi-annually and have 
been reset to reflect the Group’s strategic plan. The covenant tests 
are set out in the table opposite.
Having already realised net disposal proceeds of £400m in 2011, 
the Group is required to realise proceeds from disposals of £330m 
by 30 June 2014, with 80% of this to be achieved by 31 December 
2013 and 90% of this by 31 March 2014.
The total interest rate swap portfolio, including previously restructured 
swaps, will be restructured into additional term loan totalling 
approximately £199m. Of this additional term loan, approximately 
£117m of the previously restructured swaps will be interest bearing 
with immediate effect. The remaining £82m of previously restructured 
swaps will attract interest from 1 January 2014. These new tranches 
of additional term loan will attract the same interest margin as the main 
term loan. The result of this conversion from swaps to additional term 
loan will significantly reduce the Group’ s interest expense in 2012 and 
2013 and the previously arranged agreed swap settlements of £35m 
in 2012 and £82m in 2013 are no longer applicable. A new amortising 
swap commencing in July 2012, with a nominal value of approximately 
£750m will be arranged, attracting a swap rate of 1.55%.
The Group has negotiated and obtained a commitment to a new 
securitisation programme relating to certain receivable balances 
available up to an amount of £120m, subject to sufficient receivables 
being capable of being sold into the programme. These balances 
will be included as part of net debt, reflecting their recognition on the 
balance sheet and will attract an interest margin of 3.5%.
Robust financing in place
“We have obtained unanimous consent from our banking 
syndicate, swap counterparties and pensions schemes on  
a re-financing package which will allow the Company  
to execute its new growth strategies.”
Mark Moran 
Chief Financial Officer
The Bisto range was extended in 2011 to include new instant roast gravy. Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
33
Performance
Summary of Re-financing package
Bank facility maturity 30 June 2016
Bank margin 2.25% until 31 Dec 2013
3.25% 1 Jan 2014 – 30 June 2016
Facilities Term loan A £733m 
RCF £500m
Additional term loan circa £199m
Amortisation payments 30 June 2014 — £25m
31 Dec 2014 — £25m
30 June 2015 — £30m
31 Dec 2015 — £30m
Disposals Proceeds shared between banks and swap counterparties
£330m disposal proceeds required by 30 June 2014; certain progress milestones from  
31 December 2013
Securitisation Programme now £120m and now on balance sheet
Cash sweep Paid in February 2014, split between banks, swaps and pension schemes. Further cash 
sweeps annually thereafter (excluding pension schemes)
Consent fee 1% fee on outstanding facilities
Existing deferred fee 0.5% on existing facilities, paid Dec 2013
New deferred fee 2.0% on facilities between 28 March 2013 – 27 March 2014
2.5% on facilities between 28 March 2014 – 27 March 2015
3.0% on facilities between 28 March 2015 – 27 March 2016
Covenant test dates Bi-annually, 30 June and 31 December
Net debt/
EBITDA 
covenant
30 June 2012 6.96x
31 December 2012 5.87x
30 June 2013 5.26x
31 December 2013 4.52x
30 June 2014 4.66x
31 December 2014 3.92x
30 June 2015 3.82x
31 December 2015 3.26x
EBITDA/
Interest 
covenant
30 June 2012 2.37x
31 December 2012 3.69x
30 June 2013 4.50x
31 December 2013 4.50x
Each test thereafter 4.50x
The re-financing package is subject to final documentation being put in place and the directors are confident that this will be achieved and 
signed by the end of March 2012. On this basis, the directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis of 
accounting as fully described in note 2 to the financial statements. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
34
Financial review continued
An operating loss of £176.3m was recorded for the year compared 
to a profit of £219.9m in 2010 reflecting the Trading profit movement 
and an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets of £282.0m.
The impairment charge of £282.0m was recognised against the 
goodwill and intangible assets of the Bread division, which has 
arisen following adverse trading conditions within this operating 
segment in the year. Additionally, a loss on disposal of £11.2m 
was recognised relating to the divestiture of the Canned grocery 
operations. A charge of £10.5m for restructuring costs associated 
with disposed of businesses is due to redundancy and restructuring 
costs and closure of the Windsor office.
Finance expense
Net finance expense in 2011 was £82.8m, compared with £191.4m 
in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to lower average debt levels 
following disposals and hence lower applicable bank margin, in 
addition to a positive movement in the fair valuation in the mark to 
market of interest rate swaps.
Net regular interest costs were £115.7m, compared to £145.2m 
in 2010, principally due to reduced average debt levels and lower 
bank margin, as outlined above. Amortisation and deferred fees in 
the year were £13.4m compared to £14.4m in the prior year. The fair 
valuation of interest rate financial instruments reduced in the year  
by £36.9m.
Taxation
The taxation credit for 2011 was £29.1m compared to a charge 
of £24.4m in 2010. In the year, the current tax credit was £0.3m 
and the deferred tax credit amounted to £28.8m. The deferred tax 
credit is principally due to reduction in tax liabilities following the 
impairment of intangible assets in the year and also the reduction in 
the deferred tax rate from 27% in 2010 to 25% in 2011.
The corporation tax rate for 2012 is expected to be 25.25% and the 
deferred tax rate is expected to be 24.0% from April 2012.
Earnings per share
A basic loss per share of 9.6 pence for the year on continuing 
operations is calculated by dividing the loss attributed to ordinary 
shareholders of £230.0m (31 December 2010: £4.1m profit) by 
the weighted number of shares in issue during the period. This 
compares to earnings per share of 0.2 pence for the year to  
31 December 2010.
Group structure
During the year, the Group disposed of its Meat-free business 
(incorporating the Quorn and Cauldron brands), the Canned grocery 
operations business and the Brookes Avana chilled ready meals and 
cake business. The sale of the Irish Brands McDonnell’s, Gateaux, 
Chivers and Erin licence also completed on 23 January 2012. 
The results of the Meat-free and Brookes Avana businesses are set 
out in note 11 to the financial statements. The income statement 
for 2010 has been restated to reflect the Meat-free and Brookes 
Avana businesses as discontinued operations. The Canned grocery 
operations business is treated as a continuing operation in the 
financial statements and reported separately as an operating 
segment, ‘Disposed of Canning Operations’. All commentary on 
the performance of the Group included below refers to continuing 
operations unless otherwise stated and incorporates the Irish 
Brands business.
Income statement
Revenue from continuing operations was £1,999.5m, a decrease of 
£234.9m in the year. The primary reason for the decrease was due 
to the disposal of the Canned grocery operations business in July 
2011 and reduced branded sales resulting from market declines and 
customer disputes.
Operating profit
Operating profit for continuing operations before impairment and 
loss on disposal was £116.9m, a 46.8% decrease on the year to 
31 December 2010. This decrease was largely due to a reduction 
in Trading profit of £95.3m in the year to £188.3m. The Grocery 
division declined due to the reasons outlined in the income 
statement above while the Bread division experienced high levels of 
promotional activity in a competitive market, impacting profitability.
New Loyd Grossman TV campaign based around Loyd’s lifetime passion 
for food Our business Governance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
35
Performance
Pension schemes
At 31 December 2011 the Group’s pension schemes showed a 
gross deficit of £282.4m demonstrating a reduction of £38.5m in 
the year from £320.9m as at 31 December 2010. This comprised 
a £267.7m deficit in relation to Premier schemes and a deficit of 
£14.7m in relation to the RHM schemes. The reduction in the RHM 
scheme deficit reflects a positive movement in the market value of 
the scheme assets during the year partially offset by an increase in 
liabilities as a result of a decrease in discount rate from 5.45% to 
4.80%. The increase in the valuation of the Premier scheme liabilities 
is primarily due to the decrease in the discount rate from 5.45% to 
4.80%. The discount rate is based on UK corporate AA bond yields.
A UK Government change to the statutory inflation index applied to 
certain pension scheme liabilities was applied to the Premier Foods 
pension schemes during the year. This amendment has been made 
to the Premier Foods pension schemes only in 2011. The effect of 
this change resulted in a credit of £29.9m reflected in continuing 
operations Trading profit (£27.4m in Ongoing business Trading 
profit). The Group and Trustees of the RHM Pension Scheme are 
currently seeking legal clarification to ascertain the extent to which 
certain provisions of the RHM Pension Scheme are also affected by 
the move from RPI to CPI. 
In the first half of the year, a credit of £11.4m was taken in Trading 
profit (Ongoing business £10.0m) following the move from final 
salary to career average schemes for existing employees.
The Group has been in discussion with one of the Group Pension 
Schemes relating to the possibility that it may have to recognise 
some additional liability as a result of alleged failure to adequately 
equalise retirement ages between 1990 and 1993. During 2011 
the Group decided to seek a court ruling. On 20 February 2012 
the case was heard in court and on 2 March 2012 the judge ruled 
in favour of the Group. As a result there is no material additional 
liability to be recognised and no impact on pension deficit recovery 
payments relating to this case.
Following the re-financing package concluded with the banking 
syndicate, swap counterparties and pension schemes, pension 
deficit contribution payments will be suspended from March 2012 to 
December 2013 and resume in 2014 in line with the current deficit 
contribution payment schedule.
Adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations was 2.2 
pence (31 December 2010: 4.2 pence). Adjusted earnings per 
share on continuing operations has been calculated by dividing the 
adjusted earnings (defined as Trading profit less net regular interest 
payable and notional taxation) attributed to ordinary shareholders 
of £53.4m (31 December 2010: £99.7m) by the weighted number 
of ordinary shares in issue during each period. These earnings have 
been calculated by reflecting tax at a notional rate of 26.5%  
(31 December 2010: 28.0%).
Cash flow and borrowings
In the year, the net borrowings of the Group decreased from 
£1,280.0m at 1 January 2011 to £995.1m, a decrease of £284.9m. 
Of this movement, the cash and non-cash elements were £290.8m 
and (£5.9m) respectively. The non-cash movement related to 
amortisation of debt issuance costs.
The cash outflow from operating activities was £29.1m (31 December 
2010: inflow of £180.5m). This included cash inflow from continuing 
operations of £134.6m (31 December 2010: £275.6m) and cash 
outflow from discontinued operations of £47.9m (31 December 2010: 
inflow of £37.6m). Additionally, net cash interest paid was £113.4m 
(31 December 2010: £131.0m) of which £108.3m relates to Ongoing 
business, reflecting lower average debt and lower bank margin levels. 
Tax paid in the year was £2.4m (31 December 2010: £1.7m).
Sale of subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment in the year 
amounted to £400.2m following the completed disposals of the 
Meat-free and Brookes Avana businesses and the East Anglian 
canned grocery operations.
Net capital expenditure in the year was £71.9m (31 December  
2010: £62.0m), of which £61.7m relates to Ongoing business  
reflecting the focus on our eight Power Brands, investing in sites for 
our Mr. Kipling, Ambrosia and Hovis brands.
Repayment of borrowings in 2011 was £363.6m (31 December 
2010: £116.2m) reflecting the pay down of term loan debt following 
disposals completed during the year. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
36
Governance Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
37
Governance
Board of directors and Group Executive 38
Corporate governance report 42
— Risk management 53
— Other statutory information 58
— Shareholder information 61
Directors’ remuneration report 64 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
38
Board of directors and Group Executive
Board of directors
Ronnie Bell
Non-executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board: October 2010
Skills and experience: Ronnie spent a 30 year career with Kraft Foods 
Inc, the world’s second largest food company. During this time he gained 
extensive experience in marketing, business development and general 
and international management. Ronnie assumed his first country general 
management role, for the UK and Republic of Ireland, in 1990. He then 
widened his responsibilities geographically to include 16 European countries 
following his appointment as President of Kraft Foods Europe, a position he 
held for five years. In this role he was responsible for all the Group’s coffee, 
chocolate and grocery brands in the region. 
Board contribution: Ronnie has extensive marketing and sales experience 
within the UK and international food industry. He is responsible for leading 
the Board and ensuring it operates in an effective manner. As Chairman he is 
responsible for setting Board agendas and ensuring sufficient time is available 
for discussing key strategic issues. He is also responsible for promoting 
constructive relations between the executive and non-executive directors and 
ensuring effective communication with shareholders. During the year Ronnie 
led the process for the appointment of Michael Clarke as the Group’s new 
CEO and also David Wild as a new non-executive director.
Other appointments: Ronnie is currently non-executive Chairman of Milk Link 
Ltd and non-executive director of Ansell Ltd and The Edrington Group Ltd. He 
was previously a non-executive director of Northern Foods plc and Gallaher 
Group plc.
Committee membership: Ronnie chairs the Nomination Committee and is a 
member of the Finance and Remuneration committees.
Charles Miller Smith
Deputy Chairman and non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009
Skills and experience: Charles is a senior adviser at Warburg Pincus LLC 
and prior to this was an International Adviser at Goldman Sachs International 
from 2001 until 2005. Charles worked with Unilever plc for over 30 years, 
the last five of which he served as a Director of Finance and then Foods. He 
held a wide range of financial and general management positions in the UK, 
the Netherlands and India. Charles was Chief Executive Officer and then 
Chairman at ICI plc from 1994 to 2001 and served as Chairman of Scottish 
Power plc between 2000 and 2007. 
Board contribution: As Deputy Chairman Charles is responsible for assisting 
the Chairman in performing his duties and where appropriate deputising in his 
absence. Charles has extensive commercial experience both as an executive 
director of a number of multinational companies and also in advising a range 
of financial organisations.
Other appointments: Charles is a member of the international advisory 
council for Principal Financial in the USA and also Chairman of Firstsource 
Solutions UK Ltd. 
Committee membership: Charles is a member of the Finance and 
Nomination committees.
Michael Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board: August 2011
Skills and experience: Prior to joining the Group, Michael served as 
President of Kraft Foods Europe. In this role he was responsible for managing 
the group’s entire European business, with revenues of $13 billion, 58 
manufacturing sites and 25,000 employees, reporting directly to Kraft’s 
Chairman & CEO. Previously Michael was President of The Coca-Cola 
Company, Northwest Europe (including the UK) & Nordics and was with the 
company for 12 years in a number of senior roles. Previous to this, Michael 
was Vice-President for Reebok South Asia/Pacific and began his early career 
as a Chartered Accountant in South Africa with Deloitte. He graduated with a 
degree in Commerce from the University of Cape Town. 
Board contribution: Since joining the Company in August Michael’s initial 
priorities have been to agree a new business plan for the Group, undertake a 
strategic review of the business including identifying potential disposals and 
to agree a new re-financing plan. Michael has also appointed a new senior 
management team. 
Other appointments: Michael is currently non-executive director of  
Wolseley plc.
Past appointments: President of Kraft Foods Europe.
Committee membership: Michael is a member of the Finance Committee 
and regularly attends meetings of the other Board committees by invitation.
Mark Moran
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: December 2011
Skills and experience: Prior to joining the Group Mark served as Chief 
Financial Officer of SSL International plc where he gained extensive experience 
of working with global brands during his six years including strategic and day-
to-day financial management, executive Board responsibilities and investor 
relations. Prior to this he was Group Finance Director of Porvair plc and also 
held senior roles at Caradon plc. Mark trained as a Chartered Accountant with 
Arthur Andersen. 
Board contribution: Mark is responsible for overseeing the financial 
operations of the Group and setting its financial strategy in conjunction 
with the Finance Committee and the Board. He also oversees the overall 
framework for financial forecasting, planning, analysis and reporting. Mark’s 
immediate priority since joining has been to focus on the delivery of the new 
re-financing plan. 
Past appointments: Chief Financial Officer of SSL International plc between 
2004 and 2010. Non-executive director of Brixton plc between 2008 and 
2009.
Committee membership: Mark is a member of the Finance Committee and 
regularly attends meetings of the other Board committees by invitation. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
39
Governance
David Beever
Senior Independent Director and non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: January 2008
Skills and experience: After qualifying as a Chartered Engineer, David has 
spent most of his career in the financial sector. He was a Vice-Chairman of  
S. G. Warburg where he handled many corporate finance transactions for 
major UK and International companies. He was later a board member of 
KPMG and Chairman of Corporate Finance. Earlier he worked for several 
years at 3i Group plc. He is a non-executive director of Stobart Group Ltd and 
was previously Chairman of a number of listed and other companies including 
Volex Group plc and London and Continental Railways plc, builders of the 
Channel Tunnel Link. He was also a non-executive director of JJB Sports plc 
and Paragon Group of Companies plc.
Board contribution: David has a wealth of experience within the finance 
industry and provides advice and counsel to the Board on major strategic 
financial issues as Chairman of the Finance Committee and a member of 
the Audit Committee. The main focus over the year has been to review and 
approve progress in connection with the Group’s re-financing plan. As Senior 
Independent Director he has responsibility for meeting with the other non-
executive directors to review the Chairman’s performance and is available to 
shareholders to discuss their concerns.
Other appointments: David is a Member of the Board of Trustees at the 
University of London.
Committee appointments: David is Chairman of the Finance Committee and 
also a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees. 
Ian McHoul
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: July 2004
Skills and experience: Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer of AMEC plc. 
Ian’s earlier career was spent in the brewing industry where he spent ten years 
with Courage Ltd and its parent company Foster’s Brewing Group in a variety 
of roles and served as General Manager of Strategy of Foster’s Brewing Group 
and executive director of Strategy and Planning of Courage Ltd from 1992 
to 1995. He was Finance and Strategy Director of the Inntrepreneur Pub 
Company Ltd from 1995 to 1998. Ian then served at Scottish & Newcastle plc 
between 1998 and 2008, holding the position of Finance Director from 2001. 
Ian qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG in 1985.
Board contribution: Ian has extensive financial experience and expertise 
which is utilised by the Board in his capacity as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and also as a member of the Finance Committee. The Audit 
Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial reporting systems, financial controls and the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function.
Committee appointments: Ian is Chairman of the Audit Committee and also 
a member of the Finance and Nomination committees.
David Wild
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: March 2011
Skills and experience: David joined the Group in March 2011. He is currently 
Chief Executive Officer of Halfords Group plc and was previously with Walmart 
where he was Senior Vice-President of New Business Development in San 
Francisco. Prior to this role, David was President of Walmart Germany. Earlier 
in his career he was with Tesco plc (1985 to 2003) where he held a variety of 
roles including developing and latterly leading their business in Central Europe.
Board contribution: David brings over 20 years’ retailing experience, gained 
at two world-leading businesses and the skills and ability to develop growth 
strategies.
Committee membership: David is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and 
Nomination committees.
Louise Makin
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: October 2006
Skills and experience: Louise is currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, 
an international specialist healthcare company. Louise was appointed CEO in 
October 2004 and has led the turnaround, strategic positioning and growth of the 
company. Previously, Louise was President of the Biopharmaceuticals Division of 
Baxter Healthcare Europe, after having joined Baxter in 2000 as Vice-President, 
Strategy & Business Development Europe. Prior to Baxter, Louise spent 13 years 
with ICI plc and English China Clay. Louise holds an MA in Natural Sciences, a 
PhD in Metallurgy from the University of Cambridge, and an MBA.
Board contribution: Louise has significant commercial and management 
expertise within the Healthcare industry. She chairs the Remuneration 
Committee which over the year has focused on the significant management 
changes within the Group and consulted with major shareholders and investor 
bodies regarding the new Long Term Incentive Plan.
Committee appointments: Louise is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Audit Committee:
Ian McHoul (Chairman),  
David Beever,  
David Wild
Finance Committee:
David Beever (Chairman),  
Ronnie Bell, Michael Clarke,  
Ian McHoul, Mark Moran,  
Charles Miller Smith
Nomination Committee:
Ronnie Bell (Chairman), David Beever, 
Ian McHoul, Louise Makin, Charles 
Miller Smith, David Wild
Remuneration Committee:
Louise Makin (Chairman),  
David Beever, Ronnie Bell,  
David Wild
Committee Memberships: Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
40
Board of directors and Group Executive continued
Group Executive
Brian Carlton
Group HR Director
Skills and experience: Brian joined the business 
in 1994 as Head of Personnel for the Canned 
Foods division. His responsibilities have since been 
extended to embrace all HR activities across the 
Group. He was appointed to the Group Executive 
in October 2006. Prior to joining Premier Foods, 
Brian held HR and Operational roles in Chrysler 
UK, K Shoes, Metal Box and Smurfit Packaging.
Key responsibilities: These include leadership 
development, talent management, remuneration, 
resourcing and employee relations management 
across the business.
Mark Hughes
Group Procurement Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined Premier 
Foods and the Group Executive in 2007 following 
the acquisition of RHM. Mark joined RHM in 2003 
as Divisional Services Director (Bread Bakeries) 
and became a member of the Bread Bakeries 
Division Executive in 2004, and was Group 
Procurement and Logistics Director and a member 
of the Group Executive of RHM in 2006. Mark 
was previously director at Archer Daniels Midland 
Milling (UK) and has held a number of senior 
positions with Associated British Foods plc.
Key responsibilities: Control and risk 
management of c.£1.5bn of spend on ingredients, 
packaging, energy, machinery, facilities, 
engineering, marketing and all corporate spend. 
Responsibilities include ensuring the Group 
remains competitive and well placed within 
a changing market through the provision of 
innovative procurement processes, policies, 
stakeholder engagement and external supplier 
relationship management.
Ian Deste
Group Sales Director
Skills and experience: Ian joined Premier Foods 
in September 2011 as Group Sales Director. 
He previously spent 20 years with Coca-Cola 
Enterprises Ltd (CCE), including nine years as 
a member of the GB board. Most recently, Ian 
held the position of Vice-President, Sales and 
Customer Development, prior to which he held 
other senior positions in sales, marketing and 
communications at CCE. In his early career, he 
worked in the beer and tobacco industries. 
Key responsibilities: These include developing 
strategy, tactics, sales plans and profit targets; 
identifying and reporting on business opportunities 
in target markets; and working towards achieving 
targets for revenue, profitability and sales growth.
Richard Johnson
Group Corporate Affairs Director
Skills and experience: Richard joined Premier 
Foods in October 2011 as Group Corporate Affairs 
Director. Previously, Richard was Corporate Affairs 
Director for Kraft Foods Europe based at the 
company’s headquarters in Switzerland. He also 
held senior corporate affairs roles at Kraft Foods in 
the UK, Belgium and the US and, for a time was 
Vice-President Corporate Affairs for McDonald’s 
Europe. 
Key responsibilities: These include leading the 
Group’s internal and external communications, 
public affairs, sustainability and community 
relations activities.
Dean Holroyd
Group Technical and Innovation Director
Skills and experience: Dean was appointed 
Group Technical and Innovation Director in July 
2011. Prior to this Dean was Hovis Supply Chain 
Director and joined Premier Foods following the 
acquisition of RHM in 2007. Dean joined the RHM 
Group in 1997 and served the first seven years as 
Managing Director initially at Ledbury Preserves 
before moving on to Le Pain Croustillant. Prior to 
this Dean worked in a number of commercial and 
operational roles with Associated British Foods 
plc, Manor Bakeries and Northern Foods plc. 
Key responsibilities: These include setting the 
strategy to develop and deliver a strong innovation 
pipeline; ensuring product design, systems and 
processes deliver consumer preferred product 
quality in our chosen areas; and ensuring that all 
Premier Foods products comply with the highest 
standards of food safety and legislation.
Andrew McDonald
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Skills and experience: Andrew joined the 
Company in November 2011 as General Counsel 
and Company Secretary. Prior to this he held the 
same position at Uniq plc, recently acquired by the 
Greencore Group. Andrew is a qualified solicitor 
and worked as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields 
Bruckhaus Deringer before moving into industry. 
He is a law graduate of Manchester University. 
Key responsibilities: Andrew has responsibility for 
the legal, company secretarial and internal audit 
functions and is actively involved in key operational 
issues facing the business. He is on the steering 
group of all corporate and strategic projects 
pursued by the Group. He chairs the risk review 
group and policy steering group. He also supports 
the Chairman with the management of the Board 
to ensure it fulfils its corporate governance 
obligations.
The Group Executive is appointed by the Chief Executive Officer. The Group Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business and 
implementing the Group’s strategy. Over the course of the year, there have been a significant number of changes in membership. Details of the Group 
Executive are set out below: Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
41
Governance
Bob Spooner
Group Supply Chain Director 
Skills and experience: Bob joined Premier Foods as 
Group Operations Director in April 2007. In October 
2011 Bob was appointed Group Supply Chain 
Director with responsibility for the Group’ s combined 
Operations, T echnical and Procurement functions. 
Before joining, Bob was Group Supply Director 
for Northern Foods plc and Managing Director of 
Northern Foods’ Pastry Products business and prior 
to that held senior operational and supply chain roles 
with ICI Paints, and Sara Lee. 
Key responsibilities: These include leading and 
implementing the Group’s manufacturing, logistics, 
procurement, technical and innovation strategy 
across the businesses.
Iwan Williams
Managing Director
Skills and experience: Iwan joined Premier Foods 
in November 2011 as Managing Director. Iwan has 
a wealth of general management and marketing 
experience gained through previous roles including 
President of McCormicks Europe, Middle East and 
Africa and Strategic Marketing Director of Coca- 
Cola, Asia Pacific. His earlier career included time 
with S.C. Johnson Wax and Cadbury Schweppes.
Key responsibilities: These include responsibility 
for the day-to-day operations of the Group’s 
Grocery and Bakery businesses.
Mark Vickery
Group IS & Change Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined the Group 
in early 2005 as Director of IS & Change 
Management. Following the acquisition of RHM he 
assumed the role of Group IS & Change Director. 
Mark started his career at Unilever plc where he 
spent 17 years working in a number of businesses 
and geographies. He then moved to United 
Biscuits as IS Director prior to joining Premier 
Foods.
Key responsibilities: These include managing 
the Information Services function and delivering 
major system and change programmes into the 
business. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
42
Corporate governance report
Contents
Corporate governance framework 43
Leadership
Board skills and experience 38–39 & 43
Board tenure 43 & 46
Board membership 38–39 & 44
Board biographies 38–39 & 44
Director conflicts of interest 44
W arbur g	Pincus	Relationship	Agr eement	 44 & 58
Role of the Board, Chairman, CEO and SID 45
Allocation	of	Boar d	meeting	time	 45
Bribery	Act	&	Anti-Corruption	Policy	 45
Gender diversity — Board 46
Gender diversity — Group-wide 46
Non-executive director tenure 46
Independent professional advice 46
Effectiveness
Board evaluation and 2011 outcomes 47
Attendance	—	Boar d	and	committee	meetings	 48
Director site visits 48
Management	committees	 49
Audit	Committee	 49–50
(including membership and meeting attendance,  
the Committee’s role and its terms of reference,  
auditors and non-audit services and key  
discussions during the year)
Finance Committee 51
(including membership and meeting attendance,  
the Committee’s role and its terms of reference,  
and key discussions during the year)
Nomination Committee 51–52
(including membership and meeting attendance,  
the Committee’s role and its terms of reference  
and key discussions during the year)
Succession planning 52
Director Induction Programme 52
Remuneration
Remuneration Committee 53
(including its terms of reference, further details  
are set out in the remuneration report on pages  
64 to 76)
Accountability
Risk management 53–56
Internal control 53–54
Risk register 54
Risk radar 54
Key risk factors 55–56
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder engagement 57
Board — shareholder updates 57
Other statutory information 58–60
Employees 58
Profit and dividends 58
Research and development 58
Significant agreements 58
Business disposals 58
Charitable and political donations 59
Going concern 59
Supplier payment policy 59
Directors’ responsibility statement 59
Auditors	 60
Shareholder information 61–63
Share capital information 61
Substantial shareholdings 61
Shar eholder	F AQs	 62
Correspondence with shareholders in 2011 62–63
2012	Annual	General	Meeting	 63
Key shareholder contacts 63 Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
43
Governance
Overview of our corporate governance framework
This report sets out our approach to corporate governance and our commitment to work towards best practice recognising our position 
as one of the largest manufacturers in the UK food industry. Corporate governance continues to evolve and we will continue to monitor our 
procedures to respond to new issues and strive for best practice. We believe in transparency in governance and in maintaining the highest 
ethical standards in all our business dealings. During 2011 the Company complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the “Code”). The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website. 
For further details of the role of the committees above see pages 49 to 52 and 66.
LEADERSHIP
Our Board structure
Executive/non-executive 
director split
Boardroom gender diversity Length of Board tenure 
(including executive directors)
Board skills  
and experience
	n Non-executive directors 62% n Male 87% n 0–3 years 62% n Branded retail industry 31%
	 n Chairman 13% n Female 13% n 4–6 years 25% n Finance 23% 
	 n Executive directors 25%  n 7–9 years 13% n Retail sector 31%
    n Marketing & sales 15%
Group Executive
Corporate Policy Group
Treasury Risk
Management Committee
Risk Review Group
Sustainability Steering
Group
Internal control framework
Plc Board
Audit
Committee
Finance
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Group Executive Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
44
Below is a table summarising the directors during the year and committee membership:
Designation
Audit
Committee 
Finance
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Current directors
Michael Clarke Chief Executive Officer x
Mark Moran Chief Financial Officer x
Ronnie Bell Non-executive Chairman x x x
Charles Miller Smith Non-executive Deputy Chairman x x
David Beever Senior Independent Director x x x x
Ian McHoul Independent non-executive director x x x
Louise Makin Independent non-executive director x x
David Wild Independent non-executive director x x x
Past directors
Robert Schofield Chief Executive Officer
Jim Smart Chief Financial Officer
Tim Kelly Chief Operating Officer
David Felwick Senior Independent Director
Q. Who is on the Board and who are the Group 
Executive?
A. Biographies of the current directors and members of the Group 
Executive are provided on pages 38 to 41. Biographies of the Board 
are also included in the Notice of AGM to aid shareholder election/
re-election decision making.
Q. What changes have been made to the Board 
during the year?
A. In 2011 the following Board changes took place: 
 • Michael Clarke was appointed CEO on 16 August 2011 and 
Robert Schofield retired from the Board on 13 September 2011; 
 • Mark Moran was appointed as CFO on 8 December 2011 and 
Jim Smart resigned; 
 • Tim Kelly resigned as COO on 25 November 2011;
 • David Wild was appointed as a non-executive director on  
7 March 2011;
 • David Felwick resigned as a non-executive director on 28 April 
2011; and
 • David Beever was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 
28 April 2011 following David Felwick’s resignation.
Q. What is the role of the non-executive 
directors?
A. The independence, external experience and challenge non-
executive directors bring to the Board is essential to its effective 
operation. The current non-executive directors bring extensive and 
broad ranging experience as highlighted in the biographies on pages 
38 to 39. The Board considers that the non-executive directors, with 
the exception of Charles Miller Smith (as noted below in conflicts of 
interest), are independent in character and judgement.
Q. Is the Board able to appoint additional 
directors?
A. The Board has the power to appoint one or more directors. 
Under the Articles any such director shall hold office until the next 
AGM when they shall be eligible for election. With the exception 
of Charles Miller Smith (as noted below in conflicts of interest), an 
ordinary resolution of the shareholders is sufficient to appoint or 
remove a director. 
Q. How does the Board comply with the 
requirements of the Code?
A. During 2011 the Company complied with all aspects of the 
Code. The Company is also compliant with the Walker Review 
recommendations for the annual election/re-election of directors which 
will take place at the 2012 AGM. Details of the executive director/non-
executive director split can be found on page 43. 
Q. Do any of the directors have conflicts of 
interest?
A. The Company has procedures for managing conflicts of interest 
in place and directors have continuing obligations to update the 
Board on any changes to these conflicts. This process includes 
relevant disclosure at the beginning of each Board meeting and also 
the Company’s annual formal review of potential conflict situations 
which includes the use of a questionnaire.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the 
Company and Warburg Pincus, Charles Milller Smith, a senior 
adviser to Warburg Pincus, was appointed to the Board. Under the 
agreement, Warburg Pincus (with the agreement of the Company) 
may appoint to the Board a director so long as they retain a 
minimum interest of 239,802,158 shares in the Company.
Ronnie Bell is also Chairman of Milk Link Ltd, a supplier of milk to the 
Group. The Board reviewed this relationship on his appointment and 
was satisfied that it does not impact on his independence. Ronnie 
will absent himself from any discussions regarding Milk Link at Board 
meetings. 
Save as disclosed above, no director had a material interest at any 
time in any contract of significance with the Company or Group other 
than his/her service contract. 
Corporate governance report continued Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
45
Governance
Q. What are the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its key members?
A.
The Board: The Chairman:
The Board has an agreed schedule of matters reserved which 
include:
 • Setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives;
 • Approving annual operating and capital budgets;
 • Reviewing business performance;
 • Overseeing the Group’s internal control systems; and 
 • Ensuring appropriate resources are in place to enable the  
Group to meet its objectives.
The Board delegates to the Group Executive responsibility for 
overseeing the implementation of the Group’s policies and strategy. 
The Chairman’s responsibilities are primarily the leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness. This is achieved by:
 • Chairing Board meetings; setting the agendas in consultation 
with the CEO and General Counsel and Company Secretary; and 
encouraging directors’ active participation in Board discussions;
 • Leading the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees 
and individual directors;
 • Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance 
including compliance with the Code wherever possible;
 • Ensuring timely and accurate distribution of information to the 
directors and effective communication with shareholders;
 • Establishing an effective working relationship with the CEO 
by providing support and advice whilst respecting executive 
responsibility; and
 • Periodically holding meetings with the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors present.
The Deputy Chairman:
The Deputy Chairman is responsible for:
 • Supporting the Chairman in discharging his duties; and
 • Where appropriate deputising for the Chairman in his absence.
The Chief Executive Officer: The Senior Independent Director:
The CEO is responsible for: 
 • The executive management of the Group; and 
 • Ensuring the implementation of Board strategy and policy  
within the approved budgets and timescales. 
The CEO is assisted in meeting his responsibilities by the CFO  
and the Group Executive (who head up the Group’s principal 
operations and functions). 
The SID is responsible for:
 • Supporting the Chairman and leading the non-executive directors 
in the oversight of the Chairman and CEO. 
The SID’s specific responsibility is to be available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve 
or where such contact is inappropriate.
Q. What are the directors paid?
A. Details of the directors’ service contracts, letters of appointment, 
emoluments, personal interests and beneficial interests in Company 
shares and share options are found in the remuneration report on 
pages 73 to 75.
Q. Does the Company maintain directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance?
A. Yes, this insurance covers the directors and officers against the 
costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in 
their capacity as a director or officer of the Company and in respect of 
damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Q. How does the Board allocate its time? 
A. Below is a chart which summarises the approximate time the 
Board has spent discussing agenda items at scheduled Board 
meetings during the year to 31 December 2011:
 n Strategy 31%
 n Finance & Risk 24%
 n Governance 18%
 n Operations 16%
 n Succession 11%
Q. How has compliance with the UK Bribery  
Act 2010 been dealt with by the Group?
A. During 2011 we undertook a full scale review of practices 
to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. Before its 
implementation the Board was presented with a paper from 
the General Counsel and Company Secretary on the possible 
impact this legislation may have on the Group. It was agreed 
that an Anti-Corruption Policy would be introduced and an 
employee training programme rolled out.
The Corporate Policy Group approved the policy and with the 
support of the Board and members of the Group Executive, 
management were trained and asked to disseminate this 
information to their teams. Employees were communicated with 
by our internal intranet site PremierNet and subsequently asked 
to confirm their acceptance of the policy when logging onto their 
computers. Additionally, departments with a high level of risk 
received bespoke face-to-face training. 
Governance Focus: UK Bribery Act 2010 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
46
Q. What commitment has the Company made to 
diversity and inclusion at Board level?
A. The Board announced via the Group’s website its intention to 
adopt as policy an aim to have at least two female Board directors 
by 2015. The Board believes in the importance of diversity (in its 
widest sense) and the benefits that it can bring to the operation 
of an effective Board. This is taken into account whenever a new 
appointment is undertaken with the aim to have individuals with a 
broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience reflecting both the 
type of industry and the geographical locations in which we operate.
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/gender-diversity.cfm
Q. How are we driving the diversity agenda below 
Board level?
A. We believe there are further opportunities to drive gender diversity 
at levels below the Board, both within the organisation as a whole 
and particularly within senior management. We intend to focus on 
understanding how best to develop and retain women through all 
levels of the organisation and to identify and understand where 
potential blocks exist. Below is a graph illustrating gender diversity 
across the Group.
% Female workforce as at 31 December 2011  
at Premier Foods
Q. How does the Board keep up-to-date on key 
governance issues?
A. The Board believes that keeping up-to-date with developments 
in corporate governance is important and therefore a standing item 
on the Board agenda is corporate governance. The General Counsel 
and Company Secretary prepares a Board paper each meeting 
and presents updates on recent legal, regulatory and governance 
issues including relevant case law. During the year this has included 
updates on: BIS’s Future of Narrative Reporting and Executive 
Remuneration; FRC’s Effective Company Stewardship; Lord Davies 
Report — Women on Boards; and the Bribery Act 2010.
EFFECTIvENESS
Q. What is the mix between executive and non-
executive directors on the Board?
A. The directors believe that there should be an appropriate 
combination of executive and non-executive directors on the Board. 
The Company complies with the Code which states that at least half 
the Board (excluding the Chairman) should comprise of non-executive 
directors. The current mix of directors is shown on page 43.
Q. Does the Chairman meet with the non-
executive directors in the absence of the 
executive directors?
A. Yes, this is one of the Chairman’s responsibilities and is essential 
to maintain good corporate governance. 
Q. What is the average length of time directors 
are appointed to the Board? 
A. The Board believes it is important to maintain an appropriate 
balance between length of service, to ensure independent judgement, 
and an appropriate level of experience and skill. The Board regularly 
undertakes a review of succession plans for both executive and non-
executive directors. The length of service of the current non-executive 
directors is shown in the graph below against the average length of 
service, which currently stands at three years seven months.
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Number of years service
David Wild
Ronnie Bell
Charles	Miller	Smith
David Beever
Louise	Makin
Ian	McHoul
Details of all directors’ appointment terms are set out on page 72.
Q. Does the Company offer the directors access 
to independent professional advice?
A. Yes, procedures are in place which allow directors to take 
independent professional advice in the course of their duties. In 
addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of 
the General Counsel and Company Secretary. If any director were 
to have a concern over any unresolved business issue following 
professional advice, they are entitled to require the General Counsel 
and Company Secretary to minute that concern. Should they later 
resign over a concern non-executive directors are asked to provide a 
written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
Corporate governance report continued
n Female
n Male
Board
Group Executive
Management
All	employees
87
13
30
23
100 70 77 Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
47
Governance
Governance Focus: Board and Individual Performance Reviews
A. Annually a Board performance review is carried out which measures its performance and that of its committees. Alongside this review 
each director receives an appraisal. Appraisals are conducted by the Chairman for the CEO and by the Senior Independent Director (following 
discussions with the other non-executive directors) for the Chairman.
The Board has for many years maintained a policy to conduct an external Board evaluation every three years. The last independent 
external review was conducted in 2009 by Boardroom Review.
In 2010 a questionnaire was used for the review, however, it was agreed that in 2011 face-to-face interviews would be undertaken by the 
General Counsel and Company Secretary to allow more open communications. The Board evaluation was completed and feedback from 
the evaluation was provided in the form of a written report to the Board in December 2011, which was then debated and actions agreed.
Q. What did the 2011 Board evaluation cover?
A. Key areas for the review were agreed with the Chairman at the outset and covered eight categories:
 • Strategy;	 •			Performance;
 • Risk	management;	 •			Boar d	pr ocess,	information	and	support;
 • Committees;	 •			Chairman;	and
 • Boar d	cultur e;	 •			Dir ector	development.
Q. What were the outcomes of the 2011 evaluation?
A. Board members are very supportive of the need to be transparent and are committed to good corporate governance. As a result of the 
review an action plan was implemented which is set out below:
Action plan for 2012 resulting from the Board effectiveness review 
Strategy • Deepen knowledge with additional quarterly half-day strategy reviews prior to scheduled 
Board meetings with a particular focus on the external environment.
Performance — Management & 
NED interaction
 • Strengthen contact between NEDs and management by inviting management to attend 
and present at all Board meetings.
Performance — Information to NEDs • Increase the number of site visits during 2012.
 • Enhance flow of information from management by resuming monthly in-depth brand and 
customer reviews.
Board process, information and 
support
 • Continue to develop Board portal to ensure timely, cost-effective provision of Board 
materials.
 • Management to review the optimum level of detail in presentations and papers to the 
Board.
Committees • Finance Committee — Review the need for this committee post completion of re-financing.
 • Nomination Committee — Talent development and management succession planning.
 • Nomination Committee — Consider 2015 diversity target with all Board appointments.
Q. How do we make sure our Board and its committees are effective? Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
48
Q. How frequently did the Board and committees meet in 2011? 
A. The Board held 10 scheduled meetings in the year and in addition six meetings were convened for specific business. In addition to the 
scheduled committee meetings detailed in the table below an additional two finance committee meetings, an audit committee meeting and a 
nomination committee meeting were held. 
Meetings are usually held at the Company’s head office in St Albans; however, twice a year the Board visits the Group’s sites to see the 
business in action and hold their meetings. Details of the attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings are set out below: 
Group 
Board 
(10)
Audit 
Committee 
(4)
Finance 
Committee
(3)
Nomination 
Committee 
(2)
Remuneration 
Committee
(4)
Current directors
Michael Clarke
1
3(3) 1
5
— 1
5
1
5
Mark Moran
2
1(1) 1
5
— — —
Ronnie Bell 10 4
5
3 2 4
Charles Miller Smith 9 4
5
3 2 4
5
David Beever 9 3 3 2 3
Ian McHoul 10 4 2 2 3
5
Louise Makin 10 4
5
— 2 4
David Wild
3
9(9) 3(3) — 1(1) 3(3)
Past directors
Robert Schofield
1
7(7) 3
5
2 1
5
2
5
Jim Smart
2
10 4
5
3 — 1
5
Tim Kelly
2
9(9) 3
5
1(1) — —
David Felwick
4
3(3) 1
5
1
5
1(1) 2(2)
1
 Michael Clarke was appointed CEO on 16 August 2011 and Robert Schofield retired as a director on 13 September 2011.
2
 Mark Moran was appointed as CFO on 8 December 2011 and Jim Smart resigned, Tim Kelly resigned on 25 November 2011.
3
 Appointed as a director on 7 March 2011. 
4
 Retired as a director on 28 April 2011.
5
 Attendance by invitation.
Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended by that director. David Beever missed one 
Board meeting and two committee meetings, which were held on the same day, owing to a prior work commitment known to the Board in 
advance. Ian McHoul missed one committee meeting due to the rescheduling of a meeting by the Company and Charles Miller Smith missed 
one Board meeting due to a prior work commitment known to the Board in advance.
Q. How does the Board keep up-to-date with business developments?
A. The Board: 
 • Meets regularly with the Group Executive; 
 • Receives extensive business presentations; and
 • Conducts an annual strategy review. 
As detailed above each year two site visits are arranged for the Board to meet with senior operational management and to undertake a site 
visit before its planned Board meetings. Due to director changes during the year the Board only completed one visit to the Bury St Edmunds’ 
site where Loyd Grossman, Branston and Haywards products are manufactured.
Q. What committees does the Board have?
A. The Board has four committees which assist in the discharge of its responsibilities: 
 • Audit Committee;
 • Finance Committee;
 • Nomination Committee; and
 • Remuneration Committee.
Corporate governance report continued Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
49
Governance
Q. Does the Group have any other committees?
A. Michael Clarke is assisted by the work of the Group Executive 
and its subcommittees. Together these form part of the Company’s 
corporate governance framework, but are not formally appointed 
committees of the Board.
 • Group Executive — Responsible under the leadership of 
Michael Clarke for the day-to-day management of the business, 
setting performance targets and implementing the Group’s 
strategy and direction as determined by the Board. Members of 
the Committee include Michael Clarke, Mark Moran and members 
of the Group Executive.
Other management committees
 • Corporate Policy Group — Responsible for the effective 
implementation of policies taking into account changes in 
regulations and other business risks. Members of the committee 
include members of the Group Executive and senior operational 
management.
 • Sustainability Steering Group — Responsible for providing 
direction to, and oversight of, the implementation of the Group’s 
sustainability programme which is built around the four core 
themes of Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community. 
Its objective is to identify and mitigate, both environmental 
and social risks in order to protect and enhance the Group’s 
reputation and build trust amongst its many stakeholders. 
Members of the committee include the CEO, members of the 
Group Executive, and senior operational management.
 • Risk Review Group — Responsible for sponsoring and driving 
effective risk management throughout the business and making 
recommendations to the Audit Committee as appropriate; 
monitoring and reporting on all material business risks which 
might impact the delivery of the Group’s strategic goals and 
objectives; and agreeing with management appropriate mitigating 
actions. Members of the committee include the CFO, members of 
the Group Executive and senior operational management.
 • Treasury Risk Management Committee — Responsible 
for the oversight of designated material foreign currency and 
commodity exposures and agreeing with senior management 
appropriate mitigating actions. Members of the committee 
include members of the Group Executive and senior operational 
management.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Group’s financial reporting systems and the internal control 
policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and 
reporting of risk. The Committee also keeps under review the 
relationship with the external auditors, including the terms of 
their engagement and fees, their independence and expertise, 
resources and qualification, and the effectiveness of the audit 
process.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees.cfm
Q. Who is on the Committee?
A.
Committee member Position Comments
Ian McHoul Chairman Independent NED
David Beever Member SID
David Wild Member Independent NED
Both Ian McHoul and David Beever have recent and relevant financial 
experience, Ian McHoul as the CFO of Amec plc and David Beever 
as a member of the KPMG Advisory Board.
Q. How many meetings were held during the 
year?
A. The Committee held four scheduled meetings in the year 
and in addition one meeting was convened for specific business. 
The Committee met with the internal and external auditors on 
four occasions in the year without the presence of management. 
Attendance at the scheduled meetings is shown in the table on  
page 48.
 
Q. What is the role of the Committee?
A. The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
 • Monitor financial reporting, including the annual and interim 
reports, preliminary results announcements and formal 
announcements relating to financial performance and reporting;
 • Ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems;
 • Review and update the whistleblowing arrangements;
 • Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit 
function, including the approval of any appointment or removal of 
the head of the internal audit and risk function; Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
50
Corporate governance report continued
 • Consider and make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors 
including the setting of their remuneration; 
 • Review the external auditors’ independence and objectivity and 
the effectiveness of the audit processes; and 
 • Develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the 
external auditors to supply non-audit services and report to the 
Board matters identified where action or improvement is required.
Q. Who are the Group’s auditors?
A. Since the Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange 
in July 2004 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) have been the 
Group’s auditors. Annually the Committee reviews the relationship 
the Group has with PwC and for the year ended 31 December 2011 
the Committee was satisfied with the independence, objectivity and 
effectiveness of the relationship with the external auditor. Accordingly, 
the Committee does not consider it necessary to require PwC to 
tender for the Group’s audit work. 
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners 
responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years 
with the next rotation occurring in 2012. There are no contractual 
obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external auditors. At the 
2012 AGM the re-election of PwC as the Group’s auditors will be 
proposed to shareholders.
Q. What non-audit services were provided by the 
Group’s auditors during the year?
A. There is an established policy governing the engagement of PwC 
for non-audit services designed to ensure that any services provided 
do not impair the objectivity of the external auditors. The policy 
includes a fee limit for the provision of non-audit services, above which 
a formal tender process must normally be undertaken. During the year 
PwC was engaged to advise on the Group’s financing arrangements, 
in particular reviewing and assessing the Group’s strategy, operations 
and performance forecasts for the purposes of the Group re-financing. 
Fees incurred in relation to this work were £2.1m.
Before commissioning PwC to undertake this work the Committee 
reviewed the proposal in detail with both management and PwC to 
assess any potential threat to their independence. The Committee 
is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines on non-audit 
fees. However, given the nature of work required in connection with 
the re-financing of the Group in 2011/2012 it was assessed that 
PwC were best placed to perform these additional services in view of 
their knowledge of the business, the time constraints in completing 
the work and the likely cost. 
Following the unanimous consent from the Group’s banking 
syndicate, swap counterparties and pension schemes to the terms of 
a re-financing package, which is expected to be signed by the end of 
March 2012, the Committee expects that the level of non-audit fees 
will be significantly lower going forward.
Q. What key issues did the Committee discuss 
during the year?
A. During the year the Committee:
 • Received regular reports from the internal audit function, 
ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and 
effectiveness, and agreed the annual audit plan; 
 • Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit 
function including Internal Control Self Assessments;
 • Conducted an internal review of the Group’s external auditors 
which included a review of the auditors’ independence, objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process;
 • Considered the external auditors’ report for the year ended  
31 December 2010 and recommended the reappointment of the 
external auditors;
 • Considered the impact of key accounting issues, which included 
the impact on accounting for changes in the Group’s pension 
scheme;
 • Reviewed the non-audit services spend policy and approved the 
engagement of PwC as an adviser in relation to certain internal 
projects;
 • Rolled out the new Anti-Corruption policy and Group-wide 
awareness programme;
 • Approved the Group’s risk management policy and key business 
risks; and
 • Received updates on the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements. 
 
Ian McHoul
Chairman of the Audit Committee Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
51
Governance
FINANCE  
COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s 
financial strategy, approving any changes to this strategy 
and overseeing the Group’s treasury operations and policies 
including the use of financial instruments such as interest rate 
swaps. The Committee also reviews the investment strategy 
and performance of the Group’s pension schemes. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees.cfm
Q. Who is on the Committee?
A.
Committee member Position Comments
David Beever Chairman SID
Michael Clarke Member CEO
Mark Moran Member CFO
Ronnie Bell Member Chairman (NED)
Charles Miller Smith Member Deputy Chairman (NED)
Ian McHoul Member Independent NED
Paul Leach Member Group Treasurer
Q. How many meetings were held during  
the year?
A. The Committee held three scheduled meetings in the year and 
in addition two meetings were was convened for specific business. 
Attendance at the meetings is shown in the table on page 48.
Q. What is the role of the Committee?
A. The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
 • Review and make recommendations to the Board on matters 
relating to the Group’s capital structure, financing and pensions 
strategy;
 • Oversee the governance and activities of the Treasury Risk 
Management Committee;
 • Review the investment strategy and funding levels of the Group’s 
pension schemes in order to reduce risk;
 • Review the Group’s financial policy and strategy; and
 • Monitor the Group’s liquidity, covenant and going concern 
positions.
Q. What key issues did the Committee discuss 
during the year?
A. During the year the Committee:
 • Reviewed the Group’s financial strategy including the Group’s 
swap arrangements and sources of funding;
 • Reviewed and recommended a new re-financing structure for 
approval by the Board;
 • Reviewed the investments strategy of the Group’s pension 
schemes in order to reduce risk;
 • Approved amendments to the Group’s Treasury Policy; 
 • Reviewed the Group’s directors’ and officers’ insurance cover; 
and
 • Conducted a comprehensive review of corporate advisers. 
 
David Beever
Chairman of the Finance Committee
NOMINATION  
COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for considering the size, 
structure and composition of the Board, retirement and 
appointment of additional and replacement directors and 
making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an 
appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees.cfm
Q. Who is on the Committee?
A.
Committee member Position Comments
Ronnie Bell Chairman Chairman (NED)
Charles Miller Smith Member Deputy Chairman (NED)
David Beever Member SID
Ian McHoul Member Independent NED
Louise Makin Member Independent NED
David Wild Member Independent NED Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
52
Corporate governance report continued
Governance Focus: Director Induction Programme
Q. Does the Company have a director induction programme?
A. Yes, all directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board covering their duties and responsibilities as directors. Non-executive 
directors also receive a full briefing document on all areas of the Group’s business and they may request further information as they 
consider necessary. A typical non-executive director induction would include:
Stage one Matters covered
Provision of documents Duties of a director, Board procedures, corporate governance 
including provision of an ICSA compliant governance manual.
Stage two Matters covered
Meeting with CEO & CFO Business overview, current trading, key commercial issues.
Meetings with non-executive directors Open discussion forums.
Meeting with General Counsel and Company Secretary Board process and governance issues/updates, key legal, risk 
and internal audit matters.
Meetings with each of the Group Executive Commercial issues and projects as applicable for Operations, 
Sales, Supply Chain, Corporate Affairs, HR, Procurement, 
Marketing, Technology and Innovation, and ISC.
Meeting with Investor Relations Investor relations matters and any updates.
Meeting with Treasury Treasury and insurance matters and any updates.
Stage three Matters covered
Site visits Understanding of the business and operations.
Q. How many meetings were held during the 
year?
A. The Committee held two scheduled meetings in the year and 
additionally was convened on a further occasion for specific business. 
Attendance at the meetings is shown in the table on page 48.
 
Q. What is the role of the Committee?
A The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
 • Lead the formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board 
appointments including a review of the skills, experience and 
knowledge of the existing directors to ensure any potential 
shortlisted candidates will benefit the balance of the Board;
 • Give full consideration to succession planning taking into account 
the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what skills 
and expertise would benefit the Board in the future; 
 • Regularly review the structure, size and composition (including 
independence and knowledge) of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board regarding changes; and
 • Agree the job specification for the Chairman, including an 
assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising the 
need for availability in the event of a crisis.
Q. What key issues did the Committee discuss 
during the year?
A. During the year the Committee:
 • Undertook an extensive recruitment process and recommended 
the appointment of a new CEO using an external search agency; 
 • Recommended the approval of Mark Moran as CFO;
 • Recommended the appointment of David Wild as a non-executive 
director;
 • Undertook an annual review of the composition and expertise of 
the Board; 
 • Recommended the directors for reappointment at the 2011 AGM; 
and
 • Reviewed performance appraisals for members of the Group 
Executive.
Q. What processes are in place for succession 
planning?
A. The Committee reviews the succession requirements of the 
Board (including the need for diversity) on an annual basis and 
makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate. 
  
Ronnie Bell
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
53
Governance
➜
➜
Audit 
& Finance
Committees
Risk
Review
Group (RRG)
EMBED AND MONITOR
• Divisional and functional risk registers
• Internal Control Self Assessment
• Policies and procedures
• Organisational design
• Project governance
• Assurance
IDENTIFY 
AND ASSESS
• Bi-annual risk 
      review 
• Board oversight
• Risk ownership
• RRG process 
MITIGATE 
AND MANAGE
• Risk action plans
• Performance 
  review
• Governance 
  framework
Business operations
Group functions and 
divisional executives
Group 
Executive
Corporate
Policy
Group
Plc 
Board
REMUNERATION
REMUNERATION  
COMMITTEE
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing the 
overall remuneration strategy for executive directors and senior 
management, determining the individual remuneration packages 
for the Chairman, executive directors, General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and senior management and approving the 
design of all share incentive plans. 
 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees.cfm
Further details on the Remuneration Committee including a list of its 
members can be found in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 
64 to 76.
Louise Makin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
ACCOUNTABILITY
Risk management
Our risk control framework operates as follows:
Q. What are the Board’s responsibilities for risk 
management?
A. Managing risk effectively is integral to the achievement of the 
Group’s strategic objectives. We have an established governance 
structure, which has continued throughout 2011, this supports the 
early identification and mitigation of key business risks.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that business risks 
are effectively managed. The Board has considered and approved 
the risk management policy, risk appetite of the Group and has 
delegated the regular review of the risk management process to the 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee receives regular reports from 
the internal and external auditors and monitors progress against 
agreed action plans arising from control reviews. It also reviews the 
results of the Internal Control Self Assessment process which is 
conducted annually across the business. Details of this process are 
given below.
Day-to-day risk management is the responsibility of senior 
management as part of their everyday business processes and is 
underpinned by the Group’s policies and procedures to ensure that it 
is fully embedded. There is a structured business review process that 
operates across all business areas and this, along with the corporate 
governance framework, further underpins the ongoing management 
of risk.
Q. What are the aims of the internal control 
system?
A. The internal control system principally provides an ongoing 
process that identifies, evaluates and manages the risks that 
are significant in relation to the fulfilment of the Group’s business 
objectives. The system is designed to manage rather than to 
eliminate risk and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The system also supports 
senior management’s decision-making, improves the reliability of 
business performance, and assists in the preparation of the Group’s 
consolidated accounts.
Q. How is the Group’s internal audit programme 
decided?
A. Each year the Audit Committee meets to discuss and approve 
the nature and scope of the internal audit programme for the year. 
The Audit Committee then instructs the internal audit function 
to undertake the agreed schedule of audits during which the 
effectiveness of the controls operating within the business are 
reviewed. Additional internal audits are added to the schedule in 
circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of a business or 
any other significant business development.
Q. How are internal controls monitored?
A. Annually, comprehensive Internal Control Self Assessment 
questionnaires are required from senior management from business 
areas across the Group. These self assessment questionnaires 
are designed to ensure that any material control breakdowns are 
highlighted and the operation of internal controls are addressed. 
To ensure their accuracy, these assessments are tested as part of 
the internal audit process. The results are initially reviewed by the 
divisional units and then by member of the Group Executive prior to 
formal review by the Audit Committee.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
54
Corporate governance report continued
Following each independent internal audit, a report is produced 
showing the findings which are reported to the Group Executive and 
any corrective action is agreed. Summaries of these reports and 
details of progress against action plans are presented to the Audit 
Committee for discussion and review.
Q. Does the Board conduct an annual review of 
internal controls?
A. Yes, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance an annual 
review is conducted. The Board has delegated authority to the 
Audit Committee to regularly monitor internal controls and conduct 
the annual review. This review covers all material controls such as 
financial, operational and compliance, and also risk management 
systems in place throughout the year under review up to the 
date of this annual report. Processes underpinning the financial 
reporting systems are managed and monitored by line and financial 
management. Following the Audit Committee’s review the Board 
receives a report of their findings for discussion and to implement the 
necessary actions to remedy any control weaknesses.
Q. What financial reporting controls are in place?
A. Data in the Group’s financial statements is reconciled to the 
underlying financial systems. A review of the data is undertaken to 
ensure that the true position and results of the Group are reflected, 
through compliance with approved accounting practices.
Q. Does the Group maintain a risk register?
A. Each member of the Group Executive is required to maintain a 
risk register which includes the key risks that have been identified, 
their potential impact and probability of occurrence, the risk 
owner, action, and action owner along with timescales for effective 
mitigation. 
Every six months, the Group Executive reviews the overall Corporate 
Risk Register and assesses progress on the implementation of 
mitigation strategies along with consideration of new and emerging 
risks. 
Once reviewed by the Group Executive, the Corporate Risk Register 
is presented to the Audit Committee for consideration. Additionally, 
once a year, a separate risk meeting is held with the non-executive 
directors without the presence of management. The purpose of this 
session is to provide additional challenge to the internal risk process 
by considering risk in its widest context, in particular taking account 
of the following: 
 • The world in which we operate;
 • Our marketplace; and
 • The Group’s specific risks.
The results of the non-executive directors’ risk meeting forms part of 
the overall process for reviewing the Corporate Risk Register at the 
end of the financial year.
Economic  
conditions
Competition & 
consumer
Pension 
obligations
Food manufacturing 
industry
Customer 
relationships
Re-financing
Business 
strategy
External
Internal
Steady Changing Disposals
Price 
volatility
The ‘risk radar’ below sets out our key risk factors: Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
55
Governance
Q. What are the Group’s key risk factors?
A.
Business strategy and reliance on business recovery Competition and consumer risk
Risk
The Group suffered a significant deterioration in its trading 
performance during 2011. In order to achieve the Group’s recovery 
plan and address unsatisfactory trading performance, management’s 
strategic focus and investment is on its eight Power Brands, which 
management believes have the strongest potential for long-term 
sustainable growth. This strategic focus is likely to result in further 
selective divestments of non-core businesses and significant 
cost saving initiatives to improve the underlying performance of 
the business. All or any of these initiatives may fail to improve 
performance or fail to occur and consequently have adverse 
consequences on the Group’s financial position. 
Mitigation
In the summer of 2011 the Board appointed Michael Clarke as CEO. 
Michael Clarke has conducted a strategic review of the business and 
is now executing a clear and focused strategy. Michael Clarke has 
moved quickly to strengthen the senior management structure. There 
is regular review of progress against key milestones, and to ensure 
the strategy is communicated and understood, the Group regularly 
engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, 
colleagues, customers and suppliers.
Risk
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and in fast 
moving sectors of the food industry. If we are unable to respond 
to competitor actions or to deliver products that meet consumer 
demand and preferences this could adversely impact the Group’s 
results. Furthermore, there is currently excess supply in the bread 
market, resulting in intense competition between suppliers, and 
customers regularly transferring business between suppliers. In 
response to a changing competitive environment and the actions 
of competitors, the Group may make pricing, service or marketing 
decisions that could have a material impact on revenues and results.
Mitigation
The Group has a strategy to invest in new product development, 
packaging innovation and marketing. We regularly monitor consumer 
trends and consumption habits and have a good track record of 
new product development. During the year we further developed 
our innovation process and increased resources for innovation and 
marketing and plan to continue this further in 2012. Additionally, the 
Board has approved investment for a number of capital expenditure 
projects related to new product development.
Debt burden Changes in the cost and availability of raw materials
Risk
The Group has bank borrowings of £1.4bn and supports three 
defined benefit pension schemes in the UK. All three pension 
schemes have significant funding deficits which could have a 
significant adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. 
The Company does not pay dividends and is restricted from paying 
dividends under the terms of its financing arrangements. The Group 
is also restricted from raising additional forms of debt finance and is 
not able to use free cash flow for acquisitions.
Mitigation
The Group obtained unanimous consent to its new re-financing 
arrangements which will provide funding until June 2016. The re-
financing package is subject to final documentation being put in 
place. The directors are confident this will be achieved and signed 
by the end of March 2012. In addition, the Group has agreed 
deficit recovery plans with its three pension schemes and is actively 
exploring liability containment strategies. During the year the Group 
closed its final salary pension schemes and replaced them with 
career average schemes which were closed to new entrants. New 
employees are now provided with pensions on a defined contribution 
basis.
Risk
The Group purchases its raw materials, many of which are 
commodities, from numerous suppliers and many of these raw 
materials are subject to potentially significant price fluctuations. If 
the costs of raw materials were to rise and the Group was unable to 
absorb/mitigate or pass such increases on to its customers in full or 
in a timely manner, then its operating profits and cash flow would be 
adversely affected. If the supply of any of the Group’s raw materials 
is constrained for any reason this could also have an adverse impact 
on the business.
Mitigation
We have continued to experience significant inflation both within 
raw materials and packaging costs and we expect this to continue 
in 2012. However, we have a centralised procurement function with 
significant category expertise and we seek to mitigate the position 
by the targeted forward buying of products, value engineering, 
innovation and through our relationships with suppliers and 
customers. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
56
Corporate governance report continued
Customer relationship risk Economic conditions
Risk
The Group’s top five customers are all major UK retailers and account 
for approximately 56% of the Group’s revenue. In line with industry 
practice, the majority of the Group’s sales are by means of short-term 
standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. In recent 
years, the major multiple retailers have increased their share of the 
UK grocery market and price competition between these retailers has 
intensified. This price competition has led the major multiple retailers 
to seek lower prices and increased promotions from their suppliers. 
There can be no assurance that the Group’s customers will continue 
to purchase its products at current volumes, at current pricing or on 
current terms. In addition, if any major customer reduced or ceased 
its business with the Group or were to experience a decline in the 
marketplace, there could be a significant adverse effect on the Group’s 
financial condition and prospects.
Mitigation
A key element of the Group’s strategy is to develop long-term 
sustainable relationships with its customers. The Group invests 
significant resources to maintain strong multi-level commercial 
relationships with its customers. These relationships can provide the 
Group with a deep understanding of its customers’ needs which 
means the Group is well placed to derive competitive advantage to 
increase its share of its customers’ business and benefit from their 
growth in the market.
Risk
During 2011 the risks and uncertainties around the UK’s general 
economic conditions and volatility of international markets have 
continued to impact the Group, our suppliers, customers and 
consumers. A deeper and/or more prolonged downturn or a 
‘double-dip’ recession may lead to an overall decline in the volume 
of the Group’s sales and ‘down trading’ may also continue, whereby 
consumers move away from the Group’s branded products to more 
value orientated non-branded products.
Mitigation
The Group has a broad portfolio of well known and much loved 
products and operates over a large number of categories, which 
allows it to actively respond to changing market conditions. Given  
the uncertain outlook in the general economic environment, the 
Group continues to closely manage its costs and cash flows.
Risks relating to business restructuring Food manufacturing industry risk
Risk
The Group has sold a number of businesses over the last 12 
months and under various disposal agreements, has given certain 
representations, warranties and indemnities in favour of the 
purchasers which, if breached, may result in financial claims against 
the Group. The Group is part way through its divestment programme 
and further disposal agreements with representations, warranties  
and indemnities will be entered in to.
Mitigation
In each sale process the Group has undertaken an appropriately 
thorough disclosure process and has achieved limitation of liability 
provisions in the sale documentation. The Group has an experienced 
deal team with a good track record of managing post completion 
risk.
Risk
As a food manufacturer, the Group is subject to legislation and 
regulations in the UK, the EU and elsewhere in relation to food 
and its production, to health, to employees and their safety, and to 
the environment and its preservation. Violations of any laws could 
result in fines and sanctions as well as reputational risk.  Should 
any product contamination occur, it could lead to product recalls 
or liabilities to customers or consumers. Health scares can impact 
demand for certain food.
Mitigation
It is the Group’s policy to require that its entire business comply with 
relevant laws and regulations. The Group has an excellent food  
safety record and the Group continues to focus on high levels of 
operational control and continued improvement in all of the above 
areas. The Group has a leading technical function which sets high 
standards for hygiene and product quality, which is subject to regular 
internal and external monitoring. During the year we were awarded 
Manufacturer of the Year at the European Manufacturing Summit 
which recognised the Group’s significant achievements in supply 
chain management. The Group maintains crisis management and 
business continuity plans which are subject to periodic testing. 
Additionally, the Group has insurance cover in place to mitigate the 
financial impact of these risks. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
57
Governance
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Q. How does the Company engage with 
shareholders?
A. An important role of the Board is to represent and promote the 
interests of its shareholders as well as being accountable to them for 
the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board believes it is very important to engage with its 
shareholders and does this in a number of ways through 
presentations, conference calls, face-to-face meetings and the AGM. 
Following the announcement of the Group’s half year and year-end 
results, presentations are made to analysts and major shareholders 
to update them on the progress the Group has made towards its 
goals and invite them to ask questions. 
Following the announcement of the Group’s trading updates and 
interim management statements, conference calls take place with 
analysts and major shareholders to update them on the Group’s 
progress. Full details on results presentations, RNS releases, interim 
management statements and conference calls are available on the 
Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/
The Company held an Investor Seminar on 13 May 2011, for 
investors and analysts, presenting strategic plans and providing 
an opportunity for attendees to ask questions of directors and the 
Group Executive. A webcast of the event and presentation materials 
are available to view on the Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/results-and-presentations/
The main channel of communication to institutional investors is 
through the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations. The CEO 
and CFO are available to meet with shareholders during the year; the 
Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director are 
also available to discuss any issues and concerns of shareholders 
and welcome questions posed to the Board and committees. 
Additionally, key senior management may host ad hoc meetings and 
events for institutional shareholders. Currently around 12 sell-side 
research analysts publish research on the Group; their details are 
published on the Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/shareholder-information/analysts.cfm
In 2011 the Remuneration Committee Chairman consulted with 
shareholders to discuss proposed changes in long-term incentive 
arrangements and other remuneration issues.
Q. How is the Board updated on the latest 
shareholder information?
A. The Board receive a detailed investor relations update at each 
Board meeting which covers (amongst other things) share price 
movements, shareholder register movements, analyst reports, a 
summary of investor meetings and other recent activity. The Board 
also receives comprehensive feedback from the Company’s brokers, 
following investor roadshows after half year and year-end results.
Ronnie Bell
Chairman Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
58
Other statutory information
Pages 1 to 76 (together with the sections of the annual report 
incorporated by reference) constitute the Directors’ Report. The 
financial statements are presented on pages 77 to 135.
Principal activities
Premier Foods plc (the “Company”) is the holding company of the Premier 
Foods Group of companies (the “Group”). The Group manufactures, 
processes and distributes some of Britain’ s favourite food brands. We 
employ around 12,000 people and operate from over 40 sites in the UK.
GENERAL
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting. The Articles are available on the 
Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/articles-of-association.cfm
Employees
Disclosures on employee policies and the employment of disabled 
people are set out on pages 18 to 19.
Profit and dividends
The loss on continuing operations before tax for the financial 
year was £259.1m (2010: £28.5m profit). The directors do not 
recommend the payment of a dividend for 2011 (2010: £nil).
Research and development
Applied research and development work continues to be directed 
towards the introduction of new and improved products; the 
application of new technology to reduce unit and operating costs; 
and to improve service to customers. Research and development 
costs of £8.4m (2010: £10.6m) were incurred in continuing 
operations during the year.
Significant agreements
The following significant agreements contain provisions that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company 
following a takeover bid.
 • The Group has a term and revolving facilities agreement originally 
for £2.1bn entered into in 2006 and a receivables purchase 
agreement and guarantee dated 30 December 2007. Recent 
unanimous consent from the Company’s banking syndicate, 
swap counterparties and pension schemes will lead to a restated 
re-financing package, which is expected to be signed by the end 
of March 2012. The current and new facilities agreements contain 
customary change of control provisions which allow the lenders 
or an individual lender to demand repayment of the facilities 
in full on a change of control. The new receivables purchase 
agreement contains change of control provisions which allow the 
provider of the funding to terminate or suspend the operation of 
the agreement and demand payment of all amounts outstanding 
under the agreement on a change of control. 
 • The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with Warburg 
Pincus LLC in March 2009 setting out the terms and conditions 
under which Warburg Pincus have the right to appoint a director 
to the Board and also governing the retention of its shareholding 
in the Company and the purchase of further shares. Under the 
Relationship Agreement, Charles Miller Smith was appointed 
to the Board on 16 June 2009. In the event of a change of 
control or if the shareholding of Warburg Pincus falls below 
239,802,158 shares the Company may give notice to terminate 
the appointment of Charles Miller Smith.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or 
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or 
employment as a result of a successful takeover bid except that 
provisions of the Company’s share schemes may cause options and 
awards granted under such schemes to vest.
Business disposals
The Group entered into the following agreements to dispose of 
certain businesses in 2011:
 • On 15 December 2011, the Group entered into an agreement 
with The Boyne Valley Group for the sale of four Irish brands 
comprising Chivers, Gateaux, McDonnells and the Erin licence for 
a gross cash consideration of €41.4m. This disposal completed 
on 23 January 2012. As part of the disposal the Group and 
The Boyne Valley Group entered in to an agreement for certain 
transitional services provided by the Group to The Boyne Valley 
Group, and vice versa, for a period following closing.
 • On 8 December 2011, the Group entered into an agreement 
with 2 Sisters Food Group for the disposal of the Brookes Avana 
business comprising of RF Brookes chilled foods and Avana 
Bakeries for a cash consideration of £30.3m on a debt free 
and cash free basis. This disposal completed on 30 December 
2011. As part of the disposal the Group and 2 Sisters Food 
Group entered in to an agreement for certain transitional services 
provided by the Group to the 2 Sisters Food Group, and vice 
versa, for a period following closing.
 • On 7 February 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with 
Princes Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsubishi Corporate of 
Japan) for the sale of the East Anglian canned grocery operations 
and related assets for an aggregate consideration of £182.2m 
payable in cash on closing. This disposal completed on  
23 July 2011. As part of the disposal the Group and Princes Ltd 
entered into an agreement for certain transitional services to be 
provided by the Group to the Princes Group, and vice versa; these 
arrangements will end by 31 March 2012.
 • On 24 January 2011, the Group entered into an agreement with 
Exponent Private Equity LLP for the sale of the entire issued share 
capital of Marlow Foods Ltd, the owner of the Meat-free business, 
for an aggregate consideration of £205.0m, on a cash and debt 
free basis. This disposal was approved by shareholders on 3 March 
and completed on 7 March 2011. As part of the disposal the 
Group and Exponent Private Equity LLP entered into an agreement 
for certain transitional services provided by the Group to the 
Exponent Group, and vice versa; these arrangements ended in 
October 2011. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
59
Governance
FINANCIAL
Charitable and political donations
During the year the Group made charitable donations to the following 
charities: the Royal British Legion (£3,760), the Caldecott Foundation 
(£5,000), Red Nose Day (£6,000), Scottish Sports Futures (£6,000) and 
the Irish Bakers Benevolent Society (£8,827). T otal charitable donations 
during the year amounted to £85,097 (2010: £166,555). In line with Group 
policy no political donations were made during the year (2010: £nil).
Financial instruments
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, 
and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set 
out in note 22 to the Group financial statements.
Going concern
The Group has obtained consent from its banking syndicate, swap 
counterparties and pension schemes on a re-financing package 
subject to the formalities of final documents being signed, expected 
by the end of March 2012.
The directors are confident that the necessary documentation will be 
finalised and signed by the end of March 2012 and that all conditions 
precedent will be met. The directors therefore have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to operate in the 
ordinary course of business and to meet its obligations as they fall 
due. Thus the financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis.
Supplier payment policy
The Company had no amounts owing to trade creditors at  
31 December 2011 (2010: £nil). The Group’s creditor days 
outstanding at 31 December 2011 were 72.7 days (2010: 68.8 days) 
of purchases, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the 
end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year. The Group 
has standard payment terms of end of the month plus 60 days. Our 
terms and conditions are available on the Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/our-suppliers/
Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as 
part of the contract negotiations.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities for the 
annual report
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the 
directors’ remuneration report and the Group and Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the EU, and the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the 
Group or Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company and of the profit or loss for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
 • Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
 • Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 • State whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and 
parent company financial statements respectively; and
 • Prepare the Group and Company financial statements on the 
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are 
also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
60
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Group’s website: www.premierfoods.co.uk. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
 
Information made available on the website does not constitute part 
of this annual report. The information has been prepared under the 
relevant acounting standards and legislation.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on 
pages 38 to 39, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
 • The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group; and
 • The Directors’ Report contained on pages 1 to 76 includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Subsequent events
Since the balance sheet date the Group has continued to progress 
its strategy. In line with this, details of post-balance sheet events are 
set out in note 31 of the Group financial statements.
AUDITORS
Independent auditors
The Audit Committee has recommended PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP’s (“PwC”) reappointment and PwC has indicated its willingness 
to continue as auditors. The reappointment of PwC and the setting 
of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
Auditors and the disclosure of information to 
auditors
The Companies Act requires directors to provide the Group’ s auditors 
with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling 
them to give their audit report. The directors, having made appropriate 
enquiries, confirm that:
 • So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and 
 • Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew McDonald
General Counsel and Company Secretary
18 March 2012
Other statutory information continued Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
61
Governance
Shareholder information
Share capital information
The Company’s issued share capital at 31 December 2011 comprised 2,398,058,019 ordinary 1p shares. During the period 36,438 ordinary 
shares were issued; details of the movements can be found in note 25. All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights, the 
rights to receive dividends and distributions on a winding up.
Analysis of share register
As at 31 December 2011, there were 8,352 registered holders of the 2,398,058,019 ordinary 1p shares in issue. The Company’s 
shareholdings are analysed below:
Number of shares
Number of 
holdings
% of total 
shareholders
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
% of ordinary 
shares
1–500 830 9.94 242,206 0.01
501–1,000 997 11.94 838,159 0.03
1,001–2,000 1,357 16.25 2,131,578 0.09
2,001–5,000 1,979 23.69 6,775,340 0.28
5,001–10,000 1,094 13.10 8,413,755 0.35
10,001–100,000 1,621 19.41 50,625,889 2.11
100,001–highest 474 5.67 2,329,031,092 97.13
TOTAL 8,352 100 2,398,058,019 100
Holders
Number of 
holdings
% of total 
shareholders
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
% of ordinary 
shares
Private 6,331 75.8 76,724,254 3.2
Institutional and corporate 2,021 24.2 2,321,333,765 96.8
TOTAL 8,352 100 2,398,058,019 100
Substantial shareholdings
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Services Authority’s (“FSA”) Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) is 
published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Group’s website. As at 18 March 2012, the Company is aware of the following 
interests of 3% or more in the Company:
Shareholder
Ordinary
shares
% of 
 capital
Nature
 of holding
Warburg Pincus LLC 380,853,510 15.88 Direct
Paulson & Co. Inc. 262,927,422 10.96 Direct
Templeton Investment Counsel, LLC 179,962,642 7.50 Direct
TD Waterhouse (Europe) Ltd 121,841,921 5.08 Indirect
Barclays Private Bank (UK) 110,263,698 4.60 Indirect
Norges Bank Investment Management 96,798,824 4.04 Direct
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 84,634,534 3.53 Direct
Dimensional Fund Advisors LP 79,615,779 3.32 Direct
Restrictions on transfer of securities
In accordance with the Articles there are no restrictions on share transfers, limitations on the holding of any class of shares or any requirement 
for prior approval of any transfer other than as disclosed in significant agreements on page 58.
Powers of the Company to issue or buy back its own shares
At the 2011 AGM over 99% of shareholders voted in favour of the directors being granted authority to allot shares up to a predetermined 
amount and for the directors to make market purchases of ordinary shares. Any ordinary shares purchased in the market may be cancelled 
or held in treasury. These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM when authority to allot shares only will be sought. Shares 
acquired through Company share schemes rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights. No share purchases were 
made in 2011. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
62
Shareholder information continued
SHAREHOLDER FAQs
Many of the information requests received by our shareholder helpline can be found in the investor section of our website. Shareholders 
can also sign up for regulatory news alerts to receive an email when news on the Group is released. These include additional financial news 
releases throughout the year, which are not mailed to shareholders.
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/
Managing your shares
The Company’s Register of Members is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti. Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should 
contact Equiniti directly using the details given in key contacts below.
Duplicate documents
Many shareholders still receive duplicate documentation from having more than one account on the share register. If you think you fall into this 
category and would like to combine your accounts, please contact Equiniti.
Notifying the Company of a change of address
Shareholders should notify Equiniti in writing of any change. If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first 
named shareholder.
Notifying the Company of a change of name
To notify the Company of a change of name please inform Equiniti in writing. A copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed 
should be provided as evidence of the name change.
Transferring Premier Foods plc shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. These forms are available by calling Equiniti. 
Lost Premier Foods plc share certificate(s)
Shareholders who have lost their share certificate(s) or have had their certificate(s) stolen should inform Equiniti immediately by phone. 
Found an old share certificate for Premier Foods plc
Shareholders who find they have an old share certificate and wish to find out its value should contact Equiniti directly using the details below. 
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to 
charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. Find out more at www.sharegift.org or 
call +44 (0)20 7930 3737.
viewing the Articles of the Company
The Articles and other documents referred to in this annual report are available for inspection at the registered office. The Articles are available 
on the Group’s website:
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/articles-of-association.cfm
CORRESPONDENCE WITH SHAREHOLDERS DURING THE YEAR
Electronic communications with shareholders
In January 2012 shareholders were consulted and encouraged to sign up to receive electronic communications instead of paper copies. This 
enables the Group to operate in a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective way.  Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
63
Governance
Shareholder security
In November 2011 shareholders were reminded via an update to the website to remain vigilant regarding share scams and fraud. For further 
details refer to the Group’s website.
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/shareholder-information/share-scams-and-fraud.cfm
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
The AGM usually takes place in London and is an opportunity for all shareholders to ask questions and vote on the resolutions put forward by 
the Board. At least 20 working days before the AGM the Notice of AGM, a copy of this annual report (if they request a copy in writing) and a 
Form of Proxy are issued to shareholders. All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Group’s website.
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investors/shareholder-information/
The Notice of AGM sets out the proposed resolutions and a brief synopsis of each of them. Shareholders are invited to either attend the AGM 
in person or appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf. Voting at the AGM is by poll as this gives a more democratic outcome given that the proxy 
votes are added to the votes cast in person. Details of the proxy votes for, against and withheld are made available on the Group’s website 
after the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Finance, Nomination and Remuneration committees are normally available at the AGM to take any relevant 
questions and all other directors are expected to attend. All directors attended the 2011 AGM.
2012 AGM — 3 May 2012 at 10.00 am
The 2012 AGM will be held at the Holiday Inn — Bloomsbury, Coram Street, London, WC1N 1HT. 
KEY CONTACTS
Registered office and head office
Premier Foods plc, Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE. 
Registered in England and Wales (5160050).
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
General Counsel and Company Secretary
Andrew McDonald
email: company.secretary@premierfoods.co.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
Investor Relations
Richard Godden
email: investor.relations@premierfoods.co.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
Registrar 
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. 
Tel: 0871 384 2030 or +44 (0)121 415 7047. 
Textphone: 0871 384 2255 or +44 (0)121 415 7028.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
64
Directors’ remuneration report
Part 1: Unaudited information
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter 65
The Committee
Remuneration Committee membership 66
Committee advisers 66
Role of the Committee 66
Key issues discussed in the year 66
Appointment	payment	–	Michael	Clarke	 67
Recruitment	A war ds	–	Michael	Clarke	 67 & 71
Retir ement	payment	–	Robert	Schofield	 67
Resignation	payment	–	Jim	Smart	 67
Resignation	payment	–	Tim	Kelly	 67
Remuneration policy
Remuneration policy 68
Director shareholding policy 68
Fixed vs. variable remuneration 68
Director remuneration: Fixed pay
Executive director’s salaries 69
Pay across the Group 69
Director remuneration: variable pay
Structure of variable remuneration 69
Executive director’s other benefits 69
Short and medium-term incentives
Annual	cash	bonus	 70
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSB) 70
Long-term incentives
Long-T erm	Incentive	Plan	(L TIP)	 70–71 & 75
Clawback provisions 70
A war ds	in	2012	 70
L TIP	Performance	conditions	2011	and	2012	 71
Co-Investment Plan (CIP) 71 & 75
Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) 71 & 74
Save	As	Y ou	Ear n	Scheme	(SA YE)	 71 & 74
Dilution of share capital 72
Details of appointment
Executive director service agreements 
and notice periods 72
Director termination payments 72
Executive director’s external NED appointments 72
Non-executive directors
Non-executive director appointment terms 
and notice periods 72
NED fee structure 72
Shareholdings
Director shareholdings 73
Total shareholder return graph 73
Part 2: Audited information
Total director remuneration 74
Executive director interests in share schemes:
ESOS 74
SA YE	 74
L TIP	 75
CIP 75
Pension benefits 75–76
Contents Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
65
Governance
Part 1: Unaudited information
The directors’ remuneration report provides information on the Group’s overall remuneration strategy as well as detailed disclosure of 
directors’ remuneration and long-term incentive arrangements. A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Company’s 2012 AGM inviting 
them to approve this report.
Dear Shareholders
2011 has been a challenging year for the Remuneration Committee. The first half of the year saw the successful introduction of 
the Long Term Incentive Plan with the first awards made in May 2011. The second half of the year has focused on the significant 
management changes within the Group and determining the remuneration arrangements that should be in place for 2012 taking in to 
account the Group’s underperformance in 2011 but also recognising that the new management team should be fairly rewarded and 
incentivised for delivering a turnaround in business performance. 
As covered in detail in the earlier sections of this annual report the Group was impacted by a number of challenges during the year 
which have led to the results for the year being significantly below expectation. This in turn led the Group to enter into discussions with 
its banks to put in place a new re-financing facility. 
Following the announcement of Robert Schofield’s intention to retire, the Board moved quickly to identify a successor with the 
experience and track record to stem the decline in profitability and stabilise the business. Michael Clarke has extensive experience 
within the branded food industry and proven ability in managing and growing brands which we believe will be essential in returning the 
Group to profitable growth.
In order to achieve Michael Clarke’s successful appointment in extremely challenging circumstances it was deemed necessary to 
compensate Michael Clarke for his forfeited 2011 bonus entitlement and outstanding share awards from his previous employer. Full 
details of these arrangements are set on page 67 of this report.
Following Michael Clarke’s appointment as CEO in August 2011 a new senior management structure was introduced. In addition, Mark 
Moran was appointed as the Group’s new CFO in December 2011. 
Payments to Robert Schofield, Jim Smart and Tim Kelly who left during the year were in line with the terms of their employment 
contracts and full details are set out on page 67 of this report. 
The challenge for the Committee has been consideration of the 2012 remuneration arrangements while the re-financing discussions 
were still being concluded. The Committee was conscious that the 2012 variable pay arrangements should be closely aligned with the 
delivery of the strategic plan to restore profitable growth in line with the growth strategy as outlined in the Chief Executive’s Statement  
on pages 8 to 11.  
The annual bonus arrangements for 2012 reflect the focus on turnover, branded sales, profit and cash flow, and for Michael Clarke this 
includes targets associated with the successful re-financing, a key objective for the Group.  
The Committee has determined that awards under the 2012 LTIP will be solely 
in the form of Performance Shares. The performance targets will be based on a 
combination of EPS and absolute TSR which are closely aligned with improving the 
profitability of the Group and delivering shareholder returns.
Louise Makin
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
66
Directors’ remuneration report continued
THE COMMITTEE:
Q. Who is on the Committee? 
A. The table below identifies the Committee members and attendees. In 
accordance with the Committee’ s terms of reference, no one attending 
a Committee meeting may participate in discussions relating to his/her 
own terms and conditions of service or remuneration. Only independent, 
non-executive directors may become members of the Committee. 
The chairman of the Board may also serve on the Committee if he was 
considered independent on appointment.
Committee member
1
 Position Comments
Louise Makin Chairman Independent NED
Ronnie Bell Member Chairman (NED)
David Beever Member SID
David Wild Member Independent NED
David Felwick Member Former SID
Committee attendee
2
Position Comments
Michael Clarke CEO Attends 
by invitation
Brian Carlton Group HR Director Attends 
by invitation
Andrew McDonald General Counsel &
Company Secretary
Secretary 
to the Committee
New Bridge Street (NBS) — Attend 
by invitation
Robert Schofield CEO Former CEO
Suzanne Wise General Counsel &
Company Secretary
Former Secretary 
to the Committee
1
  David Wild was appointed to the Committee on 7 March 2011 and David  
 Felwick resigned on 28 April 2011. 
2
 Michael Clarke was appointed CEO on 16 August 2011 and Robert  
 Schofield retired from the Board on 13 September 2011; and Andrew  
 McDonald replaced Suzanne Wise as Secretary to the Committee on  
 1 November 2011. 
Over the course of the year the Committee held four meetings. 
Details of attendance at the meetings are shown in the attendance 
table on page 48.
Q. Who advises the Committee?
A. The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to provide 
advice so as to ensure that the Committee’s decisions are informed 
and take account of pay and conditions across the Group. These 
individuals include the Group HR director. 
During the year the Committee considered the role of the 
remuneration advisors and it decided that New Bridge Street (NBS) 
should advise the Committee.
During the year NBS provided advice in connection with executive 
remuneration arrangements and the Company’s share incentive 
arrangements. Aon Hewitt (the parent company of NBS) provided 
advice to the Group in relation to pension contribution salary 
exchange, administration of our pension schemes and investment 
advice to our trustees.
Q. What is the role of the Committee?
A. The Committee adheres to principles of accountability 
and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements 
demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance. In its 
work, the Committee considers fully the relevant legal and regulatory 
requirements, provisions and recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the “Code”) and associated guidance. 
The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to: 
 • Determine and agree the remuneration strategy for executive 
directors and senior management;
 • Review and approve the remuneration packages for the 
Chairman, executive directors, General Counsel and Company 
Secretary and senior management;
 • Agree the terms of employment including recruitment and 
termination terms of executive directors, ensuring any payments 
on departure are fair to the individual and the Company, whilst 
avoiding payment for failure and recognising the departing 
individual’s duty to mitigate loss; 
 • Approve the design of all share incentive plans including all-
employee share schemes and where appropriate oversee any 
subsequent changes; and
 • Recommend appropriate performance conditions and targets for 
the variable element of remuneration packages and determine 
the extent to which performance targets have been achieved.
The Committee terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website: 
Go online
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/board-committees.cfm
 
Q. What key issues did the Committee discuss 
during the year?
A. In addition to the issues discussed in the letter from the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman on page 65 the Committee also:
 • Agreed the remuneration arrangements for the new CEO and 
CFO on appointment in 2011; 
 • Performed an annual review in April 2011 of executive directors’ 
and senior managers’ base salaries;
 • Reviewed and recommended executive directors’ and senior 
managers’ annual bonuses in respect of 2010 and set the targets 
for the annual bonus in respect of 2011;
 • Reviewed the performance outcome for CIP and LTIP awards 
granted in 2008;
 • Granted 2011 awards under the LTIP;
 • Granted 2011 awards under the SAYE scheme for all eligible 
employees in the UK and Ireland; and
 • Undertook a review of remuneration advisers. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
67
Governance
Q. What was paid to Michael Clarke on joining?
A. Michael Clarke’s appointment was announced on 14 July 2011 
and he joined the Group on 16 August 2011. In order to achieve 
his successful appointment in extraordinary circumstances the 
Committee agreed to the following compensatory payments:
 • In recognition of forfeited 2011 bonus entitlement from his previous 
employer Michael Clarke was eligible to receive an annual bonus 
of £400,000 (to be paid entirely in cash) in respect of 2011. The 
payment of this bonus was dependent on the formulation of a 
recovery plan for the Group. The Committee considered that this 
condition was satisfied and the bonus should be payable  
in full;
 • As compensation for forfeited equity awards from his previous 
employer that would have vested in January/February 2012, a 
cash bonus of £1.5m was paid immediately on acceptance of the 
appointment, the net proceeds of which were to be (and have 
been) invested in Company shares; and
 • In recognition of the forfeiture of long term incentive awards from 
his previous employer, due to vest in February 2013 and February 
2014, the Company agreed with Michael Clarke that, as soon 
as possible following the commencement of his employment, 
he would be awarded shares to compensate for the expected 
value of these forfeited LTIP awards (£1.49m in aggregate). The 
expected value of those forfeited awards was determined based 
on a prudent assessment of the extent to which the performance 
conditions had been achieved up to the date of cessation of 
employment with his previous employer.  
 
Since Michael Clarke’s appointment the Company has been in 
a prohibited period and therefore unable to make the long-term 
incentive awards. In light of the recent share price volatility the 
Committee decided that although it was important that there 
should be a significant share-based element to these awards, an 
award solely in the form of shares could result in excessive share 
usage and could make the level of gearing in the award too high. 
Accordingly, the Committee determined to deliver the value (i.e. 
£1.49m) by way of a mix of 8.75 million shares, comprising two 
awards over a maximum of 5 million shares (the “2013 Award”) 
and a maximum of 3.75 million shares (the “2014 Award”, and 
together with the 2013 Award the “Recruitment Awards”) plus the 
right to receive two conditional cash payments for the balance 
of the value determined at the date of grant. The Recruitment 
Awards are due to vest in line with the original vesting dates, 
after the announcement of the 2012 results (2013 Award) and 
after the announcement of the 2013 results (2014 Award). The 
cash payment (if any) will only be paid when and to the extent 
the Recruitment Awards are exercised. If the Recruitment 
Awards lapse any cash payment due will be scaled back to take 
account of the number of shares that have lapsed. In accordance 
with Listing Rule 9.4.3 a summary of the principal terms of the 
Recruitment Awards is set out on page 71.  
Q. What was paid to the executive directors on 
leaving?
A. Details of these payments are given below:
Robert Schofield 
At the 2011 AGM Robert Schofield gave notice of his intention to 
retire on 28 April 2012 but remain in post until a successor was 
appointed. Following the successful recruitment of Michael Clarke it 
was agreed that he step down as CEO on 16 August 2011 and retire 
as a director of the Company with effect from 13 September 2011.
The Committee determined he should be paid the remainder of his 
notice and accordingly he will receive salary payments, benefits in 
kind and a cash allowance in lieu of pension at the rates applicable 
at the time of the announcement on a monthly basis for the period to 
28 April 2012, amounting to a payment of £419,205. 
Jim Smart
Jim Smart was entitled to receive 12 months’ notice under the terms 
of his employment contract and received a payment amounting to 
£509,350. This included his pension supplement above the Premier 
Foods Pension Scheme “earnings cap”, pension opt-out allowance 
and compensation for loss of accrued holiday entitlement. In 
addition, he will continue to be provided with health insurance for a 
period of 12 months or such earlier date alternative employment is 
secured.
The Committee noted that he had a contractual right to receive 
a payment in respect of an on-target bonus, however, it was 
determined that this would not be paid.
 
Tim Kelly
Tim Kelly was entitled to receive 12 months’ notice under the terms 
of his employment contract and received a payment amounting to 
£492,050. This included his pension supplement above the RHM 
Pension Scheme “earnings cap”, pension opt-out allowance and 
location supplement. In addition, he will continue to be provided with 
a company car and health insurance for a period of 12 months or 
such earlier date alternative employment is secured.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
68
Directors’ remuneration report continued
REMUNERATION POLICY
Q. What is the overall remuneration policy?
A. Our policy is set out below:
Broad policy To set remuneration levels so as to attract and retain high calibre executives and to encourage and 
reward superior business performance which is linked to the delivery of our business strategy.
How do we seek to apply our  
policy in the boardroom?
Remuneration for executive directors is intended to reward against criteria that are relevant and 
realistic but also challenging, so that superior performance is encouraged. 
Executive directors should have sufficient focus on the long-term performance of the Group and  
be aligned with the interests of shareholders, we are therefore committed to the use of equity-
based performance-related schemes and encourage executives to build up meaningful 
shareholdings in the Company. A significant proportion of remuneration is performance linked, see 
below. Details of executive director share ownership guidelines are set out below.
When is the policy reviewed? During 2011 the remuneration committee reviewed the policy to ensure performance-related 
incentives, as well as annual salary, are supportive of operating objectives and conducive to the 
delivery of shareholder value. It is considered that the policy continues to remain appropriate. 
The policy will continue to be reviewed annually.
In March every year the Committee reviews the remuneration of senior management to ensure it 
remains competitive and challenging.
What are we doing for 2012? The Committee believes that the remuneration structure will continue to support the Group, 
however, given the new strategic priorities of the Group (as set out in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement on pages 8 to 11) the Committee will keep under review the current remuneration 
structure to ensure it is adequately aligned with these priorities.
The Committee will ensure that the remuneration arrangements for 2012 are affordable without 
excessive share dilution and that the performance conditions used in our plans are consistent with 
delivering strong returns to shareholders.
Q. Are there share ownership guidelines for 
executive directors?
A. Since 2006 all executive directors have been expected to build a 
holding of shares within three years of appointment at least equal to 
their annual salary (valued at the time of purchase). The Committee 
believes that these shareholding guidelines can be an effective 
means of aligning directors’ interests with those of our shareholders. 
As at the year end Michael Clarke and Mark Moran were in 
compliance with this policy and details of all directors’ shareholdings 
are set out on pages 73 to 75. 
Q. What is the balance between the fixed and 
variable elements of executive remuneration?
A. Michael Clarke and Mark Moran are remunerated through a 
combination of base salary, annual bonus, pension, benefits and 
share-based performance-related awards. The Committee believes 
that it is important for a significant proportion of their remuneration 
package to be performance-related. At maximum award levels 
(excluding share price movements) 74% of the remuneration 
package for Michael Clarke and 70% of the remuneration package 
for Mark Moran is based on variable elements. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
69
Governance
DIRECTOR REMUNERATION: FIXED PAY
Q. What salaries do the executive directors 
receive?
A. Salary levels are set with reference to the relevant marketplace, 
and incorporate an assessment by the Committee of the 
responsibilities and performance of the individual. 
The Committee continues to rigorously test, review and set salaries 
at levels not normally exceeding market rates against relevant 
comparator companies taking into account factors such as revenue, 
market share and complexity. However, the Committee is mindful 
that it may be necessary to set salaries outside of the stated policy, 
for instance in circumstances where it is necessary to hire an 
individual of exceptional calibre.
Michael Clarke was appointed CEO on 16 August 2011 on an annual 
salary of £750,000 and Mark Moran was appointed CFO on 8 December 
2011 on an annual salary of £425,000. These salaries will not be subject 
to review until the first anniversary of appointment and 1 April 2013 
respectively.
Q. Does the Committee consider pay conditions 
for all employees within the Group when agreeing 
arrangements for executive directors?
A. In determining the remuneration arrangements for executive 
directors, the Committee is sensitive to the pay and employment 
conditions elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining base 
salary increases (if any) and reviews the proposed pay awards for the 
Group at large with the CEO. 
Q. What additional benefits do the executive 
directors’ receive?
A. Each executive director is entitled to a car allowance and fuel 
cost, private health insurance, life insurance, telecommunication 
services and an allowance for personal tax and financial planning. 
DIRECTOR REMUNERATION: vARIABLE PAY 
Q. How is executive variable remuneration 
structured and how does it align with the Group’s 
strategy?
A. The structure of incentives for the executive directors comprise of 
four elements: 
1. Annual cash bonus;
2. Deferred Share Bonus Plan (“DSB”); 
3. LTIP Performance Shares; and
4. LTIP Matching Shares. 
In 2012 while the business is in recovery the Company will only 
use elements one, two and three. The Committee determined that 
at a time of share price volatility the use of matching shares was 
inappropriate.
When determining the structure of variable pay the Committee is mindful 
of the need to maintain a good line of sight so that executive directors 
can clearly see how their actions lead to their reward and to have 
incentives that have specific and clear goals which are clearly linked to 
business strategy and the key priorities that have been outlined. 
Q. What are the performance criteria to be used in 2012 for each of these three elements?
A. Variable elements of executive directors’ remuneration in 2012: 
Targets Underpins Reasons
Annual cash bonus Range of measures 
including revenue, trading 
profit, recurring cash flow 
and personal performance.
Quality of profit review; target recurring 
cash flow; bonuses will have an  
affordability test; and personal bonuses 
require threshold profit to be attained.
Trading profit is driven by sales and 
margin; cash flow repays debt.
Deferred Share Bonus 
(DSB)
Branded sales value 
growth and trading profit.
Growth in market share for total brands 
must be achieved for the bonus to 
become payable and the Group trading 
profit target must be met. 
Clear link to the strategy of continuous 
improvement in the sale of branded 
products emphasising the importance 
of profitability through the use of sales 
value and the inclusion of trading profit 
for 2012.
LTIP Performance 
Shares
EPS and absolute TSR. The Committee considers that the 
achievement of both the EPS and 
absolute TSR targets will be fully 
reflective of the Group’s underlying 
financial performance.
The targets capture improvements in 
trading profit and are also aligned with 
shareholder return. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
70
Directors’ remuneration report continued
SHORT AND MEDIUM-TERM INCENTIvES
Q. What annual cash bonuses do the executive 
directors receive?
A. Each year the Committee sets individual performance targets and 
bonus potentials for each of the executive directors. Annually the 
Committee reviews the level of achievement against the performance 
targets set and based on the Committee’s judgement approves the 
bonus of each executive director. Annual bonus payments are not 
pensionable. The performance targets for 2011 were not met and no 
annual cash bonuses will be paid out in respect of 2011.
For 2012 Mark Moran’s bonus will be dependent on performance 
against four key performance indicators: revenue, gross profit (after 
sales, marketing and distribution), trading profit and recurring cash 
flow. The bonus outcome from these four indicators will be adjusted 
to take account of his performance rating. The maximum bonus that 
Mark Moran can receive is capped at 75% of salary.
For 2012 Michael Clarke has the opportunity to earn a bonus of 150% 
of salary. The Committee considers that given the particular challenges 
that face the Group for 2012 it is necessary to operate a specific 
bonus plan for Michael Clarke that focuses on our key priorities and 
the steps that need to be taken to improve our trading performance. 
1) Half of the bonus will be dependent on the achievement of 
financial targets, (focused on turnover, branded sales value 
growth, trading profit and cash flow) and in addition a range of 
other measures aligned with our strategic priorities as set out on 
pages 8 to 11. Payment of a bonus against these measures will 
be underpinned by the requirement to deliver a threshold level of 
trading profit. 
2) The other half of the bonus will be dependent on the delivery of a 
successful re-financing agreement this is a key priority for 2012 
and aligned with the interests of shareholders. The level of bonus 
paid against this measure will be dependent on the achievement 
of the re-financing and will take account of whether the new 
arrangement is judged to have been a success and in the best 
interests of shareholders. The assessment of the quality of the re-
financing will be performed at the end of the 2012 financial year 
taking account of the views of the Finance Committee.
Q. How does the DSB operate?
A. The DSB operates alongside the annual cash bonus. Executive 
directors can earn an award based on the achievement of a Group-
wide strategic target which will be set at the start of each financial 
year. If the objective is met, the bonus will be paid at the end of the 
financial year in shares deferred for a period of two years. These 
shares will be subject to forfeiture over the period of deferral. All 
shares for these awards will be sourced in the market. 
For 2011 a target based on total volume sales of branded product 
growth was used, as it provided a clear link to the strategy of 
continuous improvement in the sale of branded products. For a 
deferred bonus to be payable the Group trading profit target must also 
have been met. For above target payout the Committee had discretion 
to reduce the payouts for reasons of affordability. The 2011 targets 
were not met and accordingly no awards will be made under the DSB 
in respect of 2011.
The Committee has reviewed the targets to apply for the 2012 
performance period and has determined that these awards should 
continue to be subject to a condition based on branded sales 
subject to a trading profit underpin but that this should be reduced 
to 50% of the award and that the measure should be based on 
sales value growth and not sales volume. It is felt that this measure 
emphasises the importance of profitability and margin performance.  
The remaining 50% of the award will be dependent on trading profit.
In respect of 2012 performance the maximum award that can be 
earned by Mark Moran is 30% of salary. Michael Clarke will not 
participate in the DBS in 2012.
LONG-TERM INCENTIvES
Q. How are the long-term incentives structured?
A. The awards under the LTIP approved by shareholders in 2011 
have two elements:
— Performance Shares
— Matching Shares
The Matching Shares require participants to make an investment into 
Company shares in order to receive a match of up to 2:1 on shares 
invested into the scheme. The maximum grant of Performance 
Shares and Matching Shares is 200% of salary. 
 
In 2011 executives directors and senior management were awarded 
both Performance Shares and Matching Shares. The Committee has 
decided that for 2012 at least, while the business is in recovery and 
the share price may continue to fluctuate, awards will take the form 
of Performance Shares only.
Q. Are clawback provisions in place for the DSB 
and LTIP awards? 
A. Yes. In relation to awards granted under the LTIP the Committee 
may reduce unvested awards and seek repayment of vested awards 
if, by the second anniversary of vesting, the Committee forms the 
view that the vesting was determined based on materially misstated 
financial results or in the event of misconduct.
In relation to DSB awards the Committee may reduce unvested 
awards if, prior to vesting, the Committee forms the view that the 
number of shares over which awards were granted was higher than 
the number that should have been granted because of materially 
misstated financial results for the relevant bonus year, or the 
Committee relied on inaccurate or misleading information.
Q. What awards will be made in 2012?
A. As mentioned, it is intended that for 2012 only Performance 
Share awards will be made. For 2012 it is the Committee’s intention 
to award Michael Clarke and Mark Moran Performance Shares with a 
face value of 200% and 150% of salary respectively. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
71
Governance
Q. What performance conditions were used for 
awards made under the LTIP in 2011?
A. For the 2011 grant, the Performance Share element of the LTIP 
was linked to growth in adjusted earnings per share (“EPS”) targets 
over a period of three years. EPS captures both improvements in the 
trading performance and the generation of cash to pay down debt, 
thus reducing the interest charge. The Matching Share element of 
the LTIP was linked to achieving growth targets in absolute share 
price (plus reinvested dividends) by 2014.
These measures were selected as they ultimately capture 
improvements in the Group’s trading performance as well as 
measuring the returns to shareholders. The specific targets are set 
out in the notes to the LTIP table on page 75.
Q. What performance conditions will be used for 
awards to be made under the LTIP in 2012?
A. The Committee strongly believes that the performance conditions 
attached to the 2012 LTIP awards should be aligned with the 
strategy of the Group, its plan to restore profitable growth and 
with shareholders interests, by focusing on absolute share price 
performance. Awards will only vest following the achievement of 
stretching performance targets. 
Accordingly, it is the Committee’s current intention that the 2012 
award will be subject to an EPS condition (two thirds of the award) 
and an absolute TSR condition (one third of the award). The 
proposed targets are set out in the table below:
% of relevant 
portion of award 
vesting
EPS for  
the year ended  
31 December 2014 Absolute TSR
0% Below 4.5p Below 30p
20% up to 50% 4.5p up to 5.1p 30p up to 35p
50% up to 100% 5.1p up to 6.5p 35p up to 50p
100% 6.5p or greater 50p or greater
Q. What were the terms of Michael Clarke’s 
Recruitment Awards?
A. As set out on page 67 it was agreed to make certain Recruitment 
Awards to Michael Clarke on appointment as CEO in recognition 
of awards forfeited from his previous employer. In accordance 
with Listing Rule 9.4.3 a summary of the principal terms of the 
Recruitment Awards are set out below:
 • The Recruitment Awards shall be satisfied using shares purchased 
in the market by the trustees of the Company’s Employee Benefit 
Trust;
 • The Recruitment Awards will be structured as nil-cost options and 
no consideration is payable by Michael Clarke for the grant;
 • The Recruitment Awards are non-transferable and shall not be 
pensionable;
 • The Recruitment Awards will normally vest and become 
exercisable on the date of the announcement of the Group’s results 
for the 2012 financial year and 2013 financial year respectively, 
subject to remaining employed by the Group and the Committee 
being satisfied with Michael Clarke’s and the Group’s performance 
up to the relevant date of announcement;
 • The Recruitment Awards will only become exercisable to the 
extent that the Committee is satisfied that the performance 
conditions have been satisfied. To the extent that the Committee 
determines that the performance conditions have not been 
satisfied in full, that part of the Recruitment Awards (including any 
cash payment) that the Committee determines shall not vest;
 • Once vested the Recruitment Awards may normally be exercised 
by Michael Clarke during a period of 12 months commencing on 
the date of vesting, provided that he is employed by the Group on 
the date of exercise;
 • The Recruitment Awards will lapse if Michael Clarke ceases 
employment before the relevant announcement date. However, 
if he ceases employment by reason of death, injury, disability, 
redundancy or any other reason the Committee may, in its 
discretion, permit some or all of the Recruitment Awards and 
any associated cash payment to vest and become payable early 
subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and a time 
pro rata adjustment, unless the Committee determines otherwise;
 • In the event of a change of control of the Company (excluding 
certain internal reorganisations or restructurings) whether by way 
of a general offer or scheme of arrangement the Recruitment 
Awards and any associated cash payment will vest and become 
payable early, subject to Michael Clarke remaining employed at 
the time of the relevant event and a time pro rata adjustment 
unless the Committee determines otherwise;
 • If there is a variation in the share capital of the Company or a 
demerger or special dividend or in such other circumstances the 
Committee considers appropriate the Committee may adjust the 
Recruitment Awards as deemed appropriate to ensure that the 
Recruitment Awards remain at the same value;
 • The Company may change the terms of the Recruitment Awards 
to get or keep favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory 
treatment for Michael Clarke or the Company and may make 
minor changes to ease its administration. No change can be 
made to Michael Clarke’s advantage without the prior approval of 
shareholders; and
 • The draft Deed of Grant is available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office.
Q. Will further awards be made under the Co-
Investment Plan (“CIP”) and Executive Share 
Option Scheme (“ESOS”)?
A. It is not envisaged that any further awards will be made under 
either scheme.
Q. Does the Company operate any all-employee 
share plans?
A. Yes, the Company operates an all-employee Save As You Earn 
(“SAYE”) scheme which executive directors can join on the same 
terms as other participants. 
The SAYE scheme is government approved and is available to all 
employees who meet certain basic eligibility criteria and is not subject 
to any performance conditions. The SAYE scheme offers employees 
the opportunity to join a regular monthly savings contract for a 
period of three years at the end of which the employees have the 
opportunity to purchase shares in the Company with their savings at 
the share price set at the beginning of their savings contract. 
The 2011 SAYE scheme offered employees an opportunity to join the 
scheme at an option price of 9.55p. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
72
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Q. What is the policy on dilution of share capital 
by employee share plans?
A. Awards under all Group share plans may be satisfied using either 
newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market and held 
in the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust. The Group’s policy is to 
comply with the Association of British Insurers (“ABI”) guidelines in 
respect of new share issues in all share plans. 
DETAILS OF APPOINTMENT
Q. What are the terms of the executive directors’ 
service agreements?
A. Details of the service agreements of the executive directors 
appear below:
Executive director Contract date
1
Notice period
Michael Clarke 16 August 2011 12 months
Mark Moran 8 December 2011 12 months
1 
 Rolling contract.
Q. What are the terms of the past executive 
directors’ service agreements?
A. Details of the service agreements of the past executive directors 
appear below:
Past executive director Contract date
1
Notice period
Robert Schofield 20 July 2004 12 months
Jim Smart 11 February 2009 12 months
Tim Kelly 5 October 2009 12 months
1 
 Rolling contract.
Q. How are the executive directors compensated 
in the event of the termination of their contract?
A. In the event of termination (other than for a reason justifying 
summary termination in accordance with the terms of the service 
agreement) the Company may pay to the executive directors, in lieu 
of notice: salary, benefits and pension contributions during the notice 
period (calculated on a pro rata daily basis). Termination payments 
may be made in instalments and to the extent that the executive 
director receives any sums as a result of alternative employment 
or provision of services while they are receiving such termination 
payments, the payments shall be reduced by the amount of such 
sums. 
In line with market practice there is no entitlement to a bonus 
payment in lieu of notice in the service agreements for Michael Clarke 
or Mark Moran. Service agreements do not provide for any enhanced 
payments in the event of a change of control of the Company. 
Q. What is the Group’s policy on executive 
directors holding external appointments?
A. The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take on 
a non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company in order 
to broaden their experience and they are entitled to retain any fees 
they may receive. Michael Clarke is currently a non-executive director 
of Wolseley plc and receives fees of £63,000 p.a. for this role. 
NON-EXECUTIvE DIRECTORS
Q. What are the appointment terms and notice 
periods for non-executive directors?
A. All non-executive directors have entered into letters of 
appointment as detailed in the table below. The appointments 
are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Company’s Articles. 
Non-executive 
director
Date of 
appointment
Date of current 
appointment 
Notice 
period
Ronnie Bell 1 October 2010 1 October 2010 3 months
Charles Miller 
Smith 16 June 2009 16 June 2009 1 month
1
David Beever 22 January 2008 21 January 2011 3 months
Ian McHoul 19 July 2004 19 July 2010 3 months
Louise Makin 13 October 2006 1 October 2009 3 months
David Wild 7 March 2011 7 March 2011 3 months
1 
 The appointment of Charles Miller Smith is governed by the Relationship  
 Agreement between the Company and Warburg Pincus LLC under which  
 he may terminate his appointment as a director by giving one months  
 notice in writing (see page 44 for further information).
Non-executive directors’ continued appointments are evaluated 
annually, based on their contributions and satisfactory performance. 
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early 
termination of an appointment of a non-executive director.
Q. What is the policy on non-executive directors’ 
fees?
A. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined 
by the Chairman and executive directors. The remuneration of the 
Chairman is determined by the Committee. There were no changes 
to the fees for the Chairman and other non-executive directors for 
2011 with the exception that David Beever was appointed Senior 
Independent Director in April 2011 and received an increase in total 
fees of £5,000 in recognition of the additional responsibilities.
Non executive directors fees
Chairman – pay is independent of basic NED fee £325,000
Deputy Chairman – pay is independent of basic 
NED fee
£90,000
Basic non-executive (NED) fee £57,000
Additional remuneration;
Audit Committee Chairman £13,000
Finance Committee Chairman £13,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman £10,500
Senior Independent Director £5,000
To maintain independence and comply with the Code the Chairman 
and the other non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in 
the Group’s bonus arrangements, share option schemes, long term 
incentive plans or pension arrangements.  Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
73
Governance
SHAREHOLDINGS
Q. What interests did the directors have in the Company’s shares on 31 December 2011?
A. The beneficial interest in shares of the Board and connected persons as at 31 December 2011 are presented below: 
Director
Ordinary shares 
as at 31 Dec 2011
Ordinary shares
as at 31 Dec 2010
Michael Clarke
1
3,740,785 —
Mark Moran
2
17,540,000 —
Ronnie Bell 854,700 —
Charles Miller Smith 680,272 680,272
David Beever 319,000 169,000
Ian McHoul 100,000 100,000
Louise Makin 58,636 58,636
David Wild
3
50,000 —
1
 Appointed CEO on 16 August 2011.
2
 Appointed CFO on 8 December 2011.
3
 Appointed as a director on 7 March 2011.
Between 31 December 2011 and 18 March 2012 no Company shares were purchased by directors.
Total shareholder return graph
The graph illustrates the performance of the Company against the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE Food Producers and Processors Index over 
the past five years. The FTSE 250 index was chosen as the Company was a member of the FTSE 250 during the year, and the FTSE Food 
Producers and Processors Index, was chosen as it contains the Company’s key comparators.
The	market	price	of	a	shar e	in	the	Company	on	31	December	2011	was	5.81	pence;	the	range	
during the 2011 financial year was 3.3 pence to 35.1 pence. The Company’s Register of Directors’ 
Interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of directors’ share interests.
140.0
120.0
100.0
80.0
60.0
40.0
20.0
31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11
0.0
Premier Foods plc
FTSE 250 ex Inv. Trusts
FTSE All-Share Food Producers Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
74
Directors’ remuneration report continued
PART 2: AUDITED INFORMATION 
Directors’ emoluments
The remuneration of each director, excluding long-term share-based incentive schemes during the year ended 31 December 2011 is shown 
below:
Directors’ emoluments
Salary/fee
2
(£)
Annual bonus
(£)
Taxable
benefits
3
(£)
Other
payments
(£)
Total 
2011
(£)         
Total 
2010
(£)
Executive directors
1
Michael Clarke 339,130 — 440 1,937,500
4
 2,277,070 —
Mark Moran 34,060 — 50 — 34,110 —
Robert Schofield 466,780 — 9,500 419,205
5
895,485 715,052
Jim Smart 494,905 — 1,050 509,350
6
1,005,305 545,463
Tim Kelly 418,618 — 40,500 492,050
6
951,168 450,707
Non-executive directors
1
Ronnie Bell 325,000 — 580 — 325,580 81,250
Charles Miller Smith 90,000 — — — 90,000 65,250
David Beever 73,480
7
— — — 73,480 70,000
Ian McHoul 70,000 — — — 70,000 70,000
Louise Makin 67,500 — — — 67,500 67,500
David Wild 46,700 — — —  46,700 —
David Felwick 20,420 — — 250 20,670 62,000
1
 In 2011 the following Board changes took place: Michael Clarke was appointed CEO on 16 August 2011 and Robert Schofield resigned but continued as a  
 director until 13 September 2011. Mark Moran was appointed CFO and a director on 8 December 2011 and Jim Smart resigned; Tim Kelly resigned as COO  
 and as a director on 25 November 2011. David Wild was appointed non-executive director on 7 March 2011 and David Felwick resigned on 28 April 2011.
2
 Includes a supplement in lieu of pension of £56,520 (2010: £nil), £2,280 (2010: £nil), £27,220 (2010: £37,080), £38,430 (2010: £37,080) and £53,400 (2010:  
 £38,813) in respect of Michael Clarke, Mark Moran, Robert Schofield, Jim Smart and Tim Kelly.
3
 Benefits include payments made in relation to car and fuel cost, private health insurance, tax advice, relocation and memberships.
4
 Includes all payments made on appointment.
5
 Includes all payments made until retirement on 28 April 2012.
6
 Includes all payments made on leaving.
7
 Includes a pro-rated £5,000 p.a. uplift in salary following his appointment as SID on 28 April 2011. 
No director waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Other payments
Details of payments made to executive directors who were appointed, retired or resigned during the year are set out on pages 67 and 71.
Directors’ interest in share options — ESOS and SAYE
The ESOS was adopted in 2004 at the time of Admission. Outstanding vested options held by executive directors under this plan would 
require the share price to reach 161.38p prior to exercise. 
At 31 December 2011, the following executive directors had options to subscribe for shares granted under the ESOS and SAYE Schemes:
Options 
as at 
31 Dec 
2010
Options
granted
during 
the year
Options
exercised
during the
year
Options
forfeited
during 
the year
Options 
as at 
31 Dec
2011
1
Option 
price 
(p)
Option 
period
Robert Schofield
ESOS 2004 1,165,686 – – – 1,165,686 161.38 23 Jul 2007 to 22 Jul 2014
SAYE 2010 23,210 – – – 23,210 15.20 1 Dec 2013 to 31 May 2014
2
Tim Kelly
SAYE 2010 23,210 – – – 23,210 15.20 1 Dec 2013 to 31 May 2014
2
In 2011 the following Board changes took place: Robert Schofield retired from the Board on 13 September 2011 and Tim Kelly resigned as 
COO and as a director on 25 November 2011. During the year no awards vested.
1
  Or at date of cessation of employment.
2
  Option period effective for six months from date of leaving. Our business Performance Financial statements
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
Summary
75
Governance
Directors’ interests in long term incentive plans
At the 2011 AGM the shareholders approved a LTIP , the following table shows the awards made under this scheme:
Awards Grant 
Date
Performance
Shares 
granted 
in the year
2
Matching
Shares
granted 
in the year
3
Shares 
lapsed 
during the 
year
As at 
31 Dec
2011
1
Share price 
at date of 
award Performance period
Robert Schofield 23 May 2011 1,407,475 1,407,474 – 2,814,949 33.3p 23 May 2014 to 23 May 2016
Jim Smart 23 May 2011 997,223 997,220 (1,994,443) – 33.3p 23 May 2014 to 23 May 2016
Tim Kelly 23 May 2011 899,180 899,176 (1,798,356) – 33.3p 23 May 2014 to 23 May 2016
1
   Or at date of cessation of employment.
2
 Subject to growth in adjusted EPS in excess of inflation over the three year period ending 31 December 2013: 100% of the award vests for RPI + 19% p.a.,  
 reducing on a straight-line basis to 25% of the award vesting for RPI + 4% p.a. No awards vest for EPS growth of less than RPI + 4% p.a.
3
 Subject to achievement of share price targets (plus dividends reinvested) measured over the three months following the announcement of the 2013 preliminary results:  
 100% vests for share price (plus dividends reinvested) of 80p, reducing on a straight-line basis to no award vesting for share price (plus dividends reinvested) of 37p or less.
During the year no awards vested.
Directors’ interests in co-investment plans
The CIP is a three year share matching plan based on the achievement of performance conditions. Participants pledge or purchase shares in 
the Company which the Company can choose to match to reward achievement of performance targets. The maximum share match ratio is 
3:1; which is only given for the achievement of exceptionally stretching targets. For awards granted in 2009 and 2010, the matching award was 
subject to EPS and relative TSR performance.  Details of the CIP award were set out in full in the 2009 directors’ remuneration report.
The following table shows the executive directors’ interests in shares awarded under the CIP:
Award 
grant 
date
As at
31 Dec 
2010
Granted in
the year
Shares lapsed
during the 
year
As at
31 Dec 
2011
1
 Share price 
on date of 
award (p) Vesting date
Robert Schofield
CIP 2008 15 Apr 2008 3,187,741 – (3,187,741)
2
         – 125.50   15 Apr 2011
CIP 2009 9 Jun 2009 3,187,740 – – 3,187,740
4
40.50 9 Jun 2012
CIP 2010 30 Mar 2010 3,187,740 – – 3,187,740
4
32.16 30 Mar 2013
Jim Smart
CIP 2009 13 Nov 2009 2,250,000 – (2,250,000)
3
–  34.63 13 Nov 2012
CIP 2010 30 Mar 2010 2,032,671 – (2,032,671)
3
– 32.16 30 Mar 2013
Tim Kelly
CIP 2008 15 Apr 2008 841,056 – (841,056)
2
– 125.50   15 Apr 2011 
CIP 2009 9 Jun 2009 1,665,284 – (1,665,284)
3
– 40.50 9 Jun 2012
CIP 2010 30 Mar 2010 1,665,285 – (1,665,285)
3
 – 32.16 30 Mar 2013
In 2011 the following Board changes took place: Robert Schofield retired from the Board on 13 September 2011, Jim Smart resigned as CFO 
and as a director on 8 December 2011 and Tim Kelly resigned as COO and as a director on 25 November 2011. During the year no awards 
vested. The opening balance is the potential maximum matching award under each plan.
1
 Or at date of cessation of employment.
2
 Lapsed during the year as vesting conditions were not met.
3
 Lapsed following resignation as a director.
4
  Pro-rated award to 28 April 2012, subject to meeting the vesting criteria this award will vest on the original vesting date.
Pension benefits
For each executive director, the total accrued benefit at 31 December 2011 represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on 
eventual retirement of each director. The additional pension earned during the year represents the increase in this expected pension (including 
the effect of inflation) when compared with the position at 31 December 2010.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Regulation 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pensions Schemes (Transfer Values) 
Regulations 1996 and subsequent amendments. The transfer values of the accrued pension entitlement represent the value of assets that the 
pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the scheme’s liability in respect of the directors’ pension 
benefits; they do not represent sums payable to the director and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual director emoluments.
The increase in transfer value during the year is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2011 after deducting directors’ 
pension contributions to the scheme. The transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits under the Listing Rules is the transfer value at 31 December 
2011 of the increase in accrued benefits during the period (excluding inflation) less contributions made by the directors during the period. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
21103-02  15/03/2012 Proof 13
76
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Q. What pension benefits do the executive directors receive? 
A. All pension figures are set out below and in the footnotes on page 74. A brief overview of each director’s benefits is detailed below:
Michael Clarke
Michael Clarke receives an allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of pension provision.
Mark Moran
Mark Moran receives an allowance in lieu of pension provision of £20,000 per annum (which increases in line with RPI to a maximum of 5%) 
plus 9% of the Notional Earnings Cap (which increases in line with the increases in the Premier Foods Pension Scheme (“PFPS”) “earnings 
cap”). 
Robert Schofield
Robert Schofield elected for enhanced protection under the Finance Act 2004 with effect from 6 April 2006 and thus opted out of the PFPS 
for future service accrual. Instead he received an allowance in lieu of pension accrual, which increases in line with the increases in the PFPS 
“earnings cap”. His pension accrued up to 6 April 2006 continued to be linked to his final salary, subject to the PFPS “earnings cap”.  
Jim Smart
Jim Smart received an allowance in lieu of pension accrual, which increases in line with the PFPS “earnings cap”.  
Tim Kelly
Tim Kelly was a member of the RHM Pension Scheme (“RHMPS”) which is a funded, registered scheme that provides benefits on a defined 
benefits basis. Up to 30 June 2011 he was entitled to a pension at the rate of 1/25th of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable 
service. The accrued pension at 30 June 2011 is linked to the rise in the RPI up to a maximum of 5% in any year. From 1 July 2011 he 
became entitled to a defined benefit on a Career Average Revalued Earnings basis building up pension at 1% of pensionable salary. Under 
both the pre and post 1 July 2011 pension terms pensionable salary was subject to the RHMPS “earnings cap”. He received a salary 
supplement in lieu of receiving no pension in respect of earnings above the “earnings cap”. 
The following table sets out the executive directors’ pension benefits as members of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes as at  
31 December 2011: 
Age at 
31 Dec 
2011
 
Accrued
pension
entitlement
at 31 Dec
2010
(£)
Accrued
pension
entitlement
at 31 Dec
2011
(£)
Additional
pension
earned 
during
the year
(£)
Additional
pension
earned 
during
the year, 
excluding
inflation
(£)
Transfer
value
of accrued
pension
at 31 Dec
2010
(£)
Transfer
value
of accrued
pension
at 31 Dec
2011
1
(£)
Increase
in transfer
value of
accrued
pension
during
the year
2
(£)
Transfer
value of the
increase
in accrued
pension, 
excluding
inflation
(£)
Robert Schofield 60 10,000 10,300 300 – 150,700 272,000 121,300
3
–
Tim Kelly 54 30,100 33,400 3,300 1,400 494,400 684,400 183,600
3
20,300
4
In 2011 the following Board changes took place: Robert Schofield retired from the Board on 13 September 2011 and Tim Kelly resigned as 
COO and as a director on 25 November 2011.
1
 Or at date of cessation of employment.
2
 Net of contributions paid by contributing member.
3
 Increase in 2011 is due to reduced interest rates.
4
 At date of cessation of employment.
Louise Makin
Chairman of the Committee
18 March 2012 www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
77
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
Financial Statements
Contents
Independent auditors’ report — Group 78
Independent auditors’ report — Company 79
Consolidated income statement 80
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 81
Consolidated balance sheet 82
Consolidated statement of cash flows 83
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 84
Notes to the financial statements 
Note
General information 85
Accounting policies 85
Critical accounting policies, estimates 
and judgements 91
Segmental analysis 92
Net other operating (expense)/income 94
Operating (loss)/profit for continuing operations 94
Employees 95
Finance income and expense 96
Taxation 97
(Loss)/earnings per share 100
Discontinued operations 102
Disposal of businesses 102
Assets and liabilities held for sale 103
Property, plant and equipment 104
Goodwill 105
Other intangible assets 106
Investments 107
Inventories 108
Trade and other receivables 108
Trade and other payables 108
Bank and other borrowings 108
Financial instruments 109
Provisions for liabilities and charges 117
Retirement benefit schemes 118
Reserves and share capital 124
Notes to the cash flow statement 128
Operating lease commitments 129
Capital commitments 129
Contingencies 129
Related party transactions 130
Subsequent events 130
Company financial statements 132
Notes to the Company financial statements 133
Note
Accounting policies 133
Operating profit 133
Investments 134
Debtors 134
Creditors  134
Deferred tax 134
Share capital and other reserves 135
Operating lease commitments 135
Contingencies and guarantees 135
Subsequent events 135
Contents Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
78
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of Premier Foods plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of 
cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
 • give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended; 
 • have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and 
 • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
 • the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the Group financial statements
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
 • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
 • the directors’ statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going concern; 
 • the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance code specified for our review; and
 • certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 and on 
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.  
Ranjan Sriskandan 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London 
18 March 2012 www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
79
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of Premier Foods plc
We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise of 
the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities set out on pages 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements.
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: 
 • give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011;
 • have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and 
 • have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and 
 • the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
 • the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or 
 • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.  
Ranjan Sriskandan 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
18 March 2012 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
80
Consolidated income statement
 
 
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 2011
  
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2010
(Restated)
1
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 1,999.5  2,234.4 
Cost of sales (1,436.1) (1,522.7)
Gross profit 563.4  711.7 
Selling, marketing and distribution costs (272.2) (300.8)
Administrative costs (466.8) (192.9)
Net other operating (expense)/income 5 (0.7) 1.9 
Operating (loss)/profit 6 (176.3) 219.9 
Before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 116.9  219.9 
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 15 (282.0) – 
Loss on disposal of operations 12 (11.2) – 
Finance expense 8 (126.9) (160.1)
Finance income 8 7.2  12.0 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 8 36.9  (43.3)
(Loss)/profit before taxation from continuing operations  (259.1) 28.5 
Taxation credit/(charge) 9 29.1  (24.4) 
(Loss)/profit after taxation from continuing operations (230.0) 4.1 
Loss from discontinued operations 11 (109.0) (103.4)
Loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company (339.0) (99.3)
       
Basic and diluted loss per share (pence) 10 (14.1) (4.1)
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share (pence) — continuing 10 (9.6) 0.2 
Basic and diluted loss per share (pence) — discontinued 10 (4.5) (4.3)
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) — continuing
2
10 2.2  4.2 
1 
Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
2  
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) divided by the  
 weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
The notes on pages 85 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
81
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
 
 
Note
Year ended
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year ended
31 Dec
2010
£m
Loss for the year   (339.0) (99.3)
Other comprehensive (losses)/income
Actuarial (losses)/gains on pensions 24 (79.3) 46.4
Deferred tax charge 9 (4.1) (29.9)
Exchange differences on translation 0.4 (0.3)
Fair value movement on net investment hedge   – 0.8
Total other comprehensive (losses)/income for the year, net of tax (83.0) 17.0
Total comprehensive losses attributable to owners of the Company   (422.0) (82.3)
The notes on pages 85 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
82
Consolidated balance sheet
 
 
 
Note
As at
31 Dec
2011
£m
As at
31 Dec
2010
£m
ASSETS:
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 417.3  485.1 
Goodwill 15 856.2  1,096.1 
Other intangible assets 16 822.7 1,017.2
    2,096.2  2,598.4 
Current assets
Assets held for sale 13 33.8  406.3 
Inventories 18 136.8  135.2 
Trade and other receivables 19 297.4  356.3 
Financial assets — derivative financial instruments 22 0.5  1.4 
Current income tax assets 0.5 – 
Cash and bank deposits 26 45.8  1.9 
    514.8 901.1 
Total assets   2,611.0  3,499.5 
LIABILITIES:
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 20 (434.8) (496.2)
Financial liabilities 
— short-term borrowings 21 (113.6) (190.1)
— derivative financial instruments 22 (12.6) (29.6)
— other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 22 (187.0) (206.3)
Accrued interest payable (0.9) (12.3)
Provisions 23 (8.3) (10.5)
Current income tax liabilities –   (2.0)
Liabilities held for sale 13 –   (48.8)
    (757.2) (995.8)
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
— long-term borrowings 21 (927.3) (1,091.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 24 (282.4) (320.9)
Provisions 23 (38.6) (28.4)
Other liabilities (21.9) (17.0)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (10.9) (56.1)
    (1,281.1) (1,514.2)
Total liabilities   (2,038.3) (2,510.0)
Net assets   572.7  989.5 
EQUITY:
Capital and reserves
Share capital 25 24.0  24.0 
Share premium 25 1,124.7  1,124.7 
Merger reserve 25 606.0  890.7 
Other reserves 25 (9.3)  (9.3)
Profit and loss reserve 25 (1,172.8) (1,040.7)
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company’s equity shareholders   572.6 989.4 
Non-controlling interest 25 0.1  0.1 
Total shareholders’ funds   572.7  989.5 
The notes on pages 85 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 80 to 131 were approved by the Board of directors on 18 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
 
 
 
 
Michael Clarke Mark Moran
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
83
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
 
 
 
Note
Year
ended
31 Dec 2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec 2010
£m
Cash generated from operating activities 26 86.7 313.2 
Interest paid (120.9) (143.5)
Interest received 7.5  12.5 
Taxation paid (2.4)  (1.7)
Cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities (29.1) 180.5 
Sale of subsidiaries/businesses 394.8 – 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (58.0)  (51.1)
Purchase of intangible assets (20.9)  (16.6)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 5.4  5.2 
Sale of intangible assets – 3.9 
Cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 321.3  (58.6)
Repayment of borrowings  (363.6) (116.2)
Proceeds from borrowings 124.1  –
Financing fees and other costs of finance (1.6) (18.8)
Cash outflow from financing activities (241.1)  (135.0)
Net inflow/(outflow) of cash and cash equivalents   51.1 (13.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (28.7) (15.1)
Effect of movement in foreign exchange   (0.3)  (0.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 26 22.1 (28.7)
The notes on pages 85 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flows Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
84
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
 
 
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Profit 
and loss 
reserve 
£m
Non-
controlling 
interest
£m
 
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 24.0 1,124.7 890.7 (9.3) (1,040.7) 0.1 989.5
Loss for the year – – – – (339.0) – (339.0)
Actuarial losses on pensions – – – – (79.3) – (79.3)
Deferred tax charge – – – – (4.1) – (4.1)
Exchange differences on translation – – – – 0.4 – 0.4
Other comprehensive losses – – – – (83.0) – (83.0)
Total comprehensive losses  –  –  – – (422.0)  – (422.0)
Share-based payments – – – – 5.2 – 5.2
Realisation of merger reserve – – (284.7) – 284.7 – –
At 31 December 2011 24.0 1,124.7 606.0 (9.3) (1,172.8) 0.1 572.7
At 1 January 2010 24.0 1,124.7 890.7 (10.1) (964.5) 0.1 1,064.9
Loss for the year – – – – (99.3) – (99.3)
Actuarial gains on pensions – – – – 46.4 – 46.4
Deferred tax charge – – – – (29.9) – (29.9)
Exchange differences on translation – – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Fair value movement on net investment hedge – – – 0.8 –  – 0.8
Other comprehensive income – – – 0.8 16.2 – 17.0
Total comprehensive income/(losses)  –  –  – 0.8 (83.1)  – (82.3)
Share-based payments – – – – 6.9 – 6.9
At 31 December 2010 24.0 1,124.7 890.7 (9.3) (1,040.7) 0.1 989.5
The notes on pages 85 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
85
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
1. General information
Premier Foods plc (the “Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, registered number 
5160050, with its registered office at Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire AL1 2RE. The 
principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are food manufacturing, processing and distribution. Further 
information about the Group’s activities can be found in the Group at a Glance section of this annual report on pages 6 to 7. Copies of the 
annual report and accounts are available from this address.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 18 March 2012.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of Premier Foods plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (EU) (“adopted IFRS”) in response to IAS regulation (EC1606/2002), related 
interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and on the historical cost basis, with the 
exception of derivative financial instruments which are incorporated using fair value. Amounts are presented to the nearest £0.1m.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 3.
The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) or IFRIC (as 
endorsed by the EU), are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group:
International Financial Reporting Standards
IAS 24 (Amendment) ‘Related party disclosures’
IAS 32 (Amendment) ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’, on classification of rights issues
IFRS 1 (Amendment) ‘First-time adoption’, on financial instrument disclosures, interim information, deemed cost exemption 
and rate regulated entities
IFRIC 14 (Amendment) ‘IAS 19 — The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction’
IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments’
 
The following accounting standards and interpretations have had amendments made as part of the 2010 annual improvements project, 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, and have been adopted by the Group: 
International Financial Reporting Standards
IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’
IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
IAS 34 ‘Interim financial reporting’
IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of IFRS’
IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ — contingent consideration, share-based payment transactions and non-
controlling interests
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ — nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments
IFRIC 13 ‘Customer loyalty programmes’ — fair value
The application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material effect on the net assets, results and disclosures of the 
Group. 
New standards and interpretations not applied
The following standard has been endorsed by the EU but has not been applied. It is effective for financial years beginning on or after  
1 July 2011: 
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS 7 (Amendment) ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ on derecognition
Notes to the financial statements Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
86
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies continued
The following standards and amendments to published standards have not been endorsed by the EU:
International Financial Reporting Standards
IAS 1 (Amendment) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ regarding other comprehensive income
IAS 12 (Amendment) ‘Income taxes’ on deferred tax
IAS 19 (Amendment) ‘Employee benefits’. These amendments eliminate the corridor approach and calculate finance 
costs on a net funding basis
IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’
IFRS 1 (Amendment) ‘First time adoption’ on hyperinflation and fixed dates
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’
IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’
 
It is not expected that any of the new standards will have a material impact on the results of net assets of the Group other than the 
amendment to IAS 19. This changes the basis on which the financing charge is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined 
benefit obligation. It is expected that the amended standard (which is effective for year ending 31 December 2013) will increase the 
Group’s pension financing charge. 
Basis for preparation of financial statements on a going concern basis
The Group has obtained consent from its banking syndicate, swap counterparties and pension schemes on a re-financing package 
subject to the formalities of final documents being signed, expected by the end of March.
As a result of the consent obtained for re-financing the Group will extend the maturity of its current Term loan and Revolving Credit 
facilities from 31 December 2013 to 30 June 2016. The existing term loan (£733m) and revolving credit facility (£500m), previously due to 
mature on 31 December 2013, will be extended to a new maturity date of 30 June 2016. The current applicable bank margin of 2.25% 
will increase to 3.25% with effect from 1 January 2014.
Banking covenants of Net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest remain in place; they are tested bi-annually and have been reset to reflect 
the Group’s strategic plan.
The total interest rate swap portfolio, including previously restructured swaps, will be restructured into additional term loan totalling 
approximately £199m. The result of this conversion from swaps to additional term loan will significantly reduce the Group’s interest 
expense in 2012 and 2013 and the previously agreed swap settlements of £35m in 2012 and £82m in 2013 are no longer applicable.
The Group has negotiated and obtained a commitment to a new securitisation programme relating to certain receivable balances available 
up to an amount of £120m, subject to sufficient receivables being capable of being sold into the programme. These balances will be 
included as part of net debt, reflecting their recognition on the balance sheet, and attract an interest margin of 3.5%.
Planned future disposal proceeds will be shared between the banking syndicate and swap counterparties.
Subject to implementation of the new re-financing arrangements, the Trustees of the Group’s pension schemes have agreed to defer 
deficit contribution payments (c.£47m p.a.) until 1 January 2014. Additionally, there will be no increase in the agreed deficit contributions 
before 2016.
As a result of the consent to this re-financing package, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks 
successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The directors are confident that the necessary documentation will be finalised and signed by the end of March and that all conditions 
precedent will be met. The directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to operate in the 
ordinary course of business and to meet its obligations as they fall due. Thus the financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis. 
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Premier Foods plc and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. In addition, comparatives are also restated to reclassify material 
disposed businesses into discontinued operations.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
87
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
2. Accounting policies continued
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.  
2.3 Revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods net of sales rebates, discounts, value added tax and other taxes directly 
attributable to revenue and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a transaction can be 
measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Revenue is 
recognised on the following basis:
(i) Sale of goods
Sales of goods are recognised as revenue on transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership, which generally coincides with the time when 
the merchandise is delivered to customers and title passes.
(ii) Sales rebates and discounts
Sales rebates and discount reserves are established at the time of sale based on management’s best estimate of the amounts necessary 
to meet claims by the Group’s customers in respect of these rebates and discounts. A provision is made at the time of sale and released, 
if unutilised, after assessment that the likelihood of such a claim being made has become remote.
2.4 Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The 
Chief Operating Decision Maker is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. See note 4 
for further details. 
2.5 Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting 
period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for 
example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options 
that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest and 
recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
2.6 Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling, the Group’s presentational currency, at rates of exchange ruling at the end 
of the financial year. 
The results of overseas subsidiaries with functional currencies other than in sterling are translated into sterling at the average rate 
of exchange ruling in the year. The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the closing rate. Exchange 
differences arising from retranslation at year end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded as a separate 
component of equity in other reserves. When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences previously taken to equity are recognised in 
the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate.
All other exchange gains or losses are recorded in the income statement.
2.7 Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
Property, plant and equipment is initially recorded at cost. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable 
to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. Subsequent expenditure is added to the carrying value of the asset 
when it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will transfer to the Group. All other subsequent expenditure is expensed in 
the period it is incurred.
Differences between the cost of each item of PPE and its residual value are written off over the estimated useful life of the asset using the 
straight-line method. Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual productive assets are performed 
annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
The useful economic lives of owned assets range from 20 to 50 years for buildings, and 3 to 35 years for vehicles, plant and equipment.
All items of PPE are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. 
2.8 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the acquisition date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in 
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill 
arises when the fair value of the consideration for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on 
acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not 
be recoverable.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
88
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies continued
The Group has applied IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ to business combinations after 1 July 2009. The accounting for 
business combinations transacted prior to this date has not been restated.
2.9 Intangible assets
In addition to goodwill the Group recognises the following intangible assets: 
Acquired intangible assets
Acquired trademarks, brands, customer relationships, licences, recipes and similar assets that are controlled through custody or legal 
rights and that could be sold separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured. All of 
these assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives that 
range from 7 to 40 years.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Costs incurred in developing a product, typically its recipe or packaging, are charged to income in the year in which they are incurred 
unless the product or process is technically and commercially feasible in which case they are capitalised and amortised over the useful 
economic lives in accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’.
Software development costs
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the 
Group are recognised as intangible assets when the project or process is technically and commercially feasible. Directly attributable costs 
that are capitalised as part of the software product include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of 
relevant overheads.
Software development costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over a range of 3 to 10 years. 
The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined based on a review of a combination of factors including the asset ownership 
rights acquired and the nature of the overall product life cycle.
2.10 Impairment 
The carrying value of non-financial assets, other than goodwill and inventories, is reviewed at least annually to determine whether there 
is an indication of impairment. Where such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated based on the greater of its value in use 
and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the risks specific to each asset, 
are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the 
general risks affecting the food manufacturing industry.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the year in which they occur.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from 
continuing use that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. 
2.11 Financing cost
(i) Finance expense
Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
(ii) Finance income
Finance income is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal amounts outstanding and the interest rates 
applicable, taking into consideration the interest element of derivatives.
2.12 Leases
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are capitalised 
and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of future minimum lease payments or fair value. Each 
asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. Obligations relating to finance 
leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within borrowings. The interest element of the rental obligation is 
allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for 
each accounting period. 
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rental 
costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessors, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease period.
2.13 Inventories
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Where appropriate, cost includes production and other attributable 
overhead expenses as described in IAS 2 ‘Inventories’. Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis by reference to the invoiced value of 
supplies and attributable costs of bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
89
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
2. Accounting policies continued
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where the estimated selling price is lower than cost.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory where appropriate.
2.14 Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity in which 
case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax
Deferred taxation is accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable profit. Deferred taxation is not provided on the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than in a business combination, if at the time of the transaction there is no effect 
on either accounting or taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled based on tax 
rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. It is recognised in the income statement 
except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
difference can be utilised. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.15 Employee benefits
Group companies provide a number of long-term employee benefit arrangements, primarily through pension schemes. The schemes are 
generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds determined by periodic independent actuarial 
calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for actuarial gains or losses and past 
service costs. Defined benefit obligations are calculated using assumptions determined by the Group with the assistance of independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will 
be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the 
statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Current service costs, past service costs, administration costs, expected return on assets and interest costs are recognised immediately 
in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified 
period of time (the vesting period). In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which then invests 
the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due. 
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recognised as either accruals or prepayments in 
the balance sheet.
2.16 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events, it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group 
expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset 
when the reimbursement is virtually certain. Where material, the Group discounts its provisions using a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance expense. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
90
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies continued
2.17 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and the existence of which will only be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or the amount of 
obligation cannot be measured reliably. A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. 
When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision. 
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and the existence of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group. Contingent assets are not recognised but are 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inflow of economic benefits is probable. When inflow is virtually certain an asset 
is recognised.
2.18 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for 
impairment. A provision is made for impairment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the terms of the receivables. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 
The rights and obligations relating to those trade receivables that have been sold to third parties are derecognised from the balance sheet 
where the risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have transferred. Cash received from third parties in exchange for the transfer 
of ownership is recorded within cash and cash equivalents with the cost of financing prior to settlement by the customer recorded as 
interest on an accruals basis. Amounts received from customers for receivables in respect of which title has transferred, for example 
under the debtors securitisation programme, represent amounts owed to the transferee and are recorded as short-term borrowings.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents, with original maturities at inception of less than 90 days, comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and 
other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand, short-term deposits 
with an original maturity of three months or less held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a 
residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities 
and equity instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest rate method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs and inclusive of debt issuance costs) and the 
settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy 
for borrowing costs.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Trade payables and other 
liabilities are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised 
gains or losses reported in the income statement. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is 
entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Movements in fair value of foreign exchange derivatives are recognised 
within other operating income and expense and those relating to interest rate swaps are recorded within the net movement on fair 
valuation of interest rate financial instruments.
Other items at fair value through profit or loss
Other items at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are 
subsequently remeasured at their fair value. Movements in fair value are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate 
financial instruments. See notes 8 and 22 for further details. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
91
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
2. Accounting policies continued
Net investment hedge
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as net investment hedges is recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement within other operating income and expense.
2.19 Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets and associated liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than continuing use are 
classified as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets and associated liabilities are remeasured in 
accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are 
recognised in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
3. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements
The following are areas of particular significance to the Group’s financial statements and include the use of estimates and the application 
of judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of financial statements.
3.1 Employee benefits
The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations depends on a number of actuarial assumptions. The primary 
assumptions used include the discount rate applicable to scheme liabilities, the long-term rate of inflation and estimates of the mortality 
applicable to scheme members.
At each reporting date, and on a continuous basis, the Group reviews the macro-economic, Company and scheme specific factors 
influencing each of these assumptions, using professional advice, in order to record the Group’s ongoing commitment and obligation 
to defined benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19. Key assumptions used are mortality rates, discount rates and inflation set with 
reference to bond yields. If the Group’s assumption on the mortality of its members was amended to assume an increase of a further 
one year improvement in mortality, total liabilities would increase by approximately 3.3%. Each 0.1% decrease/increase in bond yields 
would increase/decrease the deficit by a further £58m/£56m. Each 0.1% increase/decrease in the assumed inflation rate would increase/
decrease the deficit by a further £24m. Each of the underlying assumptions is set out in more detail in note 24. 
3.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill are performed annually unless an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary. Impairment 
reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary. Examples of such 
triggering events include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating 
losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units (“CGUs”) are determined based on the higher 
of realisable value and value in use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group has considered the impact of the assumptions used on the calculations and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the 
impairment tests of the CGUs carrying values. See note 15 for further details.
Acquired trademarks, brands, customer relationships, recipes and similar assets are considered to have finite lives that range from 7 
to 40 years. The determination of the useful lives takes into account certain quantitative factors such as sales expectations and growth 
prospects, and also many qualitative factors such as history and heritage, and market positioning, hence the determination of useful lives 
are subject to estimates and judgement. For further details see note 16.
3.3 Advertising and promotion costs
Trade spend and promotional activity is dependent on market conditions and negotiations with customers. Trade spend is charged 
to the income statement according to the substance of the agreements with customers and the terms of any contractual relationship. 
Promotional support is generally charged to the income statement at the time of the relevant promotion. These costs are accrued on 
best estimates; the actual costs may not be known until subsequent years when negotiations with customers are concluded. Such 
adjustments are recognised in the year when final agreement is reached.
Expenditure on advertising is charged to the income statement when incurred, except in the case of airtime costs when a particular 
campaign is used more than once. In this case they are charged in line with the airtime profile.
3.4 Securitisation
The Group has sold the rights and obligations relating to certain of its trade receivable balances under a receivables purchasing 
agreement in order to achieve an overall lower cost of funding and permanently accelerate the generation of cash from working capital. 
Accounting for a sale of this nature is judgemental and dependent on evidence of the substantive transfer of risk and reward from the 
Group to a third party. In this instance, transference of the two primary risks, those of late payment and credit default was achieved at the 
balance sheet date.
3.5 Financial instruments
The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the risks arising from adverse movements in interest rates, 
commodity prices and foreign currency. 
The Group has a policy of not applying hedge accounting to these derivatives (other than in the case of a net investment hedge against 
Euro denominated assets) and taking any gain or loss on the movement of the fair values of derivatives to the income statement.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
92
Notes to the financial statements
4. Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”). The CODM has been determined to be the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as they are primarily responsible 
for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segments’ results as it 
reflects the segments’ underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation. Trading profit is a consistent measure within the 
Group and the reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to product types, has 
been used to identify and determine the Group’s operating segments. Trading profit is defined as operating profit before re-financing 
costs, restructuring costs and losses associated with divestment activity, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, the revaluation 
of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 and pension credits or charges in relation to the difference between the 
expected return on pension assets, administration costs and interest costs on pension liabilities. 
The Group’s operating and reporting segments are “Grocery”, “Bread” and “Disposed of Canning Operations”. In 2010 the Group 
reported the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a separate operating segment and the results of the Meat-free operation within 
discontinued operations. As a result of the Group’s disposal of the Retailer Branded Chilled business in December 2011 and the 
completion of the disposal of the Meat-free business in March 2011, results previously shown for these operating segments are presented 
as discontinued operations in both the current year and the prior year. 
In July 2011 the Group disposed of its East Anglian canned grocery operations, which was previously part of the Grocery segment. The 
results of the East Anglian canned grocery operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 were reported separately to the CODM 
throughout the year and therefore have been recognised as a separate operating segment for both the current year and the prior year.  
During the year, the Hovis operating segment was renamed “Bread”. 
The Grocery segment sells ambient food products. The Bread segment sells bread, morning goods, flour products and frozen pizza 
bases and the Disposed of Canning Operations segment sold canned goods. 
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2011 and for the year ended 31 December 2010 and the reconciliation of the 
segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
  Year ended 31 Dec 2011
 
 
Grocery
£m
Bread
£m
Disposed 
of Canning 
Operations
£m
Total for 
Group
£m
Revenue from continuing operations        
External 1,121.5  711.3  166.7  1,999.5 
Inter-segment 2.5  26.6  –  29.1 
Result
Trading profit 179.5  3.4  5.4  188.3 
Amortisation of intangible assets       (72.0)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and 
other derivative contracts
      (1.7)
Restructuring costs relating to disposal activities       (10.5)
Re-financing costs       (4.2)
Pension financing credit       17.0 
Operating profit before impairment and loss on disposal  
of operations
      116.9 
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (282.0)
Loss on disposal of operations       (11.2)
Operating loss       (176.3)
Finance expense       (126.9)
Finance income       7.2 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments       36.9 
Loss before taxation for continuing operations       (259.1)
Depreciation 24.2  17.6  –  41.8 
Amortisation 53.9  18.1  –  72.0 
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles –  282.0  –  282.0 
Balance sheet
Segment assets 2,042.2  412.2  –   2,454.4 
Unallocated assets      156.6 
Consolidated total assets       2,611.0  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
93
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
4. Segmental analysis continued
  Year ended 31 Dec 2010 (Restated)
1,2
 
 
Grocery
£m
Bread
£m
Disposed 
of Canning 
Operations
£m
Total for 
Group
£m
Revenue from continuing operations
External 1,212.6 687.6 334.2 2,234.4
Inter-segment 3.9  27.7 –  31.6 
Result
Trading profit 220.5  35.3  27.8  283.6 
Amortisation of intangible assets       (65.8)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other  
derivative contracts
      (2.0)
Pension financing credit       4.1 
Operating profit       219.9 
Finance expense       (160.1)
Finance income       12.0 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments       (43.3)
Profit before taxation from continuing operations       28.5 
Depreciation 22.0  17.3  3.9  43.2 
Amortisation 47.3  18.3  0.2  65.8 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.7  –  –  0.7 
Balance sheet        
Segment assets 2,146.1  663.1  151.1  2,960.3 
Unallocated assets       539.2 
Consolidated total assets       3,499.5 
1
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
2
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the separation of the Canning business which was previously reported within Grocery.
Revenues, on a continuing basis, of approximately £345.6m and £285.7m (2010: £454.0m and £336.9m) are derived from two external 
customers. These revenues are attributable across the three segments above.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the same terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third 
parties. As a consequence of extensive integration of the business, certain operating costs have been incurred centrally. These costs are 
allocated to reporting segments on an appropriate basis depending on the various cost drivers and therefore the total segment result is 
equal to the Group’s total trading profit. 
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, inventories and receivables and exclude cash 
and cash equivalents, derivative assets and certain Corporate assets that are not able to be allocated to the Group’s reporting segments. 
Unallocated assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, taxation balances, retirement benefit assets, derivative financial assets, Group-
wide software and hardware and head office assets. 
The Group primarily supplies the UK market, although it also supplies certain products to other European countries and a number of 
other countries. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue, which is allocated on the basis of geographical market 
destination, and an analysis of the Group’s non-current assets (excluding retirement benefit assets) by geographical location. 
Continuing operations — revenue
 
 
Year ended
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 
2010
(Restated)
1
£m
United Kingdom 1,880.8 2,111.6
Other Europe 87.4 100.1
Rest of world 31.3 22.7
Total 1,999.5 2,234.4
1
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
94
Notes to the financial statements
4. Segmental analysis continued
Non-current assets
 
  
 
As at
31 Dec 
2011
£m
As at
31 Dec 
2010
£m
United Kingdom 2,066.1 2,534.8
Other Europe 30.1 63.6
Total for Group 2,096.2 2,598.4
5. Net other operating (expense)/income
 
 
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec
2010
£m
Fair value movements on foreign exchange contracts and other derivatives (1.7) (2.0)
Gain on disposal of non-current assets 0.9 4.7
Net other operating income/(expense) 0.1 (0.8)
Total net other operating (expense)/income (0.7) 1.9
6. Operating (loss)/profit for continuing operations
6a. Analysis of costs by nature
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2010
(Restated)
1
£m
Cost of inventories sold 1,249.8 1,292.1
Employee benefits expense (note 7) 402.5 434.5
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
— owned assets 40.4 40.8
— under finance leases 1.4 2.4
Amortisation of intangible assets:
— software and licences 17.4 13.3
— brands and trademarks 33.0 31.0
— customer relationships 21.6 21.5
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 14) –  0.7 
Impairment of goodwill (note 15) 185.4  – 
Impairment of intangible assets (note 15) 96.6 –
Operating lease rental payments:
— plant and machinery 8.4 12.4
— land and buildings 11.2 14.8
Repairs and maintenance expenditure 52.0 45.8
Research and development costs 8.4 10.6
Gain on disposal of non-current assets (0.9) (4.7)
Net foreign exchange loss/(gain) 0.4 (0.4)
Past service credits relating to defined benefit schemes (41.3) (11.0)
Impact of one-off aged receivable and commercial provision review 37.4 –
Re-financing costs 4.2 – 
Auditor remuneration 1.4 1.2
1
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
Operating lease obligations are further disclosed in note 27. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
95
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
6b. Auditor remuneration
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2010
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated  
financial statements
0.4 0.6
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.5
— Services relating to corporate finance transactions 2.1 1.2
— Other services 0.1 0.1
Total auditor remuneration 3.0 2.4
Included within total fees paid to the auditors of £3.0m (2010: £2.4m) were £2.1m of costs directly attributable to co-ordination support and 
advice on corporate finance transactions principally related to the Group’s re-financing. In 2011, £1.6m of the £2.1m relating to corporate 
finance transactions was capitalised resulting in a total of £2.6m of auditor remuneration held on the balance sheet at 31 December 2011. 
The remaining £0.5m was charged to operating profit. The total operating profit charge for auditors remuneration was £1.4m (2010: £1.2m).
In 2010, included within total fees paid to the auditors of £2.4m of costs were £1.2m of costs which were directly attributable to the 
coordination support and advice on corporate finance transactions such as restructuring of the Group’s interest rate swaps, financing 
negotiations and obtaining a credit rating.
7. Employees 
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec
2010
(Restated)
1
£m
Staff costs for the Group during the year — continuing operations
Wages and salaries (380.1) (384.2)
Social security costs (31.5) (32.4)
Termination benefits (11.2) (2.9)
Share options granted to directors and employees (3.9) (6.9)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 24) (0.1) – 
Credit/(charge) for defined benefit schemes (note 24) 24.3 (8.1)
Total (402.5) (434.5)
Staff costs for the Group during the year — discontinued operations
Wages and salaries (45.9) (60.2)
Social security costs (4.1) (5.4)
Termination benefits (2.5) (0.3)
Share options granted to directors and employees (0.9) – 
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 24) (0.2) (1.1)
Charge for defined benefit schemes (note 24) (2.1) (1.1)
Total (55.7) (68.1)
Total — continuing and discontinued (458.2) (502.6)
1
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
Average monthly number of people employed (including executive directors):
 
 2011 
 Number 
 2010 
 Number 
Management 1,769 1,907 
Administration 1,116 1,285 
Production, distribution and other 10,916 12,385 
Total  13,801  15,577 
2010 average employee numbers have been restated to include both continuing and discontinued operations and to align classifications 
with revised internal definitions. Within the employee numbers above 2,081 (2010: 2,856) relate to discontinued operations. 
Directors’ remuneration (including retirement benefits accruing to the directors under defined benefit schemes) is disclosed in the audited 
sections of the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 76 which form part of these financial statements. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
96
Notes to the financial statements
8. Finance income and expense
 
 
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec
2010
£m
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (13.6) (20.2)
Interest payable on term facility (28.6) (45.2)
Interest payable on revolving facility (7.6) (6.0)
Interest payable on interest rate derivatives (19.1) (59.5)
Interest payable on interest rate financial liabilities designated as other financial liabilities at  
fair value through profit or loss
(40.6) (11.9)
Unwind of discount on provisions (2.4) (1.3)
Amortisation of debt issuance costs and deferred fees (13.4) (14.4)
 (125.3) (158.5)
Write-off of financing costs (1.6) (1.6)
Total finance expense (126.9) (160.1)
Interest receivable on bank deposits 7.2 12.0 
Total finance income 7.2  12.0 
Movement on fair valuation of interest rate derivatives 17.6 133.7 
Movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial liabilities designated as other financial liabilities  
at fair value through profit or loss 19.3 (177.0) 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 36.9  (43.3)
Net finance expense (82.8) (191.4)
The fair value of interest rate swaps and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss has decreased from a £234.5m liability 
at 31 December 2010 to a £197.6m liability at 31 December 2011 resulting in a net movement of £36.9m for the year. The change in 
fair value in the year is due to a change in the yield curve offset by amortisation (refer to note 22). The liability at 31 December 2011 
represents the net present value of the interest cash flows calculated using the contracted fixed rates compared to the net present value 
of interest cash flows that would arise if the interest was calculated on a floating basis. 
The total facility as at 31 December 2011 was £1,233m.
2010
In October 2010, the Group restructured all of its five long dated swaps and its two “other” callable swaps into six new fixed rate swaps. 
These fixed rate swaps are hybrid instruments comprising an underlying host with embedded derivatives and have been reclassified as 
“Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss”. 
The total facility as at 31 December 2010 was £1,680m. 
Subsequent events
For details of amendments to the Group’s financing arrangements please see note 31. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
97
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
9. Taxation
Current tax
Analysis of the credit/(charge) for the year:
 
 
 
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
2011      
Current tax
— Current year – – – 
— Prior years 1.5 – 1.5
Overseas current tax
— Current year (1.2) – (1.2)
 — Prior years – – – 
Deferred tax
— Current year 20.6 11.5 32.1
— Prior years 0.3 – 0.3
— Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 25.0% 7.9 0.7 8.6
Income tax credit for the year 29.1 12.2 41.3
2010      
Current tax
— Current year (36.2) 36.1 (0.1)
— Prior years – (1.2) (1.2) 
Overseas current tax 
— Current year (1.3)  –  (1.3) 
— Prior years –  1.4 1.4
Deferred tax
— Current year (5.4) (3.9) (9.3)
— Prior years 14.3 2.2 16.5
— Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 27.0% 4.2 1.3 5.5
Income tax (charge)/credit for the year (24.4) 35.9 11.5
Tax relating to items recorded in equity for continuing operations was:
 
 
 
 
 Year 
 ended 
31 Dec 
2011
£m
 Year 
 ended 
31 Dec 
2010
£m
Deferred tax charge on reduction of corporate tax rate (4.5) (3.6) 
Deferred tax credit/(charge) on pension movements 0.4 (12.4) 
Deferred tax charge on losses relating to pensions – (13.9) 
  (4.1) (29.9)  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
98
Notes to the financial statements
9. Taxation continued
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%). The reasons 
for this are explained below:
 
 
 
 
 
 Year 
 ended 
31 Dec 
2011
£m 
 Year 
 ended 
31 Dec 
2010
 £m 
(Loss)/profit before taxation for continuing operations (259.1) 28.5 
Tax credit/(charge) at the domestic income tax rate of 26.5% (2010: 28.0%) 68.7 (8.0) 
Tax effect of:    
Non-deductible items (47.8) (34.9) 
Other disallowable items (0.5) 0.7
Adjustment for overseas results taxed at different rates 1.4 1.0
Adjustment for share-based payments (1.3) (1.9) 
Previously unrecognised losses utilised 16.3 – 
Capital gain on disposal of business (16.3) –
Adjustment due to current year deferred tax being provided at 25.0% (2010: 27.0%) (1.1) 0.2
Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 25.0% (2010: 27.0%) 7.9 4.2
Adjustments to prior years 1.8 14.3
Income tax credit/(charge) 29.1 (24.4) 
The Finance Bill 2011, which was published on 31 March 2011, includes legislation reducing the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 
26% from 1 April 2011. This gives rise to an effective rate of corporation tax for the year of 26.5%. 
Deferred tax balances at 31 December 2010 were calculated at 27%, the rate which was substantively enacted to apply from 1 April 
2011. The Finance (No. 3) Act 2011, substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, reduces the main rate of corporation tax to 25% from 1 April 
2012. This 2% reduction for the 2011 financial year has been reflected in the financial statements by restating the deferred tax liability at 
31 December 2010 giving a credit of £7.9m to continuing operations. This is offset by a charge to equity of £4.5m to reflect where the 
credits were originally made. In addition, the deferred tax movements in the period have been reflected at 25%, being the rate at which 
the liabilities are expected to reverse, which has resulted in a £1.1m decrease to the income tax credit.
Further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014. However, 
as these further reductions in the main rate of corporation tax have not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date they are not 
reflected in the deferred tax recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the asset/(liability) arises 
and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled. In all cases this is 25.0% (2010: 27.0%) 
except for a liability relating to Irish retirement benefit obligations where the local rate of 12.5% has been used.
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January (56.1)  (64.7) 
Credited to the income statement 41.0 12.7
Charged to equity (4.1) (29.9) 
Transferred to held for sale – 25.8
Disposal of subsidiaries/businesses 8.3 – 
At 31 December (10.9) (56.1) 
Due to the unpredictability of future profit streams the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £27.6m (2010: £48.1m) relating 
to capital losses, £23.4m (2010: £9.3m) relating to UK corporation tax losses and £31.1m (2010: £34.8m) relating to ACT. Under current 
legislation these losses can generally be carried forward indefinitely.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
99
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
9. Taxation continued
Deferred tax liabilities
Intangibles
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 (233.4)  (1.7) (235.1)
Prior year restatement of opening balances
— To income statement 8.3 0.1 8.4
— To equity – (0.4) (0.4)
Current year credit/(charge) 16.9 (0.2) 16.7
Deferred tax charge on discontinued activities (2.7) – (2.7)
Prior year charge
— To income statement – (1.5) (1.5)
Transferred to held for sale 20.3 (0.9) 19.4
At 31 December 2010 (190.6)  (4.6) (195.2)
Prior year restatement of opening balances 14.2 0.3 14.5
Disposal of subsidiaries/businesses 7.0 – 7.0
Current year credit 36.5 – 36.5
At 31 December 2011 (132.9)  (4.3) (137.2)
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Financial
instruments
£m
Losses
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 (31.1) 118.6 0.5 54.8 27.6 170.4
Prior year restatement of opening 
balances
— To income statement 1.1 (1.5) – (1.9) (0.5) (2.8)
— To equity – (2.7) – - (0.5) (3.2)
Current year (charge)/credit (17.6) (16.2) 0.1 12.2 (0.6) (22.1)
Prior year credit/(charge)
— To income statement 29.9 – (0.3) (1.4) (12.4) 15.8
— To equity – – – – (13.9) (13.9)
Charged to equity – (12.4) – – – (12.4)
Deferred tax credit on discontinued 
activities
0.9 –` – – – 0.9
Transferred to held for sale 6.4 – – – – 6.4
At 31 December 2010 (10.4) 85.8 0.3 63.7 (0.3) 139.1
Prior year restatement of opening 
balances
— To income statement 0.7 (1.8) (0.1) (4.7) – (5.9)
— To equity – (4.5) – – – (4.5)
Current year credit/(charge) 3.2 (9.9) (0.3) (8.9) – (15.9)
Prior year credit
— To income statement – – – – 0.3 0.3
— To equity – 0.4 – – – 0.4
Deferred tax credit on discontinued 
activities
11.5 – – – – 11.5
Disposal of subsidiaries/businesses 1.3 – – – – 1.3
At 31 December 2011 6.3 70.0 (0.1) 50.1 – 126.3
Net deferred tax liability         £m
At 31 December 2011 (10.9)
At 31 December 2010         (56.1)
Where there is a legal right of offset and an intention to settle as such, deferred tax assets and liabilities may be presented on a net 
basis. This is the case for most of the Group’s deferred tax balances and therefore they have been offset in the tables above. Substantial 
elements of the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, primarily relating to the defined benefit pension obligation, are greater than one 
year in nature.
Deferred tax assets in respect of losses are only recognised to the extent that it is anticipated they will be utilised in the foreseeable future. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
100
Notes to the financial statements
10. (Loss)/earnings per share
Basic loss per share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of £339.0m loss (2010: £99.3m loss) by 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company. 
           Year ended 31 Dec 2011           Year ended 31 Dec 2010
                      (Restated)
1
  Basic
Dilutive 
effect 
of share 
options Diluted Basic
Dilutive 
effect 
of share 
options Diluted
Continuing operations
(Loss)/profit after tax (£m)  (230.0) – (230.0) 4.1 – 4.1
Weighted average number 
of shares (m) 
 
2,398.1  –  2,398.1 
 
2,398.0  –  2,398.0 
(Loss)/earnings per share (pence)  (9.6) – (9.6) 0.2 – 0.2
Discontinued operations
Loss after tax (£m) (109.0) – (109.0) (103.4) – (103.4)
Weighted average number 
of shares (m)  2,398.1  –  2,398.1 
 
2,398.0 – 2,398.0 
Loss per share (pence)  (4.5) – (4.5) (4.3) – (4.3)
Total 
Loss after tax (£m)  (339.0) – (339.0) (99.3) – (99.3)
Weighted average number 
of shares (m) 
 
2,398.1  –  2,398.1 
 
2,398.0 – 2,398.0 
Loss per share (pence)  (14.1) – (14.1) (4.1) – (4.1)
1
  Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
Dilutive effect of share options
The dilutive effect of share options is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The only dilutive potential ordinary shares of the Company are share options. A calculation 
is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share 
price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to the outstanding share options. 
For the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, there is no dilutive effect as the outstanding share options that could 
have been acquired at fair value is less than the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to these options. 
No adjustment is made to the profit or loss in calculating basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share.
 
 
2011
 Number 
2010
Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic (loss)/earnings per share 2,398,058,019 2,398,021,581
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
— Share options – –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted (loss)/earnings per share 2,398,058,019 2,398,021,581
Adjusted earnings per share (“Adjusted EPS”)
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 26.5% (2010: 
28.0%) divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company. 
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before re-financing costs, restructuring costs and losses associated with divestment activity, 
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 and 
pension credits or charges in relation to the difference between the expected return on pension assets, administration costs and interest 
costs on pension liabilities. 
Net regular interest payable is defined as net interest after excluding the following non-cash items: write-off of financing costs, accelerated 
amortisation of debt issuance costs, fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments and the unwind of the discount on provisions.
Trading profit and Adjusted EPS have been reported as the directors believe these provide an alternative measure by which the 
shareholders can assess the Group’s underlying trading performance. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
101
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
10. (Loss)/earnings per share continued
                                 Year ended 31 Dec 2011
 
 
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Operating loss (176.3) (106.5) (282.8)
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 282.0 80.4 362.4
Loss on disposal of operations 11.2 – 11.2
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 116.9 (26.1) 90.8
Pension financing credit (17.0) – (17.0)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 1.7 – 1.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 72.0 11.9 83.9
Restructuring costs relating to disposal activities 10.5 – 10.5
Re-financing costs 4.2 – 4.2
Trading profit/(loss) 188.3 (14.2) 174.1
Less net regular interest payable (115.7) (0.1) (115.8)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 72.6 (14.3) 58.3
Notional tax at 26.5% (19.2) 3.8 (15.4)
Adjusted profit/(loss) after tax 53.4 (10.5) 42.9
Average shares in issue (m) 2,398.1 2,398.1 2,398.1
Adjusted EPS (pence) 2.2 (0.4) 1.8
Net regular interest payable
Net interest payable (82.8) (0.1) (82.9)
Exclude write-off of financing costs 1.6 – 1.6
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments (36.9) – (36.9)
Exclude unwind of discount on provisions 2.4 – 2.4
Net regular interest payable (115.7) (0.1) (115.8)
                 Year ended 31 Dec 2010 (Restated)
1
 
 
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Operating profit/(loss) 219.9 (139.1) 80.8
Impairment – 150.0 150.0
Operating profit before impairment 219.9 10.9 230.8
Pension financing credit (4.1) – (4.1)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 2.0 – 2.0
Amortisation of intangible assets 65.8 16.4 82.2
Trading profit 283.6 27.3 310.9
Less net regular interest payable (145.2) (0.2) (145.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 138.4 27.1 165.5
Notional tax at 28.0% (38.7) (7.6) (46.3)
Adjusted profit after tax 99.7 19.5 119.2
Average shares in issue (m) 2,398.0 2,398.0 2,398.0
Adjusted EPS (pence) 4.2 0.8 5.0
Net regular interest payable
Net interest payable (191.4) (0.2) (191.6)
Exclude write-off of financing costs 1.6 – 1.6
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments 43.3 – 43.3
Exclude unwind of discount on provisions 1.3 – 1.3
Net regular interest payable (145.2) (0.2) (145.4)
1
   Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
102
Notes to the financial statements
11. Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations for the year comprise the Meat-free and the Retailer Branded Chilled businesses.
On 7 March 2011, the Group completed the sale of its Meat-free business to Exponent Private Equity and Intermediate Capital Group.
The results of the Meat-free business for the period to 7 March 2011 and the prior year comparatives are included in discontinued 
operations in the Group’s consolidated income statement. 
On 30 December 2011, the Group completed the sale of its Retailer Branded Chilled business to Solway Foods Limited (part of the  
2 Sisters Food Group).
The results of the Retailer Branded Chilled business for the period to 30 December 2011 are included in discontinued operations in the 
Group’s consolidated income statement. Comparatives have been restated to include the results of the Retailer Branded Chilled business.
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec
2010
(Restated)
1
£m
Revenue 218.6 335.0 
Operating expenses (325.1) (474.1)
Operating loss before loss on disposal  (106.5) (139.1)
Interest payable (0.1) (0.6)
Interest receivable – 0.4 
Loss before taxation (106.6) (139.3)
Taxation credit 12.2 35.9
Loss after taxation on discontinued operations for the year (94.4) (103.4)
Loss on disposal before taxation (14.6) – 
Tax credit on loss on disposal –  – 
Loss on disposal after taxation (14.6) – 
Total loss arising from discontinued operations (109.0) (103.4)
1
  Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
Included in the operating expenses for the year-end 31 December 2011 above is an impairment charge of £80.4m, recognised against 
the assets allocated to the Retailer Branded Chilled CGU.
Included in the operating expenses for the year-end 31 December 2010 above is an impairment charge of £25.0m, recognised against 
the goodwill allocated to the Meat-free CGU and £125.0m recognised against the goodwill allocated to the Retailer Branded Chilled CGU.
During the year, discontinued operations contributed a net outflow of £47.9m (2010: £37.6m inflow) to the Group’s net operating cash 
flows, and a £6.9m outflow to investing activities (2010: £5.7m outflow).
12. Disposal of businesses
Meat-free
On 7 March 2011, the Group completed the sale of its Meat-free business to Exponent Private Equity and Intermediate Capital Group for 
£205.0m, before disposal costs and working capital adjustments. The impact on the results of the Group is disclosed in note 11. 
Canning
 On 23 July 2011, the Group completed the sale of its East Anglian canned grocery operations to Princes Limited for £182.2m, before 
disposal costs and working capital adjustments. 
Retailer Branded Chilled
On 30 December 2011, the Group completed the sale of its Brookes Avana business to Solway Foods Limited (part of the 2 Sisters Food 
Group) for £30.3m, before disposal costs and working capital adjustments. The impact on the results of the Group is disclosed in note 11.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
103
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
12. Disposal of businesses continued
On the relevant dates of disposal, the net assets of the businesses, the consideration and the losses on disposal were as follows:
 
 
Meat-free
£m
Canning
£m
Brookes 
Avana
£m
Property, plant and equipment 68.4 58.7 31.0
Intangible assets and goodwill 139.7 62.9 – 
Inventories 23.6 54.6 9.6
Trade and other receivables 24.9 0.3 26.9
Trade and other payables (21.4) – (26.2)
Provisions and lease obligations (26.2) – (7.5)
Net assets disposed 209.0 176.5 33.8
Less net consideration (196.6) (165.3) (31.6)
Loss on disposal 12.4 11.2 2.2
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:      
Initial consideration 205.0 182.2 30.3
Working capital adjustments and disposal costs (8.4) (16.9) 1.3
Net cash inflow 196.6 165.3 31.6
13. Assets and liabilities held for sale
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Non-current assets:
 Property, plant and equipment – 114.2
 Goodwill 31.2 125.2
 Other intangible assets 0.9 77.4
Current assets:
 Inventories 1.7 68.1
 Trade and other receivables – 21.4
Total assets held for sale 33.8 406.3
Current liabilities:
 Trade and other payables – (23.0)
Non-current liabilities:
 Deferred tax liabilities – (25.8)
Total liabilities held for sale – (48.8)
Net assets and liabilities held for sale 33.8 357.5
As at 31 December 2011, the assets and associated liabilities relating to certain Irish brands were held for sale in light of the decision to 
sell these brands. The disposal completed on 23 January 2012.
As at 31 December 2010, the assets and associated liabilities relating to the Meat-free and the East Anglian canned grocery operations 
were held for sale in light of the decision to sell these businesses.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
104
Notes to the financial statements
14. Property, plant and equipment
 
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
£m
Long 
leasehold 
land and 
buildings
£m
Short 
leasehold 
land and 
buildings
£m
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Assets 
under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 146.9 8.8 31.1 482.5 77.1 746.4
Additions  – –  – 27.6 38.4 66.0
Disposals (1.3) –  (0.5) (1.6) –  (3.4)
Reclassifications 12.2  2.3  0.4 (12.9) –  2.0 
Transferred from intangible assets –  –  – 3.8 –  3.8 
Transfer of assets into use 3.5 – – 67.2 (70.7) – 
Transferred to held for sale (27.9) –  (2.7) (122.3) – (152.9)
At 31 December 2010 133.4 11.1 28.3 444.3 44.8 661.9
Additions 0.5 –  – 6.1 47.5 54.1
Disposals (36.4) –  – (66.4) – (102.8)
Reclassifications – – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Transfer of assets into use 3.8 – – 20.1 (23.9) – 
Transferred from held for sale – – 2.5  – – 2.5 
At 31 December 2011 101.3 11.1 30.8 404.3 68.4 615.9
Aggregate depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2010 (14.0) (1.1) (5.1) (142.0) – (162.2)
Depreciation charge for the year (4.0) (0.2) (0.8) (45.7) – (50.7)
Disposals 0.3  –  0.1 0.5 – 0.9
Impairment charge –  –  – (0.7) – (0.7)
Reclassifications (0.5) (2.8) 1.3  –  – (2.0)
Transferred from intangible assets –  –  – (0.8) – (0.8)
Transferred to held for sale 6.2  –  0.5 32.0 – 38.7
At 31 December 2010 (12.0) (4.1) (4.0) (156.7) – (176.8)
Depreciation charge for the year (5.0) (0.5) (0.7) (40.1) – (46.3)
Disposals 7.3  – – 45.1 – 52.4
Impairment charge –  – – (27.2) – (27.2)
Reclassifications –  – – (0.2)  – (0.2)
Transferred from held for sale – – (0.5) – – (0.5)
At 31 December 2011 (9.7) (4.6) (5.2) (179.1) – (198.6)
Net book value
At 31 December 2010 121.4 7.0 24.3 287.6 44.8 485.1
At 31 December 2011 91.6 6.5 25.6 225.2 68.4 417.3
The net book value of the Group’s vehicles, plant and equipment includes an amount of £0.4m (2010: £21.2m) in respect of assets held 
under finance leases. None of the additions of £54.1m for the year related to assets held under finance leases.
On 31 January 2011, the Group purchased £18.8m of plant and machinery that was held as a finance lease at 31 December 2010. 
Certain of these assets were then sold to Princes Limited as part of the disposal of the Group’s East Anglian canned grocery operations.
The Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including property, plant and equipment.
Impairment
An impairment charge of £27.2m has been recognised against assets relating to the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a result of an 
impairment review carried out in light of the decision to sell this business. (Refer to note 15). www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
105
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
15. Goodwill 
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Carrying value
At 1 January  1,096.1  1,371.3 
Impairment — continuing  (185.4) – 
Impairment — discontinued  (23.3) (150.0)
Transferred to held for sale  (31.2) (125.2)
At 31 December  856.2  1,096.1 
Goodwill attached to each of the Group’s CGUs is as follows:
 
 
2011
 £m 
2010
 £m 
Grocery 856.2 887.4
Bread — 185.4
Retailer Branded Chilled — 23.3
Net carrying value of goodwill 856.2  1,096.1 
Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. The recoverable 
amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, depending on the way in which the 
value of the CGU is expected to be recovered.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions for calculating value in use are those relating to the cash flows, long-term growth rate and discount rate.
In 2010 and 2011 fair value less costs to sell in respect of the Meat-free and Retailer Branded Chilled business respectively has been 
determined by reference to the value of the offer received, less the expected costs of disposing of the businesses. 
Cash flow assumptions
The cash flows used in the value in use calculation are pre-tax cash flows based on the latest approved management forecasts in respect 
of the following four years. Assumptions regarding these future cash flows are based upon actual results in prior periods adjusted for 
expected developments in the following years with reference to market conditions and reasonable management expectations for the 
businesses. All income and costs are taken into account and an estimate of capital expenditure required to maintain these cash flows is 
also made. 
Long-term growth rate assumptions
The four year management forecasts are extrapolated in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector. The 
growth rate applied is 2.25% (2010: 2.25%) and is not considered to be higher than the average long-term industry growth rate.
Discount rate
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax rate based on the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) 
which would be anticipated for a market participant investing in the Group. The directors believe it is appropriate to use a single common 
discount rate for all impairment testing as each CGU shares similar risk profiles.
The Group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment testing. 
At 31 December 2011, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecasted cash flows has been determined to be 12.1% (2010: 12.3%).
Impairment
A total impairment charge of £362.4m has been recognised in the year against goodwill, other intangible assets and tangible fixed assets 
(2010: £150.0m). 
Included within this charge is £282.0m recognised against the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the Bread CGU (2010: £nil). The 
impairment has arisen as a result of adverse trading conditions experienced during the year. Further impairment would be required in the 
future if future performance fell below that which was used in the value in use calculation or the discount rate were to increase. A change 
of plus or minus 0.5% in the pre-tax discount rate would decrease/increase the recoverable amount by £17/£15m. A change of plus or 
minus 1% in the perpetual growth rate would increase/decrease the recoverable amount by £28/£22m. Lastly, a 5% increase/decrease in 
cash flows after the fifth year would increase or decrease the recoverable amount by £12m.
With regards to the Grocery CGU, the directors believe that no reasonable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment testing 
would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount. 
Also included within this charge is £80.4m recognised against the assets allocated to the Retailer Branded Chilled CGU which has been 
recorded within discontinued operations (2010: £125.0m). This reduces the goodwill and intangible assets to £nil and also reduces the 
value of tangible fixed assets to their recoverable amount. The remaining assets and associated liabilities attributable to the Retailer 
Branded Chilled business were sold on 30 December 2011. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
106
Notes to the financial statements
15. Goodwill continued
A further charge of £25.0m was recognised against the goodwill allocated to the Meat-free business in 2010 and was recorded within 
discontinued operations. The residual goodwill attributable to the Meat-free business of £64.6m was transferred to assets held for sale as 
at 31 December 2010. 
Impairment charge
2011
Goodwill
£m
Other 
intangibles
£m
Property, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Bread 185.4 96.6 – 282.0
Retailer Branded Chilled 23.3 29.9 27.2 80.4
  208.7 126.5 27.2 362.4
2010
Retailer Branded Chilled 125.0 – – 125.0 
Meat-free 25.0 – – 25.0 
  150.0 – – 150.0 
16. Other intangible assets
 
 
Software/ 
licences
£m
Brands/ 
trademarks
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2010 115.0  989.7  243.0 51.0 1,398.7 
Additions   – –  – 20.4 20.4 
Transfer to property, plant and equipment (3.8) –  – –  (3.8)
Reclassifications 1.0  –  – –  1.0 
Transfer into use 48.2 –  – (48.2) – 
Transferred to held for sale –  (96.5) – –  (96.5)
At 31 December 2010 160.4  893.2  243.0 23.2 1,319.8 
Additions –   –  – 16.8 16.8 
Disposals –  –  (91.5) – (91.5)
Transfer into use 2.7 – – (2.7) –
Transferred to held for sale –  –  (2.4) – (2.4)
At 31 December 2011 163.1  893.2  149.1 37.3 1,242.7 
Amortisation
At 1 January 2010 (24.4) (118.0) (96.9) –  (239.3)
Charge for the year (13.2) (34.3) (34.7) –  (82.2)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment 0.8  –  – –  0.8 
Reclassifications (1.0) –  – –  (1.0)
Transferred to held for sale –  19.1  – –  19.1 
At 31 December 2010 (37.8) (133.2) (131.6) –  (302.6)
Disposals –  –  91.5 –  91.5 
Charge for the year (17.3) (33.0) (33.6) –  (83.9)
Impairment –  (67.9) (58.6) –  (126.5)
Transferred to held for sale –  –  1.5 –  1.5 
At 31 December 2011 (55.1) (234.1) (130.8) –  (420.0)
Net book value 31 December 2010 122.6  760.0  111.4 23.2 1,017.2 
Net book value 31 December 2011 108.0  659.1  18.3 37.3 822.7 
During 2010, the Group disposed of certain Irish brands, including YR and Goodalls for £3.9m. The net book value of these brands was 
£nil and, as a result, a gain on disposal of £3.9m was recognised. 
Brands and trademarks are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives 
of 20 to 40 years. Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 10 years. Customer relationships are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 7 years. All amortisation is recognised in administrative expenses for 
2011 and 2010. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
107
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
16. Other intangible assets continued
Included in the assets under construction additions for the year are £5.6m of internal costs (2010: £6.5m).
As at 31 December 2011, the Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including other intangible fixed assets.
Impairment
An impairment charge of £126.5m has been recognised against other intangible assets (2010: £nil). Refer to note 15.
 
The material brands held on the balance sheet are as follows:
Brand/Trademark 
Carrying value at
31 Dec 2011
£m
Estimated useful 
life remaining
years
Bisto 151.3 25
Hovis 72.9 35
OxO 95.1 35
Batchelors 79.5 25
Sharwood’s 71.6 25
Mr. Kipling 58.7 25
17. Investments
 Principal subsidiaries
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation or 
registration and 
principal operations Principal activity
Effective interest in ordinary 
share capital at 31 December
2011 2010
Operating subsidiaries
Premier Foods Group Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution of 
ambient food products, cakes, 
bread, own label and other food 
products
100% 100%
Premier Grocery Products Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution of ambient food 
products, cakes, own label and 
other food products
100% 100%
Premier Foods Group Services Limited United Kingdom Head Office company 100% 100%
Other subsidiaries
Premier Foods Investments Limited United Kingdom Financing company 100% 100%
Each of the principal subsidiary undertakings has the same year-end as Premier Foods plc. The companies listed above are those that 
materially affect the results and the assets of the Group. The Company has taken advantage of s.410 (2) of the Companies Act 2006 and 
in accordance a full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return. 
On 1 January 2010, the Group undertook an internal reorganisation which resulted in the transfer of the trade and assets of Chivers 
Hartley Limited, H.L. Foods Limited, Premier Ambient Products (UK) Limited and Premier International Foods UK Limited to a fellow 
subsidiary, Premier Foods Group Limited.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
108
Notes to the financial statements
18. Inventories
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials 50.4 47.9
Work in progress 3.6 4.2
Finished goods and goods for resale 82.8 83.1
Inventories 136.8 135.2
Inventory write-offs in the year amounted to £16.4m (2010: £18.3m).
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including inventory. 
19. Trade and other receivables
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade receivables 274.9 317.8
Trade receivables impaired (27.5) (9.1)
Net trade receivables 247.4 308.7
Prepayments 32.5 25.9
Interest receivable 0.4 0.6
Other tax and social security receivable 15.3 16.0
Other receivables 1.8 5.1
Trade and other receivables 297.4 356.3
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including trade and other receivables.
20. Trade and other payables
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Trade payables (327.0) (399.6)
Other tax and social security payable (14.6) (5.4)
Other payables and accruals (93.2) (91.2)
Trade and other payables (434.8) (496.2)
21. Bank and other borrowings
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Due within one year:  
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Term (note a) (67.3) (100.0)
Debt issuance costs 0.8  1.3 
  (66.5) (98.7)
Bank overdrafts (23.7) (30.6)
Total bank borrowings due within one year (90.2) (129.3)
Finance lease obligations (note 22) (0.2) (7.4)
Other unsecured loans (note b)  (23.2) (53.4)
Total borrowings due within one year (113.6) (190.1)
Due after more than one year:
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Revolving (note a) (276.1) (20.0)
Debt issuance costs 6.5  6.5 
  (269.6) (13.5)
Secured Senior Credit Facility – Term (note a) (665.8) (1,080.0)
Debt issuance costs 8.7  13.5 
  (657.1) (1,066.5)
Finance lease obligations (note 22) (0.5) (11.7)
Other unsecured loans (note b) (0.1) (0.1)
Total other (0.6) (11.8)
Total borrowings due after one year (927.3) (1,091.8)
Total bank and other borrowings (1,040.9) (1,281.9) www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
109
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
21. Bank and other borrowings continued
The borrowings are secured by a floating charge over all assets of the Group.
Cash and bank deposits and short-term borrowings have been offset to the extent possible in accordance with the Group’s banking 
agreements.
 
(a) Senior Term Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement — 2009
On 5 March 2009, the Group entered into a supplemental agreement with its banks amending certain terms of its Senior Term Credit 
Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement of 16 March 2007.
This original facility was arranged by Barclays Capital, Bayerische Landesbank, BNP Paribas, Rabobank International, Lloyds TSB Bank plc 
and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers and underwriters and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent and security trustee.
The Senior Term Credit Facility now comprises £733m of Term and a multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility of up to £500m (or its 
equivalent in other currencies). The final maturity date of the above arrangements is 31 December 2013.
 (b) Other unsecured loans
Other unsecured loans falling due within one year includes amounts owed in respect of cash receipts from debtors previously sold under 
the debtors securitisation programme.
Subsequent events
For details of amendments to the Group’s financing arrangements please see note 31.
22. Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (arising from adverse movements in interest rates, commodity 
prices, and foreign currency), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage certain 
of these risks. The management of these risks, along with the day-to-day management of treasury activities is performed by the Group 
Treasury function. The policy framework governing the management of these risks is defined by the Finance Committee, a sub-committee 
of the Board. The framework for management of these risks is incorporated into a policies and procedures manual.
The Group also enters into contracts with suppliers for its principal raw material requirements, some of which are considered commodities, 
and also diesel and energy. These commodity and energy contracts are part of the Group’s normal purchasing activities. Some of the risk 
relating to diesel is mitigated with the use of derivative financial instruments. The Treasury Risk Management Committee, a sub-committee 
of the Finance Committee, monitors and reviews the Group’s foreign currency exchange, commodity price and energy price exposures and 
recommends appropriate hedging strategies for each.
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group’s main operating entities’ functional currency and the Group’s presentational currency is sterling although some transactions are 
executed in non-sterling currencies, including Euros, US dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and Japanese yen. The transactional 
amounts realised or settled are therefore subject to the effect of movements in these currencies against sterling. Management of these 
exposures is centralised and managed by the Group’s Treasury Function. It is the Group’s policy to manage the exposures arising using 
forward foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options. Hedge accounting is not sought for these transactions. 
The Group generates some of its profits in non-sterling currencies and has assets in non-sterling jurisdictions, principally the Euro. 
The principal foreign currency affecting the translation of subsidiary undertakings within the Group financial statements is the Euro. The 
rates applicable are as follows:
Principal rate of exchange EUR/£ 
Year ended 
31 Dec 
2011
Year ended 
31 Dec 
2010
Year-end 1.1917 1.1601
Average 1.1508 1.1584
The majority of the Group’s assets and liabilities are denominated in the functional currency of the relevant division or subsidiary. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
110
Notes to the financial statements
22. Financial instruments continued
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 that gave rise to net currency gains and 
losses recognised in the consolidated income statement as a result of monetary assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the 
functional currency of the subsidiaries involved.
   Functional currency of subsidiaries
 
 
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2011      
Net foreign currency monetary assets
Sterling – 0.5 0.5
Euro (5.5) – (5.5)
US dollar (0.4) – (0.4)
Other currencies 6.0 – 6.0
Total 0.1 0.5 0.6
At 31 December 2010
Net foreign currency monetary assets
Sterling – 0.4 0.4
Euro 5.9 – 5.9
US dollar 2.2 – 2.2
Other currencies 3.9 – 3.9
Total 12.0 0.4 12.4
In addition the Group also has forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding at the year-end in order to manage the 
exposures above but also to hedge future transactions in foreign currencies. The sterling nominal amounts outstanding are as follows:
2011
(Payable)/ 
receivable
£m
2010
(Payable)/ 
receivable
£m
Euro (54.3) (42.6)
US dollar (7.8) (36.9)
Swiss franc – 1.1
Swedish krona – 1.5
Australian dollar – 0.2
Total (62.1) (76.7)
If the US dollar were to weaken against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would 
decrease by £0.7m (2010: £3.3m decrease).
If the US dollar were to strengthen against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would 
increase by £0.9m (2010: £4.1m increase).
If the Euro were to weaken against sterling by 10 Euro cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would decrease by 
£2.7m (2010: £3.1m decrease).
If the Euro were to strengthen against sterling by 10 Euro cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would increase by 
£3.2m (2010: £3.0m increase).
This is primarily driven by the effect on the mark to market valuation of the foreign exchange derivatives of the Group where the hedged 
rates differ from the spot rate. 
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group purchases a variety of commodities for use in production and distribution which can experience significant price volatility, 
which include, inter-alia, wheat, tinplate, diesel and energy. The price risk on these commodities is managed by the Group through the 
Treasury Risk Management Committee. It is the Group’s policy to minimise its exposure to this volatility by adopting an appropriate 
forward purchase strategy or by the use of derivative instruments where they are available.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
111
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
22. Financial instruments continued
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s borrowing facilities comprise term debt and a revolving facility, principally in sterling. Interest is charged at floating rates plus 
a margin on the amounts drawn down, and at half the margin for the non-utilised portion of the facility, hence the borrowings are sensitive 
to changes in interest rates.
The Group then seeks to mitigate the effect of adverse movements in interest rates by entering into derivative financial instruments that 
reduce the level of exposure to floating rates. The target of fixed/capped debt is defined in the Group Treasury policy and procedures 
however the amount hedged can be amended subject to agreement by the Finance Committee. Hedge accounting is not sought for 
these transactions.
The gross cash flows on the interest rate derivatives are sensitive to changes in interest rates as they are driven by three month LIBOR 
which is reset on a quarterly basis. As at 31 December 2011 the re-set rate was 1.08006% (2010: 0.7575%).
The weighted average interest rate for these derivative financial instruments is as follows:
 
Weighted 
average 
interest rate 
(%)
Currency: Sterling
At 31 December 2011 5.7
At 31 December 2010 5.7
The following table reflects, as at 31 December 2011, the likely contractual maturity date of the interest rate derivative contracts taking 
into account zero cost call features, where market rates at the balance sheet date indicate they will be triggered by the banks. As a result 
of amendments to the financing arrangements the maturity profile and structure of interest rate derivative contracts will be revised. Please 
see note 31 for further details.
 
 
Within 1 
year
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4 
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
2011
Derivative financial liabilities:
Fixed rate – 50.0 –  –  –  – 50.0
Cap and Floor Structure 350.0 –  –  –  –  – 350.0
Other financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss:
Fixed rate – 675.0 – –  –  – 675.0
Other callable swaps 150.0 – –  –  –  – 150.0
  500.0 725.0  –  –  –  – 1,225.0
2010
Derivative financial liabilities:
Fixed rate –  – 50.0 –  –  – 50.0
Cap and Floor Structure – 350.0 –  –  –  – 350.0
Other financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss:
Fixed rate –  – 675.0 –  –  – 675.0
Other callable swaps – 150.0 –  –  –  – 150.0
  – 500.0 725.0 –  –  – 1,225.0
Fixed rate derivative financial liabilities constitute one swap with a nominal value of £50m (2010: £50m) which is a conventional interest 
rate swap maturing in 2013. It has a callable option whereby the counterparty bank can cancel the swap at nil cost at certain specified 
dates from June 2011 onwards.
The cap and floor structures have a nominal value of £350m (2010: £350m) with caps set at 6.15% to 6.25% and floor rates between 
4.31% and 4.55%. In addition, when LIBOR rates are beneath the floor strike price, a digital option is triggered which results in the Group 
paying interest at 5.75% on all of these instruments for three months.
In October 2010 the Group restructured certain long dated swaps into six fixed rate swaps with a nominal value totalling £675m, all 
maturing in 2013. These fixed rate swaps are hybrid instruments comprising an underlying host with embedded derivatives and have 
been reclassified as “Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss”. These swaps have an average fixed rate of 6.57% 
(ranging between 4.55% and 9.0%). Of these, swaps with a nominal value of £400m have callable options whereby the counterparty bank 
can cancel the swap at nil cost at certain specified dates from September 2011.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
112
Notes to the financial statements
22. Financial instruments continued
The other callable swaps classified as “Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss” comprise a single swap with an optional 
break at August 2012 and a mandatory break at June 2013. The swap was structured to amortise the fair value at 5 March 2009 over the life 
of the new contract. In addition a derivative element provides for an adjustment to the payments should interest rates rise above 7%, hence 
the swap comprises both an underlying host as well as embedded derivatives. The current fair value as at 31 December 2011 is £36.3m 
(2010: £32.4m), and based on the current yield curve the mark to market payment in August 2012 would be £35.0m (2010: £29.4m).
To compensate for the shorter maturity date these swaps have fixed bullet payments on maturity totalling £82.1m. A portion of this 
becomes immediately payable (up to a maximum of 25%) if the Group raises a bond before maturity.
Cash and deposits earn interest at floating rates based on banks short-term treasury deposit rates. Short-term trade and other 
receivables are interest-free. 
The Group’s provisions of £46.9m as at 31 December 2011 (2010: £38.9m) include £11.7m relating to onerous leases (2010: £14.1m) 
which are considered to be floating rate financial liabilities. These cash flows are discounted where the effect is material. 
At 31 December 2011, for every 50 basis points reduction in rates below the last floating reset rate of 1.08006% (based on three month 
LIBOR), with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would increase by £0.4m (2010: £1.7m decrease). 
At 31 December 2011, if interest rates were 200 basis points higher than the last floating reset rate of 1.08006% (based on three month 
LIBOR), with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would decrease by £1.6m (2010: £6.8m increase). 
The Group’s other financial assets and liabilities are not exposed to material interest rate risk.
(b) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash deposits and trade and other receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial 
institutions and trade receivables are due principally from major grocery retailers (though it is the Group’s policy to insure trade debt).
At 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables of £85.8m (2010: £49.9m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to customers 
with whom there is no history of default.
The ageing of trade and other receivables was as follows:
  Past due
 
Fully 
performing
£m
1–30 days
£m
31–60 days
£m
61–90 days
£m
91–120 days
£m
120+ days
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other receivables
2011 163.8 42.6 1.1 2.3 7.7 32.1 249.6
2010 264.5 20.0 3.6 2.5 1.5 22.3 314.4
At 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables of £27.5m (2010: £9.1m) were determined to be specifically impaired and provided 
for. The total reflects the write-off of some aged receivable balances following recent disposal and restructuring activities and reflects 
receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations. 
The Group does not hold any collateral as security against its financial assets.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January 9.1 7.7
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (5.0) (3.3)
Provision for receivables released (3.0) (1.8)
Provision for receivables impairment raised 26.4 6.5
At 31 December 27.5 9.1
The Group has benefitted from a £90m securitisation programme to allow it to transfer trade receivable balances to one of the Group’s 
primary banks. This programme also allows the Group to delink its own credit rating from that of the underlying assets and achieve a 
lower cost of funding. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
113
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
22. Financial instruments continued
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a 
weekly basis, normally covering a period of three months.
In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as part of the Group’s overall budgeting and forecasting processes and performance is 
monitored against this each month. This is intended to give the Board sufficient forward visibility of debt levels.
The Group’s net debt level can vary significantly from month to month and there is some volatility within months. This reflects trading 
patterns, timing of receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, patterns of inventory holdings and the timing of the spend on 
major capital and restructuring projects. For these reasons the debt levels at the year-end date may not be indicative of debt levels at 
other points throughout the year.
The following table analyses the Group’ s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
 
 
Within 1 
year
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4 
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2011
Trade and other payables (420.2) –  –  –  –  – (420.2)
Bank overdraft (23.7) –  –  –  –  – (23.7)
Bank Term Loan (67.3) (665.8) – –  –  – (733.1)
Bank Revolver Facility (Drawn down) – (276.1) – –  –  – (276.1)
Finance leases (0.2) (0.6) – – – – (0.8)
Other loans (23.2) (0.1) –  –  –  – (23.3)
At 31 December 2010
Trade and other payables (490.8) –  –  –  –  – (490.8)
Bank overdraft (30.6) –  –  –  –  – (30.6)
Bank Term Loan (100.0) (100.0) (980.0) – –  – (1,180.0)
Bank Revolver Facility (Drawn down) –  – (20.0) – –  – (20.0)
Finance leases (7.4) (12.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) (20.5)
Other loans (53.4) (0.1) –  –  –  – (53.5)
The Bank T erm Loan and Bank Revolver Facility are repriced quarterly to LIBOR, and other liabilities are not repriced before the maturity date.
The Group has £178.3m (2010: £420.9m) of facilities available and not drawn as at 31 December 2011 expiring between one and two 
years.
The borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group.
The following table analyses the contractual undiscounted cash flows of interest on the floating rate debt to maturity (based on the last 
fixed rate refix of 1.08006% (2010: 0.7575%) plus applicable margin).
 
 
Within 1 
year
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4 
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
Interest       
2011 38.0 36.3 – – – – 74.3
2010 44.9 37.5 31.3 – – – 113.7 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
114
Notes to the financial statements
22. Financial instruments continued
The following table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments (including “Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss”) into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The 
amounts disclosed are the undiscounted cash flows, except in the case of one of the swaps within “Other financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss” with a nominal value of £150m where the outflows include the expected mark to market value at the call date. 
 
 
Within 1 
year
£m
1 and 2 
years
£m
2 and 3 
years
£m
3 and 4 
years
£m
4 and 5 
years
£m
Over 5 
years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2011
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts:
Outflow (62.1) –  –  –  –  – (62.1)
Inflow 60.8 –  –  –  –  – 60.8
Commodities:
Outflow (6.3) – –  –  –  – (6.3)
Interest rate swaps:
Outflow (12.4) (1.0) – –  –  – (13.4)
Inflow 2.4 0.2 – –  –  – 2.6
Other financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss:
Outflow (79.4) (124.0) – –  –  – (203.4)
Inflow 7.3 6.8 – –  –  – 14.1
 (89.7) (118.0) – –  –  – (207.7)
At 31 December 2010
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts:
Outflow (74.0) –  –  –  –  – (74.0)
Inflow 73.5 –  –  –  –  – 73.5
Outflow on options (8.5) – – – – – (8.5)
Inflow on options 8.6 –  –  –  –  – 8.6
Commodities:
Outflow (13.1) (1.2) –  –  –  – (14.3)
Interest rate swaps:
Outflow (22.4) (12.4) (1.0) – – – (35.8)
Inflow 3.6 3.3 0.5 – – – 7.4
Other financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss:
Outflow (50.9) (78.1) (124.0) –  –  – (253.0)
Inflow 10.5 14.3 16.6 –  –  – 41.4
 (72.7) (74.1) (107.9) – – – (254.7)
The above table incorporates the contractual cash flows of the interest rate derivatives with floating rates of interest calculated based 
on LIBOR of 1.08006% (2010: 0.7575%) at the balance sheet date. In addition, the cash outflow between one and two years relating to 
“Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss” includes £82.1m of fixed payments on maturity of the swaps restructured last 
year. Note that a portion of this becomes immediately payable (up to a maximum of 25%) if the Group raises a bond before maturity.
The cash flows above are based on the contractual maturity of the swaps except for one swap within “Other financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss” with a nominal value of £150m which is based on an optional break date of August 2012 where the bank can call 
the swap at its mark to market value. Furthermore, for the purposes of this table, callable features have been reflected where the yield 
curve indicates that a counterparty is likely to call or cancel a contract at nil cost to themselves. We note that no contracts (2010: no 
contracts) are expected to be called at nil prior to their contractual maturity based on the current yield curve. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
115
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
22. Financial instruments continued
(d) Fair value
The following table shows the carrying amounts (which approximate to fair value except as noted below) of the Group’s financial assets 
and financial liabilities. Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between 
informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest. Set out below is a summary of methods 
and assumptions used to value each category of financial instrument.
 
2011
Book & 
Market Value
£m
2010
Book & 
Market Value
£m
Loans and receivables: 
Cash and bank deposits 45.8 1.9
Trade and other receivables 249.6 314.4
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options 0.3 0.7
— Commodity and energy derivatives 0.2 0.7
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options (1.9) (1.4)
— Commodity and energy derivatives (0.1) –
— Interest rate swaps (10.6) (28.2)
Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
— Interest rate swaps (187.0) (206.3)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (420.2) (490.8)
Bank Term Loan (733.1) (1,180.0)
Bank Revolver Facility (Drawn down) (276.1) (20.0)
Bank overdraft (23.7) (30.6)
Finance leases (0.7) (19.1)
Other (23.3) (53.5)
Interest payable (0.9) (12.3)
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011 using the following fair 
value measurement hierarchy:
 • Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
 • Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
 • Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December.
 
2011
Level 2
2010
Level 2
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options 0.3 0.7
— Commodity and energy derivatives 0.2 0.7
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options (1.9) (1.4)
— Commodity and energy derivatives (0.1) –
— Interest rate swaps (10.6) (28.2)
Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
— Interest rate swaps (187.0) (206.3) Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
116
Notes to the financial statements
22. Financial instruments continued
Fair value estimation
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Hedge accounting has not been applied to forward contracts 
and as a result the movement in the fair value of £0.9m has been charged to the income statement in the year (2010: £2.2m charge). 
Commodity derivatives are marked to market using prevailing prices and are also not designated for hedge accounting. As a result the fair 
value movement of £0.8m (2010: £0.2m credit) has been charged to the income statement. 
Interest rate swaps are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Interest rate swaps are also not designated for hedge accounting. 
As a result the movement in the fair value of £17.6m has been credited to the income statement in the year (2010: £133.7m credit). 
Interest rate swaps classed as “Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss” are also marked to market using prevailing 
market prices. These are also not designated for hedge accounting. As a result the movement in the fair value of £19.3m has been 
credited to the income statement in the year (2010: £177.0m charge). 
Short and long-term borrowings, loan notes and interest payable
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest rate cash flows. The fair value of the floating rate debt 
approximates the carrying value above. 
Finance lease liabilities
The fair value of finance lease liabilities approximates book value.
Trade and other receivables/payables
The carrying value of receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year is deemed to reflect the fair value given their short 
maturity. The fair values of non-current receivables/payables are also considered to be the same as the carrying value due to the size and 
nature of the balances involved. 
(e) Obligations under finance leases 
Minimum lease 
payments
Present value of 
minimum lease 
payments
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
Not later than one year 0.2 7.4 0.2 7.4
Later than one year but not later than five years 0.6 12.8 0.5 11.5
Later than five years – 0.3 – 0.2
  0.8 20.5 0.7 19.1
Less: Future finance charges (0.1) (1.4) n/a n/a
Present value of lease obligations 0.7 19.1 0.7 19.1
Less: Amounts due for settlement within 12 months     (0.2) (7.4)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months     0.5 11.7
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain items of plant and equipment under finance leases. The average lease term is 1.5 years, the 
longest being two years. 
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the average effective borrowing rate was 3.9% (2010: 3.9%).
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, and thus expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. All leases are on a fixed repayment 
basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying value. The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured 
by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.
(f) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may vary the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to reduce debt. 
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year then ended 31 December 2011 (2010: nil).
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt 
divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as equity plus 
net debt. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
117
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
22. Financial instruments continued
The gearing ratios at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 were as follows:
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total borrowings (1,040.9) (1,281.9)
Less cash and bank deposits 45.8 1.9
Net borrowings (995.1) (1,280.0)
Total equity (572.7) (989.5)
Total capital (1,567.8) (2,269.5)
Gearing ratio 63% 56%
Under the Group’s financing arrangement, the Group is required to meet two covenant tests which are calculated and tested on a 12 
month rolling basis at the half year and full year, each year. The Group has complied with these tests at June 2011 and has agreed with its 
banking group to defer the year-end tests from 31 December 2011 to 31 March 2012.
Please refer to note 31 for details of the amendments to the Group’s financing arrangements. 
23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
 
 
Restructuring 
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 (28.4) (18.5) (46.9)
Utilised during the year 10.4  7.3 17.7
Additional charge in the year (2.8) (6.0) (8.8)
Unwind of provision (0.8) (0.5) (1.3)
Released during the year –  0.4 0.4
At 31 December 2010 (21.6) (17.3) (38.9)
Utilised during the year 6.3  3.5 9.8
Additional charge in the year (8.7) (9.9) (18.6)
Unwind of provision (1.2) (1.2) (2.4)
Released during the year 2.6  0.6 3.2
Reclassifications (0.3) 0.3 –
At 31 December 2011 (22.9) (24.0) (46.9)
Analysis of total provisions:
2011
£m
Current  (8.1) (0.2) (8.3)
Non-current  (14.8) (23.8) (38.6)
  (22.9) (24.0) (46.9)
Analysis of total provisions:
2010
£m
Current  (8.6) (1.9) (10.5)
Non-current  (13.0) (15.4) (28.4)
  (21.6) (17.3) (38.9)
At 31 December 2011, restructuring and redundancy provisions have been raised mainly in respect of various programmes aimed at 
reducing the Group’s cost base in line with the Group’s strategy. The charge in the year relates to the closure of the Group’s Windsor 
office and reduction of headcount in overhead functions. It is expected that the majority of these provisions will be utilised in 2012. The 
remaining provisions largely relate to onerous leases that have arisen due to exiting certain of the Group’s premises, which range from 2 to 
21 years.
At 31 December 2010, restructuring and redundancy provisions have been raised mainly in respect of the supply chain of the Group’s 
Irish operations. The remaining provisions largely relate to onerous leases raised in previous years which range from 3 to 22 years.
Other provisions at 31 December 2011 and 2010, primarily relate to insurance claims and dilapidations against leasehold properties. 
The costs relating to dilapidation provisions will be incurred over a number of years in accordance with the length of the leases. These 
provisions have been discounted at rates between 0.64% and 2.96%. The unwinding of the discount is charged to the income statement 
under interest payable. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
118
Notes to the financial statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes under which employees are entitled to retirement benefits which are based on 
career average salary on retirement. These are as follows:
(a) Premier schemes
The Premier Foods Pension Scheme (“PFPS”) was the principal funded defined benefit scheme within the old Premier Group which also 
operated a smaller funded defined benefit scheme, the Premier Ambient Products Pension Scheme (“PAPPS”) for employees acquired 
with the Ambrosia business in 2001. As a result of the acquisition of Campbell’s in 2006, the Group inherited the Premier Grocery 
Products Pension Scheme (“PGPPS”) covering the employees of Campbell’s UK business, and the Premier Grocery Products Ireland 
Pension Scheme (“PGPIPS”) covering the employees of Campbell’s Ireland. The Group also acquired two further schemes with the 
acquisition of Chivers Ireland in January 2007, the Chivers 1987 Pension Scheme and the Chivers 1987 Supplementary Pension Scheme. 
These schemes are presented together below as the Premier schemes.
(b) RHM schemes
As a result of the acquisition of RHM plc, the Group also acquired the RHM Pension Scheme, the Premier Foods Ireland Pension Scheme 
(1994), the Premier Foods Ireland Van Sales Scheme and the French Termination Indemnity Arrangements. These schemes are presented 
together below as the RHM schemes, with the exception of the French Termination Indemnity Arrangements which were disposed of with 
the speciality bakery businesses in 2009, and the Premier Foods Ireland Van Sales Scheme which was wound up in 2010. 
The most recent full actuarial valuation of both the PFPS and RHM pension schemes was carried out on 5 April 2010.
The exchange rates used to translate the overseas Euro based schemes are £1.00 = 1.1508 Euros for the average rate during the year, 
and £1.00 = 1.1917 Euros for the closing position at 31 December 2011.
Until 30 June 2011, the employees of the above schemes accrued retirement benefits which varied as a percentage of final salary on 
retirement. On 30 June 2011 the link to final salary was closed to future accrual for UK schemes and members’ retirement benefits are 
now linked to their salary on that date, index linked at Retail Price Index (subject to a 5% cap) until retirement date. From 1 July 2011 
employees accrued career average benefits or chose to transfer to the new defined contribution scheme. Those contributing members of 
the PAPPS and PGPPS choosing career average benefits joined the PFPS on 1 July 2011 and transferred their past service entitlements 
to the scheme. Membership of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes is now closed to new employees, who are entitled to join the 
Group’s main defined contribution scheme, the Group Personal Pension Plan. The closure of the final salary schemes resulted in a past 
service credit of £12.1m. 
In July 2010, the UK government announced changes to the inflation index used for statutory pension increases (both for pensions in 
payment and pensions in deferment) to apply to private sector pension schemes. This has resulted in a credit to past service costs of 
£29.9m in respect of the Premier pension schemes during 2011. Discussions with the trustees of the RHM scheme in relation to any 
potential impact of this change are ongoing.
The assets of all defined benefit schemes are held by the trustees of the respective schemes and are independent of the Group’s finances.
The schemes invest through investment managers appointed by the trustees in UK and European equities and in investment products 
made up of a broader range of assets. The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property 
occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group. The pension schemes hold a charge over the assets of the Group.
At the balance sheet date, the combined principal actuarial assumptions used for all the schemes were as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
2011
RHM 
schemes
2011
Discount rate 4.80% 4.80%
Inflation — RPI 3.15% 3.15%
Inflation — CPI 1.95% n/a
Expected salary increases 4.15% 4.15%
Future pension increases 2.10% 2.10%
  2010 2010
Discount rate 5.45% 5.45%
Inflation — RPI 3.45% 3.45%
Inflation — CPI n/a n/a
Expected salary increases 4.45% 3.30%
Future pension increases 2.20% 2.20% 
For the smaller overseas schemes the discount rate used was 5.45% (2010: 5.50%), expected salary increases of 3.00% (2010: 3.00%), 
and future pension increases of 1.75% (2010: 1.75%).  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
119
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are  
as follows:
2011 Life expectancy
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes Total
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 87.9 86.0 86.5
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 90.1 88.4 88.8
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.3 87.3 87.8
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 91.7 90.0 90.4
2010 Life expectancy
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes Total
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 87.4 85.5 86.0
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 89.4 87.7 88.1
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 88.5 86.6 87.1
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 90.6 88.9 89.3
The fair values of plan assets split by type of asset are as follows:
Pension scheme assets
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Assets at 31 December 2011
Equities 27.4 397.7 425.1
Government bonds 14.2 8.4 22.6
Corporate bonds 96.1 353.7 449.8
Property 1.0 126.6 127.6
Absolute/target return products 269.8 452.1 721.9
Interest rate and inflation swaps 25.5 206.1 231.6
Cash/other 80.2 1,097.2 1,177.4
Fair value of scheme assets 514.2 2,641.8 3,156.0
Assets at 31 December 2010
Equities 98.7 489.4 588.1
Government bonds 15.3 6.7 22.0
Corporate bonds 93.0 330.7 423.7
Property 1.0 120.5 121.5
Absolute/target return products 241.0 325.8 566.8
Interest rate and inflation swaps 24.8 56.1 80.9
Cash/other 39.0 957.4 996.4
Fair value of scheme assets 512.8 2,286.6 2,799.4
The schemes invest in interest rate and inflation swaps to protect from fluctuations in interest and inflation.
The expected rates of return on assets were:
 
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes Total
2011 (for 2012 return)
Expected rate (%) 6.6 5.8 5.9
Market value (£m) 514.2 2,641.8 3,156.0
2010 (for 2011 return)
Expected rate (%) 7.8 6.7 6.9
Market value (£m) 512.8 2,286.6 2,799.4
2009 (for 2010 return)
Expected rate (%) 8.0 7.0 7.2
Market value (£m) 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0
2008 (for 2009 return)
Expected rate (%) 7.4 6.3 6.5
Market value (£m) 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3
2007 (for 2008 return)      
Expected rate (%) 8.0 6.9 7.2
Market value (£m) 506.2 2,079.2 2,585.4 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
120
Notes to the financial statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
The expected return on pension scheme assets is based on the long-term investment strategy set out in the Schemes’ Statement of 
Investment Principles at the start of the year. 
The actual rate of return on plan assets was a gain of 0.8% (2010: 8.5% gain) for Premier schemes, and a gain of 18.1% for RHM 
schemes (2010: 14.4% gain). 
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes is as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011
Present value of funded obligations (781.9) (2,656.5) (3,438.4)
Fair value of plan assets 514.2 2,641.8 3,156.0
Deficit in scheme (267.7) (14.7) (282.4)
2010
Present value of funded obligations (748.0) (2,372.3) (3,120.3)
Fair value of plan assets 512.8 2,286.6 2,799.4
Deficit in scheme (235.2) (85.7) (320.9)
2009    
Present value of funded obligations (685.5) (2,273.0) (2,958.5)
Fair value of plan assets 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0
Deficit in scheme (208.4) (220.1) (428.5)
2008    
Present value of funded obligations (587.7) (1,952.1) (2,539.8)
Fair value of plan assets 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3
(Deficit)/surplus in scheme (172.3) 160.8 (11.5)
2007    
Present value of funded obligations (581.7) (2,126.9) (2,708.6)
Fair value of plan assets 506.2 2,079.2 2,585.4
Deficit in scheme (75.5) (47.7) (123.2)
The aggregate deficit has decreased by £38.5m during the year primarily due to an increase in the fair value of plan assets, offset by an 
increase in the defined benefit obligation. This was primarily a result of a fall in discount rate assumption used, which is based on the AA 
bond yield, from 5.45% to 4.80%.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
121
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Experience gains/(losses) on the two schemes are as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme assets
(35.5)
6.9% 
261.9
9.9%
226.4
7.2%
Scheme obligations
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme obligations
3.3
0.4%
0.2
–
3.5
0.1%
2010
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme assets 
2.8
0.5%
153.2
6.7%
156.0
5.6%
Scheme obligations
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme obligations 
1.0
0.1%
35.8
1.5%
36.8
1.2%
2009
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme assets
42.5
8.9%
(135.0)
6.6%
(92.5)
3.7%
Scheme obligations
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme obligations
6.4
0.9%
2.4
0.1%
8.8
0.3%
2008
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme assets
(131.6)
31.7%
(50.3)
2.4%
(181.9)
7.2%
Scheme obligations
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme obligations
(6.4)
1.1%
(2.2)
0.1%
(8.6)
0.3%
2007
Experience adjustments on:
Scheme assets
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme assets
(14.8)
2.9%
11.7
0.6%
(3.1)
0.1%
Scheme obligations
Amount (£m)
Percentage of scheme obligations
30.6
5.3%
–
–
30.6
1.1% Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
122
Notes to the financial statements
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011
Opening defined benefit obligation (748.0) (2,372.3) (3,120.3)
Current service cost (8.8) (9.6) (18.4)
Past service (cost)/credit 46.8 (4.8) 42.0
Interest cost (40.1) (126.9) (167.0)
Actuarial loss (58.8) (246.9) (305.7)
Other income/exchange differences 0.9 0.5 1.4
Curtailments/settlements 0.3 (1.7) (1.4)
Contributions by plan participants (5.2) (13.2) (18.4)
Benefits paid 31.0 118.4 149.4
Closing defined benefit obligation (781.9) (2,656.5) (3,438.4)
2010
Opening defined benefit obligation (685.5) (2,273.0) (2,958.5)
Current service cost (13.2) (7.5) (20.7)
Past service credit 6.7 4.9 11.6
Interest cost (39.2) (129.1) (168.3)
Actuarial loss (42.8) (66.8) (109.6)
Other income/exchange differences 1.5 0.5 2.0
Curtailments/settlements – 1.5 1.5
Contributions by plan participants (5.1) (10.8) (15.9)
Benefits paid 29.6 108.0 137.6
Closing defined benefit obligation (748.0) (2,372.3) (3,120.3)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011    
Opening fair value of plan assets 512.8 2,286.6 2,799.4
Expected return 39.5 151.6 191.1
Administrative and life insurance costs (3.6) (3.5) (7.1)
Actuarial (loss)/gain (35.5) 261.9 226.4
Contributions by employer 27.5 50.8 78.3
Contributions by plan participants 5.2 13.2 18.4
Other costs/exchange differences (0.7) (0.4) (1.1)
Benefits paid (31.0) (118.4) (149.4)
Closing fair value of plan assets 514.2 2,641.8 3,156.0
2010    
Opening fair value of plan assets 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0
Expected return 37.6 141.4 179.0
Administrative and life insurance costs (3.1) (3.5) (6.6)
Actuarial gain 2.8 153.2 156.0
Assets disposed due to settlement – (1.6) (1.6)
Contributions by employer 24.1 41.9 66.0
Contributions by plan participants 5.1 10.8 15.9
Other costs/exchange differences (1.2) (0.5) (1.7)
Benefits paid (29.6) (108.0) (137.6)
Closing fair value of plan assets 512.8 2,286.6 2,799.4 www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
123
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
24. Retirement benefit schemes continued
Actuarial gains and losses are as follows:
Premier
Schemes
£m
RHM
Schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011
Actuarial loss on plan liabilities (58.8) (246.9) (305.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on plan assets (35.5) 261.9 226.4
Net actuarial (loss)/gain for the year (94.3) 15.0 (79.3)
Cumulative actuarial loss (359.3) (16.7) (376.0)
2010
Actuarial loss on plan liabilities (42.8) (66.8) (109.6)
Actuarial gain on plan assets 2.8 153.2 156.0
Net actuarial (loss)/gain for the year (40.0) 86.4 46.4
Cumulative actuarial loss (265.0) (31.7) (296.7)
The actual return on plan assets was a £417.5m gain (2010: £335.0m gain), which is £226.4m more (2010: £156.0m more) than the 
expected return on plan assets of £191.1m (2010: £179.0m) at the start of the relevant periods. 
The actuarial loss on liabilities of £305.7m (2010: £109.6m loss) comprises a gain on member experience of £3.5m (2010: £36.8m gain) 
and an actuarial loss due to changes in assumptions of £309.2m (2010: £146.4m loss).
The net actuarial loss taken to the statement of comprehensive income was £79.3m (2010: £46.4m gain). This was £83.4m (2010: 
£16.5m gain) net of taxation (with tax at 25.0% for UK schemes, and 12.5% for Irish schemes).
The Group expects to contribute approximately £31.9m (2011: £78.3m) to its defined benefit plans in 2012, £26.4m (2011: £30.0m) of 
regular contributions and expenses and £5.5m (2011: £48.3m) of additional contributions to fund the scheme deficits. The decrease in 
future deficit funding is a result of the amendments to the Group’s financing arrangements detailed in note 31.
The total amounts recognised in the Group’s income statement are as follows:
 
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2011
Operating profit
Current service cost (8.8) (9.6) (18.4)
Past service credit/(cost) 46.8 (4.8) 42.0
Gain/(loss) on curtailment 0.3 (1.7) (1.4)
Interest cost (40.1) (126.9) (167.0)
Expected return on plan assets 39.5 151.6 191.1
Administrative and life insurance costs (3.6) (3.5) (7.1)
Total 34.1 5.1 39.2
2010
Operating profit
Current service cost (13.2) (7.5) (20.7)
Past service credit 6.7 4.9 11.6
Losses on curtailment – (0.1) (0.1)
Interest cost (39.2) (129.1) (168.3)
Expected return on plan assets 37.6 141.4 179.0
Administrative and life insurance costs (3.1) (3.5) (6.6)
Total (11.2) 6.1 (5.1)
Defined contribution schemes
A number of companies in the Group operate defined contribution schemes, predominantly stakeholder arrangements. In addition a 
number of schemes providing life assurance benefits only are operated. The total expense recognised in the income statement of £0.3m 
(2010: £1.1m) represents contributions payable to the plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans. 
Other post retirement benefits
The Group does not provide any other post retirement benefits. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
124
Notes to the financial statements
25.  Reserves and share capital
Share premium reserve
The share premium reserve comprises the premium paid over the nominal value of shares for shares issued.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises the non-statutory premium arising on shares issued as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries where 
merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies less subsequent realised losses relating to those acquisitions.
Other reserves
Other reserves comprise the hedging reserve which represents the effective portion of the gains or losses on derivative financial 
instruments that have been designated as hedges.
Profit and loss reserve
The profit and loss reserve represents the cumulative surplus or deficit and the own shares reserve which represents the cost of shares in 
Premier Foods plc, purchased in the market and held by the Company on behalf of the Employee Benefit Trust, in order to satisfy options 
and awards under the Company’s incentive schemes.
Non-controlling interest reserve
The non-controlling interest reserve represents the reserves attributable to non-controlling interests.
Share capital
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Authorised
3,500,000,000 (2010: 3,500,000,000) ordinary shares of 1 pence each 35.0 35.0
Issued and fully paid    
2,398,058,019 (2010: 2,398,021,581) ordinary shares of 1 pence each 24.0 24.0
During 2011 36,438 ordinary shares of 1p each were issued to certain employees at a price of 15.2p per ordinary share pursuant to 
exercise of share options.
Share option schemes
The Company has share option schemes for certain senior executives and key individuals. The employees involved in the schemes hold 
options to subscribe for up to 85.0m ordinary shares of 1 pence each between 2010 and 2014, granted at prices ranging between 1 
pence per ordinary share and 186 pence per ordinary share. The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were 
granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below. For 2011, a summary of the Company’s schemes is as follows:
1.  The Company adopted an Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) at the time of admission for executive directors. A portion of the 
options granted under the ESOS have now vested and are exercisable between three and ten years after grant as certain performance 
criteria have been met. These options are equity-settled and the number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were 
granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below. No further awards are anticipated under this scheme. 
2.  A Savings Related Share Option Scheme for employees. The employees involved in the scheme have the right to subscribe for up 
to 61.9m ordinary shares. The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which 
they may be exercised are given below. These options are equity-settled, have a maximum term of 3.5 years and generally vest only if 
employees remain in employment to the vesting date. 
3.  A Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) for senior managers. The individuals involved in the scheme have the right to subscribe for up to 
5.1m ordinary shares at 1 pence per ordinary share. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted 
and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of three 
years. No further awards are anticipated under this plan. 
 
The performance and vesting conditions of the scheme have been aligned with those of the Co-Investment Plan below. Since the 
Company was positioned below the median TSR performance target, the required performance conditions were not met and the 
2008 award lapsed in full.  
4.  A Co-Investment Plan (“CIP”) for directors and senior managers. The scheme is structured as a share matching plan and the 
individuals involved in the scheme are required to commit and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier Foods’ 
shares. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may 
be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of three years. No further awards are 
anticipated under this plan. 
 
The vesting of matching awards is conditional on achievement against a combination of EPS and TSR performance targets. During 
the year performance conditions were not met and so the 2008 CIP award lapsed in full.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
125
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
25.  Reserves and share capital continued
5.   In 2011 the Company introduced two new Executive remuneration schemes. The details of the two new schemes are as follows:
5.1 A Long-Term Incentive Plan (Performance share award) for directors and senior managers. The individuals in this scheme have the right 
to subscribe to ordinary shares at nil cost. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the 
periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of three years. 
 
The vesting of the 2011 award is conditional on achievement of an EPS performance target.
5.2 A Long-Term Incentive Plan (Matching share award) for directors and senior managers. The scheme is structured as a share matching 
plan and the individuals involved in the scheme are required to commit and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier 
Foods’ shares. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may 
be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of three years.  
 
The vesting of the 2011 award is conditional on achievement of an absolute share price target.
6.  Deferred share bonus plan for directors. This will operate alongside the cash annual bonus. Growth of market share for total brands 
must be achieved for the bonus to become payable and the Group trading profit must be met.
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods ESOS are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme
  2011 2010
 
Year of 
expiry Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,560,119 162 1,600,782 162
Forfeited during the year (241,268) 162 (40,663) 162
Outstanding at the end of the year 2014 1,318,851 162 1,560,119 162
Exercisable at the end of the year   1,318,851 162 1,560,119 162
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average exercise price of 162 pence (2010: 162 pence), and a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 2.6 years (2010: 3.6 years).
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods Savings Related Share Option Schemes are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme
  2011 2010
  Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 63,465,915 24 58,771,948 45
Exercised during the year (36,438) 15 – –
Granted during the year 23,981,613 10 47,756,192 15
Forfeited during the year (25,500,367) 27 (43,062,225) 43
Outstanding at the end of the year 61,910,723 17 63,465,915 24
Exercisable at the end of the year 2,052,202 68 975,564 186
During the year 24.0m (2010: 47.8m) options were granted under the Savings Related Share Option Schemes, with a weighted average 
exercise price at the date of exercise of 10 pence per ordinary share (2010: 15 pence). 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average exercise price of 17 pence (2010: 24 pence), and a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 2.1 years (2010: 2.6 years). Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
126
Notes to the financial statements
25.  Reserves and share capital continued
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods LTIP are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Long-Term Incentive Plan
  2011 2010
  Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 8,503,418 1 6,130,231 1
Granted during the year –  – 4,373,565 1
Forfeited during the year (3,411,749) 1 (2,000,378) 1
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,091,669 1 8,503,418 1
Exercisable at the end of the year –  – – –
During the year, no awards were granted under the LTIP (2010: 4.4m). The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 1 
pence. The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of one year (2010: 1.7 years). 
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award (2010: 39 pence). This was determined using 
a closed-form approach as a proxy for a stochastic Monte Carlo valuation model (which takes into account market based performance 
conditions) except for the Savings Related Share Option Scheme where the Black–Scholes model was used. The significant inputs into 
the model were:
2011 2010
Weighted average share price (p) – 32
Annual risk-free interest rate (%) – 1.7
Expected dividend at grant date (%) – –
Expected award life (years) – 3
Expected volatility (%) – 37
The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over 
the last three years. 
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods CIP are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Co-Investment Plan
  2011 2010
  Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 10,898,240 1 8,265,837 1
Granted during the year –  – 4,520,685 1
Forfeited during the year (2,563,959) 1 (1,888,282) 1
Outstanding at the end of the year 8,334,281  1 10,898,240 1
Exercisable at the end of the year –  – – –
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.4 years (2010: 2.1 years). The 
weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award (2010: 39 pence). This was determined using a 
closed-form approach as a proxy for a stochastic Monte Carlo valuation model. The significant inputs into the model were:
2011 2010
Weighted average share price (p) – 32
Annual risk-free interest rate (%) – 1.7
Expected dividend (%) – –
Expected award life (years) – 3
Expected volatility (%) – 37
The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over 
the last three years.  www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
127
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
25.  Reserves and Share capital continued
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods Long-Term Incentive Plan — EPS Target are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Long-Term Incentive Plan — Performance share award
  2011
  Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year –  – 
Granted during the year 8,741,250 1
Forfeited during the year (3,094,720) 1
Outstanding at the end of the year 5,646,530 1
Exercisable at the end of the year –  – 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.4 years. The weighted average 
fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award. No charge has been recognised in the income statement in 2011 
because it is anticipated that the performance conditions will not be met and therefore the awards will not vest.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods Long-Term Incentive Plan — average share price target are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Long-Term Incentive Plan — Matching share award
  2011
  Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year –  – 
Granted during the year 5,344,038 1
Forfeited during the year (2,670,282) 1
Outstanding at the end of the year 2,673,756 1
Exercisable at the end of the year –  – 
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.4 years. The weighted average 
fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award. No charge has been recognised in the income statement in 2011 
because it is anticipated that the performance conditions will not be met and therefore the awards will not vest.
In 2011, the Group’s continuing operations recognised an expense of £3.9m (2010: £6.9m), related to all equity-settled share-based 
payment transactions. A further £0.9m was recognised in relation to discontinued operations.
A summary of the range of exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life is shown below: 
Weighted average remaining life and exercise prices
  31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010
 
Number 
outstanding 
at end of the 
year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life (years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (p)
Number 
outstanding 
at end of the 
year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
At 1 pence 21,746,236 1.7 1 19,401,658 1.9 1
£0.01 to £0.99 61,910,723 2.1 17 62,490,351 2.6 22
£1.00 to £2.00 1,318,851 2.6 162 2,535,683 2.2 171
Total 84,975,810 2.0 15 84,427,692 2.5 21 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
128
Notes to the financial statements
26.  Notes to the cash flow statement
Reconciliation of operating profit to cash flows from operating activities
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2010
(Restated)
1
£m
Continuing operations
Operating (loss)/profit (176.3) 219.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 41.8 43.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 72.0 65.8
Loss on the sale of canning operations 11.2 – 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.9) (0.2)
Gain on disposal of intangible assets – (3.9)
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 282.0 – 
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 1.7 2.0
Non-cash movement relating to retirement benefits (41.3) 5.7
Share-based payments 3.9 6.9
Net cash inflow from operating activities before interest and tax and movements  
in working capital
194.1 339.4
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (26.3) 6.7
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 53.8 (24.6)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables and provisions (10.9) 18.4
Movement in retirement benefit obligations (76.1) (64.3)
Cash generated from continuing operations 134.6 275.6
Discontinued operations (47.9)  37.6
Cash generated from operating activities 86.7 313.2
1
 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Retailer Branded Chilled business as a discontinued operation.
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings
 
 
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Year
ended
31 Dec 
2010
£m
Net inflow/(outflow) of cash and cash equivalents 51.1 (13.1)
Decrease/(increase) in finance leases 18.4 (17.7)
Decrease in borrowings 221.3 121.7
Other non-cash movements (5.9) (5.8)
Decrease in borrowings net of cash 284.9 85.1
Total net borrowings at beginning of year (1,280.0) (1,365.1)
Total net borrowings at end of year (995.1) (1,280.0) www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
129
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
26.  Notes to the cash flow statement continued
Analysis of movement in borrowings 
 
 
As at 
1 Jan 
2011
£m
Cash flow
£m
Other 
non-cash  
movements
£m
As at 
31 Dec 
2011
£m
Bank overdrafts (30.6) 6.9 –  (23.7)
Cash and bank deposits 1.9 44.2 (0.3)  45.8 
Net cash and cash equivalents (28.7) 51.1 (0.3)  22.1
Borrowings — term facilities (1,180.0) 446.9 –  (733.1)
Borrowings — revolving credit facilities (20.0) (256.1) – (276.1)
Finance leases (19.1) 18.4 – (0.7)
Other (53.5) 30.2 –  (23.3)
Gross borrowings net of cash
1
 (1,301.3) 290.5 (0.3) (1,011.1)
Debt issuance costs 21.3 0.3 (5.6) 16.0 
Total net borrowings
1
 (1,280.0) 290.8 (5.9)  (995.1)
1
  Borrowings excludes derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities fair valued through profit or loss.
27.  Operating lease commitments
The Group has lease agreements in respect of property, plant and equipment, for which future minimum payments extend over a number 
of years.
` 2011 2010
 
Property
£m
Plant and
 Equipment
£m
Property
£m
Plant and
 Equipment
£m
Within one year 11.3 8.0 13.0 14.6
Between two and five years 38.7 11.0 46.2 18.4
After five years 66.2 0.2 74.4 0.1
Total operating lease commitments 116.2 19.2 133.6 33.1
Leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices and factories. Lease payments are typically subject 
to market review every five years to reflect market rentals, but because of the uncertainty over the amount of any future changes, such 
changes have not been reflected in the table above. Within our leasing arrangements there are no significant contingent rentals, renewal, 
purchase or escalation clauses.
The Group sub-lets various properties under non-cancellable lease arrangements. Sub-lease receipts of £1.4m (2010: £0.9m) were 
recognised in the income statement during the year. The total future minimum sub-lease payments at the year-end is £4.5m (2010: £5.5m).
28.  Capital commitments
  2011
£m
2010
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 2.0 2.2
Tangible assets 16.0 6.4 
Total 18.0 8.6
29.  Contingencies
The Group has been in discussion with one of the Group Pension Schemes relating to the possibility that it may have to recognise some 
additional liability as a result of alleged failure to adequately equalise retirement ages between 1990 and 1993. During 2011 the Group 
decided to seek a court ruling. On 20 February 2012 the case was heard in court and on 2 March 2012 the judge ruled in favour of the 
Group. As a result there is no material additional liability to be recognised and no impact on pension deficit recovery payments relating to 
the case.
There were no other material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2011. Other contingencies and guarantees in respect of the Parent 
Company are described in note 9 of the Parent Company financial statements. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
130
Notes to the financial statements
30.  Related party transactions
Key management personnel of the Group are considered to be the executive and Non-executive directors and the Group Executive. 
Details of their remuneration are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”. 
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors’ remuneration report on 
pages 65 to 76.
 
Year 
ended 
31 Dec
2011
£m
Year 
ended 
31 Dec
2010
£m
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 7.3  4.4 
Post employment benefits 0.3  0.3 
Termination benefits 2.0  – 
Share-based payments 1.2  1.5 
Total 10.8  6.2 
WP X Investments Limited (“Warburg Pincus”) is considered to be a related part of the Group by virtue of its 15.8% (2010: 15.8%) equity 
shareholding in Premier Foods plc and of its power to appoint a member to the Board of directors, which has been exercised. There have 
been no transactions during the year.
Apart from the information above there were no other related party transactions.
31.  Subsequent events
Disposal of the Irish brand business
On 15 December 2011 the Group announced that it had agreed to sell its four Irish brands (Chivers, Gateaux, McDonnells and the Erin 
licence) to The Boyne Valley Group for €41.4m. The disposal of the Irish brands completed on 23 January 2012. 
Financing arrangements
On 12 March 2012 the Group announced that it had obtained consent from its banking syndicate, swap counterparties and pension 
schemes on a re-financing package subject to the formalities of final documents being signed, expected by the end of March.
Pension arrangements
Subject to implementation of the new re-financing arrangements, the Trustees of the Group’s pension schemes have agreed to defer 
deficit contribution payments (c.£47m p.a.) until 1 January 2014 and there will be no increase in the agreed deficit contributions before 
2016. Regular contributions of approximately £26m per annum will continue to be paid to the pension schemes.
Lending arrangements
The existing term loan (£733m) and revolving credit facility (£500m), previously due to mature on 31 December 2013, will be extended to a 
new maturity date of 30 June 2016. The current applicable bank margin of 2.25% will increase to 3.25% with effect from 1 January 2014.
Additionally, the current amortisation payment schedule has been amended, with amortisations to occur semi-annually from 30 June 
2014. Banking covenants of net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest remain in place; they will continue to be tested bi-annually and have 
been reset to reflect the Group’s strategic plan. The covenant tests are set out in the table below.
Having already realised net disposal proceeds of £400m in 2011, the Group is required to realise proceeds from disposals of £330m by 
30 June 2014, with 80% of this to be achieved by 31 December 2013 and 90% of this by 31 March 2014.
The total interest rate swap portfolio, including previously restructured swaps, will be restructured into additional term loan totalling 
approximately £199m. Of this additional term loan, approximately £117m of the previously restructured swaps will be interest bearing with 
immediate effect. The remaining £82m of previously restructured swaps will attract interest from 1 January 2014. These new tranches 
of additional term loan will attract the same interest margin as the main term loan. The result of this conversion from swaps to additional 
term loan will significantly reduce the Group’s interest expense in 2012 and 2013 and the previously arranged agreed swap settlements 
of £35m in 2012 and £82m in 2013 are no longer applicable. A new amortising swap commencing in July 2012, with a nominal value of 
approximately £750m, will be arranged attracting a swap rate of 1.55%.
All term loan and securitised debt attract interest charges based on LIBOR.
A sliding scale of new deferred fees at market rates will be applicable from 2014 through to 2016, which are payable on a subsequent 
re-financing. Planned future disposal proceeds will be shared between the banks in the banking syndicate (including those swap 
counterparties whose swaps have been restructured into additional term loans as described above).
On 31 December 2013, a ‘cash sweep’, reflecting excess cash generated over and above an agreed level will be calculated and paid in 
early 2014 to the banking syndicate, (including those swap counterparties whose swaps have been restuctured into additional term loans 
as described above) and pension schemes in lieu of payments foregone by this date. Further cash sweeps will be included annually with 
amounts distributed to the banking syndicate (including those swap counterparties whose swaps have been restructured into additional 
term loans as described above). www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
131
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
 31. Subsequent events continued
The Company is restricted from paying dividends under the terms of the re-financing package.
Summary of Re-financing package
Bank Facility Maturity 30 June 2016
Bank Margin 2.25% until 31 Dec 2013
3.25% 1 Jan 2014–30 June 2016
Facilities Term loan A £733m
RCF £500m 
Additional term loan circa £199m                     
Amortisation payments 30 June 2014 – £25m
31 Dec 2014  – £25m
30 June 2015 – £30m
31 Dec 2015  – £30m
Disposals Proceeds shared between banks and swap counterparties
£330m disposal proceeds required by 30 June 2014; certain progress 
milestones from 31 December 2013
Securitisation Programme now £120m and now on balance sheet
Cash sweep Paid in Feb 2014, split between banks, swaps and pension schemes
Further cash sweeps annually thereafter (excluding pension schemes)
Consent fee 1% fee on outstanding facilities
Existing deferred fee 0.5% on existing facilities, paid Dec 2013
New deferred fee 2.0% on facilities between 28 March 2013 – 27 March 2014
2.5% on facilities between 28 March 2014 – 27 March 2015
3.0% on facilities between 28 March 2015 – 27 March 2016
Covenant test dates Bi-annually, 30 June and 31 December
Net debt: EBITDA covenant 30 June 2012 6.96x
31 Dec 2012 5.87x
30 June 2013 5.26x
31 Dec 2013 4.52x
30 June 2014 4.66x
31 Dec 2014 3.92x
30 June 2015 3.82x
31 Dec 2015 3.26x
EBITDA: Interest covenant 30 June 2012 2.37x
31 Dec 2012 3.69x
30 June 2013 4.50x
31 Dec 2013 4.50x
Each test thereafter 4.50x
Receivables Purchase Agreement
The Group’s Receivables Purchase Agreement with DLLI (a wholly owned subsidiary of Rabobank Group) is due to expire on 31 March 
2012.
The Group has negotiated and obtained a commitment to a new securitisation programme relating to certain receivable balances available 
up to an amount of £120m, subject to sufficient receivables being capable of being sold into the programme. These balances will be 
included as part of net debt, reflecting their recognition on the balance sheet and will attract an interest margin of 3.5%.  Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
132
Premier Foods plc — Company financial statements
The following statements reflect the financial position of the Company, Premier Foods plc as at 31 December 2011 and 2010. These financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”). The 
directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a Company 
profit and loss account.
Balance sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note
As at
31 Dec
2011
£m
As at
31 Dec
2010
£m
ASSETS:      
Fixed assets    
Investments 3 729.7  1,749.7 
Current assets    
Debtors 4 647.7  636.7 
Deferred tax assets 6 0.8  0.6 
Cash at bank and in hand  0.3  0.3 
Total assets  1,378.5  2,387.3 
LIABILITIES:   
Current liabilities    
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (55.4) (51.9)
Total liabilities  (55.4) (51.9)
Total assets less total liabilities  1,323.1  2,335.4 
EQUITY:   
Capital and reserves   
Share capital 7 24.0  24.0 
Share premium 7 1,124.7  1,124.7 
Merger reserve 7 228.0  1,027.5 
Profit and loss reserve 7 (53.6)  159.2 
Total shareholders’ funds  1,323.1  2,335.4 
The notes on pages 133 to 135 form an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 132 to 135 were approved by the Board of directors on 18 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by:
Michael Clarke Mark Moran
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
133
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
1.  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards in the United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”), under the historical cost convention. The loss for the year of £1,017.5m (2010: 
£6.7m profit) is recorded in the accounts of Premier Foods plc. The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under 
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
The directors consider that the accounting policies set out below are the most appropriate and have been consistently applied.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS (revised 1996) on the 
grounds that the Group includes the Company in its consolidated financial statements that are publically available.
The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 8 “Related Party Transactions” (“FRS 8”) from disclosing related party 
transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Premier Foods plc Group or investees of the Premier Foods plc Group.
Fixed asset investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their value.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account deferred taxation. The Company provides in full for 
deferred tax arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their inclusion in 
tax computations to the extent that a liability or an asset is expected to be payable or recoverable in the foreseeable future. The Company 
discounts its deferred tax liability as appropriate.
Cash and liquid resources
Short-term cash deposits, which can be called on demand without any material penalty, are included within cash balances in the  
balance sheet.
Share-based payments
The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using an option-pricing model. In accordance with Financial Reporting 
Standard 20, “Share-based Payment” (“FRS 20”), the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period 
of the options for employees employed by the Parent Company, or treated as an investment in subsidiaries in respect of employees 
employed by the subsidiaries where the cost is recharged. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of 
options vesting.
Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders, and for interim dividends in the period in which they are paid.
Operating lease agreements
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rental 
costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis 
over the lease period.
2. Operating profit
Audit fees in respect of the Company are £nil (2010: £nil). Note 6b of the Group consolidated financial statements provides details of the 
remuneration of the Company’s auditors on a Group basis.
At 31 December 2011, the Company had two employees (2010: three), and their remuneration totalled £2.3m (2010: £2.7m). This 
excludes the Company’s six (2010: seven) non-executive directors whose remuneration totalled £0.7m (2010: £0.6m). Directors’ 
emolument disclosures are provided in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 65 to 76 of this annual report.
Notes to the Company financial statements Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
134
Notes to the Company financial statements
3. Investments
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Shares in subsidiary undertakings  
At 1 January 1,749.7 1,743.7
Additions 4.2  6.0
Impairment (1,024.2) –
At 31 December 729.7 1,749.7
Impairment
An impairment charge of £1,024.2m is recognised against the value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries as a result of various 
disposals made during the year combined with adverse trading conditions.
During 2011, a capital contribution of £4.2m (2010: £6.0m) was given in the form of share incentive awards to employees of subsidiary 
companies which were reflected as an increase in investments. See note 17 in the Group financial statements for a list of the principal 
subsidiary undertakings. A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return.
On 1 January 2010, the Group undertook an internal reorganisation and the Company entered into a deed of gift under which the 
Company transferred the shares in RHM Limited to a subsidiary undertaking, Premier Foods Investments Limited. 
4. Debtors
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 647.7 636.7
The above balances are not subject to interest rate risk as they are interest free with the exception of £307.0m (2010: £295.9m) which 
attracted interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.0% (2010: LIBOR plus 3.0%). Carrying value approximates fair value.
5. Creditors
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:  
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 43.5  42.4 
Current tax 11.9  9.5 
Total creditors falling due within one year 55.4 51.9
The above balances are not subject to interest rate risk as they are interest free with the exception of £37.2m (2010: £35.8m) which 
attracted interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.0% (2010: LIBOR plus 3.0%). Carrying value approximates fair value.
6.  Deferred Tax
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
At 1 January  0.6  0.3 
Charged to the profit and loss account 0.2  0.3 
At 31 December 0.8  0.6 
The deferred tax asset relates to share-based payments. www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD
135
Financial statements Summary Our business Governance Performance
7. Share capital and other reserves
 
 
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Profit and 
loss reserve 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 24.0  1,124.7  1,027.5  145.6  2,321.8 
Profit for the year –  –  –  6.7  6.7 
Share-based payments (a) –  –  –  6.9  6.9 
At 31 December 2010 24.0  1,124.7  1,027.5  159.2  2,335.4 
Loss for the year –  –  –  (1,017.5) (1,017.5) 
Realisation of merger reserve (b)   – –  (799.5)  799.5 – 
Share-based payments (a) –  –  – 5.2  5.2 
At 31 December 2011 24.0  1,124.7 228.0  (53.6)  1,323.1 
Share capital
 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Authorised    
3,500,000,000 (2010: 3,500,000,000) ordinary shares of 1 pence each 35.0 35.0
Issued and fully paid    
2,398,058,019 (2010: 2,398,021,581) ordinary shares of 1 pence each 24.0 24.0
a) Share-based payments
2011 and 2010
The costs reflect the Company’s share option schemes in operation. Further details are available per note 25 of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements.
The charge relating to its employees of the Company amounted to £1.0m (2010: £0.9m). Further details of these schemes can be found 
in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 74 to 75.
b) Realisation of merger reserve
The Company has transferred to the profit and loss reserve an amount that has become realised on disposal and write down of the 
related investment.
8. Operating lease commitments
At 31 December 2011, the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of land and buildings as follows:
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
After five years 0.3  0.3 
The lease expense has been borne by a subsidiary company.
9. Contingencies and guarantees
Premier Foods plc has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings. The maximum 
amount guaranteed at 31 December 2011 is £1.2bn (2010: £1.7bn).
The Group has been in discussion with one of the Group Pension Schemes relating to the possibility that it may have to recognise some 
additional liability as a result of alleged failure to adequately equalise retirement ages between 1990 and 1993. During 2011 the Group 
decided to seek a court ruling. On 20 February 2012 the case was heard in court and on 2 March 2012 the judge ruled in favour of the 
Group. As a result there is no additional material liability to be recognised and no impact on pension deficit recovery payments relating to 
this case.
10. Subsequent events
The Group has obtained consent from its banking syndicate, swap counterparties and pension schemes on a re-financing package 
subject to the formalities of final documents being signed, expected by the end of March.
Further details of the amendments to the financing arrangements are shown in note 31 to the Group financial statements. Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2011  
136
Glossary
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as 
Adjusted Profit before tax less a notional 
tax charge for the Group divided by the 
weighted average number of shares in 
issue during the period (see note 10 to the 
financial statements for a full definition)
Adjusted Profit before tax
Trading profit less net regular interest 
payable
AGM
Annual General Meeting
Amortisation
An annual charge made in a company’s 
profit and loss account to reduce the value 
of an intangible asset to its residual value 
over its useful economic life
Articles
Articles of Association — the constitution of 
the Company 
BIS
UK department for Business, Innovation  
and Skills
Bps
Basis point — a unit that is equal to 1/100th 
of 1%
BRC
The British Retail Consortium
Called-up share capital
Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid
CEO
Chief Executive Officer
CFO
Chief Financial Officer
CGU
Cash-generating unit — the smallest 
identifiable group of assets that generate 
cash inflows that are largely independent of 
the cash inflows from other assets or groups 
of assets
CIP
Premier Foods plc Co-Investment Plan
Chief Operating Decision Maker
A function or person that is responsible for 
allocating resources to, and assessing the 
performance of operating segments
Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 
published by the FRC
Companies Act 
The Companies Act 2006 
Company (the)
Premier Foods plc
COO 
Chief Operating Officer
CSR
Corporate Social Responsibility
DSB 
Premier Foods plc new Deferred Share 
Bonus
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation
EBT
Employee Benefit Trust
EPS
Earnings Per Share — calculated as total 
earnings divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the period
ESOS
Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option 
Scheme
EU
European Union
Fair value
The amount for which an asset could be 
exchanged, or a liability settled, between 
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s 
length transaction
FDF
The Food and Drink Federation
Finance lease
A lease that transfers substantially all the 
risks and rewards incidental to ownership of 
an asset
FRC
Financial Reporting Council
Free Cash Flow
The amount of money that business has at 
its disposal at any given time after paying out 
operating costs, interest payments on bank 
loans and bonds, salaries, research and 
development and other fixed costs
FSA
Depending on the context, either the Food 
Standards Agency or the Financial Services 
Authority
FTSE 250 (index)
Index comprising of the 250 largest companies 
listed on the London Stock Exchange in terms 
of their market capitalisation
GDAs
Guidance Daily Amounts
Group (the)
The Company and its subsidiaries
Group Executive
The Group Executive support the CEO in 
carrying out the duties delegated to him by 
the Board
HACCP
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
Higgs Report
Report in the UK by Derek Higgs on the role 
and effectiveness of non-executive directors
HMRC
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
Intangible assets
An identifiable non-monetary asset without 
physical substance, e.g. patents, goodwill, 
trade marks and copyrights Glossary
Interest rate hedging
Entering into a financial derivative to protect 
against unfavourable changes in interest 
rates
Interest rate swaps
An agreement between two parties that 
allows either party to modify the interest cost 
without changing the characteristics of the 
underlying debt
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
LIBOR
The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
LTIP
Premier Foods plc Long-Term Incentive Plan
New LTIP
Premier Foods plc new Long-Term Incentive 
Plan approved at the AGM 2011
Mark to market
The recording of a financial asset or liability 
to reflect its fair value rather than its book 
value
NED
Non-executive director
Net regular interest payable
The net interest after excluding the following 
non-cash items: write-off of financing costs, 
accelerated amortisation of debt issuance 
costs, fair value adjustments on interest rate 
financial instruments and the unwind of the 
discount on provisions
Non branded
Non branded products comprise retailer 
brand and business to business sales
Non-recourse securitisation
The sale of selected accounts receivable on a 
non-recourse basis where legal title and non-
payment risk is transferred to a third party
Operating lease
A lease that is not a Finance lease
Operating Profit
A company’s profit after deducting its 
operating costs from gross profit
Ordinary Share
An ordinary share of 1 pence each in the 
share capital of the Company
pp
Percentage points
Pro forma
Pro forma comparisons are calculated as 
follows: current year actual results (which 
include acquisitions and/or disposals 
from the relevant date of completion) are 
compared with prior year actual results, 
adjusted to include the results of acquisitions 
and/or disposals for the commensurate 
period in the prior year
RHM
Rank Hovis McDougall
RIDDOR
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and 
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations
Retailer branded
Also known as “private label” or “own label” 
products
RPI
Retail Price Index
SAP
SAP is the market leader in the supply of 
enterprise resources planning (ERP). SAP 
is also the name of the software and is an 
acronym for Systems, Applications and 
Products. This software is being deployed as 
part of the Fusion programme
SAYE
Save As You Earn Scheme
Share Capital
Ordinary shares issued and fully paid
Share Premium Account
Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus 
(not distributable)
SID
Senior Independent Director
SKU
(Stock Keeping Unit)
Each specific product item which is 
identifiable as separate from any other due 
to brand, size, flavour, etc
Term and Revolving Credit 
Facility
The amounts of money borrowed or 
available for borrowing where the repayment 
of the debt is predetermined by a contract
Trading Profit
Operating profit before re-financing costs, 
restructuring costs and losses associated 
with disposals, amortisation and impairment 
of intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign 
exchange and other derivative contracts 
under IAS 39 and pension credits or 
charges in relation to the difference between 
the expected return on pension assets, 
administration costs and interest costs on 
pension liabilities
Treasury Shares
Shares as defined by the Companies 
Acquisitions of Own Shares (Treasury 
Shares) Regulations 2003
TSR
Total Shareholder Return — the growth in 
value of a shareholding over a specified 
period assuming that dividends are 
reinvested to purchase additional shares.
Turnbull report
Guidance issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England & Wales 
on the implementation of the internal control 
requirements of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance at the request of the 
London Stock Exchange
UK GAAP
UK Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles
WACC
Weighted Average Cost of Capital
YoY
Year on year
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
Premier House
Centrium Business Park
Griffiths Way
St Albans
Hertfordshire
AL1 2RE
T 01727 815850
F 01727 815982
Registered in England and Wales No. 5160050
Premier Foods plc   Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011
