 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Premier Foods plc  
Annual report and accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2013
Stock code: PFD
BRANDS
CONSUMERS
Driving 
Category 
Growth
 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
COSTS
PEOPLE
CUSTOMERS 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
“We create the next generation of 
food our nation loves, for modern 
family life.”
Premier foods makes a wide choice of great quality, tasty, affordable, 
everyday and inspiring food for families juggling the demands of 
modern life, who care about what they eat. We aim to bring fresh new 
food ideas to our consumers that make it easy for modern families to 
create and enjoy the meals and treats they love.
As one of Britain’s biggest food producers, we supply a range of retail, 
wholesale, foodservice and other customers with some of the nation’s 
best loved brands, including Ambrosia, Batchelors, Bisto, Hovis,  
Loyd Grossman, Mr Kipling, Oxo and Sharwood’s. We employ around 
8,000 people operating from over 35 sites right across the country.
Visit us online to find further information:
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Website: 
Keep up to date with all the latest 
information about Premier Foods online, 
including: share price data; press releases; 
and results. 
Mobile: 
You can now keep up to date with Premier 
Foods wherever you are with our new mobile 
friendly website.
Sustainability in everything we do: 
If you want to know more about our 
commitment to sustainability and 
achievements in the year why not read our 
2013 Sustainability Report available on 
our website.
Brands: 
All of our Power Brands have their own 
dedicated websites which contain the latest 
brand news and product information.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2013 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Highlights for 2013 04-05
 Group at a Glance 06-07
 Overview of the year 08-09
 Chairman’ s Statement 10-11
 Chief Executive’s Review 12-13
Strategy and Business Model 16-17
Consumers and Brands 18-19
Customers 20-21
People 22-23
Costs 24-25
Sustainability 26-27
Risk Management 28-31
Key Performance Indicators 32-33
 Operating Review 36-39
 Financial Review 40-43
Business Overview
Strategic Review
Performance Review
 Chairman’ s Introduction 46-47
 Board of Directors and Group Executive 48-51
 Corporate Governance 52-58
 Audit Committee Report 59-61
Nomination Committee Report 62
 Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Letter 63
 Directors’ Remuneration Policy 64-69
 Annual Report on Remuneration  70-75
 Directors’ report 76-77
Governance
 Audit opinion 80-83
 Consolidated financial statements 84-88
 Notes to the financial statements 89-131
 Company financial statements 132
 Notes to the Company
 financial statements 133-135
Financial Statements
Contents
06 08
Chairman’s 
Statement
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
10 12
Our Strategy- 
Driving 
Category 
Growth
Financial 
Review
16 40
Overview of the 
year
Group at a 
Glance
For more information on the  
Business Overview see pages
04-13
For more information on the  
Strategic Review see pages
16-33
For more information on the  
Performance Review see pages
36-43
For more information on  
Governance see pages
46-77
For more information on the  
Financial Statements see pages
80-135
Quick Find
Look out for these icons in this
Annual Report
Strategic Report
Supplementary Information
 Shareholder information 136-137
 Glossary 138
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
01 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
DID YOU KNOW?
OVER THE YEAR OUR 
EMPLOYEES RAISED 
£195,000, HELPING 
TO FUND OVER 7,500 
NURSING HOURS FOR 
OUR CORPORATE 
CHARITY PARTNER 
MACMILLAN CANCER 
SUPPORT.
New Oxo Shake 
& Flavour
In 2013 we launched Oxo Shake & Flavour supported by a new 
TV campaign. This builds on the success of the ‘Oxo Magic 
Cube’ ad and shows inanimate objects transforming into a 
delicious meal through the addition of Oxo. This creative style 
highlights the flavour transformation properties of the product. 
Oxo Shake & Flavour is a versatile and convenient seasoning and 
available in three exciting flavours. It can be used before, during, or 
after the cooking process to add flavour to ordinary everyday meals 
and is aimed at bringing new consumers to the category, helping drive 
overall brand and category penetration.
For more information on Consumers 
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Business
Overview
CONTENTS
This section contains a high level summary 
of the Group, our financial highlights and our 
key achievements over the course of the year.
Highlights for 2013 04-05
Group at a Glance 06-07
Overview of the year 08-09
Chairman’s Statement 10-11
Chief Executive’s Review 12-13 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Highlights for 2013
A transformational 12 months for the Group
New Management team in place
•	 Gavin Darby appointed as CEO in February and Alastair Murray appointed as 
CFO in September 2013.
•	 Strong, experienced team in place to complete the transformation of the Group.
Delivered against market expectation for 2013
•	 Good results for 2013 in a difficult market.
•	 Grocery Power Brands sales up 2.0%.
•	 Underlying Trading profit up 17.7%.
Delivery of cost savings 
•	 £16.1m of SG&A savings delivered in 2013.
•	 Further savings opportunities through reduction in complexity.
•	 Significant consolidation of supplier base.
Conditional agreement with The Gores Group to create a stand-alone Hovis joint venture 
announced in January 2014
•	 Unlocks significant investment programme in both infrastructure and the  
Hovis brand.
•	 Premier Foods retains 49% stake ensuring participation in future value 
generation.
•	 Allows for focus on a high quality branded ambient Grocery business.
Capital Refinancing Plan announced on 4 March 2014 to strengthen capital structure. 
This consists of three elements:
•	 The raising of approximately £350m by way of a Placing and Rights Issue;
•	 The raising of approximately £475m in senior secured loan notes; and
•	 A new £300m Revolving Credit Facility.
•	 In addition, the Group has also reached a new framework agreement with the 
Group’s Pension Scheme trustees.
New category focused strategy
•	 Robust strategy to drive growth in a highly competitive market.
•	 Focused Grocery business with strong competitive positions in growing 
categories.
•	 Focus on marketing and innovation to grow branded revenue.
see further information online at
www.premierfoods.co.uk
For more information on the Business 
Performance see pages 36-39
For more information on 
Cost Savings see pages
24-25
For more information on 
the Hovis JV see pages
37
For more information on the Capital 
Refinancing Plan see pages
40-41
For more information on  
Our Strategy see pages
16-17
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
04 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Financial Headlines 2013
Grocery Power Brand Sales
£543.5m 2.0%
(2012: £533.1m)
Trading Profit (underlying business)
£145.2m 17.7%
(2012: £123.4m)
Adjusted EPS
27.7p 63.7%
(2012: 17.0p)
Net Debt
£830.8m 12.6%
(2012: £950.7m)
Non Financial KPIs 2013
Sales from new products
12.9%
(As a percentage of our branded sales, within  
Power Brand categories)
Products testing superior or 
at par with competitors
96%
(Blind testing with consumers)
Reduction in CO
2
 equivalent 
emissions
2.0%
(224,110 tonnes of CO
2
(e))
Reduction in Lost Time 
Accidents (LTA rate per 100,000 hours worked)
20.0%
(0.16 per 100,000 hours)
Notes
On pages 04 to 77 of this report the Group’s results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are presented on an ‘Underlying business’ basis, unless otherwise stated. 
This includes the performance of the Bread division which was held as ‘assets for sale’ at the year end and excludes the impact of disposals and milling sales as this 
basis better reflects the performance of the core business of the Group and aids comparison with last year’s results. A reconciliation to the statutory numbers can be 
found on page 43.
For more information on Key 
Performance Indicators see pages
32-33
Underlying 
Basis 
2013
Less: Bread 
Business
Add: 
Disposals
Add: Milling 
Sales
Statutory Basis 
(Continuing 
Operations) 2013
Sales £1,282.5m £(654.6)m £6.4m £221.9m £856.2m
Trading profit £145.2m £(6.3)m £0.6m — £139.5m
EBITDA £178.1m £(21.9)m £0.6m — £156.8m
Operating profit £52.6m
Profit before taxation from continuing 
operations £4.4m
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
05 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Group at a Glance
One of Britain’s biggest food producers
Premier Foods is one of the largest 
ambient food suppliers in the UK 
manufacturing, distributing and 
selling a wide range of branded 
and non-branded foods. 
In 2013, Premier Foods 
generated revenues of £1.3bn 
employing around 8,000 people, 
operating from over 35 sites 
across the UK.
Our sites are dedicated to 
manufacturing high quality, great 
tasting, everyday food products 
which consumers know and love. 
We have a broad stable of leading 
British brands, many of which 
are household favourites. These 
include our eight Power Brands 
of Ambrosia, Batchelors, Bisto, 
Hovis, Loyd Grossman,  
Mr. Kipling, Oxo and Sharwood’s 
as well as many other iconic 
British food brands.
The business is organised into 
two divisions: Grocery and Bread. 
The Bread division includes 
our Baking and Flour Milling 
operations and is managed by 
a dedicated team. During the 
course of 2013 the business was 
restructured to remove excess 
capacity and improve efficiency 
and effectiveness. In January 
2014 we announced a conditional 
agreement to establish a joint 
venture with The Gores Group. 
This will help secure significant 
new investment for the Hovis 
business, whilst allowing Premier
Foods to share in the expected 
future benefits of this investment 
through retaining a 49% stake 
in the business. Approval of the 
Hovis joint venture is subject 
to shareholder approval and is 
expected to be completed by the 
end of April 2014.
A summary of the Grocery and 
Bread divisions is shown on 
the opposite page. The entire 
Bread division will transfer to 
the Hovis joint venture with the 
exception of the Andover Mill and 
the Charnwood Foods Business 
which will remain with the Group.
Within the Business Overview, 
Strategic Review and 
Performance Review sections 
we are reporting results on an 
underlying basis including the 
results of the Bread business 
to enable comparison with 
the results of 2012. Within the 
Financial Statements we report 
results on the basis of continuing 
operations and this excludes the 
Bread business as it was held as 
‘assets held for sale’ as at the 
year end.
Group Revenue (underlying)
£1,282.5m
(2012: £1,297.4m)
 Grocery
£837.4m (65.3%)
 Bread
£445.1m (34.7%)
Group Divisional Contribution
£228.1m
(2012: £222.4m)
 Grocery
£196.7m (86.2%)
 Bread
£31.4m (13.8%)
Group Employees
1
8,379
(2012: 9,787)
 Grocery
4,283 (51.1%)
 Bread
4,096 (48.9%)
Photograph
A broad range of food products 
that consumers know and love.
1. Average monthly number of people employed
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
06 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Bread (underlying)
 Branded 
Revenue
£346.6m (77.9%)
 Non-branded 
Revenue
98.5m (22.1%)
Revenue Divisional Contribution
£445.1m
1
£31.4m
(2012: £443.3m) (2012: £26.9m)
1. Excludes Milling sales of £221.9m (2012: £191.4m).
The Bread division operates principally in the wrapped bread market 
and in addition manufactures non-branded bread and morning goods. 
The Bread division also incorporates the Group’s Milling business, 
Rank Hovis, which is one of the UK’s leading millers and produces 
a wide range of bulk flours and branded and non-branded bagged 
flours. Milling comprises a vertically integrated milling operation which 
supports the Baking and Grocery businesses and a separate stand 
alone free trade (business to business) milling operation. 
Power Brand
Hovis
Support brands
Granary, Mother’s Pride 
and Ormo 
Highlights for 2013
•	 Major restructuring of the Bread and Milling businesses 
implemented to drive sustainable growth.
•	 Best of Both relaunch.
•	 Licensing agreement for Hovis Breakfast Bakes.
In 2013 we produced around . . . 
11 million loaves and 1.8 million packs other bakery products each 
week. 25,000 orders received each week with daily distribution to 
around 4,000 stores and depots. 
800,000 tonnes of flour.
Locations (proposed Hovis joint venture)
 Bakeries
1 Erith
2 Forest Gate
3 Glasgow
4 Leicester
5 Mitcham — Sebon
 Mills
1 Gainsborough 
(wheat maltings)
2 Manchester
3  Newbridge- 
Fleming Howden
4 Selby
5 Southampton
6 Wellingborough
 Integrated Bakery 
 Sites & Logistics
1 Avonmouth
2 Belfast
3 Bradford
4 Nottingham
5 Wigan
Grocery (underlying)
 Branded 
Revenue
£739.7m (88.3%)
 Non-branded 
Revenue
£97.7m (11.7%)
Revenue Divisional Contribution
£837.4m £196.7m
(2012: £854.1m) (2012: £195.5m)
The Grocery division produces a wide variety of branded and non-
branded products in the ambient grocery sector, including cakes, soups, 
stocks, gravies, ambient desserts, home baking, cooking sauces and 
Asian meal solutions. Power Brands in the Grocery division include 
Ambrosia custard and rice pudding, Batchelors soups, pasta, rice and 
noodles, Bisto gravies and stocks, Loyd Grossman cooking sauces,  
Mr. Kipling cakes, Oxo stocks and Sharwood’s cooking sauces and 
Asian foods. 
Power Brands
Ambrosia, Batchelors, Bisto, 
Loyd Grossman, Mr. Kipling, 
Oxo and Sharwood’s
Support brands
Angel Delight, Bird’s, Cadbury cakes, 
Homepride, Lyons, McDougalls, Paxo 
and Smash
Highlights for 2013
•	 Launch of Ambrosia Devon Dream
•	 Launch of Oxo Shake & Flavour 
•	 Grocery Power Brand sales up 2.0%
In 2013 we produced around . . . 
390,000 tonnes of finished products. 
420 million Mr. Kipling slices. 
240 million servings of Paxo stuffing. 
210 million sachets of Batchelor’s Cup a Soup. 
14 million Oxo cubes per week.
Locations (retained business)
 Manufacturing sites
1 Andover (Mill)
2 Ashford
3 Carlton
4 Knighton
5 Leicester — 
Charnwood Foods
6 Lifton
7 Moreton
8 Stoke
9 Worksop
  Central functions and  
Business services
1 Eastleigh — Information Services
2 High Wycombe — 
Premier Analytical Services
3 Manchester — 
Premier Business Services
4 St Albans — Head Office
2
1
4
6
7
8
5
9
1
3
2
4
3
1
2
3
4
1 Corby (third party)
2 Knowsley 
(third party)
3 Rugby
4 Skelmersdale 
(third party)
  Distribution/ 
Logistics centres
 Depots/RDC
1 Dagenham
2 Eastleigh
3 Glasgow
 Central Functions
1 High Wycombe – 
Head Office
2
3
4
5
1
1
2
1
2
3
3
4
5
1
1
3
2
4
5
6
1
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
07 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Brands
Overview of the year
2013 was a year of significant success for the Group. 
Set out below are some of the key achievements covering 
our brands, sustainability and corporate activity.
January
New TV campaign 
launch for Bisto Stock 
Melts – a range of 
individual concentrated 
stock pots. Stock Melts 
offer consumers a high 
quality easy-to-use 
product, responding to 
the growing popularity of 
wet stocks.
Sustainability
Corporate
Key
Macmillan Cancer Support 
selected as our new corporate 
charity partners and we have 
made a commitment to raise 
10,000 nursing hours over a 2 
year period.
New Sharwood’s TV 
campaign launched 
to celebrate Chinese 
New Year, combined 
with strong customer 
promotional activity both 
in-store and online.
Completion of £92.5m 
sale of sweet pickles 
and table sauces to the 
Mizkan Group.
April
Launch of a new 
range of tasty and 
filling lunchtime snacks 
with the expansion of 
Batchelors ‘Cup a’ range 
to include individual 
noodle, pasta and 
rice sachets, ideal for 
today’s busy and health 
conscious consumers, 
as the new products are 
all ready in less than 5 
minutes and contain less 
than 2% fat.
May
Launch of new Oxo Shake 
& Flavour – a versatile 
and convenient product, 
available in three exciting 
flavours. It can be used 
before, during, or after 
the cooking process to 
add flavour to ordinary 
everyday meals. Ambrosia 
TV campaign launched 
to support launch of new 
Devon Dream.
March
Significant media 
focus behind key Power 
Brands with Ambrosia on 
air with “this is pudding” 
campaign and also new 
TV campaigns for Bisto 
and Loyd Grossman.
Premier Foods receives 
the prestigious Astor 
Trophy in recognition 
of our achievements 
in the management of 
occupational health at 
the RoSPA Awards.
In addition RoSPA Gold 
and Silver Health and 
Safety awards were 
awarded to 25 of our 
sites.
Restructuring of 
our Milling business 
announced to split 
the business into 
two distinct parts to 
strengthen focus and 
increase profitability.
Premier Foods 
announces it will become 
an early adopter of the 
Government’s newly 
launched front of 
pack nutrition labelling 
scheme, designed to 
give consumers more 
consistent information to 
help manage their diets.
February
June
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
08 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
July
Hovis launch a new 
packaging range with 
a transparent design to 
showcase quality and 
freshness. 
Bisto launch a new 
premium range called 
Chef’s Specials, targeting 
the dine-in-for-two sector.
Premier Foods, presented 
with the ‘Efficiency Initiative 
of the Year’ award at the 
prestigious UK National 
Recycling Awards.
Further £10m costs 
savings announced as 
part of de-complexity 
programme involving a 
review of lower margin 
products and halving the 
number of suppliers by the 
end of 2014.
August
Cadbury Mini Rolls 
launch new campaign 
to promote our new Ice 
Cream flavours range.
In addition Sharwood’s 
launch a pack redesign 
across the entire range.
Premier Foods to 
support ‘Feeding Britain’s 
Future’ an initiative to 
provide free skills training 
for young unemployed 
people across the UK. 
We are hosting events 
at over 20 of our sites 
nationwide, providing 
around 300 training 
opportunities.
September
October
Premier Foods named 
“Supplier of the Year” 
by 3663, a leading 
foodservice wholesale 
distributor and one of 
our key supply chain 
partners.
Ten year partnership 
agreement signed 
with Swire Foods, to 
distribute Ambrosia rice 
pudding pots in China 
as part of our strategy 
to expand the customer 
base beyond our existing 
channels.
Batchelors to add three 
new flavours to its Deli 
Box line-up: Sweet & Sour 
Noodles, Bolognese Pasta 
and Tomato & Chilli Pasta.
Premier Foods wins two 
coveted awards – Food 
Manufacturing Company 
of the Year at the Food 
Manufacturing Excellence 
Awards and Grocery Business 
Partner of the Year (Retail) 
at the Landmark Wholesale 
Awards
November
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
09 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
At the time we report our results 
for the year ending 31 December 
2013, we are also announcing a 
major Capital Restructuring.
This includes proposals for a new Revolving Credit Facility with a 
streamlined bank syndicate, a revised schedule of deficit contributions 
with our pension schemes and a proposal to raise approximately 
£350m in new equity and approximately £475m in high yield bonds. 
Once completed, this Capital Restructuring, will significantly transform 
the capital base of the Group, reducing our leverage.
Hovis Joint Venture
In addition over the course of 2013 management successfully 
implemented a major restructuring of the Bread division to reduce 
excess capacity and improve the efficiency of the business. This 
involved the closure of three bakery sites, two flour mills and a major 
reconfiguration of the logistics network. In November, we confirmed 
that we were looking at options to secure new investment in the 
business and I am delighted to report that in January 2014 we 
announced a conditional agreement to establish a joint venture with 
The Gores Group. This is great news for the Hovis business as it will 
unlock a significant, five-year investment programme to improve its 
operational infrastructure and reinvigorate the Hovis brand. Premier 
Foods will also retain a 49% stake in the business allowing the Group 
to share in the expected future gains of this investment. Further details 
of the joint venture can be found in the Operating review.
I believe that both these announcements are significant milestones 
in the Group’s turnaround strategy and will result in the creation of 
a strong and focused Grocery business going forward. Your Board 
are fully supportive of these proposals and have committed to 
participate fully in the proposed rights issue in respect of their personal 
shareholdings.
Shareholders should be aware that both the Capital Restructuring and 
Hovis joint venture are dependent on shareholder approval at a General 
Meeting to be held on 20 March 2014 and therefore subject to risk and 
uncertainty. Details of the risks and uncertainties are set out in detail on 
page 29.
Performance for the year
I am pleased to report that Gavin and the management team have also 
clearly demonstrated their commitment and ability to deliver trading 
results for 2013 in line with market expectations. This is particularly 
impressive given the challenging customer and consumer environment 
facing our industry. Grocery Power Brands sales grew 2.0% in the 
year benefiting from sustained investment in marketing and we also 
regained some momentum on Support brands in the final quarter. 
In line with our strategy to focus on branded sales we also exited a 
number of non-profitable own label contracts which meant that 
Chairman’s Statement
A transformational year for Premier Foods
David Beever
Chairman
Underlying Trading Profit
£145.2m 17.7%
(2012: £123.4m)
Net Debt
£830.8m
12.6%
(2012: £950.7m)
“The announcements to create 
a new joint venture for Hovis 
and a new Capital structure 
are significant milestones in the 
Group’s turnaround strategy 
and will result in the creation of 
a strong and focused Grocery 
business going forward.”
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
10 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
overall underlying sales were marginally down by 1.1% year on year. In 
addition, we made further progress in reducing the Group’s overhead 
cost base and in reducing complexity through streamlining our supplier 
base and eliminating low margin products. Together, this performance 
helped support a 17.7% increase in underlying Trading profit for the 
year to £145.2m with adjusted earnings per share up 63.7% to 27.7p.
This demonstrates the Group’s category-focused growth strategy is 
starting to bear fruit. Further information on our strategy is set out in the 
Chief Executive’s Review on pages 12 and 13. 
Leadership
In September 2013 we announced the appointment of Alastair Murray 
as CFO in place of Mark Moran. Alastair has extensive strategic, 
commercial, financial, pensions and consumer brand experience built 
up over many years with a number of leading food and consumer 
goods companies. This is a key appointment and I’m sure Alastair 
will make a major contribution as we complete the transformation of 
the business. In May, we welcomed Pam Powell as a non-executive 
director. Pam has more than 20 years marketing experience developing 
some of the world’s leading consumer brands, and her appointment 
will be a tremendous benefit as we look to continue the growth of our 
Power Brands. 
Ian McHoul, who was reaching the end of his third term in office this 
year, retired as a director at the AGM on 25 April 2013. On behalf of 
the Board I would like to thank both Mark and Ian for their significant 
contribution to the Group over a number of years. Full details of all 
the Board changes in 2013 are set out in my introduction to the 
Governance section on pages 46 and 47. This also includes a detailed 
update on our governance process, Board evaluation exercise and 
dialogue with shareholders over the course of the year. 
Employees
I would like to thank all staff at Premier Foods for their continued hard 
work and commitment in delivering the 2013 results. During the year 
we undertook a number of change programmes as we continued to 
adapt the organisation’s structure to a more focused portfolio and 
completed the planned restructuring of the Bread business. Regrettably 
many of our colleagues left the business as a result. Management 
moved quickly to communicate changes and provide clarity for those 
affected, however, I fully recognise this has been a challenging time for 
all concerned. 
In September 2013 we experienced industrial action at our Wigan 
bread bakery. This was a local dispute related to the use of agency 
workers and I am pleased that an agreement was swiftly reached 
allowing us to move forward and rebuild strong relations at the site. 
As part of our ongoing commitment to support the Group’s category-
focused growth strategy we have strengthened capabilities in a number 
of areas during 2013, doubling the number of apprenticeships at our 
sites, restarting our graduate recruitment programme and building 
resource within our innovation teams.
Our employees up and down the country worked extremely hard to 
raise funds to support our chosen charity, Macmillan Cancer Support. 
Together with the generosity of our suppliers, we raised nearly £200k 
for the charity helping support the invaluable work of Macmillan nurses.   
Sustainability
A key part of our overall strategy is to drive sustainability in everything 
we do whether that applies to financial results or in the way we use 
natural resources. 
In 2013, we continued to make good progress in reducing our 
environmental footprint. For example, all of our manufacturing sites are 
now officially accredited as ‘zero waste to landfill’ sites. 
In product terms, we continued to deliver nutritional improvements 
through reducing salt and calories and, as part of a pioneering group 
of retailers and manufacturers, committed to introduce colour-coded 
front of pack nutritional labelling across all our branded products to 
help consumers make more informed choices. We also joined forces 
with others in industry to address a projected future shortage of food 
engineers by encouraging apprenticeships and becoming a founding 
supporter of the National Centre of Excellence in Food Engineering to 
be established at Sheffield Hallam University.
I am delighted that our achievements in this area received external 
recognition with the Group winning several different awards including 
‘Manufacturing Company of the Year’ at the 2013 UK Food 
Manufacturing Excellence Awards and ‘Efficiency Initiative of the Year’ 
at the 2013 UK National Recycling Awards. Further information about 
our approach to Sustainability is set out on page 26.
Looking forward
Whilst there are signs that the economic conditions in the UK are 
now starting to improve, consumer spending remains subdued and 
competition on the high street continues to be intense. The Group 
has a clear strategy to deliver growth in a tough market. I believe the 
successful completion of the proposed Hovis joint venture and Capital 
Restructuring will transform Premier Foods into a focused, high-margin 
Grocery business with a stable capital structure which will further 
enable management to focus its full attention on delivering against our 
strategy to drive profitable category growth. I very much look forward 
to making further progress in 2014.
David Beever 
Chairman
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
11 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
As part of our recently announced 
Capital Restructuring, we set out a 
seven-point investment proposition 
that highlights the strengths and 
opportunities of the new Premier 
Foods (see panel on page 16). I 
believe there are strong reasons to 
invest in the future of the Company. 
Premier Foods is a high-quality, branded Grocery business with 
strong EBITDA margins, operating cash flows and growth prospects. 
Together with a new capital structure and pension deficit contribution 
arrangements, we have a positive foundation to drive future growth.
How have you found your first year at Premier Foods?
It’s been an eventful, yet hugely exciting year. When I joined the 
Company I had four key goals in mind. Firstly, I wanted to maintain our 
trading momentum and deliver our results for 2013 in line with market 
expectations. I’m delighted we’ve been able to do that despite a 
challenging consumer environment. Looking further ahead, I was keen 
we find a sustainable solution for the Hovis business and additionally 
address our capital structure and pension deficit in a way that would 
create greater certainty and confidence in the future of our business for 
all stakeholders. Finally, I believed it was important to map out a clear 
strategy to continue to grow the Premier Foods business in the coming 
years. I’m proud that we’ve been able to deliver on all of these goals.
Are you satisfied with how the business 
performed in 2013?
Broadly, yes. Last year was difficult for the food industry generally 
as consumer disposable incomes remained under pressure, driving 
a more intense promotional environment with little overall volume 
growth in the market. The very hot summer also affected some of our 
categories with a consequent impact on our brands. This meant we 
lost some of the momentum of the first half of the year, although we 
did continue to grow market share in several of our categories. Grocery 
Power Brand sales grew 2.0 % in the year and sales of our Support 
brands grew 1.1% in the final quarter, reversing previous declines. 
We also made significant progress in reducing our overhead costs 
and kick-started a new initiative to reduce complexity throughout the 
business. The progress we made in 2013 gives us a good base on 
which to build in 2014 and the coming years.
Chief Executive’s Review
A new focused Grocery business
Gavin Darby
Chief Executive 
Officer
“Our strategy to drive category 
growth is the best way to grow 
our brands. Simply put, it’s 
about encouraging more people 
to use more of our brands, in 
more ways, more often.”
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
12 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
What difference will the Hovis joint venture make?
After all the painful restructuring in 2013 to reduce excess capacity and 
improve the efficiency of both the Baking and Flour Milling businesses, 
it was essential we find a way to secure the investment necessary to 
implement our longer-term plan to grow the business. The joint venture 
with The Gores Group does just that. The agreement helps unlock a 
major investment plan to improve the operational infrastructure and re-
invigorate the Hovis brand, and enables Premier Foods to share in the 
expected upside of this investment through a 49% stake in the venture. 
With the Hovis business as part of a joint venture, we can now focus 
our full attention on growing our core Grocery business.
Will the new capital structure be more sustainable than 
previous restructurings?
The new capital structure significantly reduces our leverage, diversifies 
our sources of funding and provides a longer-term arrangement 
that helps provide stability and certainty. The planned raising of 
approximately £350m in new equity will reduce our adjusted Net debt 
to 3.3x our 2013 Grocery EBITDA and significantly reduce our interest 
payments. The constructive agreement we reached with our pension 
trustees on deficit contributions will also be a great help in allowing 
the Company to continue its recovery, as we’ll effectively reduce our 
contributions by £156m over the first three years of the agreement. 
This is transformational for the Group, and important to all our 
stakeholders as it provides the means and focus to continue investing 
in growing our brands. 
How do you plan to grow the business in the 
current trading environment? 
At our Half Year results in 2013, I outlined our strategy to drive category 
growth as the best way to achieve growth of our brands. This remains 
our focus. Growing the size of the market sectors we operate in, 
as well as our share of those sectors, is a more sustainable way to 
drive growth in partnership with our customers. Simply put, it’s about 
encouraging more people to use more of our products, in more ways, 
more often. Innovation and marketing are critical to this approach and 
we’ll be further investing in both in support of our brands and funded 
by a tight control over costs. More information on our category growth 
strategy is set out on page 16.
How important is innovation for Premier Foods?
Innovation and marketing are central to our category growth strategy. 
In addition to developing new products, we look for new ways to 
improve our existing products, encourage new uses and create 
innovative ways to communicate about our brands. The launch of 
Ambrosia Devon Dream last year is a good example of how we’ve 
stretched the Ambrosia brand into the summer months with a lighter 
dessert topping. Oxo Shake & Flavour is another innovation that helps 
take the Oxo brand from traditional stock cubes to a versatile range of 
seasonings. Over the past two years, we’ve stepped up our marketing 
to support our innovation and remind consumers how great our 
products taste. For example, Ambrosia custard was back on TV for the 
first time in a decade in 2013 and Batchelors was advertised on TV for 
the first time in five years. We’ve also been investing in other ways to 
advertise and promote our brands through digital channels and creative 
partnerships. 
How are you addressing changing shopping patterns?
The strength and breadth of our brand portfolio, together with our 
manufacturing and supply chain capabilities, gives us a big advantage 
in serving today’s multi-format retail environment. Most of our sales 
remain with the major supermarkets and we work hard to strengthen 
our partnership with these customers by developing joint business 
plans. But we also have opportunities and plans to grow with other 
channels which, although a smaller part of the market, are becoming 
increasingly popular. These include convenience outlets, foodservice, 
branded discounters and online. Our flexibility to produce different 
pack and case sizes, and offer product formats under the banner of 
our Support brands, gives us a broad scope to meet the different 
requirements of these customers.
Given the competitive environment, what scope do you 
have to reduce costs as a way to build profitability?
It’s important to continue improving our efficiency and effectiveness 
to fund the investment needed in our innovation and marketing 
activities. Over the past few years we’ve been very good at reducing 
our overhead costs and maintaining a tight rein over manufacturing 
and logistics costs, and we’ll continue with this level of control. In 
2013 we initiated a further focus on reducing complexity throughout 
the business as a way to step-change our thinking. As a result, we 
committed to cutting our supplier base in half by the end of 2014 
through developing fewer, longer-term strategic partnerships. We also 
looked at the profitability and strategic fit of every one of our products 
resulting in the elimination of more than 400 low-margin products from 
the portfolio so far. There are many other opportunities to go after. 
What are you doing to motivate employees and build a 
winning team culture?
It’s been a tough time for our people over the last few years given 
the degree of change. Many of our colleagues have left as part of 
businesses we’ve sold and our Hovis colleagues will soon be part 
of the new joint venture. We have also had to make some difficult 
decisions to slim down our overhead structures and improve our 
operational efficiency, particularly in the Bread business. I believe 
we are substantially through that period now and we’re preparing 
for the future. We’re taking a fresh look at our purpose, vision, 
values and behaviours, and we have started to invest more in our 
people, for example through re-initiating our Graduate Recruitment 
programme, doubling the number of apprentices and strengthening our 
commercial skills. Whilst this remains a journey, I’m encouraged by the 
determination of the Premier Foods team to deliver a bright future for 
our business. 
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
13 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
DID YOU KNOW?
SINCE 2011 WE 
HAVE REDUCED 
SALT LEVELS
IN OUR PRODUCTS 
BY MORE THAN 
286 TONNES.
Sharwood’s packaging 
re-design
In 2013 we launched a packaging re-design across the entire 
Sharwood’s range aimed at helping us to stand out from other 
brands and make it easier to shop for Sharwood’s. The new 
design reflects the positioning for the brand which is all about 
‘making meal times come alive’.
The new packaging, as pictured here, is easier to read and more 
recognisable with a consistent logo across the whole range. The 
improved pack hierarchy includes colour signposting to identify 
individual flavours as well as signage of heat levels on both the label 
and the shelf ready packaging. Accompaniments, such as Naan 
breads, have also been colour coded to match the ranges they 
complement. 
For more information on Consumers
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Strategic
Review
CONTENTS
The Strategic Review sets out the key 
elements of our strategy, our approach to 
sustainability, risk management and how 
we have performed against our KPI’s.
Strategy and Business Model 16-17
Consumers and Brands 18-19
Customers 20-21
People 22-23
Costs 24-25
Sustainability 26-27
Risk Management 28-31
Key Performance Indicators 32-33 22941.04 24 March 2014 3:06 PM    Proof 3
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
CONSUMERS
 
BRANDS
G 
COSTS
PEOPLE
 
CUSTOMERS
 
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO  
 
 
 
SUSTAINABILITY  
 
 
 
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO
DRIVING 
CATEGORY 
GROWTH
No.1 position in 
each of our five 
Categories. 
Investment Proposition
Focus on Growth Categories
We operate in two large and growing segments, Savoury Meal 
Making and Sweet Foods where we have a leading position in 
all our categories – Flavourings & Seasonings, Cooking Sauces 
& Accompaniments, Easy Eating, Ambient Desserts and 
Ambient Cake.
Broad stable of leading brands driving category 
growth through marketing and innovation 
We are using our leading Power brands and Support brands to 
drive category growth by invigorating the core offering, driving 
new uses, developing new products and finding innovative ways 
to communicate and market our brands.
Diverse manufacturing processes provide wide 
scope to innovate
We have large-scale manufacturing scale in the UK with 
multiple technologies and capability to produce a wide variety of 
packaging formats.
Strong capabilities to serve today’s multi-format 
retail environment 
We have invested in building strong partnerships and put in place 
joint business plans with our major customers. 
Continued cost reduction to support 
brand investment
We are focused on delivering cost savings through management 
of controllable costs and a sustained reduction in complexity 
which is reinvested in consumer marketing.
Strong operational cash flows
The underlying business is resilient and cash generative creating 
cash flow to reinvest in the category growth strategy. 
Committed and experienced management team
We have a new dynamic management team with significant 
experience from across the food and consumer goods industry.
Strategy and Business Model
Focused on driving category growth
The Group’s strategy is to drive 
category growth 
In 2013 the Group’s strategy evolved from a focus on growing its 
Power Brands to include a broader approach to growing the categories 
in which they operate. This shift to driving category growth reflected 
three factors. Firstly, our growth will be more sustainable if we compete 
not just for market share but for a greater share of a growing market. 
Secondly, our retail customers are more interested in partnering with 
businesses that are aligned with their own interest in growing the 
broader category. And finally, our leading position in our five core 
categories and broad stable of Power Brands and Support brands 
gives us a distinct advantage and opportunity to drive growth in the 
overall category.
We saw some early benefits from this strategy last year. All five of our 
categories grew by varying degrees with particularly strong growth 
in the Ambient Desserts and Flavourings & Seasonings categories in 
which Premier Foods’ value share growth outperformed the category.
Business Model
We implement our strategy through our business model. This is based 
around 5 elements:
•	 Consumers: capitalising on our UK specific category insights to 
identify growth opportunities;
•	 Brands: driving category building innovation with pace;
•	 Customers: maximising mutual value from our customer 
partnerships;
•	 People: building structures, capabilities and culture to support our 
category focus.
•	 Costs: aggressively seeking out ways to improve efficiency and 
effectiveness to fund growth investment; and
Further information on each of these elements is set out in this section 
of the annual report.
Sustainability in everything we do . . .
Ultimately we aim to deliver sustainability in everything we do whether that applies to financial results or in the way we use natural resources. 
Wider sustainability issues are becoming more and more important with our customers and consumers. We believe our strategy will build a 
platform for a more stable, sustainable business which will deliver profitable results and shareholder value.
Our approach to sustainability extends across the whole business from our commitment to reduce our impact on the environment to how we 
source our raw materials and ensure the highest levels of quality and food safety. It also guides how we address consumer concerns about health 
issues in respect of certain nutrients and ingredients, as well as labelling and portion size.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
16
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 3:06 PM    Proof 3
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
CONSUMERS
 
BRANDS
G 
COSTS
PEOPLE
 
CUSTOMERS
 
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO  
 
 
 
SUSTAINABILITY  
 
 
 
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO
DRIVING 
CATEGORY 
GROWTH
Our Categories
Category
Total market size 
and market growth
1
Our  
market 
position
2
Our brands Segment
Savoury  
Meal Making
Cooking Sauces & 
Accompaniments £1,115m +1.6% No.1
Flavourings & 
Seasonings £407m +4.6% No.1
Easy Eating £363m +5.6% No.1
Sweet Foods
Ambient Cakes £954m +0.9% No.1
Ambient Desserts £318m +3.1% No.1
1 
Source: Symphony IRI, value share, 2 year growth rates, 52 weeks ending 28 December 2013 and 52 weeks ending 29 December 2012.
2
Category positions refer to branded share.
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
CONSUMERS
 
BRANDS
G 
COSTS
PEOPLE
 
CUSTOMERS
 
DRIVING
CATEGORY
GROWTH
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO  
 
 
 
SUSTAINABILITY  
 
 
 
DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY IN EVERYTHING WE DO
DRIVING 
CATEGORY 
GROWTH
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
17
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Capitalising on our UK specific 
insights to identify growth 
opportunities and drive category 
building innovation
Our brands continue to be firm family favourites and around 95% of 
UK households have at least one of our brands in their kitchens. This 
gives us both a responsibility and an opportunity. Our consumers 
expect us to deliver great tasting, high quality products every time. 
They also expect us to take the time to understand their busy lives and 
bring them new products, formats and ideas to make things easier in 
the kitchen and delight their families. Our strategy is to use our deep 
insights and understanding of UK consumers to continue improving our 
brands, making them even more relevant and identify opportunities to 
innovate that will help us grow.
Consumer insights 
We have a lot of expertise and experience when it comes to 
understanding our consumers. Analysing research data is important. 
But seeing and hearing first hand the challenges facing our consumers 
adds that extra dimension. We spend time visiting consumer homes, 
conducting focus groups and also asking our employees what they 
care about when it comes to food and how they shop. Building this 
broader understanding of consumer behaviour gives us an insight into 
what we can do to make our existing products better and develop new 
products that fulfil a need. 
In today’s environment, consumers are under pressure with many 
demands on the family budget. Households are having to spend more 
to feed their families which is driving a change in shopping behaviour. 
In an attempt to seek out the best value, consumers are prepared 
to shop more frequently at different outlets. Whilst the main shop is 
still with the supermarkets and increasingly through online channels, 
more people are topping up with trips to discounters and convenience 
outlets. This has an impact on our pack, price and promotional strategy 
as well as how we serve different retail channels.
One further consequence of this environment is that more consumers 
are choosing to eat more meals at home and prepare lunchboxes for 
school or work. Given our focus on Savoury Meal Making and Sweet 
Foods, this gives us a great opportunity. Roast dinner, curry, spaghetti 
bolognese and pasta and sauce remain amongst the top ten favourite 
meals in the UK which plays to our strengths. Indulgence is also an 
important trend as people find time for a pudding or a sweet treat to 
make life a little more bearable. Using our trusted brands to provide 
options, solutions and ideas for family mealtimes that taste great and 
won’t let the cook of the house down therefore becomes an important 
driver of our brand strategy. Longer-term consumer trends in favour of 
health and nutrition and convenience also need to be reflected in our 
thinking.
Innovation 
Innovation is a key part of our strategy.  But this doesn’t always 
mean breakthrough ideas and products that have never been seen 
before. Often it’s about stretching our brands to provide just the right 
amount of adventure and inspiration that our consumers are looking 
for to make mealtimes enjoyable. We also take care to ensure that 
any innovation we bring to the market is sustainable and, wherever 
possible, incremental, so helping to expand the overall category as well 
as our share of the category.
CONSUMERS BRANDS
INSIGHTS TO 
IDENTIFY GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIES
Sustainability in everything we do...
New front-of-pack nutritional labelling
Premier Foods is doing its bit to help our customers take control of their diets 
by rolling out new front-of-pack, colour coded nutrition labelling across all of 
our brands in 2014. 
Along with the major retailers and a number of other manufacturers, we made a public 
commitment last year to adopt the Government’ s newly recommended labelling scheme. 
The new labels will list the calorie content and the level of fat, saturated fat, sugars and 
salt per portion of the product in relation to the Reference Intake of the respective nutrient 
(previously known as the Guideline Daily Amount or GDA). The labelling icons will be 
colour-coded with red, amber or green to indicate whether the product is high, medium or 
low in a particular nutrient helping consumers make more informed choices. The labelling 
will be rolled-out to all of our brands during the course of the year and complements other 
pledges we’ve made within the context of the Department of Health sponsored ‘Public 
Health Responsibility Deal’. These include commitments to eliminate trans fats from our 
products, lower salt levels and reduce calories.
For more information on  
Sustainability see page
26
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
18
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
-
We have a tried and tested innovation process that starts with our 
consumer insights and overall category strategy. We then explore 
concepts and ideas based on the input of our development kitchens 
and our technological and manufacturing capabilities. Finally we test 
new ideas with consumers and refine them based on feedback before 
prioritising and building the business case for launch.
Innovations in 2013 have helped re-invigorate our core products, driven 
new uses for our products and extended new products beyond our 
core range. For example, we introduced Ambrosia Devon Dream as a 
lighter dessert topping which helped extend the brand into the summer 
months from the traditional winter preference for custard. We’ve also 
been expanding the range of pack and pot formats to make the brand 
accessible as an individual dessert or snack product.
In the Flavourings & Seasonings category, we launched Oxo Shake & 
Flavour as a new way to spice up a recipe or enhance a meal, adding 
new sales to the brand and category. We also continued the success 
of Bisto Stock Melts encouraging new uses for the brand in the wet 
stock segment and developed premium flavoured gravy offerings in a 
sachet under the Bisto Chef’s Specials banner.  
In the Easy Eating category, we have just launched new flavours of the 
popular Batchelors Deli-box building on the success of an innovation 
introduced in 2012 which took the category into new territory. And in 
Cooking Sauces & Accompaniments, we successfully partnered with 
our customers to take advantage of Chinese New Year to create some 
in-store theatre to encourage consumers to celebrate with a range of 
Sharwood’s sauces, noodles and prawn crackers.
Finally in the Ambient Cake category, we created a new summer idea 
for Cadbury Mini Rolls by producing ice cream flavours that consumers 
could pop in the freezer for a frozen chocolate treat. We also continued 
the success of the Mr. Kipling Snack Pack format of individually 
wrapped slices with some new flavours, including a festive Christmas 
variety. As a result of the Snack Pack success, we are investing a 
further £20m in a new line at our Carlton factory in Barnsley which will 
effectively double our capacity in the future.
Marketing
Investing in the marketing and communication of our brands is critical 
to our longer term growth, whether it be in reminding consumers about 
our existing brands or communicating new innovations. In 2013 we 
spent more than £30m in marketing our brands. This was considerably 
more than we spent in 2011 but less than 2012 partly reflecting 
improved efficiency of our spend. 
Ambrosia custard was back on TV for the first time in ten years with a 
new campaign called ‘This is Pudding’ reminding consumers how great 
custard tastes. New advertising additionally helped launch Ambrosia 
Devon Dream.
Batchelors also made a welcome return to TV for the first time in five 
years with a campaign showcasing the ‘Super’ range of rice, pasta and 
noodles. We emphasised the importance of Bisto in bringing the family 
together with our ‘Bisto - now you’re talking’ advert and also supported 
our new Bisto wet stock ‘Bisto stock melts’, with TV copy. New 
advertising supported the launch of Oxo Shake & Flavour and helped 
generate excitement for Loyd Grossman and Sharwood’s sauces.
In addition to TV advertising we continued to reach our consumers 
through a wide range of other channels from magazines to web sites to 
other digital channels such as Facebook and Twitter.  
Highlights and Key Performance Indicators
95% 
of UK households have at least one of our brands in their kitchen
1
88% 
Grocery branded mix
12.9% 
of sales from new products
96% 
of products testing superior or at par with competitors
1. Source: Kantar World panel Purchase 52 w/e 8 December 2013.
Risks
Competition
We operate in a highly competitive environment and must 
ensure that we continue to innovate with products that meet the 
expectations of our consumers if we are to continue to  
compete successfully. 
Food Quality and Safety
The safety, quality and provenance of our products is essential to 
ensure the reputation of our brands and maintain the trust of our 
consumers and customers.
For more information on 
Risks see pages
28-31
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
19
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Over 2012 and 2013 we have 
focused on building relationships 
with all of our key customers.
We have strong capabilities to serve today’s multi-format retail 
environment and have opportunities to grow in all our customer 
channels. The largest retail channels within the UK Grocery market 
are the major multiple retailers, such as Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury’s, 
WM Morrison and the Waitrose partnership (this also incorporates 
a significant proportion of online and convenience sales) and the 
majority of the Group’s sales come from these major retailers. The 
Group also sells to discounters (including Iceland and Poundland), 
wholesalers, smaller convenience stores, catering outlets (through 
the Group’s Foodservice business), food producers (which use the 
Group’s products, such as flour, in their manufacturing processes) and 
other UK retailers. Our strategy is to develop long-term relationships 
with all our customers. We work with each customer and channel to 
understand their strategic objectives, leveraging our consumer insights 
and category management expertise to maximise the opportunities for 
category growth.
Multiple Retail 
Over 2012 and 2013 we have focused on building relationships with all 
of our key customers. A key part of this process is the development of 
structured joint business plans (JBPs) with key customers which ensure 
that promotional plans, new product launches, instore marketing 
and customer service targets are aligned between the Group and its 
respective customer.  
Over the year we have made strong progress and have JBPs in place 
with each of our major customers. This process involves:
•	 Working with our customers to understand their categories and 
their strategy;
•	 Developing ways that we can align to their strategic objectives, 
our focus on the entire category allows us the opportunity to take 
category leadership; 
•	 Collaborating with customers to maximise the opportunities for 
category growth; 
•	 Using our innovation and consumer insight;
•	 Focusing on multi-format in-store execution; 
•	 Resourcing and delivering plans with excellence;
•	 Building collaborative initiatives to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the supply chain.
Convenience and online
Building strong relationships with our key retail customers is underpinned 
by our understanding of different retail formats and how the importance 
of formats is changing for each retailer. Two key areas of importance are 
convenience and online.
Whilst growth in the convenience channel as a whole was flat during 
2013, within the major multiple retailers it was in growth. This channel 
offers us the ability to flex our product offering with different case and 
pack sizes. UK Online grocery sales grew 18.9% in 2013 and represents 
another important growth opportunity. 
Customers
MAXIMISING MUTUAL
VALUE FROM OUR
CUSTOMER 
PARTNERSHIPS
Sustainability in everything we do...
Supporting our customers
Our focus on sustainability is another way in which we can work 
collaboratively with our customers. All of our major retail customers 
have developed their own bespoke sustainability programmes, objectives 
and targets. 
As a supplier of both branded and non branded products, wherever possible and 
relevant, we have aligned our sustainability approach with that of our retail customers. 
Examples include joining forces on the launch of diet and health initiatives such as 
colour coded front-of-pack nutrition and working together on ways to reduce waste 
as part of the Waste Resources Action Programme (WRAP) Courtauld Commitment. 
In addition, we work closely with customers on ensuring the provenance and 
sustainability of ingredients used in our products such as Palm Oil and Cocoa. We 
continually share best practice on ways to reduce our environmental footprint right 
across the food supply chain, from farm to fork.
For more information on  
Sustainability see page
26
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
20
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
The online channel has different dynamics to the traditional shopping trip 
which need to be understood and addressed. Our focus is to improve 
the shopper experience, making sure our products receive prominence 
in online searches and that they are correctly described with up to date 
product images. In addition we aim to maximise the potential for cross 
selling opportunities within our portfolio and link with key seasonal events 
to capture peak trading opportunities.
Discounters 
Whilst still a relatively small channel in terms of the overall market the 
discounter channel has been growing significantly over the last few years 
as consumers react to the challenging economic environment. This 
channel therefore represents a growth opportunity for the Group but has 
a different strategy and focus to multiple retailers. 
Wholesale 
Foodservice represents a diverse group of customers. Over 2012 we 
implemented standard pricing and promotional architecture across 
this channel to reduce complexity and help provide clarity in how we 
deal with all our wholesale customers. Over 2013 we moved our focus 
from the end user to developing stronger direct relationships with 
wholesalers. We also concentrated on fewer, bigger promotions with 
major brand activations around key events e.g. Bisto Sausage Week. 
The success of this change in focus has been recognised through a 
number of awards received for 2013 including ‘Foodservice Brand of 
the Year’ for Bisto and 3663 ‘Supplier of the Year’. 
International opportunities
Our principle focus is on the UK market but we believe there are also 
compelling growth opportunities for our products in international 
markets. Our international team has focused on forging key 
strategic alliances with distribution partners. As we utilise existing 
infrastructure it means we can generate incremental sales without the 
need for increased capex investment. We target markets with clear 
opportunities for UK brands. In October 2013 we announced a ten year 
partnership agreement with Swire Foods to distribute Ambrosia rice 
pudding pots in China. The initial focus is on Ambrosia rice products 
but if successful may extend to other brand such as Sharwood’s and 
Mr Kipling.
We believe there are also growth opportunities in the Irish market. 
We are building internal capability and plan to develop relations with 
key customers in the Irish market, whilst continuing to work with our 
appointed distributors.
Revenue growth management
Recognising the competitive economic environment we aim to 
maximise value from our commercial activities through disciplined 
management of revenue growth opportunities. This involves maximising 
pack-price architecture to enhance margin and using our analytical 
systems to identify how to maximise value from promotional activity 
with customers.
Diagnostic capability
We continue to invest in our systems to improve our decision making 
process. The commercial team is developing an integrated plan 
to improve:
•	 Forecasting – to simplify processes and improve accuracy;
•	 Retailer profitability modelling – to support JBPs with customers; 
and
•	 Promotional evaluation and modelling – to understand the impact of 
promotions on category, brand and customer.
Highlights and Key Performance Indicators
+2.0%
Power Brand growth in 2013
JBPs in place with major customers
Strong customer recognition:
•	 Most improved supplier to UK multiple retailers 
(2013 Advantage Group Survey)
•	 3663 ‘Supplier of the Year’
•	 Most Improved Business Partner of the Year (Retail) 
at the Landmark Wholesale Awards
Risks
Delivery of Commercial Strategy
Economic conditions have remained tough throughout 2013 
impacting both our consumers and customers. We have a 
small number of large customers and have seen continued 
margin pressure through more aggressive trade promotions and 
consumer price switching and we expect market conditions to 
remain challenging in 2014.
For more information on  
Risks see pages
28-31
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
21
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Sustainability in everything we do...
Feeding Britain’s Future
In 2013, for the second year running we took part in ‘Feeding Britain’s Future 
- Skills for Work Week’. This involves a commitment from companies across 
the food and grocery industry to open their doors to young unemployed 
people to help provide skills training that will help them gain employment. 
Over 20 of our sites got involved providing around 300 training opportunities. During 
their visit, participants spent time with the local HR teams and employees to gain 
insights into some of the skills they need to help them get a job and took part in a 
series of workshops to open their eyes to the many career opportunities within the 
food industry. The sessions included CV assessments and interview skills workshops. 
Participants also went on site tours to introduce them to how we make our products 
and what it’s like to work in the food industry. The Feeding Britain’s Future initiative 
forms just one part of our broader skills programme. 
For more information on  
Sustainability see page
26
The success of our business 
depends on the quality and 
commitment of our employees.  
We strive to attract and retain 
talented, committed employees 
and actively encourage 
development from within. 
Leadership 
We have a strong leadership team with experience drawn from a 
range of major multinational food and consumer goods companies. 
During 2013 we re-focused the leadership team to better support the 
business. This began with the creation of a single commercial team 
within Grocery and, within Bread, a standalone management team has 
been put in place to lead the restructuring of the business. In July 2013 
we announced the splitting of the Milling business to focus on serving 
our own internal business requirements, and providing a dedicated 
resource to our free trade customers. 
Learning and Development
Our Breakthrough Leadership Programme gives key managers training 
and expertise preparing them for bigger roles and enabling them to 
build effective cross-functional teams. The programme is designed 
to work with and support our business turnaround strategy and also 
develop effective leadership behaviours. In 2012 our programme won 
the John Sainsbury Award for Learning and Development, a national 
food industry accolade given at the Institute of Grocery Distributors 
(IGD) Food Industry Awards. During 2013 we re-started our graduate 
recruitment programme. We have also been active in a number of 
important programmes to develop skills in the UK, including becoming 
a founding supporter of the recently announced National Centre 
for Excellence for Food Engineering and doubling the number of 
apprenticeships at our sites.
We continue to encourage site based learning activity to ensure we are 
continually developing our employees. To complement the job specific 
training provided to employees by our sites as part of our annual 
Personal Development Review process, we also actively encourage 
participation in National Vocational Qualifications (NVQs) and Institute 
of Leadership and Management (ILM) courses so that our people can 
develop new skill sets and ways of working. 
Employee Communication 
We recognise the value of good communication in engaging employees 
in order to achieve common goals and also recognising good practice 
and individual performance. We have a number of established 
employee communication mechanisms in place including: quarterly 
meetings of the Group’s top 100 managers; regular employee briefings 
with a further cascade of information across the Group; the Group’s 
intranet site; digital channels such as Google+; the quarterly Group 
magazine; and specific consultation and involvement regarding major 
changes to the business. Our annual Employee Recognition Awards 
recognises our employees who have performed exceptionally well in 
areas focused on delivering our strategic priorities.
BUILDING STRUCTURES
CAPABILITIES &
CULTURE TO 
SUPPORT 
CATEGORY FOCUS
PEOPLE
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
22
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
All employee survey 
Since 2008 we have carried out annual surveys of our management 
population and in 2013 we undertook our first all employee survey 
co-ordinated with a leading external provider. There was a very high 
level of engagement with a response rate of 78%. This has been a 
valuable listening exercise and highlighted a number of areas for focus, 
reflecting the turnaround process the Group is currently undertaking. 
The results were distilled into three core areas for focus: Leadership; 
Customer Focus; and Operating Efficiency. This was initially presented 
to senior management and then cascaded to all employees on a 
functional/site basis. Employees were asked to feedback on the results 
and to participate in drawing up a detailed action plan to address the 
three core themes identified for action. These actions are now being 
implemented and we will continue to monitor progress over the course 
of 2014.
Workplace health & safety
Providing a safe workplace for our staff and others who work within our 
business remains a key priority for the Group. 
Since 2007 we have led a step-change in health & safety management 
which has resulted in significant and sustained improvements in health 
& safety performance across the Group. Our Health & Safety Corporate 
Plan, setting out our strategy and the bespoke initiatives which deliver 
it, has been fully adopted and embedded across our sites.
At the end of 2013, we achieved a RIDDOR Frequency Rate of 0.07 
reportable accidents per 100,000 hours representing an overall 
reduction of 87% since 2007, maintaining what we believe to be an 
industry leading performance. We also use Lost Time Accident (LTA) 
Frequency Rate as a key performance indicator as this emphasises a 
preventative focus on all accidents which cause absence from work. 
At the end of 2013, the Group LTA Frequency Rate was 0.16 LTA’s per 
100,000 hours worked, representing a 20% reduction over 2012.
Despite the progress we have made there was a major accident at one 
of our Grocery sites in 2013 which resulted in the death of a contractor 
and our thoughts and condolences are with his family. This accident is 
the first fatality at one of our sites since the Group’s flotation in 2004. 
This incident remains under investigation and we are cooperating fully 
with the authorities in conjunction with the employer of the deceased to 
establish the cause and any action necessary to prevent recurrance.
Throughout 2013 we have continued to drive our health & safety 
strategy through our unique, inclusive approach to hazard identification 
and control Total Observation Process (“TOPs”). As a result during 
2013 over 19,000 TOPs Hazards were identified and 84% of them 
were successfully closed-out. Through our site audit programme 
undertaken by an independent 3rd party auditor, the Health & Safety 
Management system across all our sites continues to be certificated to 
BS OHSAS 18001:2007.
In October 2012, Premier Foods became the first company within the 
UK Food Manufacturing Sector, to receive SEQOHS (Safe Effective 
Quality Occupational Health Service) accreditation from The Royal 
College of Physicians. In 2013 our performance was recognised by 
the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) winning 
the Astor Trophy for the management of our occupational health and 
well being service for employees. In addition RoSPA Gold and Silver 
Achievement awards were received by 25 of our individual sites.
Highlights and Key Performance Indicators
8,000 78%
Employees Response rate to all employee survey
RIDDOR Frequency Rate of 0.07 reportable accidents 
per 100,000 hours
GB
Food
Sector
Premier
Foods
0.70
0.07
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
Reduction in L TAs
2011
2012
2013
0.37
0.20
0.16
LTA rate per 100,000 hours worked
Risks
H&S
We believe we have in place best in class processes and 
procedures in health & safety supported by an ongoing programme 
of audits and internal inspections across all sites. Despite this, 
as a large manufacturing business, health & safety will remain an 
ongoing operational risk to the business.
Employee engagement
Effective engagement of the leadership team and employees is key 
to the successful delivery of our strategy. 
For more information on  
Risks see pages
28-31
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
23
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
We continue to focus on efficiency 
and effectiveness to drive cost 
reduction which funds investment 
in branded growth.
In 2013, we delivered a further £16.1m of savings from Selling, 
General and Administrative expenses (SG&A) reflecting our more 
focused portfolio. This has focused on the optimisation of structures 
particularly within central functions; simplifying reporting structures; 
the introduction of new IT systems; and reviewing ways of working 
to focus on key requirements. Since 2011 this has enabled us to 
reduce SG&A Costs by 43.5% from £147m in 2011 to £83m in 2013. 
Total SG&A costs now represents 5.5% of sales down from 7.4% in 
2011. In addition we continue to target 2–3% year-on-year savings 
in Manufacturing Controllable Costs (MCC). The savings generated 
are reinvested into targeted marketing initiatives to support branded 
growth. 
Reducing complexity 
During 2013 we also launched a major new initiative aimed at 
reducing complexity from all areas of the business. This recognised 
that significant steps were required in order to materially simplify our 
business and improve efficiency and effectiveness. The complexity 
review covers all areas of the Group including products, packaging, 
suppliers, legal entities, systems and processes.
SKU consolidation
We have carried out a full review of our entire Grocery portfolio which 
comprised over 1,700 separate stock keeping units (SKUs) – a SKU 
is a specific product item which is separate from any other due to 
brand, size, flavour, etc. Each SKU was reviewed and ranked by its 
divisional contribution and turnover. This was used to identify which 
SKUs contribute most divisional contribution to the business and which 
produce the least. Of the total portfolio 600 were identified with having 
low turnover. These were then reviewed further to understand whether 
there were opportunities to grow the SKU and increase its contribution 
or, if not, it was proposed to withdraw the product. As a result we 
have reduced the total number of Grocery SKUs to 1,250 in 2013 
representing a 26.3% reduction. Over the course of 2014 a further 
20% reduction is targeted. 
Supplier consolidation
We are committed to working in close partnership with our key 
suppliers to facilitate value creation and enhance long term sustainable 
relationships. As one of the UK’s largest food producers our preference 
is to source ingredients, products and services from UK producers and 
suppliers. Last year we spent around £1.3bn with suppliers, and of 
this, 80% was with UK producers and suppliers.
The procurement team had led a step change to rationalise our supply 
base. This generates savings through greater economies of scale, 
leads to process improvements that reduce complexity across the 
Group and also forges strategic relationships with key suppliers that 
supports innovation. 
COSTS
AGGRESSIVE FOCUS 
ON EFFICIENCY 
& EFFECTIVENESS
Sustainability in everything we do...
“Zero waste to landfill”
Over the course of the year we significantly reduced the amount of waste we 
send to landfill from our sites by 67% to 1,065 tonnes. 
In fact, by the end of 2013 we were delighted to announce that our target to achieve 
‘zero waste to landfill’ across all of our sites by 2015 has been achieved - two years 
early. This ambitious target was set to help reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill 
sites which are due to reach capacity by 2018 and reduce our costs in the process. 
Our approach starts with trying to prevent or reduce the amount of waste generated in 
the first place and then ensuring that any waste that is created is recycled or sent for 
incineration with high energy recovery.
This significant achievement is a result of the rigorous environmental improvement 
and compliance programme embraced by each of the site teams. This includes our 5 
star Environmental Leadership Programme, data gathering, benchmarking and also 
communication programmes such as ‘Green Matters’ which encourages employees to 
do what they can to save waste and resources.
For more information on  
Sustainability see page
26
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
24
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
As part of our efforts to simplify the business we have actively reduced 
our supply base and increased spend with our leading strategic and 
preferred suppliers. For example within fixed, mobile and network 
communication we have moved from seven suppliers to a single 
provider and within facilities management we are integrating over 200 
suppliers into two long term partners. We have committed to halve the 
number of our suppliers by the end of 2014 and over the course of 
2013 we have successfully reduced our total supply base from 3,300 
to 2,460 and increased total spend with our top 250 suppliers to 84%. 
Business disposals and transitional services
During 2012 we undertook a major £370m disposal programme 
allowing us to simplify the business and reduce our overhead costs. 
The disposals required careful management of complex transitional 
services between the Company and purchaser to provide an orderly 
separation of the business. This ensured that orders, production 
and delivery standards were maintained for our customers. These 
transitional services were carefully managed over the course of the year 
and have now been successfully completed.
Consolidation of Grocery logistics
The disposal and complexity reduction programmes also provided the 
opportunity to optimise the size of our logistics footprint within Grocery. 
The reduction in overall volume has allowed us to move to a regional 
distribution centre operating model. Under this model we have two 
depots each stocking the entire range of our products. This will benefit 
customers by allowing them to make a single order per day. For the 
Company it increases vehicle load ensuring overhead efficiency and 
also allows us to move from three to two facilities. 
Bread and Milling restructuring
Over the course of the year we have implemented the initial phase of 
a major restructuring within our Bread division to reduce our cost to 
serve and improve profitability. A standalone management team has 
been put in place to manage the Bread division. In addition the Milling 
business has been split into two parts one serving our internal Bakery 
and Grocery businesses and one focused on free trade (third party) 
customer base.
A restructuring of the Bakery and Milling footprint has also been 
undertaken to optimise the division’s operating footprint following the 
exit of an unprofitable own label contract. As previously announced 
this has resulted in the closure of three bakery sites, three distribution 
centres and two mills. We have also undertaken a major restructuring 
of Bread logistics operations which has removed 130 distribution 
routes. At the same time we are increasing capital investment in Bakery 
to improve efficiency, quality and service.
In January 2014 we announced an agreement to establish a joint 
venture for our Bread business with The Gores Group.
Risk
Project execution
We are currently undertaking a significant number of internal 
cost saving and restructuring projects which cover products, 
suppliers, operations and logistics (including the separation and 
transitional service arrangements in respect of the proposed Hovis 
joint venture) and there is a risk that these may not be executed 
effectively.
We have a strong track record of project delivery (see transitional 
services above) and have identified resource and appointed 
experienced project management teams. 
  
For more information on  
Risks see pages
28-31
Highlights and Key Performance Indicators
84%
of spend with top 250 suppliers
SG&A Costs (£m)
16.3%
2011
2012
2013
£147m
£99m
£83m
Reduction in SKU complexity
26.5%
2012
2013
1,700
1,250
Reduction in supplier complexity
25.5%
2012
2013
3,300
2,460
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
25
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
At Premier Foods we’re 
serious about our approach 
to sustainability. We know it’s 
important to the outside world 
and to our people.
Anyone with an interest in our products or our business wants to know 
we’re doing the right things to ensure the quality of our food, to reduce 
our impact on the environment, to help our consumers make healthier 
choices, and are pulling our weight as an employer in one of the UK’s 
biggest industries. 
Quality and food safety
The source of ingredients in the food consumers buy has become ever 
more important to them, as an assurance of quality and of knowing it 
comes from sustainable suppliers. We hold our suppliers to account 
for the provenance and traceability of their ingredients, and continue 
to buy around 80% of our goods, services and ingredients from UK 
suppliers to give us even greater confidence. And we make every effort 
to buy from suppliers who do the right thing – a good example is our 
commitment to sustainable Palm Oil buying practices, for which we 
were listed as amongst the top 5 places in the World Wide Fund for 
Nature’s global palm oil scorecard in 2013. Putting sustainability central 
to the way we buy helps us ensure the future security and supply of 
ingredients, so we can continue to make the great tasting food our 
consumers can trust. 
Sustainable manufacturing
When it comes to manufacturing, our culture of sustainability has 
yet again helped us make good progress in 2013 against our key 
environmental targets (see table). Our achievements in using less 
natural resources contributed to us winning the ‘Manufacturing 
Company of the Year’ at the 2013 UK Food Manufacturing Excellence 
Awards and the ‘Efficiency Initiative of the Year’ at the 2013 UK 
National Recycling Awards. We also effectively achieved our target of 
‘Zero waste to landfill’ by the end of 2015 two years early. ‘Zero waste 
to landfill’ is agreed to apply when <1% of waste goes to landfill, a 
figure we achieved at all but one of our manufacturing sites by July  
of 2013. 
Diet and health
We work to help our consumers look after their health, and that of their 
families, by providing more ‘better for you’ product choices. We have 
health and nutrition action plans for all our brands, and set targets for 
improving nutritional value by adding ‘positive’ ingredients including 
wholegrains, fruits or vegetables, or by reducing salt, calories and 
trans fats. For instance, we target 50% of our new products to have 
a claimable nutrition or health benefit or be available in smaller portion 
packs. In addition, as a signatory to the Department of Health Public 
Health Responsibility Deal, we achieved our publicly committed target 
to remove 286 tonnes of salt from our products since 2011. We are 
also on track to achieve our further commitment to reduce calories 
across one-third of our portfolio by the end of 2014. 
To help our consumers take control of their diets, during 2013 we were 
among the first to commit to adopt the Government’s new front-of-
pack, colour-coded nutrition labelling across all our brands. We’ve had 
front of pack labelling for years, but adopting the Government scheme 
will make it easier for consumers to make the right choices and 
compare products from different manufacturers. All of our brands will 
carry the labelling by the end of 2014.
People
As a large employer, we see it as part of our sustainability commitment 
to help our industry and country develop the skills to compete in 
the future. Our industry faces a future lack of food engineers and so 
we’ve committed to support the newly formed National Centre of 
Excellence for Food Engineering based at Sheffield Hallam University. 
We’re helping encourage them to train their student engineers with 
the skills needed by industry to enable them to create the innovative 
food and sustainable packaging solutions of the future. In 2013  we 
also signed up to support the Department of Business, Innovation 
and Skills’ ‘Apprenticeship Trailblazer’ initiative, through which we’re 
helping develop new standards and assessments for Food and Drink 
Engineering Apprenticeships, helping ensure they develop the skills 
our modern industry needs. We’ve also been helping address the 
general skills shortage by doubling our support during 2013 for the 
Institute of Grocery Distribution’s ‘Feeding Britain’s Future’ campaign, 
aimed at improving the prospects of thousands of unemployed young 
people across the country. In supporting the campaign we’ve provided 
more than 300 training opportunities for the youngsters, including 
pre-employment skills training, and first-hand knowledge of the skills 
needed for a career in the food industry or elsewhere.
Where to find out more information
More and more, sustainability is becoming one of the ways businesses 
are judged. At Premier Foods we consider all aspects of what we do 
through the lens of sustainability, all the way from the field to tasty 
products on a shelf. 
Sustainability
Delivering sustainability in everything we do
Find out more about our approach to 
sustainability on our website:
www.premierfoods.co.uk/sustainability
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
26
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Our environmental performance 
2013 has been another successful year for Premier Foods and we have made progress against all of our key environmental KPIs details of 
which are set out below. In addition for the first time we are reporting our greenhouse gas emissions under the government’s new  
reporting requirements.
Environmental performance 2012 Vs 2013
Our five year trend shows environmental performance in absolute 
terms as a year on year comparison. In 2013 we sold or closed 
a number of sites and therefore to ensure transparency we are 
reporting our performance in both absolute and relative terms by 
reference to tonnes of product manufactured.
Environmental Performance
2013 
Absolute
2013
Relative
2014 
Target
Reduce waste sent to landfill by 10% -67% -67.1% -20%
Reduce energy consumption by 2.5% -17% -1.2% -2.5%
Reduce water usage by 3% -15% 0.3% -5%
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO
2
e) 
emissions by 2.5% -15% -2.0% -3%
Reduce road delivery miles travelled by 3% -11% -11.40% -3%
GHG Emissions
Global tonnes of CO
2
(e)
2013 2012
2011  
Base Year 
Scope 1 139,438,851 145,635,111 158,164,706
Scope 2 115,282,195 113,868,548 133,046,624
Total Annual net 
emissions 254,721,046 259,503,659 291,211,330
Intensity measurement
1
146.4 147.9 143.3
1
 Tonnes of CO2(e) per tonne of output.
The scope, organisational boundaries, and GHG inventory have been assessed using 
the widely recognised independent ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition)’. In addition, we have used the ‘Defra 2013 
Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Methodology Paper for 
Emission Factors’ to calculate our overall emissions.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting
The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Reports) Regulations 2013 requires quoted companies to report on 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for which they are responsible. 
Companies are also required to report on environmental matters 
to the extent it is necessary for an understanding of the company’s 
business within their annual report, including where appropriate the 
use of key performance indicators (KPIs).
In the table below we have detailed our scope 1 & 2 GHG 
emissions for the period 1 January to 31 December 2013 from a 
2011 baseline year.
Sustainability in everything we do: 
If you want to know more about our commitment to sustainability and 
achievements in the year why not read our 2013 Sustainability Report 
available on our website.
 
 
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
19,784
10,246
6,877
3,258
1,065
-67%
2009–2013
Waste:
Tonnes
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
1,654
1,584
1,322
946
784
-17%
2009–2013
-88% 
2008/12 
-45% 
2008/12 
-73% 
2008/12 
-48% 
2008/12 
-34% 
We have historically reported performance against our environmental KPIs in ‘absolute’ terms as a year on year comparison.  In 2012,  we divested a number of our businesses and to ensure transparency and 
take into account the impact of these disposals, we are reporting our performance in both ‘absolute’ and ‘relative’ terms.  The divested businesses included our Histon and Middleton manufacturing sites. 
Performance in Absolute terms includes divested manufacturing sites and Performance in Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
Historical environmental performance 2008/12 Environmental performance 2011/12 
*Absolute terms including divested manufacturing sites 
*Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
2012 target 2012 
Performance 
2013 
Target 
Reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% 
 
-41.8% -10.0% 
Reduce energy consumption by 3% -2.0% -2.50% 
Reduce water usage by 5% 
 
-4.2% -3.0% 
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO
2
e) emissions by 4% 
 
-3.2% -2.5% 
Reduce actual road miles travelled by 5% 
 
-28.0% -3.0% 
Energy:
Gigawatts
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
5,816
5,320
3,717
1,632
1,385
-15%
2009–2013
-88% 
2008/12 
-45% 
2008/12 
-73% 
2008/12 
-48% 
2008/12 
-34% 
We have historically reported performance against our environmental KPIs in ‘absolute’ terms as a year on year comparison.  In 2012,  we divested a number of our businesses and to ensure transparency and 
take into account the impact of these disposals, we are reporting our performance in both ‘absolute’ and ‘relative’ terms.  The divested businesses included our Histon and Middleton manufacturing sites. 
Performance in Absolute terms includes divested manufacturing sites and Performance in Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
Historical environmental performance 2008/12 Environmental performance 2011/12 
*Absolute terms including divested manufacturing sites 
*Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
2012 target 2012 
Performance 
2013 
Target 
Reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% 
 
-41.8% -10.0% 
Reduce energy consumption by 3% -2.0% -2.50% 
Reduce water usage by 5% 
 
-4.2% -3.0% 
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO
2
e) emissions by 4% 
 
-3.2% -2.5% 
Reduce actual road miles travelled by 5% 
 
-28.0% -3.0% 
Water:
Megalitres
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
478,114
448,567
369,536
265,000
224,110
-15%
2009–2013
-88% 
2008/12 
-45% 
2008/12 
-73% 
2008/12 
-48% 
2008/12 
-34% 
We have historically reported performance against our environmental KPIs in ‘absolute’ terms as a year on year comparison.  In 2012,  we divested a number of our businesses and to ensure transparency and 
take into account the impact of these disposals, we are reporting our performance in both ‘absolute’ and ‘relative’ terms.  The divested businesses included our Histon and Middleton manufacturing sites. 
Performance in Absolute terms includes divested manufacturing sites and Performance in Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
Historical environmental performance 2008/12 Environmental performance 2011/12 
*Absolute terms including divested manufacturing sites 
*Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
2012 target 2012 
Performance 
2013 
Target 
Reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% 
 
-41.8% -10.0% 
Reduce energy consumption by 3% -2.0% -2.50% 
Reduce water usage by 5% 
 
-4.2% -3.0% 
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO
2
e) emissions by 4% 
 
-3.2% -2.5% 
Reduce actual road miles travelled by 5% 
 
-28.0% -3.0% 
CO
2
(e):
Tonnes
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
74,963
66,784
58,269
48,923
43,353
-11%
2009–2013
Transport:
Million miles 
travelled
-88% 
2008/12 
-45% 
2008/12 
-73% 
2008/12 
-48% 
2008/12 
-34% 
We have historically reported performance against our environmental KPIs in ‘absolute’ terms as a year on year comparison.  In 2012,  we divested a number of our businesses and to ensure transparency and 
take into account the impact of these disposals, we are reporting our performance in both ‘absolute’ and ‘relative’ terms.  The divested businesses included our Histon and Middleton manufacturing sites. 
Performance in Absolute terms includes divested manufacturing sites and Performance in Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
Historical environmental performance 2008/12 Environmental performance 2011/12 
*Absolute terms including divested manufacturing sites 
*Relative terms to tonnes of product manufactured excluding divested manufacturing sites.  
2012 target 2012 
Performance 
2013 
Target 
Reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% 
 
-41.8% -10.0% 
Reduce energy consumption by 3% -2.0% -2.50% 
Reduce water usage by 5% 
 
-4.2% -3.0% 
Reduce Carbon equivalent (CO 2 e) emissions by 4% 
 
-3.2% -2.5% 
Reduce actual road miles travelled by 5% 
 
-28.0% -3.0% 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
27
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Risk Management
Board Accountability
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective risk 
management of the Group’s strategic objectives. The Group has 
a well established process which has operated throughout 2013 
that identifies and monitors the key strategic and operational 
risks, ensures appropriate mitigating activities and reports on their 
effectiveness.
The Board has considered and approved the risk management 
policy, the risk appetite of the Group and has delegated the review 
of the risk management process to the Audit Committee. The Audit 
Committee receives regular reports from management, internal and 
external auditors, detailing the risks that are relevant to our business 
activity, the effectiveness of our internal controls in dealing with 
these risks and any required remedial actions along with an update 
on their implementation.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the effectiveness of 
the risk management process. The day to day risk management  
is the responsibility of senior management as part of their everyday 
business processes and is underpinned by the Group’s policies and 
procedures to ensure this is fully embedded. 
There is a structured business review process that operates across 
all business areas which management report to the Board and this 
along with the corporate governance framework further underpins 
the ongoing management of risk.
Our risk control framework operates as follows:
Regulatory Authorities
Group Governance Framework
Board/Audit Committee
External Audit
Group Executive 
Operational Reviews
Internal control self 
assessments
Documented policies
and procedures
Risk Registers
Internal Audit Reports
Quarterly reporting to 
Audit Committee
Management Controls Risk Management
Financial Controller
Treasury Committee
Health & Safety/ 
Security
Food Safety
Internal Audit
1st Line of defence 2nd Line of defence 3rd Line of defence
1st Line of Defence — Management Controls 
The internal control system provides senior management with an 
ongoing process for the management of the risks that could impact 
on the fulfilment of the Group’s business objectives. The system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and provides reasonable 
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Our internal controls cover all areas of operations. The system also 
supports senior management’s decision making processes improving 
the reliability of business performance.
2nd Line of Defence — Corporate Oversight
Risk Management – The Group operates a formal risk management 
process designed to provide assurance to the Board and support the 
executive and senior management in identifying and mitigating the key 
risks facing the business on an ongoing basis. Collective top down 
executive reviews are conducted, as a minimum twice per annum, and 
detailed functional risk registers are maintained for each business area.
Financial Control – The Group maintains a strong system of accounting 
and financial management controls. Our accounting controls ensure  
data in the Group’s financial statements on pages 80 to 135 is 
reconciled to the underlying financial systems. A review of the data is 
undertaken to ensure that the true position of the Group is reflected, 
through compliance with approved accounting practices. The Group 
has a dedicated team of finance managers aligned to business areas, 
supported by systems to provide the best available decision making 
information to management on an ongoing basis. This is reflected in 
an annual budgeting process, monthly management reporting and 
ongoing investment appraisal.
Treasury and Risk Committee – This committee focuses on the 
purchases of Group commodities reviewing our policies and operational 
delivery with respect to forward trading and foreign exchange exposures. 
Health & Safety – The Group maintains an ongoing programme of health & 
safety audits and has established internal health & safety compliance tours 
in all factory sites.
Food Safety – The Group has developed and implemented Corporate 
technical standards and established an ongoing food quality and 
safety compliance programme which audits all factory sites and major 
suppliers. This supplements internal testing facilities established as part 
of our internal control system which confirm food quality, safety and 
authenticity.
3rd Line of Defence — Internal Audit
The Audit Committee meets annually to review and approve the 
internal audit programme for the year. The Committee reviews progress 
against the plan on a quarterly basis considering the adequacy of audit 
resource, the results of audit findings and any changes in business 
circumstances which may require additional audits.
The results of internal audits are reported to the Group Executive and 
senior management and where required corrective actions are agreed. 
The results of all audits are summarised for the Audit Committee 
meetings along with progress against agreed actions.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
28
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Our principal risks and 
uncertainties
The business monitors and manages the principal (high Gross) 
risks facing the business. Risks are categorised as strategic, 
those that could have a significant impact given our current 
strategic objectives and operational, those that are inherent in our 
business activity but could have a material impact. 
Summary of Major Strategic and Operational Risks
Major Strategic Risks
Proﬁt Impact
Probability
Low
<£3m
Medium
£3m – £15m
High
>£15m
Low Medium High
   4  5  6
   1  2  3
7  8  9  10
1  Achieving the 
    Capital 
    Reﬁnancing Plan
2  Implementing the
    Hovis joint venture
3  Delivering the 
    commercial 
    grocery strategy
4  Concentrated 
    retail customer 
    base
5  Products sold 
    under licence
6  Removal of 
    complexity
7  Employee 
    engagement
8  External 
    Communication
9  Retention of key 
    management
10 Business 
    disposals
Major Operational Risks
Probability
Low Medium High
Proﬁt Impact
Low
<£3m
Medium
£3m – £15m
High
>£15m
2  6  1  3  4  5
1 Systems 
failure
2 Operational 
disruption
3 Health & Safety
4 Food safety 
and regulation
5 Security 
of supply 
materials and 
services
6 Cash 
management
  
 
Capital Refinancing Plan and Hovis joint venture 
We have announced two significant milestones as part of the Group’s 
turnaround strategy, which we believe will strengthen the Group’s capital 
structure and result in the creation of a focused Grocery business going 
forward whilst at the same time providing the Hovis business with 
the best possible opportunity for success. However, both the Capital 
Refinancing Plan and the Hovis joint venture are dependent upon 
shareholder approval at our General Meeting to be held on 20 March 
2014. Both transactions are therefore subject to risk and uncertainty.
Capital Refinancing Plan 
Although the Group’ s current financing arrangements do not expire within 
the next twelve months, the Group expects that it would be unable to 
comply with certain of its financial covenants on or after 31 December 
2014. In this scenario, the Group would need to obtain certain consents or 
waivers from its lenders. If the Group were unable to maintain compliance 
with such covenants or obtain such waivers, this would lead to a default 
under the Group’ s existing financing arrangements. The Capital Refinancing 
Plan, if approved, will remove the risk around expiry or breach of our current 
financing agreements and will also reach a new solution with the Group’ s 
pension trustees. The Capital Restructuring includes proposals for a new 
Revolving Credit Facility with a streamlined bank syndicate, a revised 
schedule of contributions with our pension schemes and a proposal to raise 
approximately £350m in new equity and approximately £475m in senior 
secured notes. This will accelerate the deleveraging of the business and 
further strengthen the Group’ s balance sheet and extend the maturity profile 
of the Group’ s debt. After the Capital Refinancing Plan, the Group will be in 
a stronger position with greater flexibility to invest in, and focus on, its core 
Grocery business and implement its category based growth strategy.
Hovis Joint Venture
We believe that the Hovis joint venture will allow Management to focus 
on our core Grocery Power Brands. However, implementing the Hovis 
joint venture and ensuring a smooth separation of the Bread division will 
require a disciplined process and multifunctional expertise together with 
complex transitional services between the Company and the Hovis joint 
venture. To manage this effectively we have established a specific project 
team involving experienced personnel from the key functions of Sales, 
Finance, Technical, Logistics, Procurement, ISC, HR and Legal. The 
project team reports to a steering team, which oversees the process. 
This will help to ensure that both our ongoing Grocery business and the 
Hovis business will continue to operate effectively without interruption 
during this separation period and ensures that order, production and 
delivery standards to our customers are maintained. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
29
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Risk Management continued
Risk Dimension Mitigating Activities
STRATEGIC RISK
Commercial Grocery strategy 
Economic conditions have remained tough 
throughout 2013 impacting both consumers 
and our customers. We have seen continued 
margin pressures through more aggressive 
trade promotions and consumer price 
switching. 
For 2014 our key focus is on delivering continued growth in both our Power Brands 
and Support brands as part of our category growth strategy. We will utilise the tools we 
developed during 2013 which enable us to have a better understanding of our brand and 
customer profitability. This will help us focus our promotional and marketing spend. We will 
also continue the development of other lower cost channels: wholesalers; discounters; and 
the internet. We are also increasing our focus on innovation with additional resource 
allocated to this area and developing our international partnerships.
Retail customer base 
The Group relies on a few major UK retailers 
for a large part of its sales. If any of these 
customers comes under severe commercial 
pressure or the Group’s relationship with any 
one of these customers changes there could 
be a significant impact on volume or margin.
We will continue to work closely with our major customers on driving growth through 
category plans to which we will align our brand plans which will cover both Power Brands 
and key Support brands. As noted above we will continue to look for opportunities to 
diversify our customer footprint.
Products sold under licence agreements 
Certain of the Group’s branded products are 
produced under licences which have volume 
related sales hurdles and performance 
conditions and which will expire and may not 
be renewable on terms acceptable to the 
Group or at all.
We have formal licence agreements with Loyd Grossman, one of our Power Brands 
and Cadbury, one of our Support brands. Both have a finite life, expiring in 2026 and 
2017 respectively. There are also volume related sales hurdles and conditions around 
performance which could trigger a termination. However, performance of these brands is 
monitored on an ongoing basis and our sales and marketing teams develop category, brand 
and activity plans and invest in innovation and new products to drive sales.
Removal of complexity 
The business will carry excess cost if 
efficiency and effectiveness in the removal of 
complexity is not delivered. Cost savings also 
release funds both to invest in the delivery 
of our commercial strategy and support our 
ongoing financing requirements. 
We have established a dedicated project team to focus on reducing complexity and 
identifying cost reduction opportunities. Within procurement, we have delivered a significant 
reduction in our supply base to generate savings through greater economies of scale whilst 
building strategic relationships with key suppliers. We are also undertaking a review of our 
entire Grocery portfolio to reduce complexity and identify SKUs which are non profitable. 
In addition we continue to target year on year cost savings through the effective 
management of manufacturing and logistics controllable costs. 
Hovis joint venture risk 
The Group may not realise the anticipated 
benefits of the Hovis joint venture. Ensuring 
that the Group is properly structured post 
implementation of the Hovis joint venture 
will be key to the successful delivery of our 
strategy.
Through the joint venture, Hovis will receive renewed investment and focus. We therefore 
believe that the Hovis joint venture offers Hovis the best chance of success. The Group will 
share in any success through its shareholding in the Hovis joint venture. Depending on the 
performance of the Hovis joint venture, Premier may also be entitled to receive an element 
of deferred consideration. There is, however, a risk that neither benefit materialises. The 
Group is focussing on ensuring that it is properly structured, and has a robust operational 
framework, to deliver its strategy once the separation of the Bread division is achieved. 
Work is also ongoing to address dis-synergies which could arise in the business post-
separation.
Employee engagement 
Effective engagement of the leadership team 
and employees is key to the successful 
delivery of our strategy. The Group has 
gone through a series of major restructuring 
programmes over the last few years set 
against a difficult economic backdrop.
Our focus has been to ensure regular communication about business performance, priorities 
and expectations to encourage an understanding of the necessary actions, to re-engage 
with the senior management (top 100) team, gain buy-in and support for key actions and 
to take creative steps to promote recognition and personal development (e.g. recognition 
award schemes, ‘Breakthrough’ leadership training, and non financial incentives). We have 
completed an all employee survey which has provided a measure of the level of employee 
engagement, informed areas for improvement and led to the setting of Group and local 
priorities and action plans. Delivery is being managed locally through detailed action plans 
specific to the findings in each area but co-ordinated centrally within the HR function on  
behalf of the Group Executive. 
External Communication 
Effective management of our external 
communication is important in managing 
our corporate reputation and stakeholder 
relations. We currently have a number of 
major high profile projects under way.
Our focus will be to continue to utilise professional communications resource (in-house and 
agency) to maintain high quality and effective communications and a proactive strategy to 
promote the Company and its leadership. This is aligned and integrated with our investor 
relations activity and is designed to ensure we comply with our legal and regulatory 
disclosure obligations. This is supported by appropriate internal policies to control the  
flow of sensitive information and media response. Control of communications within  
major project activity is also ensured through appropriate policies and procedures. 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
30
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Risk Dimension Mitigating Activities
STRATEGIC RISK
Retention of key management 
Loss of key senior management could 
impact on the delivery of the business 
strategy. 
The Board and Nomination Committee maintain an ongoing dialogue with the Group 
Executive and regularly consider and review succession planning for key management. 
Through the Remuneration Committee the appropriateness of remuneration for senior 
management is regularly reviewed and appropriate risk and retention analysis is 
conducted to ensure that we have a highly motivated workforce.
Business disposals 
The Group’s business disposals, including 
establishing the Hovis joint venture, involve 
separation challenges and the risk of 
financial claims from purchasers for breach 
of warranties and indemnities. 
We have established dedicated project teams drawn from key functions of the business to 
manage transitional arrangements to ensure that orders, production and delivery standards 
are maintained to our customers. Careful planning and steering teams are also key to 
achieving smooth separation.
Our legal team have an excellent track record of transactional management and have 
undertaken thorough disclosure processes and robust negotiations, resulting in 
appropriate legal documentation to mitigate the risks of claims from purchasers.
OPERATIONAL RISK
Systems failure 
We have a high dependency on our core 
IT systems which are outsourced to a third 
party provider.
To mitigate potential risk of failure our service agreement has a high level of resilience built 
in with three distinct operating environments. We do, however, have some legacy systems 
supporting our Bread division which do not have the same levels of resilience. We closely 
monitor systems availability and have robust systems disaster recovery policies and 
procedures in place which are tested on a regular basis.
Operational disruption 
A major disruption at one of our operating 
sites could have a significant impact on 
service levels. 
We have developed appropriate business continuity plans for all sites. In addition the 
move to a regional distribution model for Grocery where a full product range is held at 
both warehouse locations has also increased our resilience. We continue to review our 
arrangements as part of our regular disaster recovery planning.
Health & safety 
In addition to the obvious human cost, a 
serious workplace injury or fatality could 
inevitably carry serious financial and 
reputational risk as well as possible legal 
consequences under applicable regulation.
We believe we have in place best in class processes and procedures in health & safety 
supported by an ongoing programme of specialist health & safety audits, an established 
programme of internal inspections across all sites. We also have a culture of engagement 
throughout the business from the Group Executive through to the shop floor to ensure that 
we continue to implement best practice and do not become complacent.
Food safety and regulation 
Three key areas of risk are: food 
contamination with a hazardous product; 
food authenticity which has gained 
focus with the ‘horsemeat’ scandal; and 
ethical trading. The first two could lead to 
regulatory sanctions and penalties and all 
three to reputational damage. 
We have robust policies and procedures in place with supplier approval and verification 
through an ongoing programme of supplier and factory audits. We conduct our own DNA 
testing for any product identified as being at risk and our surveillance programme has been 
extended to include licensed products including audits of licensed manufacturers. We are a 
member of SEDEX as part of our ethical assurance programme.
Security of supply 
Fluctuations in commodity prices, in 
particular wheat, present a significant risk to 
margin if Premier is unable to successfully 
recover through customer pricing.
To manage our exposure we have well established processes which are reported as part 
of our business review meetings. This includes, where appropriate, monthly monitoring 
on forecasts and equivalent market pricing. During the course of 2013 we have further 
rationalised our supplier base and this will help us leverage scale and strengthen our 
supplier relationships thus giving mutual benefits for preferred suppliers. We regularly 
monitorour level of dependency and risk on a supplier and category basis.
Cash management 
We have a securitised finance agreement 
in place supported by an operational 
process. Our current banking arrangements 
have, and any new banking arrangements 
entered into in connection with the Capital 
Refinancing Plan will have, covenants which 
are tested six monthly and require the 
production of forecasts which themselves 
must show compliance with targets set.
We have significantly strengthened our control processes in the core cash management 
areas within the last 12 to 18 months and are focused on maintaining these through close 
management review and the involvement of our internal audit programme. The Capital 
Refinancing Plan includes proposals for a new Revolving Credit Facility with a streamlined 
bank syndicate, a revised schedule of contributions with our pension schemes and a 
proposal to raise approximately £350m in new equity and approximately £475m in senior 
secured notes. If approved, the Capital Refinancing Plan will reduce our overall cash 
management risk. In addition, we have closed our Defined Benefit pension schemes to 
future accrual to help control pension fund liabilities.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
31
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Key Performance Indicators
Measuring the delivery of our strategy
As a business we use 
a large number of 
performance indicators 
to monitor operational 
and financial 
performance.
These are reviewed on a daily, weekly 
or monthly basis and reported to senior 
management as part of our monthly 
management accounts. These indicators 
are used to encourage focus and measure 
performance across a range of areas and to 
highlight areas for attention and corrective 
action. We have selected 10 Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) which are aligned to the 
strategic priorities of the Group.
The completion of the Capital Refinancing 
Plan and Hovis joint venture will be 
transformational for the Group and we will 
therefore review our KPIs and targets over the 
course of 2014 to ensure they remain relevant 
to the focused Grocery business and aligned 
with the delivery of our strategy.
Grocery Power Brand sales 
growth (value)
Performance
£512.6m
£533.1m
£543.5m
2011
2012
2013
We have successfully demonstrated 
another year of growth with Grocery 
Power Brands up 2.0% YoY. This is a 
result of increased marketing investment 
and closer relationships with customers.
Measurement
YoY growth in sales from Grocery Power 
Brands.
Link to Strategy
Investing behind our Power Brands to 
maximise future growth is one of our 
strategic priorities. Focusing on branded 
products improves margin potential and 
therefore increases profitability.
Focus for 2014
Grocery Power Brand growth remains 
a strategic priority and we are targeting 
2–3% growth in 2014.
Deliver £20m of additional 
overhead cost savings in 2013
Performance
£16.1m
We delivered over £20m of people related 
SG&A cost savings in the year, but this 
was partly offset by other charges resulting 
in a reduction of total SG&A costs of 
£16.1m for 2013.
Measurement
YoY overhead savings identified as part 
of our previously announced cost saving 
programme.
Link to Strategy
Business simplification and efficiency is 
one of our strategic priorities. Cost savings 
are re-invested behind our brands to drive 
further growth.
Focus for 2014
We expect our SG&A cost base to be in line 
with current levels over the medium term.
Increase in trading profit 
(underlying)
Performance
2011
2012
2013
£111.6m
£123.4m
£145.2m
The 17.7% increase in trading profit was 
helped by the successful overhead cost 
reduction exercise undertaken in 2013 and 
increased Power Brand Sales.
Measurement
Underlying profit includes the results of our 
Bread business and excludes disposals 
and non-core discrete contract losses as 
this better illustrates the performance of 
the core business.
Link to Strategy
Supports focus on our overall growth 
agenda.
Focus for 2014
Trading profit growth remains a strategic 
priority for 2014.
Recurring cash flow
Performance
2011
2012
2013
£(122.0)m
£50.0m
£86.8m 
Positive cash flow, up 73.6%, was 
generated from strong trading profit, 
control on capex and reduced cash 
interest following the 2012 re-financing.
Measurement
Cash flow attributable to the ongoing 
business. This is before non-recurring 
items such as the proceeds from disposals 
and associated restructuring costs and 
financing fees.
Link to Strategy
Cash flow is a good indicator of the 
underlying quality of earnings and the 
overall health of the business. It also 
identifies cash available to repay debt.
Focus for 2014
Cash flow remains a strategic priority  
for 2014.
Reduction in Net Debt
Performance
2011
2012
2013
£1,257.0m
1
£950.7m
£830.8m
There was a 12.6% reduction in net debt 
over the course of the year as a result 
of the sweet pickles disposal proceeds, 
lower financing costs and pension defecit 
contributions.
Measurement
Reduction in net debt versus prior year.
Link to Strategy
Given the Group’s relatively high gearing 
reduction of debt is a key focus area.
Focus for 2014
Reduction in debt remains a strategic 
priority over the medium term.
1 
Proforma reflecting the effects of the March 2012 
refinancing.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
32
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
10% of sales from new 
products
Performance
12.9%
We achieved 12.9% of sales from NPD 
in 2013 exceeding our target of 10% 
with strong performances from Hovis, 
Ambrosia, Mr. Kipling and Batchelors.
Measurement
Sales of new products as a % of our 
branded sales, within Power Brand 
categories.
Link to Strategy
In order to generate long term branded 
growth we must focus on innovation and 
NPD. This measure is an important indicator 
of whether we are responding to  
consumer trends.
Focus for 2014 
The ability to launch new products is 
consistent with our strategy and essential to 
the sustainable growth of the business and we 
will continue to focus on this in 2014.
% of products testing superior 
or at par with competitors
Performance
96%
Overall performance was up 2% YoY to 
96%. The review covered 65% of our 
branded sales value as part of a two year 
rolling programme.
Measurement
Consumer panel blind testing of our major 
branded products against their main 
competitor whether branded or own label.
Link to Strategy
Important measure of the quality of our 
product portfolio. Drives recipe improvements 
and ensures focus on consistent  
production quality.
Focus for 2014
We will continue to focus on consumer 
quality benchmarking and reformulate any 
products testing below par.
At least 50% of NPD to be 
“better for you” choices
Performance
56%
Over the course of 2013 56% of new 
products delivered ‘better for you’ choices.
Measurement
Sales value of NPD with a claimable health 
and nutritional benefit.
Link to Strategy
Aligns with consumer focus for wider 
product choice and ‘better for you’ 
options.
Focus for 2014
Health remains a major area of interest for 
consumers and over 2014 we will continue 
to identify opportunities to introduce NPD 
with ‘better for you’ choices.
Achieve a 10% reduction  
in LTAs
Performance
2011
2012
2013
0.37
0.20
0.16
At the end of 2013, the Group LTA 
frequency rate was 0.16 LTAs per 100,000 
hours worked representing a 20% 
improvement over 2012.
Measurement
Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate per 100,000 
hours worked.
Link to Strategy
The LTA frequency rate signals our 
determination to apply a preventative focus 
on all accidents which caused absence  
from work.
Focus for 2014
As a major employer, ensuring a safe work 
place for all employees remains a key area 
of focus. Our target for 2014 is to achieve 
a further 10% reduction in LTA’s.
2.5% reduction in Carbon (CO2) 
equivalent emissions (tonnes)
Performance
2011
2012
2013
369,536
265,000
224,110
Including the impact of site disposals and 
closures in 2013 we achieved a 2.0% 
reduction in CO
2
(e) emissions relative to 
tonnes of product manufactured. This 
equated to a 15% reduction in absolute terms.
Measurement
YoY reduction in reduction in Carbon (CO
2
) 
emissions in relative terms.
Link to Strategy
Reducing carbon emissions is a measure 
of our overall commitment to responsible 
manufacturing and reducing our impact on 
the environment.
Focus for 2014
As part of our ongoing commitment 
to sustainability across the business 
our target for 2014 is to reduce CO
2
(e) 
emissions by 3.0% in relative terms.
see further information online at
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
33
STRATEGIC REVIEW 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
DID YOU KNOW?
95% OF BRITISH 
HOUSEHOLDS 
HAVE AT LEAST 
ONE OF OUR 
PRODUCTS IN 
THEIR KITCHEN 
CUPBOARD.
New flavours for 
Batchelors Deli Box 
We have added three new flavours to our Batchelors Deli Box 
line-up: Sweet & Sour Noodles, Bolognese Pasta and Tomato 
& Chilli Pasta. The new variants all contain less than 1% fat 
together with no artificial colours or preservatives.
The current range of Deli Boxes come in a modern and appealing 
‘New York style’ cardboard takeaway box and have proved popular 
since launch in 2012, succeeding in attracting new customers to both 
the brand and the sector.
For more information on Consumers
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Performance
Review
CONTENTS
This section contains a detailed analysis 
of our business performance for the year 
as reported in our preliminary results 
announcement in March 2014.
Operating Review 36-39
Financial Review 40-43 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Underlying business
Underlying business excludes all disposals announced in 2012, 
strategic contract withdrawals and Milling sales. The following 
commentary is based on Underlying business unless otherwise 
stated. The 2013 performance of the Bread business is included in the 
following review, as the proposed joint venture with The Gores Group 
LLC, announced on 27 January 2014 has not yet completed.
£m 2013 2012 Change
Sales
Grocery 837.4 854.1 (2.0%)
Bread 445.1 443.3 0.4%
Total 1,282.5 1,297.4 (1.1%)
Grocery divisional contribution 196.7 195.5 0.6%
Bread divisional contribution 31.4 26.9 16.7%
SG&A (82.9) (99.0) 16.3%
Total Trading profit 145.2 123.4 17.7%
Introduction
Underlying business sales decreased by 1.1% to £1,282.5m in the year, 
a decrease of £14.9m compared to the prior year. Underlying business 
Trading profit increased by £21.8m, or 17.7% to £145.2m in the year. 
Grocery division
£m 2013 2012 Change
Power Brands 543.5 533.1 2.0%
Support brands 196.2 206.3 (4.9%)
Total Branded 739.7 739.4 0.1%
Non-branded 97.7 114.7 (14.9%)
Sales 837.4 854.1 (2.0%)
Divisional Contribution 196.7 195.5 0.6%
Total sales in Grocery were £837.4m, down 2.0%, while Divisional 
Contribution increased £1.2m to £196.7m. This relatively low growth 
at Divisional Contribution was impacted by the hot summer of 2013 
and was offset by significant reductions in SG&A at the Group 
level. The Group estimates that for the ongoing underlying Grocery 
business, Trading profit increased from £131m to £139m between 
2012 and 2013. Grocery Power Brands sales increased by 2.0% 
in the year to £543.5m, while Branded sales were up marginally to 
£739.7m, reflecting slower Support brands sales in the second and 
third quarters. The Grocery proportion of branded sales increased by 
1.8ppts to 88.3% in the year, as the Group maintained a disciplined 
approached to Non-branded business, which declined by 14.9%.
In the five main categories the business participates in, particularly 
strong performances were seen in Ambient Desserts and Flavourings 
& Seasonings, with the Group outperforming the market in both 
categories. In Ambient Desserts, Ambrosia benefited from a successful 
television advertising campaign ‘This is Pudding’ and also the launch of 
Devon Dream. Bisto and Oxo also delivered good performances in the 
year, with Oxo sales supported by the Shake & Flavour product while 
Bisto benefitted from sales of Stock Melts and continues to consolidate 
its strong category position.
Gavin Darby
Chief Executive 
Officer
Operating Review
“I am very pleased to report a 
strong 18% growth in Trading 
profit and significant underlying 
earnings progression in 2013. 
Through our category based 
strategy, we have delivered 
Grocery Power Brands sales 
growth of 2.0%, some good 
market share performances and 
progressively stronger customer 
partnerships.”
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
36
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
The Group’s market share of the Cake category was over 25% for 
the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013, and while overall Mr. Kipling 
sales were down in the year, the snack pack slices format continues to 
perform well, with manufacturing utilisation very high. In recognition of 
this, the Group is investing approximately £20m in a new snack pack 
line to significantly increase current capacity. This new line is expected 
to deliver additional and different packaging sizes and provide the 
platform to extend into the wider Sweet Treats category.
In the support brand portfolio, sales declined by 4.9% during the 
year reflecting a strongly competitive promotional environment in the 
cooking sauces category which affected sales of Homepride, while 
McDougall’s was also impacted by intense competition. In the fourth 
quarter of 2013, Grocery support brands grew by 1.1% supported by 
revenue growth of Angel Delight, Bird’s and McDougall’s and reflecting 
early benefits of the Group’s category based strategy. Non-branded 
sales were impacted in the year by contract withdrawals in desserts 
and powdered beverages.
While consumer marketing investment was slightly lower than the 
prior year, the Group had some successful advertising campaigns 
with improved buying efficiency. Over the medium term, the Group 
is committed to increasing both the quantum and efficiency of its 
consumer marketing expenditure, to support growth of its branded 
portfolio.
During the year manufacturing controllable costs were lower and 
savings were delivered through reducing business complexity. Over 
the medium term, savings in manufacturing controllable costs are 
expected to continue, with these savings partly re-invested in growing 
the Group’s brands.
Bread division
£m 2013 2012 Change
Branded bread sales 346.6 340.1 1.9%
Non branded bread 
sales 98.5 103.2 (4.6%)
Total bread sales 445.1 443.3 0.4%
Milling sales 221.9 191.4 15.9%
Total sales 667.0 634.7 5.1%
Divisional Contribution 31.4 26.9 16.7%
Sales for the Bread division excluding Milling increased 0.4% to £445.1m 
in the year while total sales for the division increased by 5.1% to £667.0m. 
Divisional contribution rose by 16.7%, or £4.5m, to £31.4m in the year.
Power Brands sales for 2013 increased by 2.1% to £326.7m, reflecting 
a good finish to the year through progressively stronger customer 
partnerships following a slower third quarter due to the hot weather. Hovis 
continues to deliver strong market share performances in most major 
retailers, reflecting strengthening customer partnerships, product quality 
and brand heritage.
The Divisional contribution increase of 16.7% was due to improved 
manufacturing efficiencies in the supply chain while the business also 
benefited from an improved second half performance, particularly reflecting 
stronger customer partnerships. 
This year, the Bread business has focused on a major restructuring 
programme, involving the closure of three bakeries, two mills and a 
significantly reconfigured logistics network. The Greenford bakery closed 
in the third quarter and production at the Barry Mill finished in October. 
Restructuring costs associated with this programme were £29.1m in the 
year. Cash proceeds from the disposal of these closed sites were received 
earlier than expected and realised £14.8m in the fourth quarter of the year.
Milling sales of £221.9m were up 15.9% compared to the prior year, 
reflecting higher pricing for the first three quarters of the year.
On 27 January 2014, the Group announced a proposed stand-alone joint 
venture for the Bread business with The Gores Group. This arrangement, 
once the transaction has completed, will facilitate a significant increase 
in investment in the Bread business both to improve the efficiency of its 
infrastructure and to reinvigorate the Hovis brand, building on its strong 
heritage. Premier Foods and The Gores Group will invest up to £45.0m 
cash to unlock a £200m five year investment programme for Hovis.
The Group will retain a 49% interest in the joint venture and expects to 
receive £30.0m consideration, £15.0m of which is due on completion of 
the transaction and £15.0m is deferred and contingent on future business 
performance. A working capital benefit of £28.7m will be retained by the 
Group following the completion of the transaction and of the £45.0m 
combined cash investment Premier Foods will contribute an initial £15.7m. 
Consequently, the net short-term cash benefit to the Group is £28.0m.
Cost Savings Programme and SG&A costs
£m 2013 2012 Change
Total SG&A 82.9 99.0 16.3%
The major restructuring of the SG&A cost base has delivered savings 
of over £64m since 2011 and this new level now better reflects the 
size of the Group following the disposal of non-core businesses. Within 
the £16.1m savings delivered in 2013, people-related costs reduced 
by over £20m, partly offset by other non-people related charges in 
the SG&A cost base. These SG&A savings has been a significant 
contributor to the Trading profit performance in 2013, with SG&A at the 
end of 2013 reducing to 5.5% of underlying sales including Milling.
Cash restructuring costs associated with the reduction in the SG&A 
cost base in 2013 were £10.9m. Over the medium term, and subject 
to changes arising from the Bread business joint venture transaction, 
the SG&A cost base is expected to remain broadly in line with current 
levels, although management incentives schemes to drive improved 
performance are to be re-set at more realistic levels.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
37
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Net regular interest
£m 2013 2012 Change
Bank debt & securitisation 
interest 28.5 39.1 27.1%
Swap contract interest 7.2 17.3 58.4%
35.7 56.4 36.7%
Amortisation and deferred fees 22.7 13.1 (73.3%)
Net regular interest 58.4 69.5 16.0%
Net regular interest charge was £58.4m in the year, an £11.1m 
reduction from the previous year and ahead of management guidance 
of £60-£65m. This lower charge versus prior year reflects both lower 
average Net debt in 2013 following the pay down of debt due to 
business disposals and the introduction of lower coupon interest rate 
swaps in the second quarter of 2012.
Amortisation and deferred fees of £22.7m were non-cash items in 
2013 and in line with management expectations.
Cash flow
£m 2013 2012
Underlying business Trading profit 145.2 123.4
Depreciation 32.9 37.5
Other non-cash items 5.0 8.8
Interest (35.9) (52.5)
Taxation — 0.3
Pension contributions (11.4) (17.7)
Capital expenditure (33.9) (56.4)
Working capital (15.1) 6.6
Recurring cash inflow 86.8 50.0
Group recurring cash inflow before non-recurring items such as 
restructuring activity, financing fees and the impact of disposals was 
£86.8m in the year.
Underlying business Trading profit increased by £21.8m to £145.2m in 
2013 for the reasons described above, while depreciation was £4.6m 
lower reflecting a lower fixed cost base following business disposals in 
2012. Other non-cash items of £5.0m in 2013 principally include the 
add-back of share based payments.
Cash interest was significantly lower in the year owing to the close 
out of the higher rate interest rate swaps due to the re-financing 
agreement of March 2012 and lower average Net debt following 
non-core business disposals. Cash interest for 2014 is expected to 
be in the range of £45-£50m, but is dependent upon the pricing of 
the senior secured notes. The Group did not pay any corporation tax 
in the year as a result of utilising a proportion of the brought forward 
losses available to it and does not expect to pay corporation tax in the 
medium-term.
Pension cash outflows in the year of £11.4m largely reflect payments 
associated with the administration of the schemes and standard 
government levies. Monthly pension deficit contributions resumed 
in January 2014 with payments being made under the schedule 
previously agreed until the new revised schedule is effective, as outlined 
above.
Capital expenditure reduced to £33.9m in the year, a little lower 
than management guidance of approximately 2.5% of sales. Capital 
expenditure for 2014 is expected to be in the range of £35-40m, 
approximately half of which is major investment in a new cake slices 
snack-pack line at the Group’s cake factory in Carlton, Barnsley. Over 
the medium-term, ongoing capital expenditure is expected to be 
broadly in line with depreciation. The Group expects working capital to 
be a cash outflow of approximately £30m in 2014.
£m 2013 2012
Recurring cash inflow 86.8 50.0
Cash flows from disposed businesses 0.0 5.8
Restructuring activity (40.0) (21.6)
Operating cash flow from  
total Company 46.8 34.2
Disposal proceeds 105.6 312.2
Financing fees & finance leases (27.5) (24.0)
Free cash flow 124.9 322.4
Free cash flow, before repayment of borrowings, was £124.9m in the year, 
compared to £322.4m in 2012. Restructuring activity was an outflow of 
£40.0m, comprising £29.1m of costs relating to the major Bread 
restructuring programme and £10.9m from access costs associated with 
the SG&A savings delivered in the year.
Disposal proceeds of £105.6m in the year include £90.8m of net proceeds 
(£92.5m of gross proceeds) from the sale of the Sweet Pickles and T able 
Sauces business and £14.8m from the sale of five closed Bread sites 
associated with the Bread restructuring. Financing fees in 2013 were 
£27.5m, slightly lower than management guidance and refer to deferred 
fees associated with the bank facility agreement prior to March 2012.
Net debt
£m
Reported Net debt at 31 December 2012 950.7
Movement in cash 2013 (124.9)
Other non-cash items 5.0
Reported Net debt at 31 December 2013 830.8
Equity issue (353.0)
Underwriting, bank, bond and advisory fees 41.3
Deferred bank fees 22.0
Bread disposal proceeds (28.0)
Adjusted Net debt at 31 December 2013 513.1
Group Net debt at 31 December 2013 was £830.8m. The Group has 
announced a proposed gross equity issue of £353.0m. After total fees 
of £63.3m including; equity fees of approximately £9m, deferred bank 
fees arising from the 2012 re-financing of approximately £22m and other 
bank, bond and advisory fees of approximately £32m and Bread disposal 
proceeds of £28.0m, adjusted Net debt at 31 December 2013 was 
£513.1m.
Operating Review continued
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
38
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Pensions
At 31 December 2013 the Company’s pension schemes under the IAS 
19 accounting valuation showed a gross deficit of £603.3m, compared 
to £466.8m at 31 December 2012. The valuation at 31 December 
2013 comprised a £217.8m deficit in respect of the RHM schemes and 
a deficit of £385.5m in relation to the Premier Foods schemes.
The deficit increase reflects an increase in the scheme liabilities of 
£145.6m to £3,821.7m, slightly offset by an increase in the valuation of 
assets of £9.1m to £3,218.4m. The adverse movement in liabilities is 
partly due a reduction in the discount rate from 4.45% at 31 December 
2012 to 4.40% at 31 December 2013 but also reflects an increase in 
the inflation rate assumption from 2.95% to 3.35%. The slight increase 
in the valuation of the scheme assets is due to underlying asset 
performance offset by benefits paid in the year.
Cash paid relating to pension schemes in the year was £22.9m. 
The schemes were closed to future accrual on 30 September 2013. 
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Group’s pension schemes has 
now concluded and as at 5 April 2013, the deficit on this basis was 
£1,062m. It is important to note that at the valuation date, discount 
rates were at a particular low point and have since increased which, 
other assumptions remaining constant, would have the effect of 
materially reducing this headline valuation.
Pensions (£m) 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012
Assets
Equities 299.7 411.3
Government bonds 515.7 588.4
Corporate bonds 384.1 608.8
Property 181.7 105.3
Absolute return products 1,268.2 712.1
Cash 192.3 503.0
Infrastructure funds 193.5 153.2
Swaps (116.6) (194.6)
Private equity 190.2 185.9
Other 109.6 135.9
Total Assets 3,218.4 3,209.3
Liabilities
Discount rate 4.40% 4.45%
Inflation rate (RPI/CPI) 3.35%/2.35% 2.95%/2.15%
Total Liabilities (3,821.7) (3,676.1)
Gross deficit (IAS 19) (603.3) (466.8)
Deferred tax (23.25%/24.5%) 140.3 114.4
Net deficit (IAS 19) (463.0) (352.4)
Following the 2012 refinancing agreement, the Group and the Pension 
Schemes trustees agreed that pension deficit contribution payments 
would be suspended from March 2012 to December 2013. These deficit 
contribution payments resumed in January 2014. A new pension deficit 
contribution schedule has been agreed with the Pension Schemes 
trustees which provides improved affordability for the Group and certainty 
of cash flows for the next six years. 
The Group acknowledges the significance of the pension valuation in 
determining a fair reflection of the Group’ s Enterprise value. While there are 
a number of different methodologies to value a pension scheme deficit, 
the Group notes that one approach is to discount the post tax future cash 
flows of the revised pension deficit contribution schedule. On this basis, 
the valuation of the pension schemes deficit is £405m. This is based on 
the assumption that the Group has a tax shield available to it in the early 
years of an agreed 19 year recovery period. Details of the revised pension 
deficit contribution schedule are outlined on page 41.
Outlook
The simplification of the Group through the Hovis joint venture and the 
capital structure represent significant steps forward for Premier Foods. 
Completion of these projects will allow Management to focus its full 
attention on the Grocery business, which the Board believes is well 
positioned to deal with the challenges of 2014.
The Group expects Grocery Power Brand sales to be slightly negative 
in the first Quarter reflecting the colder weather in the comparative 
period, the move of Easter from Q1 to Q2 and subdued consumer 
spending in the grocery market. Grocery Power Brand sales are 
expected to improve in Q2 and into the second half reflecting planned 
new product introductions, increased half-on-half consumer marketing, 
and assuming a return to more typical average summer temperatures. 
For the full year, the Board is targeting Grocery Power Brand growth 
in the range of 2–3%. Support brands are expected to grow modestly 
in 2014 as a result of targeted marketing activity while non-branded 
sales will decline reflecting the Group’s focus on higher margin branded 
sales. The Group continues to manage costs tightly and remains 
confident in its expectations for the Full Year.
Over the medium term, the Group is targeting Grocery Power Brand 
revenue growth of between 2% and 3% per annum and total branded 
revenue growth of 1–2%. The Group continues to work on reducing 
complexity in the business through SKU reductions and rationalising 
its supplier base and this, together with mix benefits, means it is 
targeting gross margins to grow faster than revenues. It will continue to 
target manufacturing controllable cost reductions in manufacturing of 
between 2% and 3% per annum and to hold SG&A at broadly current 
levels. It expects to increase consumer marketing spend by double-
digit % increments over the medium term.
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
39
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Financial Review
Alastair Murray
Chief Financial 
Officer
Capital Restructuring
The Board has now completed its review of the Group’s capital 
structure and is proposing to diversify its sources of finance to 
provide a solid foundation on which it can drive future growth 
through its category based strategy and leverage its strengths. This 
transformational capital restructure includes a fully underwritten equity 
raise of approximately £353m (gross of fees) through a placing and 
rights issue, the issue of £475m senior secured loan notes and a 
new £300m revolving credit facility with a smaller bank syndicate. 
Significantly, the Group has also reached a new pensions framework 
agreement with the Pension Scheme trustees following the triennial 
actuarial valuation which provides the platform for this new capital 
structure to be put in place
Equity Issue
The Group has announced it is raising approximately £353m gross 
proceeds by way of a fully underwritten placing of approximately 77 
million shares at 130 pence per share to raise £100m, and a fully 
underwritten 8 for 5 rights issue of approximately 507 million shares at 
50 pence per share to raise approximately £253m. This issuance will 
reduce the indebtedness of the Group and substantially strengthens 
the balance sheet.
Pensions Agreement
The Group has agreed what it considers to be a comprehensive 
and significant agreement with the Pension Scheme trustees. The 
pension deficit contribution schedule will, on completion of the capital 
restructuring, be revised, with the impact of reducing cash payments 
when compared to the previous schedule by £161m over the next six 
years. Committed deficit contributions are fixed until December 2019 
and set out in the table titled ‘Capital Refinancing Terms’. Under the 
new arrangements, the Pension Schemes will be granted security up 
to £450m (in aggregate) and will have certain dividend matching rights 
for any dividends paid by the Group up to 2019.
Revolving Credit Facility and Securitisation Facility
The Group’s existing term loan and revolving credit facilities will be 
repaid to the respective lenders on completion of the recapitalisation. 
These facilities will be replaced by Senior Secured Notes and a 
revolving credit facility of £300m which is due to mature in March 
2019 and attracts an initial bank margin of 3.50% above LIBOR. The 
Group has agreed with the lenders of the new revolving credit facility 
that dividends are permitted to be distributed to shareholders when 
the Group’s Net debt/EBITDA ratio falls below a ratio of 3.0x. This 
facility has been arranged with a significantly smaller group of lenders 
than was the case previously and includes an appropriate covenant 
package, the details of which are set out in the table titled ‘Capital 
Refinancing Terms’. 
Following completion of the joint venture transaction, the Group’s ability 
to draw on its existing securitisation facility of £120m is expected to 
reduce to around £60m and attracts a margin of 2.75% above the cost 
of commercial paper.
“Following the announcement to 
simplify the Group through the 
Hovis joint venture, we are now 
focused on growing a high quality 
branded Grocery business, with 
its strong underlying cash flows. 
While consumer spending trends 
are currently subdued, we are 
confident in our expectations 
for 2014.”
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
40
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Senior Secured Notes
To achieve its objective of diversifying its sources of finance, the 
Group has also announced its intention to raise £475m of senior 
secured notes. This programme will extend the maturity of this tranche 
of the Group’s debt by up to seven years and will bring in a new 
and diversified investor base. The notes are likely to be issued as a 
combination of fixed and floating rates, although in the case of floating 
rate notes the Group intends to use plain vanilla interest rate swaps to 
eliminate the net interest rate exposure. The Group has also entered 
into a backstop arrangement on standard market terms under which 
issuance of these notes is effectively underwritten.
Capital Refinancing Terms
Key Terms and Details
Equity
Firm placing: £100m
Rights issue: Circa £253m
Gross issue proceeds: Circa £353m
Net issue proceeds: Circa £344m
Pension
Contributions fixed until 2019, revised deficit contribution schedule as 
follows:
New  
schedule
Old  
schedule
Reduction/
(Increase)
2014 £35m £83m £48m
2015 £9m £80m £71m
2016 £42m £79m £37m
2017 £50m £47m (£3m)
2018 £44m £47m £3m
2019 £42m £47m £5m
Total £222m £383m £161m
Recovery period extended to 2032
Lending  
facilities
Revolving credit facility (RCF) £300m
RCF maturity March 2019
RCF margin 3.50% + LIBOR
Commitment fee on undrawn facilities 40% of applicable margin
Securitisation facility & margin £120m at 2.75%
Covenants
Net debt / EBITDA EBITDA / Interest
June 2014 5.50x June 2014 2.25x
Dec 2014 5.50x Dec 2014 2.25x
June 2015 5.25x June 2015 2.45x
Dec 2015 5.00x Dec 2015 2.50x
June 2016 4.90x June 2016 2.55x
Dec 2016 4.60x Dec 2016 2.65x
June 2017 4.30x June 2017 2.70x
Dec 2017 4.20x Dec 2017 2.75x
June 2018 3.85x June 2018 2.80x
Dec 2018 3.65x Dec 2018 3.00x
Senior Secured 
Notes
Amount £475m
Tenor 6 year floating / 7 year fixed
Coupon/margin To be confirmed on pricing
Financial review
The Company presents its financial results for the year ended 31 
December 2013 with comparative information for the year ended 31 
December 2012. The Bread business is treated as a discontinued 
operation in the 2013 financial statements, reflecting its status as an 
asset held for sale at the balance sheet date and is therefore excluded 
from continuing operations. Comparatives have been restated to reflect 
the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
Company structure
In 2012, the Company completed the disposals of the following 
businesses: Irish brands, Vinegar and Sour Pickles, Elephant Atta 
Ethnic Flour and Sweet Spreads and Jellies. On 2 February 2013, 
the Company completed the disposal of its Sweet Pickles and Table 
Sauces business.
All commentary on the performance of the Company included below 
refers to continuing operations unless otherwise stated and therefore 
reflects the respective periods that the Company maintained ownership 
of the businesses disposed in 2012 and 2013. For example, the 
Vinegar and Sour Pickles business disposal completed on 28 July 
2013; therefore the results of the continuing operations include seven 
months results of the Vinegar and Sour Pickles business in 2012.
Income statement
Revenue from continuing operations was £856.2m, a decrease of 
£214.7m compared to the prior year. The major driver of the decline 
is attributed to the disposals of Vinegar and Sour Pickles and Sweet 
Spreads and Jellies businesses, partly offset by growth of the Group’s 
Power Brands. Gross profit was £300.1m, a reduction of £49.2m, 
which principally reflects the effect of the business disposals made 
in 2012, partly offset by Power Brands growth and manufacturing 
efficiencies. Gross margin % grew from 32.6% in 2012 to 35.1% in 
2013 due to increased sales of higher margin Power Brands sales 
while sales of lower margin Non-branded products declined in the year. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
41
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Financial Review continued
Operating profit
Operating profit for continuing operations was £52.6m, a reduction 
of £31.1m compared to 2012. This was mainly due to the profit on 
disposal of the Sweet Spreads and Jellies business completed in 2012. 
Before impairment and profit on disposal of operations, Operating profit 
was £55.0m, an increase of £4.4m on the prior year.
Trading profit was £139.5m in the year, a decline of £19.6m, principally 
reflecting the impact of the businesses disposed during 2012, partly 
offset by significant savings in the SG&A overhead cost base in the 
underlying business. The Group considers underlying profit, as set 
out in the Operating review, to be a more useful measure of assessing 
business performance. Trading profit % of revenue increased from 
14.9% in 2012 to 16.3% in 2013 largely as a result of SG&A cost 
savings in the year.
Restructuring costs and losses associated with disposal activity 
were £7.3m in the year, significantly down on the £31.3m reported 
in the prior year, and reflecting the completion of the disposal activity 
programme. The charges in the year principally relate to redundancy 
costs associated with the Group’s cost savings programme.
Amortisation of intangible assets was £43.8m in the year, a reduction 
of £6.6m from the prior year. This reflects the impact of disposals 
made during 2012. The financial statements reflect the updated 
IAS19 accounting standard on pensions accounting, which includes 
a restatement for 2012. In Operating profit for 2013 the Group reports 
a charge for net interest on pensions and administrative expenses of 
£31.3m and £27.7m for the prior year. The net interest charge in 2013 
was £19.6m, is non-cash in nature and are not reported in Trading 
profit.
In discontinued operations an impairment of £234.4m is recognised in 
the year to 31 December 2013 and reflects the write down of the Bread 
business to its fair value following the announcement of the Bread 
business joint venture on 27 January 2014
Finance expense
Net finance cost in the year to 31 December 2013 was £48.2m, 
compared to £91.7m in the prior year. Net regular interest reduced 
from £69.5m to £58.4m, partly due to the conversion of higher rate 
interest rate swaps into additional term loan at a significantly lower 
interest rate in addition to lower levels of Net debt following the 
disposal of businesses during the prior year. In the year, there was a 
positive movement in the fair valuation of interest rate derivatives of 
£11.6m compared to an adverse movement of £9.7m in the prior year. 
Additionally, there was a charge of £10.8m recognised in 2012 relating 
to the write-off of debt issuance costs associated with the previous 
financing agreement. 
Profit before taxation
The Company made a profit before tax of £4.4m, compared to a prior 
year loss of £8.0m. Operating profit in the year was £52.6m due to 
the reasons outlined above and net finance expense was £48.2m. The 
prior year loss of £8.0m was principally due to higher interest charges, 
partly offset by profit on disposal of operations.
Taxation
The taxation charge for the year was £51.1m (31 December 2012: 
£18.0m credit). The applicable rate of corporation tax for the year 
was 23.25% (31 December 2012: 24.5%). At 31 December 2013, the 
Bread Business was treated as an asset held for sale, while the IAS 
19 valuation of the pension deficit was higher than the prior year. Both 
these items would otherwise have increased the deferred tax assets of 
the Group by £52.2m. The Group has recognised a closing deferred 
tax asset value of £72.7m at 31 December 2013 and as a result, a non-
cash charge of £51.1m was recognised in the continuing operations for 
the year. It is expected that the recognised deferred tax assets will be 
utilised against the future profits of the Group.
The corporation tax rate for 2014 is expected to be 21.5%. The 
deferred tax rate is expected to be 20.0% for the tax year ended  
5 April 2014.
Earnings per share
Basic loss per share of 19.5 pence for the year on continuing 
operations is calculated by dividing the loss attributed to ordinary 
shareholders of £46.7m (31 December 2012: £10.0m profit) by the 
weighted number of shares in issue during the year. This compares to 
earnings per share of 4.2p for the prior year.
Adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations was 25.9 pence 
(31 December 2012: 28.2 pence). Adjusted earnings per share on 
continuing operations has been calculated by dividing the adjusted 
earnings (defined as Trading profit less net regular interest payable and 
notional taxation) attributed to ordinary shareholders of £62.2m  
(31 December 2012: £67.6m) by the weighted number of ordinary 
shares in issue during each period. These earnings have been 
calculated by reflecting tax at a notional rate of 23.25% (31 December 
2012: 24.5%).
At the Annual General Meeting held on 3 May 2012, a resolution was 
passed for a 10:1 share consolidation of the issued share capital of the 
Company. Accordingly, the weighted number of shares in issue for the 
period reduced from 2,398.0 million to 239.8 million; the latter being 
used for earnings per share calculations.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
42
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Cash flow and borrowings
Company net borrowings as at 31 December 2013 were £830.8m, a 
decrease of £119.9m since 31 December 2012. The cash inflow  
from operating activities to 31 December 2013 was £123.4m  
(31 December 2012: £56.4m). This included cash inflow from 
continuing operations of £108.7m (31 December 2012: £44.6m) and 
cash inflow from discontinued operations of £14.7m (31 December 
2012: £11.8m). Additionally, net cash interest paid was £35.9m (31 
December 2012: £52.5m) due to lower bank margins following the 
re-financing agreement concluded in March 2012 and lower average 
Net debt levels in the year. There was no taxation paid in the year (31 
December 2012: £0.3m received).
Sale of subsidiaries and property, plant and equipment in the year 
amounted to £105.6m (31 December 2012: £312.4m) following the 
completion of the Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces disposal and sale of 
Bread business sites disposed in the year. Net capital expenditure on 
tangible and intangible assets in the year was £40.4m (31 December 
2011: £66.6m), of which £33.9m relates to Underlying business.
Financing fees and other costs of finance were £27.5m (31 December 
2012: £24.0m) reflect deferred financing fees associated with the 
previous banking facilities.
Retirement benefit schemes
At 31 December 2013 the Company’s pension schemes under the IAS 
19 accounting valuation showed a gross deficit of £603.3m, compared 
to £466.8m at 31 December 2012. The valuation at 31 December 
2013 comprised a £217.8m deficit in respect of the RHM schemes and 
a deficit of £385.5m in relation to the Premier Foods schemes. Further 
detail on the pension schemes is provided in the Operating review.
Financial year end date
The Group intends to change its financial year end from 31 December 
to 31 March and therefore expects to prepare its next annual financial 
statements for the 15 months ended 31 March 2015. It plans to report 
on the Group’s trading performance by way of an Interim Management 
Statement for the 12 months ended 31 December 2014 in early 2015. 
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer
Underlying business
The Company’s results for the year ended 31 December 2013 are presented on an ‘Underlying business’ basis, unless otherwise stated. ‘Underlying business’ excludes the results of previously 
completed business disposals, Milling (sales only), and non-core, discrete contract losses. The tables below illustrate these items for 2013 and 2012 results.
The purpose of using the ‘Underlying business’ basis for measuring performance is to reflect the performance of the core business of the Company. With the Company having undergone a year of 
restructuring in 2012, this basis better reflects underlying business performance.
On 27 January 2013, the Group announced a joint venture of its Bread Business with The Gores Group. Given its status as an asset held for sale at 31 December 2013, it is treated as a 
discontinued operation in the financial statements.
‘Continuing operations’ includes the results of disposed businesses for the respective periods until disposal was completed. For example, the Vinegar and Sour Pickles business disposal 
completed on 28 July 2012; therefore the results of the continuing operations for 2012 include seven months results of the Vinegar and Sour Pickles business.
£m
Continuing 
operations
Add: Bread 
Business
Less:  
Disposals
Less: Milling 
sales Sub-Total
Less: Contract 
Withdrawals
Underlying 
business
2013
Sales 856.2 654.6 (6.4) (221.9) 1,282.5 — 1,282.5
Trading profit 139.5 6.3 (0.6) N/A 145.2 — 145.2
EBITDA 156.8 21.9 (0.6) N/A 178.1 — 178.1
2012
Sales 1,070.9 685.3 (211.0) (191.4) 1,353.8 (56.4) 1,297.4
Trading profit 159.1 (4.4) (31.3) N/A 123.4 0.0 123.4
EBITDA 182.5 11.8 (35.7) N/A 158.6 0.0 158.6
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
43
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
DID YOU KNOW?
WE HAVE REDUCED 
REPORTABLE ACCIDENTS  
BY 87% SINCE 2007.
New Bisto 
Chef’s Specials
In 2013 we launched a new premium range for Bisto called 
Chef’s Special, targeting the dine-in-for-two sector.
The sachets come in 4 flavours; Chicken with Sage & Onion, Lamb 
with Mint, Caramelised Onion Gravy and Beef with Cracked 
Black Pepper.
For more information on Consumers  
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
CONTENTS
This section sets out our approach to 
governance, our Board and Group Executive 
and our policy on executive remuneration.
Chairman’s Introduction 46-47
Board of Directors and Group Executive 48-51
Corporate Governance 52-58
Audit Committee Report 59-61
Nomination Committee Report 62
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s Letter 63
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 64-69
Annual Report on Remuneration 70-75
Directors’ Report 76-77
Governance 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
“I believe it is important to 
ensure that sound governance 
principles underpin the way we 
operate, both at a Board level and 
throughout the organisation.” 
David Beever 
Chairman
Good corporate governance is essential for building  
a successful and sustainable business.
Chairman’s Introduction
Transparency in Governance
This section sets out our governance framework and the work 
of our Committees. As a Group we believe in transparency in 
governance and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in all 
our business dealings, recognising our position as one of the largest 
manufacturers in the UK food industry. 
Board Effectiveness
In line with the recommendations of the Code we usually conduct 
an external Board evaluation every three years. As explained in last 
year’s annual report, the 2012 external evaluation was deferred to 
the summer of 2013 following a number of Board changes which 
had occurred in 2012 and the appointment of Gavin Darby as CEO 
in February 2013. A detailed review was undertaken by Springboard 
Associates Limited in June 2013 and the results confirmed that 
the atmosphere of Board meetings was constructive and allowed 
openness of debate. This was a very productive process which 
highlighted opportunities for improvement and a number of 
recommendations to further strengthen the way the Board operates 
and our corporate governance processes. Further detail of the 
Board review can be found on page 56.
In addition the Board keeps up-to-date with developments in 
corporate governance which is a regular item on the Board agenda. 
The General Counsel & Company Secretary presents updates on 
legal, regulatory and governance issues including relevant case law. 
During the year this has included updates on the government’s initial 
drafts of the remuneration reporting regulations (the Remuneration 
Regulations) and enhanced disclosure required in the annual report. 
Remuneration Strategy
Following on from the constructive meetings with shareholders 
in 2012 and early 2013 we were pleased with the high level of 
shareholder support for our 2012 Remuneration Report (details of 
the 2013 AGM vote on remuneration are set out on page 75). It has 
been a year of significant change in remuneration reporting following 
the publication of the Remuneration Regulations in the summer of 
2013. There will be a binding vote on our Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy at this year’s AGM and I look forward to maintaining the same 
level of shareholder support. Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy is 
set out on pages 64 to 69.
Board Changes
In addition to Gavin Darby’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer 
in February 2013 there have been a number of changes to the Board 
over the course of 2013. Following the appointment of Gavin Darby 
a flatter executive management structure has been implemented, 
that enables commercial and functional management to report 
directly to the CEO and as a consequence Geoff Eaton, Chief 
Operating Officer, left the Company in February 2013.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
46
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Ian McHoul, who was reaching the end of his third three year 
term in office this year, retired as a non-executive director at the 
AGM on 25 April 2013. Following this Ian Krieger was appointed 
as Audit Committee Chairman and David Wild was appointed as 
Senior Independent Director. In May, we welcomed Pam Powell as 
a non-executive director. Pam has more than 20 years marketing 
experience developing some of the world’s leading consumer 
brands, most recently, as Group Strategy and Innovation Director for 
SAB Miller. Over the past year, we have been actively strengthening 
the Board to reflect a broad range of commercial, financial, 
communications and marketing experience. Pam’s appointment is 
part of this drive and her significant experience in marketing global 
consumer brands is a tremendous benefit as we look to accelerate 
the growth of our branded business. 
Finally, in September, we announced the appointment of Alastair 
Murray as CFO in place of Mark Moran. Alastair has extensive 
strategic, commercial, financial and consumer brand experience 
built up over 30 years with a range of leading food and consumer 
goods companies. This also includes significant experience of 
restructuring and finding creative solutions to pension deficits. This 
will be invaluable as we move forward with the next phase of the 
Company’s transition.
Following these changes I believe we have in place a strong and 
effective Board. There is an appropriate combination of executive 
and non-executive directors on the Board with at least half the Board 
(excluding myself) comprising independent non-executive directors. 
The independence, external experience and challenge non-executive 
directors bring to the Board is essential to its effective operation. The 
current non-executive directors bring an extensive and broad ranging 
mix of experience which is highlighted in the biographies on page 
49. The Board considers that all the non-executive directors, with 
the exception of Charles Miller Smith, are independent in character 
and judgement. Charles Miller Smith, whilst fully independent of 
management, is a shareholder appointed director representing our 
largest shareholder, Warburg Pincus. As described in greater detail 
on page 53, following completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan, 
Charles Miller Smith will cease to be a representative of Warburg 
Pincus but will remain as a non-executive director of the Company. 
Audit Independence and Non-Audit Fees
The independence of the external audit is an essential element 
of our overall governance framework and allows shareholders to 
gain comfort that the financial statements give a fair, balanced and 
understandable view of the Group’s affairs and have been prepared 
in accordance with applicable standards. The Board is sensitive to 
investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the level of fees is 
regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee. The level of non-audit 
fees for 2013 was below the audit fee and significantly below the 
level incurred in 2012. 
The business has been going through a very significant 
transformation as management have implemented their turnaround 
strategy. This included a major disposal programme over the course 
of 2012, the Hovis joint venture announced in January 2014 and 
finally the Capital Refinancing Plan. With the turnaround nearing 
completion we are confident that going forward fees will reduce 
significantly. Further information is detailed in the report of the Audit 
Committee on pages 59 to 61. 
Board Diversity
In 2011 we adopted a policy to have at least two female Board 
directors by 2015 and I am pleased to report that, following the 
recent changes in Board membership highlighted above, we have 
reached this target.
Compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2012
During 2013 the Company complied with all of the provisions of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). 
David Beever 
Chairman
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
47
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Board of Directors
01 02 03
04 05
07 08
06
01 David Beever
02 Gavin Darby
03 Alastair Murray
04 Ian Krieger
05 Jennifer Laing
06 Pam Powell
07 Charles Miller Smith
08 David Wild
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
48
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
David Beever 
Chairman
Appointed to the Board: January 2008 and appointed Chairman 
in June 2012
Skills and experience: After qualifying as a Chartered Engineer, David has 
spent most of his career in the financial sector. He was a Vice-Chairman of  
S. G. Warburg where he handled many corporate finance transactions for major 
UK and international companies. He was later a board member of KPMG and 
Chairman of Corporate Finance and has been Chairman and a non-executive 
director of a variety of major companies.
Committee membership: David is a member of the Remuneration 
Committee, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and attends the Audit 
Committee by invitation.
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed to the Board: February 2013
Skills and experience: Gavin has a strong consumer goods pedigree and 
extensive senior leadership experience. He spent fifteen years at the Coca-Cola 
Company in various senior positions, including Division President roles for North 
West Europe and Central Europe. Prior to joining Premier Foods, Gavin served 
as CEO of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc, leading a successful turnaround of 
the business before negotiating its eventual sale to Vodafone plc. Previously he 
worked at Vodafone plc for nine years, during which time he served as UK CEO 
and CEO of Americas, Africa, India and China.
Alastair Murray 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: September 2013
Skills and experience: Prior to joining Premier Foods, Alastair spent ten 
years at Dairy Crest Group plc as Group Finance Director, where he helped 
lead a significant restructuring to simplify the business, creatively addressing 
its pension deficit and reinforcing its position as an industry leader. Previously 
he was the Group Finance Director at The Body Shop International plc. Earlier 
in his career Alastair was a Divisional Finance Director at Dalgety plc and spent 
13 years in various finance and operations roles at Unilever plc. He graduated 
from Cambridge University with an MA in Engineering and also holds an MBA 
from Cranfield Institute of Technology. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Ian Krieger 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: November 2012
Skills and experience: Ian has a wealth of business, accounting and finance 
experience gained during a 40 year career, first with Arthur Andersen and, from 
2002, with Deloitte. He was a senior partner of Deloitte until his retirement in 
2012. Previous management responsibilities included heading the Corporate 
Finance Practice, the London Corporate Audit Division and the Private Equity 
Practice. Ian has significant boardroom experience and has worked with a wide 
variety of companies throughout his career, including many in the consumer 
goods sector. Ian qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen. 
Ian is a non-executive director at Safestore Holdings plc, a Trustee at Nuffield 
Trust and is also a Trustee of Anthony Nolan where he is Chairman of the Audit 
Committee.
Committee membership: Ian is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 
member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Jennifer Laing 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: October 2012
Skills and experience: Jennifer has over 30 years experience in brand 
building and communications including 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi, twice 
as Chairman of the London office, and culminating in her role as Chairman and 
CEO of Saatchi & Saatchi North America. In the early 1990s she led her own 
advertising agency, Laing Henry, which was subsequently sold to Saatchi & 
Saatchi. Jennifer is currently a non-executive director of InterContinental Hotels 
Group plc where she chairs the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and of 
Hudson Global, Inc., a global recruitment company, where she is Chairman of the 
Compensation Committee.
Committee membership: Jennifer is a member of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
Pam Powell 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: May 2013
Skills and experience: Pam has more than 20 years marketing experience 
developing some of the world’s leading consumer brands. Most recently, she 
was the Group Strategy and Innovation Director for SAB Miller, one of the world’s 
leading brewers. Pam spent nine years at SAB Miller in senior management 
roles during which time she helped transform the marketing performance of the 
company, including the development and implementation of the first group-
wide commercial strategy. Prior to that Pam held numerous marketing roles 
in the home and personal care sector during a 13 year career at Unilever plc, 
culminating in her role as global Vice President of the Skin Care category. Pam is 
also a non-executive director at A.G. BARR p.l.c.
Committee membership: Pam is a member of the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees.
Charles Miller Smith 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: June 2009
Skills and experience: Charles is currently a senior adviser at Warburg 
Pincus LLC and prior to this was an International Adviser at Goldman Sachs 
International from 2001 until 2005. Charles worked with Unilever plc for over 30 
years, the last five of which he served as a Director of Finance and then Foods. 
Charles was Chief Executive Officer and then Chairman at ICI plc from 1994 to 
2001. He has served as a non-executive director of Midland Bank and HSBC 
Holdings PLC and served as Chairman of Scottish Power plc between 2000 and 
2007. Charles is also Chairman of Firstsource Solutions UK Ltd and is a director 
of Firstsource Solutions Ltd. 
Committee membership: Charles is a member of the Nomination 
Committee and attends the Audit and Remuneration Committees by invitation.
David Wild 
Non-executive director
Appointed to the Board: March 2011
Skills and experience: David was Chief Executive Officer of Halfords Group 
plc until July 2012 and was previously with Walmart where he was Senior Vice-
President of US New Business Development and President of Walmart Germany. 
Earlier in his career he was with Tesco plc (1985 to 2003) where he held a 
variety of roles including ten years in Buying and six years as Chief Executive 
Officer of Tesco Central Europe. David Wild is currently Interim Chief Executive 
Officer at Domino’s Pizza Group plc and a non-executive director at The Bankers 
Investment Trust PLC.
Committee membership: David is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and is also a member of the Audit and Nomination 
Committees. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
49
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Group Executive
01 02 03
04 05
07
06
01 Brian Carlton
02 Ian Deste
03 Mark Hughes
04 Richard Johnson
05 Andrew McDonald
06 Bob Spooner
07 Mark Vickery
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
50
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Brian Carlton 
Group HR Director
Skills and experience: Brian joined the Group in 1994 as Head of Personnel 
for the former Canned Foods division. His responsibilities have since been 
extended to embrace all HR activities across the Group. He was appointed to the 
Group Executive in October 2006. Prior to joining Premier Foods, Brian held HR 
and Operational roles in Chrysler UK, K Shoes, Metal Box and Smurfit Packaging.
Key responsibilities: These include leadership development, talent 
management, remuneration, resourcing and employee relations management 
across the business.
Ian Deste 
Commercial Director, Grocery
Skills and experience: Ian joined the Group in September 2011 as Group 
Sales Director and was appointed as Commercial Director, Grocery in November 
2012. He previously spent 20 years with Coca-Cola Enterprises Ltd (CCE), 
including nine years as a member of the GB board. Most recently, Ian held the 
position of Vice-President, Sales and Customer Development, prior to which he 
held other senior positions in sales, marketing and communications at CCE. In his 
early career, he worked in the beer and tobacco industries.
Key responsibilities: Ian is responsible for marketing, innovation and sales 
within our ambient Grocery and Cake portfolio. This includes, all aspects of 
commercial strategy and customer management, and the delivery of revenue, 
profitability and market-share metrics for the Grocery brands.
Mark Hughes 
Group Procurement Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined the Group in 2007 following the 
acquisition of RHM. Mark joined RHM in 2003 as Divisional Services Director 
(Bread Bakeries) and became a member of the Bread Bakeries Division Executive 
in 2004, and was appointed Group Procurement and Logistics Director and a 
member of the Group Executive of RHM in 2006. Mark was previously director 
at Archer Daniels Midland Milling (UK) and has held a number of senior positions 
with Associated British Foods plc.
Key responsibilities: Control and risk management of c. £1.3bn of spend on 
ingredients, packaging, energy, machinery, facilities, engineering, marketing and all 
corporate spend. Responsibilities include ensuring the Group remains competitive 
and well placed within a changing market through the provision of innovative 
procurement processes, policies, stakeholder engagement and external supplier 
relationship management.
Richard Johnson 
Group Corporate Affairs Director
Skills and experience: Richard joined the Group in October 2011 as Group 
Corporate Affairs Director. Previously, Richard spent a total of 18 years with Kraft 
Foods (now Mondele
-
z International) during which time he held senior corporate 
affairs roles across a number of businesses and geographies, including the UK, 
Belgium and the US. Most recently he was Corporate Affairs Director for Kraft 
Foods’ European business based at the company’s headquarters in Switzerland. 
He was also Vice-President Corporate Affairs for McDonald’s Europe and earlier 
in his career, he worked for the Food and Drink Federation.
Key responsibilities: These include leading the Group’s internal and external 
communications, media relations, public affairs, sustainability and community 
relations activities.
Andrew McDonald 
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Skills and experience: Andrew joined the Group in November 2011 as 
General Counsel & Company Secretary. Prior to this he held the same position 
at Uniq plc, before its acquisition by the Greencore Group. Andrew is a qualified 
solicitor and worked as a corporate lawyer at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 
before moving into industry. He is a law graduate of Manchester University. 
Key responsibilities: Andrew has responsibility for the legal, company 
secretarial and internal audit functions and is actively involved in business 
development and key operational issues facing the business. He is on the 
steering group of all corporate and strategic projects pursued by the Group. He 
also supports the Chairman with the management of the Board to ensure it fulfils 
its corporate governance obligations.
Bob Spooner 
Group Supply Chain Director and 
Managing Director, Bread
Skills and experience: In January 2014 the Group announced the Hovis 
joint venture for its Bread business and Bob will take up the position of CEO of the 
Hovis joint venture on completion. Bob joined the Group as Group Operations 
Director in April 2007. In October 2011 Bob was appointed Group Supply Chain 
Director with responsibility for the Group’s combined Operations, Technical and 
Procurement functions and in October 2012 took on additional responsibility as 
Managing Director of the Bread division, where he is responsible for all aspects 
of the Bread business, including full P&L responsibility. Before joining the Group, 
Bob was Group Supply Director for Northern Foods plc and Managing Director of 
Northern Foods’ Pastry Products business and prior to that held senior operational 
and supply chain roles with ICI Paints and Sara Lee. 
Key responsibilities: These include leading and implementing the Group’s 
manufacturing, logistics, procurement, technical and innovation strategy across 
the businesses and full responsibility for the Bread division’s P&L.
Mark Vickery 
Group Information Systems & Change Director
Skills and experience: Mark joined the Group in early 2005 as Director of 
Information Systems & Change management (ISC). Following the acquisition 
of RHM he assumed the role of Group ISC Director. Mark started his career at 
Unilever plc where he spent 17 years working in a number of businesses and 
geographies. He then moved to United Biscuits as IS Director prior to joining 
Premier Foods.
Key responsibilities: These include managing the Information Services 
function and delivering major system and change programmes into the business.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
51
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Corporate Governance
Board Meetings
The Board held ten scheduled meetings in the year and in addition a number of other meetings and conference calls were convened for specific 
business. All directors are expected to attend the AGM, scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings, unless they are prevented 
from doing so by prior work or personal commitments. Where a director is unable to attend a meeting they have the opportunity to review relevant 
papers and discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting. Following the meeting the Chairman, or Committee Chairman as 
appropriate, also briefs any director not present to update them on the key discussions and decisions taken. 
Details of Board and Committee membership and attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings are set out in the table below.
Board Members 
(During 2013)
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee
Number of
possible
meetings
attended
Actual
Meetings
attended
Number of
possible
meetings
attended
Actual
Meetings
attended
Number of
possible
meetings
attended
Actual
Meetings
attended
Number of
possible
meetings
attended
Actual
Meetings
attended
Non-executive directors
David Beever 10 10 — — 3 3 2 2
Ian Krieger 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2
Jennifer Laing 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2
Charles Miller Smith 10 10 — — — — 2 2
Pam Powell
1
6 5 3 3 2 2 1 1
David Wild
2
10 9 4 4 3 3 2 2
Executive directors
Gavin Darby 9 9 — — — — — —
Alastair Murray 3 3 — — — — — —
Former directors
Michael Clarke
3
1 1 — — — — — —
Mark Moran 7 7 — — — — — —
Geoff Eaton
4
1 1 — — — — — —
Ian McHoul
5
3 2 1 1 — — 1 1
Footnotes:
1. Pam Powell was appointed as a non-executive director on the 7 May 2013 and missed the October Board meeting due to an overseas commitment agreed prior to her appointment.
2. David Wild missed a Board meeting on 10 April 2013 due to a prior business commitment.
3. Michael Clarke resigned as CEO and an executive director on 28 January 2013 and was replaced by Gavin Darby who was appointed on the 4 February 2013.
4. Geoff Eaton was appointed Chief Operating Officer and executive director on 3 October 2012 and resigned as an executive director on 4 February 2013.
5. Ian McHoul missed the January 2013 Board meeting due to a business commitment with AMEC plc and resigned as a non-executive director at the AGM on 25 April 2013 following  
the end of his third three year term.
Non-Executive Director Meetings
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that non-executive directors 
have opportunities to meet without the presence of management. Over 
the course of the year the non-executive directors met independently 
on a regular basis both after Board meetings and also over Board 
dinners. Topics discussed included key strategic issues and 
succession planning. 
Board Time Allocation
Below is a chart which summarises the approximate time the 
Board has spent discussing agenda items at scheduled Board 
meetings during the year to 31 December 2013:
36%
Strategy
14%
7%
Governance
Succession
22%
Operations
21%
Finance & Risk
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
52
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Appointment of Additional Directors
The Board has the power to appoint one or more additional directors. 
Under the Articles any such director shall hold office until the next AGM 
when they shall be eligible for election. An ordinary resolution with 
special notice of the shareholders is sufficient to appoint or remove a 
director.
Conflicts of Interest
The Company has procedures in place for managing conflicts of 
interest and directors have continuing obligations to update the Board 
on any changes to these conflicts. This process includes relevant 
disclosure at the beginning of each Board meeting and also the 
Company’s annual formal review of potential conflict situations which 
includes the use of a questionnaire. 
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the Company 
and Warburg Pincus (the Relationship Agreement), Charles Miller 
Smith, a senior adviser to Warburg Pincus, was appointed to the 
Board. Under the agreement, Warburg Pincus (with the agreement 
of the Company) may nominate an individual for appointment to the 
Board so long as they retain a minimum interest of 23,980,215 shares 
in the Company. 
Warburg Pincus and the Company have agreed that the terms of their 
existing Relationship Agreement shall cease to have effect from the 
date of the announcement of the Capital Refinancing Plan and shall 
terminate automatically upon completion of the Capital Refinancing 
Plan. Warburg Pincus and the Company have also agreed that the 
Relationship Agreement shall continue to have full force and effect if the 
Capital Refinancing Plan does not complete.
On termination of the Relationship Agreement, Charles Miller Smith 
will cease to be a nominee of Warburg Pincus. However, the Board 
has asked him to remain as an non-executive director, independent 
of Warburg Pincus, on account of his beneficial knowledge and 
experience.
During the year no other director had a material interest at any time 
in any contract of significance with the Company or Group other than 
their service contract.
Director Induction Programme
All directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board covering 
their duties and responsibilities as directors. Non-executive directors 
also receive a full briefing document on all key areas of the Group’s 
business and they may request further information as they consider 
necessary. A typical non-executive director induction would include:
Stage one Matters covered
Provision of documents Duties of a director, Board procedures and provision of an ICSA 
compliant governance manual.
Stage two Matters covered
Meeting with CEO & CFO Business overview, current trading, key commercial issues.
Meetings with non-
executive directors
Open discussion forums.
Meeting with General 
Counsel & Company 
Secretary
Board process and governance issues/updates, key legal, risk 
and internal audit matters.
Meetings with each of the 
Group Executive
Commercial issues and projects as applicable for Operations, 
Sales, Supply Chain, Corporate Affairs, HR, Procurement, 
Marketing, Technology and Innovation and ISC.
Meeting with Investor 
Relations
Investor relations matters and any updates.
Meeting with Treasury Treasury and insurance matters and any updates.
Stage three Matters covered
Site visits Understanding of the business and its operations.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
53
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Corporate Governance continued
Division of Governance Responsibilities:
The Board: The Chairman:
The Board has an agreed schedule of matters reserved which include:
•	 Setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives;
•	 Approving annual operating and capital budgets;
•	 Reviewing business performance;
•	 Overseeing the Group’s internal control systems; and 
•	 Ensuring appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to 
meet its objectives.
The Board delegates to the Group Executive responsibility for 
overseeing the implementation of the Group’s policies and strategy. 
Leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness:
•	 Chairing Board meetings; setting the agendas in consultation 
with the CEO and General Counsel & Company Secretary; and 
encouraging directors’ active participation in Board discussions;
•	 Leading the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees 
and individual directors;
•	 Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance including 
compliance with the Code provisions wherever possible;
•	 Ensuring timely and accurate distribution of information to the 
directors and effective communication with shareholders;
•	 Establishing an effective working relationship with the CEO 
by providing support and advice whilst respecting executive 
responsibility; and
•	 Periodically holding meetings with the non-executive directors 
without the executive directors present.
The Chief Executive Officer: The Senior Independent Director:
•	 The executive management of the Group; and 
•	 Ensuring the implementation of Board strategy and policy within the 
approved budgets and timescales. 
The CEO is assisted in meeting his responsibilities by the CFO and the 
Group Executive (who head up the Group’s principal operations and 
functions).
•	 Supporting the Chairman and leading the non-executive directors in 
the oversight of the Chairman and CEO.
The SID’s specific responsibility is to be available to shareholders if they 
have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or 
where such contact is inappropriate.
Diversity
In 2011 the Board agreed to adopt a policy to have at least two 
female board directors by 2015. We are pleased to report that 
following the appointment of Pam Powell in May 2013 this target 
has been achieved. Diversity will continue to be an important 
consideration whenever a new appointment is undertaken to ensure 
that the Board comprises individuals with a broad range of skills, 
backgrounds and experience reflecting both the type of industry and 
the geographical location in which we operate.
The Board believes in the importance of diversity (in its widest sense) 
and the benefits that it can bring to the operation of an effective 
business and is committed to increasing the participation of women 
across all levels of the organisation and particularly within senior 
management. We are committed to equal opportunities in all areas 
of our business, with people gaining promotion on merit. We recruit, 
train, promote and retain skilled and motivated people irrespective 
of gender, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, 
religion, ethnic or national origin. In line with this commitment we also 
promote a culture of openness and responsibility within our business. 
Details of our gender diversity across the Board of directors, senior 
management, central functions and across the whole Group as at  
31 December 2013 are set out in the adjacent table.
Board of Directors
2013 25%
2012 11%
2011 13%
Senior Management
2013 19%
2012 24%
2011 16%
Central Functions
2013 45%
2012 45%
2011 45%
All Employees
2013 23%
2012 23%
2011 23%
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
54
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Boardroom Tenure
The Board believes it is important to maintain an appropriate balance 
between length of service, independent judgement and an appropriate 
level of experience and skill. The Board, via the Nomination Committee, 
regularly undertakes a review of succession plans for both executive 
and non-executive directors with consideration of the need to refresh 
Board and Committee membership with diversity in mind. As at year 
end the length of service of the current non-executive directors is 
shown in the graph below against the average length of service (blue 
line), which currently stands at 2.7 years.
Details of all directors’ appointment terms are set out on page 71.
David Beever
Ian Krieger
Jennifer Laing
Charles Miller Smith
Pam Powell
David Wild
NUMBER OF YEARS’ SERVICE
AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Board Support and Information
Directors are allowed to take independent professional advice in the 
course of their duties. In addition, all directors have access to the advice 
and services of the General Counsel & Company Secretary. If any 
director were to have a concern over any unresolved business issue 
following professional advice, they are entitled to require the General 
Counsel & Company Secretary to minute that concern. Should they later 
resign over a concern, non-executive directors are asked to provide a 
written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The main source of information is via the Board pack provided to 
directors in advance of Board meetings. These cover the following 
standing items which are designed to keep directors up to date with all 
material business developments:
•	 CEO introduction; 
•	 H&S and employee issues;
•	 Commercial review of brands and sales; 
•	 Customer service levels; 
•	 Restructuring projects; 
•	 Capital expenditure; 
•	 CFO report; and
•	 Investor Relations
A detailed strategy review took place over a two day meeting and site 
visit in June and there was a comprehensive review of 2014 brand, 
sales and supply chain plans as part of the approval of the 2014 
business plan in September and November 2013. Non-executive 
directors also received tailored training sessions on the key pension 
and remuneration related matters for the Group and were also invited 
to attend internal presentations on brand plans for 2014.
The Board receives a detailed investor relations update at each Board 
meeting which covers (amongst other things) share price movements, 
shareholder register movements, analyst reports, a summary of 
investor meetings and other recent activity. The Board also receives 
comprehensive feedback from the Group’s brokers, following investor 
roadshows after the half year and year-end results.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
55
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Corporate Governance continued
Board Evaluation
As reported last year, given the change in Board composition in 2012 and the appointment of Gavin Darby in February 2013, it was agreed to 
defer the external Board evaluation until 2013. Following a selection process Springboard Associates Limited (who have no other connection with 
the Company) were appointed to conduct the review. This involved face to face meetings with all directors and a number of senior management 
and attendance at the Remuneration, Audit and Board meetings that took place in June. A report was prepared and discussed with the Chairman 
and was subsequently presented to the Board for discussion. There was strong consensus that the atmosphere of Board meetings was 
constructive and allowed openness of debate and that no individuals or group of individuals dominated proceedings. Non-executive directors 
had sufficient access to the CEO and there was transparency and honesty. A constructive working relationship had been established between 
the Chairman and CEO. The quality of Board papers was good. Following recent appointments there was a robust balance of diversity, skills and 
experience. Following the review an action plan was prepared highlighting areas for focus and progress against this plan will be reviewed over the 
course of the next 12 months. 
Action plan
Opportunity Action
Vision and Strategy
It was noted that the initial phase of the Group’s turnaround strategy 
was nearing completion and that it was therefore appropriate to review 
the vision and values for the business. 
A workstream has been established to review the Group’s vision and 
values and this will be presented to the Board in H1 2014.
Succession
The Board noted the importance for continued focus on succession 
plans for CEO, CFO and senior management.
It was agreed that the Chairman would prepare a proposal for CEO 
contingency planning. Management would prepare an update on 
succession planning for senior management and present this following 
the completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan in the first half of 2014.
Remuneration, Retention and Development
It was recommended that the Board review the process for identifying 
high performers and managing their careers. 
It was agreed that the process be presented to the Board in the first 
half of 2014.
Training and Development
There is a tailored induction process for all non-executive directors 
and further training is provided on an ad hoc basis. It was agreed that 
this process should be formalised as an annual review for each non-
executive directors to identify training and development needs.
The evaluation highlighted the need for a training session on the 
Group’s pension schemes and remuneration arrangements. As a result 
training sessions were held in September and November 2013 to 
review pension investment strategy, liability hedging, deficit valuations 
and also the Group’s remuneration strategy.
Director Appraisals
Following the recent changes in Board composition the annual 
appraisal process for directors required review and formalisation.
The process for the annual appraisal of none-executive directors and 
the review of the Chairman led by the SID was strengthened for 2014.
Commercial
More emphasis to be given to external environment and competitors.
 
More time to be set aside for directors to be updated on the Group’s 
new product development (NPD).
Competitor and market updates were added as part of commercial 
update papers. 
A comprehensive programme of product tasting, review of NPD 
and comparative testing against competitor products has now been 
introduced at Board meetings.
Agenda and Time Management
It was recommended that agendas and time management be 
reviewed to ensure that NEDs had the opportunity to input into 
agendas and also to ensure that agendas were not over ambitious. 
It was agreed to review agenda items for the next 12 months with 
non-executive directors. Where appropriate, committee meetings 
would be held on separate days to the Board meeting to ensure 
sufficient time to cover all agenda items.
It was agreed that focus be given to ensure agendas were not 
over ambitious and timing was set to ensure all items could be fully 
reviewed.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
56
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Our Board Structure
PLC BOARD
GROUP EXECUTIVE
Nomination Committee Audit Committee
Treasury Risk Management 
Committee
Sustainability Steering  
Group
COMMITTEE
Remuneration Committee
Committees
The Board has three committees which assist in the discharge of its 
responsibilities.
In addition executive directors are assisted by the work of the Group 
Executive and its sub-committees. Together these form part of the 
Company’s corporate governance framework, but are not formally 
appointed committees of the Board.
Group Executive Committee — Responsible, under the leadership 
of Gavin Darby, for the day-to-day management of the business, 
setting performance targets and implementing the Group’s strategy 
and direction as determined by the Board. This committee is also 
responsible for the effective implementation of policies taking into 
account changes in regulations and other business risks. The 
Committee drives effective risk management throughout the business 
and makes recommendations to the Audit Committee as appropriate; 
monitoring and reporting on all material business risks which might 
impact the delivery of the Group’s strategic goals and objectives and 
agreeing with management appropriate mitigating actions.
Members of the Committee include Gavin Darby, Alastair Murray and 
members of the Group Executive.
Sustainability Steering Group — Responsible for providing direction 
to, and oversight of, the implementation of the Group’s sustainability 
programme which is built around the six core themes, these being; 
Buying Responsibly, Sustainable Manufacturing, Diet & Health 
Quality, Our People and Community Involvement. It’s objective is to 
identify and mitigate, both environmental and social risks in order to 
protect and enhance the Group’s reputation and build trust amongst 
its many stakeholders. The Sustainability Steering Group is made 
up of members from the Group Executive and senior operational 
management. 
Treasury Risk Management Committee — Responsible for the 
oversight of designated material foreign currency and commodity 
exposures and agreeing with senior management appropriate 
mitigating actions. Members of the committee include members of the 
Group Executive and senior operational management. 
Stakeholder Relations
Relations with Shareholders
An important role of the Board is to represent and promote the 
interests of its shareholders as well as being accountable to them for 
the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board believes it is very important to engage with its shareholders 
and does this in a number of ways through presentations, conference 
calls, investor roadshows, face-to-face meetings and the AGM. 
Following the announcement of the Group’s half year and year-
end results, presentations are made to analysts, banks and major 
shareholders to update them on the progress the Group has made 
towards its goals and invite them to ask questions. 
Currently around nine sell-side research analysts publish research on 
the Group. Full details on results presentations, RNS releases, interim 
management statements and conference calls are available on the 
Group’s website: 
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investor-relations/
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also speak with 
major shareholders on a regular basis and brief the Board to ensure 
that they are aware of the views of shareholders. Following on from 
2012 we continued to meet with our largest shareholders to discuss 
remuneration topics, further details are set out in the letter from the 
Remuneration Committee Chairman on page 63.
The main channel of communication to institutional investors is through 
the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations. The CEO and CFO are 
available to meet with shareholders during the year. 
Relations with Stakeholders
The Company holds meetings throughout the year with key 
stakeholders.
Pensions
The Group has established a Pensions Liaison Forum which meets 
quarterly. This is attended by the CFO, General Counsel & Company 
Secretary, Group Pension Manager and Chairmen of the Group’s 
pension schemes. The CEO attends the Forum twice yearly. The Forum 
discusses and develops funding and investment strategies for the 
Group’s pension schemes and any other pension issues that might 
impact the schemes and/or the Group. 
Banks
Members of the Group Executive and senior management hold regular 
meetings with the Company’s banking syndicate to update them on the 
Group’s financial performance. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
57
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Corporate Governance continued
Suppliers
The Group holds a conference with the Group’s leading suppliers on 
an annual basis which is attended by executive directors and members 
of the Group Executive. This is an opportunity to update suppliers on 
the Group’s strategy and growth plans. The 2013 conference was 
attended by around 400 delegates representing approximately 200 
of our top suppliers. A keynote address was given by Gavin Darby 
and presentations were given by Group Executive members. A highly 
successful fundraising event was held after the conference and all 
funds raised went to our corporate charity partner, Macmillan Cancer 
Support.
Sustainability
We work with a number of Government departments, non-ministerial 
Government departments (such as the Food Standards Agency) and 
other regulatory agencies as well as trade associations (such as the 
Food and Drink Federation). We engage with these bodies in order 
to identify and understand key issues facing the food industry and 
listen to their opinions and guidance — all of which helps to inform our 
internal policy making.
Employees and our Approach to Business Ethics
We are committed to ensuring that the people who work within our 
business are treated with respect, and their health, safety and basic 
human rights are protected and promoted. 
We have a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour 
all employees are expected to follow and provides useful guidance 
to help employees when it comes to making the right decision. This 
code is made up of 10 key elements including: acting honestly and 
complying with the law; competing fairly; food safety and treating 
people fairly. We also have a confidential whistle blowing call line to 
enable all employees to raise any concerns they have that cannot be 
dealt with through the normal channels. 
We believe that we have a responsibility to act and trade ethically in our 
dealings throughout the supply chain. In order to identify and focus on 
the ethical issues that are material to our business we have established 
an Ethical Supply Chain Working Group. This group develops, and 
implements, a risk based ethical supply chain strategy which meets the 
needs of our business whilst ensuring that bought goods are produced 
under generally accepted, and internationally recognised, human rights 
law including the conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
We set a target that all our direct suppliers must be registered with 
the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) by 2014 and 60% are 
now registered. SEDEX is a not-for-profit organisation dedicated to 
driving improvements in ethical and responsible business practice 
in global supply chains through the sharing of ethical supply chain 
data. In addition, we have put in place an Ethical Trading Policy and 
each supplier we work with must strive to comply with this and with 
all relevant local and national laws and regulations, particularly with 
regard to: minimum age of employment; health & safety; freedom of 
association; discrimination; working hours; and rates of pay.
Employment of Disabled Persons
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment received from disabled persons, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities, and wherever possible to continue 
the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, employees 
who have become disabled persons during the period of their 
employment. The Group provides the same opportunities for training, 
career development and promotion for disabled people as for other 
employees.
Employee Communication
We recognise the value of good communication in engaging our 
employees in order to achieve common goals and we have a number 
of established employee communication mechanisms in place to 
achieve this goal, including: regular communication meetings; the 
Group’s intranet site; the quarterly Group magazine; and specific 
consultation and involvement regarding major changes to the business. 
In 2013 we conducted an all employee survey as discussed in greater 
detail on page 23.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
58
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
“The committee has considered a 
number of key issues in respect of 
the financial statements and these 
are summarised on page 61” 
Ian Krieger 
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee Report
The Committee has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for 
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s financial reporting 
systems and the internal control policies and procedures for the 
identification, assessment and reporting of risk. 
The Committee also keeps under review the relationship with 
the external auditors, including the terms of their engagement 
and fees, their independence and expertise, resources and 
qualification, and the effectiveness of the audit process. The 
Committee met with the internal and external auditors on one 
occasion in the year without the presence of management. The 
table on page 52 sets out Committee membership and meeting 
attendance.
Ian Krieger was appointed as Audit Committee Chairman in April 
2013 and has recent and relevant financial experience from his 
role as a senior partner of Deloitte until his retirement in 2012. 
In addition to the Committee members the following individuals 
are regularly invited to the Committee’s meetings: the CEO, 
CFO, Director of Internal Audit and Risk and External Audit Lead 
Partner. The General Counsel & Company Secretary attends in 
his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
•	 Monitor financial reporting including the annual and interim 
reports, preliminary results announcements and formal 
announcements relating to financial performance and 
reporting to ensure the annual report and accounts taken as 
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable;
•	 Ensure the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and 
risk management systems;
•	 Review and monitor the whistleblowing and bribery and fraud 
arrangements;
•	 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function, including the approval of any appointment or 
removal of the Director of Internal Audit & Risk function;
•	 Consider and make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors 
in accordance with the Company’s audit tender policy to 
include the setting of their remuneration; 
•	 Review the external auditors’ independence and objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the external audit processes. 
•	 Prepare this report to shareholders to include any significant 
issues in relation to the financial statements and how these 
were addressed.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the  
Group’s website: 
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) have been the Group’s auditors 
since flotation in 2004. The external auditors are required to rotate the 
audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every 
five years and a new lead audit partner was appointed in 2012. The 
Committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next 
formal tender in light of current regulatory requirements. There are 
no contractual obligations restricting the Group’s choice of external 
auditors. 
External Audit Effectiveness
Annually the Committee reviews the relationship the Group has with 
PwC. The review is usually conducted by a questionnaire addressed 
to key management following the year end audit. The responses are 
collated and reviewed by the company secretariat and the results 
are categorised, prioritised and presented to the Committee for their 
review. In 2013 the review was carried out by PwC’s audit quality 
team by means of a questionnaire. The results of the review were 
presented to the Audit Committee and recommendations coming 
out of the review were incorporated into the 2013 audit plan. For 
the year ended 31 December 2013 the Committee was satisfied 
with the effectiveness of the external auditor. At the 2014 AGM 
the re-election of PwC as the Group’s auditors will be proposed to 
shareholders.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
59
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Audit Committee Report continued
Auditor Independence and Non-audit Services
There is an established policy governing auditor independence and the 
engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services designed 
to maintain the independence and objectivity of the external auditors. 
The policy was reviewed and updated in 2013 and key terms of the 
updated policy are listed below:
•	 a tender of the external audit be considered every 10 years;
•	 the lead partner rotate every 5 years;
•	 the external auditors should not be engaged for non-audit work, 
however, in certain circumstances it may be appropriate to appoint 
them; 
•	 Where fees were expected to be over £100k, the approval of the 
Audit Committee Chairman is required; 
•	 If, in exceptional circumstances, the fee was expected to exceed 
the audit fee then the approval of the full Committee would be 
required; and 
•	 the appointment of senior personnel previously employed by the 
external auditor within the last 5 years requires approval of the Audit 
Committee Chairman.
The Group has been going through a very significant transformation 
as management have implemented the turnaround of the business. 
This included a major disposal programme over the course of 2012, 
due diligence work in respect of the Hovis joint venture and working 
capital report in respect of the Capital Refinancing Plan in Q1 2014. Non 
audit fees for 2013 were £411,000 (2012: £2,400,000) representing 
approximately 71% (2012: 320%) of the annual audit fee. 
The Committee regularly reviewed the level of non-audit fees with 
management throughout the year. The Committee also received 
an update from the external auditors lead partner on their internal 
controls to safeguard their independence. Additional safeguards to 
the independence of the auditors are given by the fact that PwC’s 
lead audit partner was recently appointed (in 2012) and both the Audit 
Committee Chairman and CFO were appointed in 2013.
The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines 
on non-audit fees. However, given the nature of work required in 
connection with the business turnaround it was assessed that PwC 
were best placed to perform these additional services in view of their 
knowledge of the business, the time constraints in completing the work 
and the likely cost. 
Following the completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan and the Hovis 
joint venture the Committee does not anticipate that non-audit fees will 
remain at a significant level.
What We Did in 2013
During the year the Committee discussed the following:
•	 Considered a number of key accounting matters as discussed 
below;
•	 Received regular reports from the internal audit function, 
ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and 
effectiveness, and agreed the annual internal audit plan; 
•	 Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal control 
system as described below;
•	 Reviewed an update to the Committee’s terms of reference which 
were subsequently approved by the Board;
•	 Reviewed operational accounting issues including the shared service 
centre in Manchester, the processes for reviewing and recovering 
commercial debtors and the control and accounting for inventory;
•	 Received updates on the Group’s whistleblowing and bribery and 
fraud arrangements;
•	 Reviewed the non-audit services spend and approved the 
engagement of PwC as an adviser in relation to the Capital 
Refinancing Plan and the Hovis joint venture as discussed above;
•	 Received a review from the Group’s external auditors which 
included a review of the external auditors’ independence, objectivity 
and the effectiveness of the audit process; and
•	 Considered the external auditors’ report for the year ended  
31 December 2013 and recommended the reappointment of the 
external auditors.
Internal Audit Effectiveness
In accordance with the FRC Guidance on audit committees an annual 
review of internal controls is conducted. The Board has delegated 
authority to the Audit Committee to regularly monitor internal controls 
and conduct the full annual review. This review covers all material 
controls such as financial, operational and compliance, and also the 
risk management system in place throughout the year under review 
up to the date of the annual report. The Committee reports the results 
of this review to the Board for discussion and agreement on the 
actions required to address any material control weaknesses. In 2013 
the Director of Internal Audit & Risk circulated post audit completion 
questionnaires to senior managers in the business, the results of these 
questionnaires were reported to the Audit Committee on a regular 
basis. As part of the annual review on the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function the company secretarial department conducted 
an independent review of the feedback from these questionnaires. In 
addition the company secretarial department circulated a separate 
questionnaire to Committee members and the Group Executive to 
collate their views on the general effectiveness of the internal audit 
function.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
60
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial Statements
In addition the Committee has reviewed the 2013 half year and the full year results and recommended them for approval to the Board. This has 
involved the consideration of a number of significant issues in respect of the financial statements which are detailed in the following table. 
Area of Focus How these issues were addressed
Going concern •	 Going concern was a significant area of discussion for the Committee in respect of the 2013 annual 
report and accounts. The directors statement on going concern is laid out on page 76.
Impairment •	 A review of the impairment model for the Grocery business was conducted by factoring in the business 
projections as part of the Capital Refinancing Plan and this indicated that sufficient headroom to the 
book value of the business remained and therefore no impairment was required. This included a review 
of the key assumptions including discount and long term growth rates.
•	 A review of the impairment model for the Bread business includied the impact of the offer received for 
the Hovis joint venture in establishing a fair value for the business. Following this review it was agreed 
that an impairment of £234.4m be recognised.
Deferred taxation •	 A detailed analysis was performed at year end around the overall quantum of the deferred tax asset held 
with reference to forecast future taxable profits based on business projections. 
Pension deficit increase •	 The Group’s pension deficit, as calculated under IAS 19 (Revised), has increased from £466.8 million to 
£603 million at 31 December 2013 largely as a result of an increase to the inflation assumptions. 
Accounting treatment for the 
Bread business
•	 A formal tender process was conducted in 2013 with a number of parties in order to secure investment 
for the Bread business. As a result of the tender process, the Audit Committee considered that the 
assets of the Bread business should be treated as held for sale at the year end. On 27 January 2014 the 
Group announced an agreement to establish a stand-alone joint venture for the Bread business.
Commercial accruals •	 The Committee discussed the level of commercial accruals for promotional activity as it represents a 
significant estimate for the Group. The Committee noted that improvements in the overall commercial 
accruals control environment have allowed management to improve the forecasting accuracy of accruals 
required.
Presentation of Results •	 In line with prior year the results of business in 2013 (and 2012 comparatives) have been presented 
on an underlying basis. This reflects the fact the Group is undergoing a period of restructuring and 
stabilisation and it is felt that this better illustrates the performance of the core business. This includes 
the results of the Bread Business but excludes the results of disposals and certain contract withdrawals. 
A full reconciliation of the adjustments is set out on page 43.
Fair, Balanced and 
Understandable
•	 As part of an update to the Audit Committee’s terms of reference, the Board requested that the 
Audit Committee confirm the annual report and accounts taken as a whole were fair, balanced and 
understandable. Following a review of this document which included consideration of the balance of 
information, the messaging, use of KPIs and the disclosure of risks, the Audit Committee recommended 
that the Board make this statement which is set out on page 77.
The report of those matters that the external auditors considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements are set out on  
pages 81 to 82.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
61
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
The Committee is responsible for considering the size, 
structure and composition of the Board, retirement and 
appointment of additional directors, and making appropriate 
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills and experience on the Board. The Committee reviews the 
succession requirements of the Board and senior management 
(including the need for diversity) on an annual basis and makes 
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. The table 
on page 52 sets out Committee membership and meeting 
attendance.
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
•	 Lead the formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board 
appointments including a review of the skills, experience and 
knowledge of the existing directors to ensure any potential 
shortlisted candidates will benefit the balance of the Board;
•	 Give full consideration to succession planning taking into 
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group 
and what skills and expertise would benefit the Board in the 
future; 
•	 Regularly review the structure, size and composition 
(including independence, experience and diversity) of the 
Board and make recommendations to the Board regarding 
changes; and
•	 Agree the job specification for the Chairman, including an 
assessment of the time commitment expected, recognising 
the need for availability in the event of a crisis.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website: 
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
Key Nomination Committee Discussions
Over the year the Committee has engaged Russell Reynolds 
Associates (executive appointments) and Saxonbury Limited (non-
executive appointment) as an external search agents in respect of 
the below key appointments.
•	 The appointment of Gavin Darby in February 2013 as CEO (full 
details of the Committee’s work in relation to Gavin Darby’s 
appointment was disclosed in the 2012 annual report  
and accounts).
•	 At the 2013 AGM, Ian McHoul retired following the end of his 
third term as a non-executive director in accordance with the 
Code. Ian Krieger replaced Ian McHoul as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and David Wild replaced Ian McHoul as Senior 
Independent Director. The Committee prepared a job description 
for the appointment of a new non-executive director following 
a review of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the Board. Members of the Committee interviewed a short-list 
of candidates produced by Saxonbury Limited and in early May, 
Pam Powell was appointed to the Board.
•	 The Committee recommended the appointment of Alastair 
Murray to the Board in September 2013 following Mark Moran’s 
decision that he could not commit to the Group for another three 
years. 
Neither Russell Reynolds Associates nor Saxonbury Limited have 
any other connection with the Group.
Additionally, the non-executive directors, led by the Senior 
Independent Director recommended the re-appointment of David 
Beever for a third three-year term as a non-executive director to 
continue to provide continuity of leadership as Chairman.
Nomination Committee Report
“I am delighted that Pam Powell 
joined the Board as an non-
executive director in May 2013 
which adds further consumer 
brand building experience to our 
Board.”
David Beever 
Chairman
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
62
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report
Committee
Chairman’s Letter
“The Committee’s overall 
remuneration strategy remains 
broadly unchanged and recognises 
the business turnaround currently 
being undertaken.”
David Wild 
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present the Group’s 
Remuneration Report for 2013. Our Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
will be put forward for your consideration and approval at our AGM 
on 29 April 2014 and will take effect from that date. 
The Committee’s overall remuneration strategy remains broadly 
unchanged and recognises the complexity of the business, the 
challenges it faces and the need for executive directors with 
significant experience to continue the business turnaround. Our 
focus is on rewarding performance — the majority of executive 
remuneration (approximately 70% at maximum) is variable and 
only payable if demanding performance targets are met. These 
performance targets are firmly linked to our strategy and ultimately 
aligned with shareholders’ interests in delivering earnings growth 
and improved shareholder value in the medium term. 
What We Did in 2013
The key challenge in 2013 was to put in place remuneration 
arrangements for Gavin Darby following his appointment as CEO in 
February 2013. Given the significance of the change the Chairman 
and I held a number of meetings with major shareholders to explain 
the background to Gavin Darby’s appointment and the rationale 
for the remuneration arrangements we put in place. Details of the 
arrangements were fully disclosed in last year’s annual report and 
at the AGM in April 2013 the Remuneration Report received strong 
support from shareholders (98% of votes cast being in favour).
In addition, in September, we announced the appointment of Alastair 
Murray as CFO in place of Mark Moran. Alastair has extensive 
strategic, commercial, financial and consumer brand experience 
built up over 30 years with a range of leading FMCG companies 
and also significant restructuring knowledge. This will be invaluable 
as we move forward with the next phase of the Group’s transition. 
Alastair’s annual base salary is £400,000 and his other benefits 
and incentive arrangements are in line with those of the previous 
CFO. Following Mark Moran’s decision to leave the Group it was 
agreed he would step down as a director on 30 September 2013 
and remain employed by the company until 31 October 2013 to 
ensure a smooth handover. He received a payment of £201,704 
representing 5 months salary, benefits and pension allowance in lieu 
of the remaining 11 months of his contractual notice period. He was 
not entitled to a bonus in respect of 2013 and his outstanding share 
awards lapsed on 31 October 2013.
The Committee reviewed the CEO’s performance over the year and 
assessed the extent to which his annual bonus targets had been 
achieved. The Committee concluded that Gavin Darby had made 
a highly significant contribution to the Group since appointment 
and been pivotal in the delivery of a number of critical strategic 
objectives over the year. In addition the Group had made strong 
progress in 2013 delivering underlying trading profit of £145.2m up 
17.7% on 2012. 
Gavin Darby was a awarded a bonus of £175,000 representing 
25% of his salary recognising the successful completion of his 
personal performance measures which were based on the creation 
of a cohesive and high performing leadership team and developing 
stakeholder relationships. However, despite the strong financial 
results in 2013, performance was below the stretching trading 
profit target set for the year and as a consequence the remaining 
performance conditions, which were subject to a trading profit 
underpin, were not met.
As Alastair Murray was appointed in September 2013 he did not 
participate in the Annual Bonus Plan for 2013.
The first tranche of Gavin Darby’s Co-Investment Award will vest on  
1 May 2014. 
What We’ve Planned for 2014
Remuneration arrangements for 2014 are in line with the Director’s 
Remuneration Policy. The performance conditions are linked to the 
Group’s strategy and the targets are considered stretching. Full 
details are set out under the relevant headings. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
63
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Set out below is the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, if approved it will apply from the close of the AGM on 29 April 2014. Total remuneration is 
made up of fixed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different strategic objectives. 
Element of Pay Link to Strategy Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions
Base Salary Provides an appropriate level of fixed income. 
Set at levels to attract and retain talented individuals with reference to the Committee’s assessment of:
1. The specific needs of the Group by reference to the size and complexity of the business, acknowledging the Group is 
currently in a turnaround situation; and
2. The specific experience, skills and responsibilities of the individual. 
Operation:
Normally reviewed annually, effective 1 April in conjunction with those of the wider workforce.
Salaries for the relevant year are detailed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
Increases are normally expected to be in line with increases across the 
management grades, subject to particular circumstances such as a 
significant change in role, responsibilities or organisation. An explanation 
of differences in remuneration policy for executive directors compared with 
other employees is set out later in this Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
None, although Group performance is taken into consideration 
when determining an appropriate level of base salary increase 
for management grades as a whole.
Performance Period:
None
Annual Bonus 
(AB)
Designed to incentivise delivery of annual financial and operational goals and directly linked to delivery of the Group 
strategy.
Operation:
An annual bonus is earned based on performance against a number of performance measures which are linked to the 
Group’s strategy. Bonuses are paid entirely in cash with the exception of the CEO where 25% is paid in shares.
Maximum (as a percentage of salary):
•	 CEO – 150%
•	 CFO – 75%
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery 
of the Group’s strategy and can be made up of a range of:
•	 Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash 
flow) representing not less than 50% of the total bonus 
opportunity, subject to the delivery of a threshold level of 
trading profit;
•	 Short to medium term strategic targets including financial 
and non-financial Key Performance Indicators, subject to 
the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit; and
•	 Personal performance representing not more than 20% of 
the total bonus opportunity.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at 
threshold. However, no more than 20% of the bonus will vest for 
threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling 
or exceeding the maximum target.
Specific details of the performance measures for the relevant 
year can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration to 
the extent that they are not commercially sensitive.
Performance Period:
One year
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
(DSBP)
Operates alongside the annual bonus but with a longer term focus. Awards are satisfied in the form of shares deferred for 
a period of up to two years to focus on medium term share price performance.
Operation:
Based on in-year Group wide strategic performance targets with any award being made following the end of the financial 
year in the form of shares that are deferred for up to two years.
The rules contain a dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on shares at the time  
of vesting.
Clawback provisions apply.
•	 CFO – 30% of the salary.
•	 CEO – The current CEO does not participate in the DSBP .
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery 
of the annual business plan and can be made up of a range of:
•	 Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash 
flow) representing not less than 50% of the total bonus 
opportunity, subject to delivery of a threshold level of 
trading profit; and
•	 Short to medium term strategic targets including financial 
and non-financial Key Performance Indicators, subject to 
the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at 
threshold. However, no more than 20% of the bonus will vest for 
threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling 
or exceeding the maximum target.
Performance Period:
One year, with a retention period of up to two years
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
The LTIP provides a clear link to our strategic goal of returning to profitable growth with sustainable share price growth 
over the long term.
Operation:
Annual grant of awards.
The LTIP comprises two elements — performance shares and matching shares — and the aggregate maximum under 
both elements is 200% of base salary.
Performance shares are the conditional award of shares or nil cost options which normally vest after three years subject to 
performance conditions. Matching shares are similar to performance shares but require participants to invest in Company 
shares. Any investment will receive a maximum match of up to 2:1 from the Company subject to performance. 
Currently it is the Remuneration Committee’s policy for awards under the LTIP to be made only in the form of performance 
shares. Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not expect to change this policy it wishes to retain the flexibility to do so.
Awards under the LTIP , including the determination of any relevant performance conditions, will be considered and 
determined on an annual basis at the discretion of the Committee.
The rules contain a dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on shares at the time of 
vesting.
Clawback provisions apply.
Maximum individual limit of 200% of salary. Where matching shares are 
used, no more than half of the award can be comprised of matching shares.
Normal award levels are (as a percentage of salary):
•	 CEO – 200%
•	 CFO – 150%
Performance conditions are based on a range of targets 
focused on the delivery of increased shareholder value over 
the medium to long term. These include a combination of total 
shareholder return and earnings per share. 
20% of the bonus will vest for threshold performance with full 
vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding the maximum 
target.
Performance Period:
Three years
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
64
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Set out below is the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, if approved it will apply from the close of the AGM on 29 April 2014. Total remuneration is 
made up of fixed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different strategic objectives. 
Element of Pay Link to Strategy Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions
Base Salary Provides an appropriate level of fixed income. 
Set at levels to attract and retain talented individuals with reference to the Committee’s assessment of:
1. The specific needs of the Group by reference to the size and complexity of the business, acknowledging the Group is 
currently in a turnaround situation; and
2. The specific experience, skills and responsibilities of the individual. 
Operation:
Normally reviewed annually, effective 1 April in conjunction with those of the wider workforce.
Salaries for the relevant year are detailed in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
Increases are normally expected to be in line with increases across the 
management grades, subject to particular circumstances such as a 
significant change in role, responsibilities or organisation. An explanation 
of differences in remuneration policy for executive directors compared with 
other employees is set out later in this Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
None, although Group performance is taken into consideration 
when determining an appropriate level of base salary increase 
for management grades as a whole.
Performance Period:
None
Annual Bonus 
(AB)
Designed to incentivise delivery of annual financial and operational goals and directly linked to delivery of the Group 
strategy.
Operation:
An annual bonus is earned based on performance against a number of performance measures which are linked to the 
Group’s strategy. Bonuses are paid entirely in cash with the exception of the CEO where 25% is paid in shares.
Maximum (as a percentage of salary):
•	 CEO – 150%
•	 CFO – 75%
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery 
of the Group’s strategy and can be made up of a range of:
•	 Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash 
flow) representing not less than 50% of the total bonus 
opportunity, subject to the delivery of a threshold level of 
trading profit;
•	 Short to medium term strategic targets including financial 
and non-financial Key Performance Indicators, subject to 
the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit; and
•	 Personal performance representing not more than 20% of 
the total bonus opportunity.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at 
threshold. However, no more than 20% of the bonus will vest for 
threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling 
or exceeding the maximum target.
Specific details of the performance measures for the relevant 
year can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration to 
the extent that they are not commercially sensitive.
Performance Period:
One year
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan 
(DSBP)
Operates alongside the annual bonus but with a longer term focus. Awards are satisfied in the form of shares deferred for 
a period of up to two years to focus on medium term share price performance.
Operation:
Based on in-year Group wide strategic performance targets with any award being made following the end of the financial 
year in the form of shares that are deferred for up to two years.
The rules contain a dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on shares at the time  
of vesting.
Clawback provisions apply.
•	 CFO – 30% of the salary.
•	 CEO – The current CEO does not participate in the DSBP .
Performance conditions are designed to promote the delivery 
of the annual business plan and can be made up of a range of:
•	 Financial targets (e.g. turnover, trading profit and cash 
flow) representing not less than 50% of the total bonus 
opportunity, subject to delivery of a threshold level of 
trading profit; and
•	 Short to medium term strategic targets including financial 
and non-financial Key Performance Indicators, subject to 
the delivery of a threshold level of trading profit.
There is no preset minimum bonus that can be paid out at 
threshold. However, no more than 20% of the bonus will vest for 
threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling 
or exceeding the maximum target.
Performance Period:
One year, with a retention period of up to two years
Long-Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
The LTIP provides a clear link to our strategic goal of returning to profitable growth with sustainable share price growth 
over the long term.
Operation:
Annual grant of awards.
The LTIP comprises two elements — performance shares and matching shares — and the aggregate maximum under 
both elements is 200% of base salary.
Performance shares are the conditional award of shares or nil cost options which normally vest after three years subject to 
performance conditions. Matching shares are similar to performance shares but require participants to invest in Company 
shares. Any investment will receive a maximum match of up to 2:1 from the Company subject to performance. 
Currently it is the Remuneration Committee’s policy for awards under the LTIP to be made only in the form of performance 
shares. Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not expect to change this policy it wishes to retain the flexibility to do so.
Awards under the LTIP , including the determination of any relevant performance conditions, will be considered and 
determined on an annual basis at the discretion of the Committee.
The rules contain a dividend equivalent provision enabling dividends to be paid (in cash or shares) on shares at the time of 
vesting.
Clawback provisions apply.
Maximum individual limit of 200% of salary. Where matching shares are 
used, no more than half of the award can be comprised of matching shares.
Normal award levels are (as a percentage of salary):
•	 CEO – 200%
•	 CFO – 150%
Performance conditions are based on a range of targets 
focused on the delivery of increased shareholder value over 
the medium to long term. These include a combination of total 
shareholder return and earnings per share. 
20% of the bonus will vest for threshold performance with full 
vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding the maximum 
target.
Performance Period:
Three years
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
65
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report continued
Element of Pay Link to Strategy Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions
Pension To offer market competitive levels of benefit and help to recruit and retain and to recognise long-term commitment to 
the Group.
Operation:
Executive directors receive an allowance in lieu of pension provision which is subject to periodic review or may participate 
in the Group’s defined contribution scheme on the same basis as all other new employees. Executive directors may also 
salary sacrifice additional amounts into this scheme but will not receive any additional contribution from the Group. Only 
basic pay is pensionable.
Annual allowances of:
•	 CEO — 20% of salary.
•	 The CFO participates in the Group’ s pension scheme and receives a 
contribution of 7.5% of the Earnings Cap set annually by the Group on the 
basis of the calculation previously used by HMRC. Should the CFO decide 
not to participate in the Company’ s pension scheme he would receive 
a cash allowance of this amount. Additionally the CFO receives a cash 
supplement (currently £21,610) which is reviewed annually by the Group in 
line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). 
N/A
Performance Period:
N/A
Sharesave 
Plans
To offer all employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in a simple and tax-efficient manner.
Operation:
The Company’s Sharesave Plan is a HMRC compliant scheme which is usually offered annually in September to all 
employees. The key terms of the plan will only be changed to reflect HMRC changes. At the 2014 AGM shareholders will 
vote on a new plan which will run until 2024.
Participants may save up to the statutory limit over a 3 year period, following 
which they have the opportunity to buy Company shares at a price set at 
the beginning of the savings period.
None, other than continued employment
Performance Period:
Three years
Co-Investment 
Award (one-off 
award in 2013)
To facilitate the recruitment of Gavin Darby as CEO in 2013 and immediately align the CEO with shareholders and the 
delivery of share price growth.
Operation:
Award specific to Gavin Darby. On appointment Gavin Darby acquired shares worth 100% of annual base salary in the 
Company. The Company made a matching award of shares worth 200% of salary which vest in three equal tranches on  
1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016 subject to satisfaction of a performance condition requiring payment of a bonus. 
200% of salary (one off award specific to Gavin Darby) Subject to a bonus having been paid for the relevant financial 
year and continued employment. The Co-Investment Award 
vests in specified circumstances including a change of control.
Performance Period:
One, two and three years
Other Benefits Help recruit and retain and to promote the efficient use of management time.
Operation:
The Company typically provides the following benefits:
•	 Company car or cash allowance. The CEO has use of the Group’s chauffeur driven car for Group business which 
allows the CEO to work while commuting to appointments;
•	 Private health insurance;
•	 Life insurance;
•	 Telecommunication services;
•	 Professional memberships; 
•	 Allowance for personal tax and financial planning; and
•	 Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses (as required).
The provision and level of allowances and benefits are considered 
appropriate and in line with market practice.
N/A
Performance Period:
N/A
Non-executive 
director fees
Provides an appropriate level of fixed fee to recruit and retain individuals with a broad range of experience and skill to 
support the Board in the delivery of its duties.
Fees are reviewed annually.
Operation:
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and executive directors. The remuneration of 
the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Includes a Chairman’s fee and standard non executive fee. Additional fees are payable to Committee Chairs and the 
Senior Independent Director.
Increases are normally expected to be in line with the market, taking into 
account increases across the Group as a whole, subject to particular 
circumstances such as a significant change in role, responsibilities or 
organisation. 
None
Performance Period:
None
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have 
been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise as required under 
the Remuneration Regulations. 
The Committee operates the Annual Bonus plan, DSBP , Co-Investment Award and LTIP according to their respective rules which includes flexibility in a number of areas. These include:
•	 The timing of awards and payments
•	 The size of an award, within the maximum limits
•	 The participants of the plan
•	 The performance measures, targets and weightings to be used for the annual bonus plan, DSBP and long-term incentive plans from year to year
•	 The assessment of whether performance conditions have been met
•	 The treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Group
•	 The determination of a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof 
•	 The adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends).
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The Committee reviews the performance measures used in the incentive arrangements on an annual basis to ensure that they remain appropriate and aligned to the delivery of the annual 
business plan and Group strategy. The majority of annual bonus and DSBP measures will be focused on financial performance with the remainder linked to individual performance and/or strategic 
objectives. This approach is adopted in order to link pay to the delivery of overall Group performance measured across a balance of key strategic aims. The targets will be set by reference to 
internal budgeting and strategic plans for the financial and strategic measures and key objectives identified by the Committee for the personal performance measures.
Currently the LTIP uses a combination of Earnings per Share and total shareholder return based measures to reflect both an internal measure of Group performance as well as the delivery of 
shareholder value. Targets are set taking into account both internal and external assessments of future performance and what constitutes good and superior returns for shareholders.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust the targets and/or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and DSBP and to adjust targets for 
the long-term incentive plans if events happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original intended purpose.
The Committee will consider the bonus outcomes against all of the pre-set targets following their calculation and in exceptional circumstances may moderate (up and down) these outcomes to 
take account of a range of factors including the Committee’s view of overall Group performance for the year. No upward moderation would be undertaken without first consulting with  
major shareholders.
 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
66
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Element of Pay Link to Strategy Maximum Opportunity Performance Conditions
Pension To offer market competitive levels of benefit and help to recruit and retain and to recognise long-term commitment to 
the Group.
Operation:
Executive directors receive an allowance in lieu of pension provision which is subject to periodic review or may participate 
in the Group’s defined contribution scheme on the same basis as all other new employees. Executive directors may also 
salary sacrifice additional amounts into this scheme but will not receive any additional contribution from the Group. Only 
basic pay is pensionable.
Annual allowances of:
•	 CEO — 20% of salary.
•	 The CFO participates in the Group’ s pension scheme and receives a 
contribution of 7.5% of the Earnings Cap set annually by the Group on the 
basis of the calculation previously used by HMRC. Should the CFO decide 
not to participate in the Company’ s pension scheme he would receive 
a cash allowance of this amount. Additionally the CFO receives a cash 
supplement (currently £21,610) which is reviewed annually by the Group in 
line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). 
N/A
Performance Period:
N/A
Sharesave 
Plans
To offer all employees the opportunity to build a shareholding in a simple and tax-efficient manner.
Operation:
The Company’s Sharesave Plan is a HMRC compliant scheme which is usually offered annually in September to all 
employees. The key terms of the plan will only be changed to reflect HMRC changes. At the 2014 AGM shareholders will 
vote on a new plan which will run until 2024.
Participants may save up to the statutory limit over a 3 year period, following 
which they have the opportunity to buy Company shares at a price set at 
the beginning of the savings period.
None, other than continued employment
Performance Period:
Three years
Co-Investment 
Award (one-off 
award in 2013)
To facilitate the recruitment of Gavin Darby as CEO in 2013 and immediately align the CEO with shareholders and the 
delivery of share price growth.
Operation:
Award specific to Gavin Darby. On appointment Gavin Darby acquired shares worth 100% of annual base salary in the 
Company. The Company made a matching award of shares worth 200% of salary which vest in three equal tranches on  
1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016 subject to satisfaction of a performance condition requiring payment of a bonus. 
200% of salary (one off award specific to Gavin Darby) Subject to a bonus having been paid for the relevant financial 
year and continued employment. The Co-Investment Award 
vests in specified circumstances including a change of control.
Performance Period:
One, two and three years
Other Benefits Help recruit and retain and to promote the efficient use of management time.
Operation:
The Company typically provides the following benefits:
•	 Company car or cash allowance. The CEO has use of the Group’s chauffeur driven car for Group business which 
allows the CEO to work while commuting to appointments;
•	 Private health insurance;
•	 Life insurance;
•	 Telecommunication services;
•	 Professional memberships; 
•	 Allowance for personal tax and financial planning; and
•	 Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses (as required).
The provision and level of allowances and benefits are considered 
appropriate and in line with market practice.
N/A
Performance Period:
N/A
Non-executive 
director fees
Provides an appropriate level of fixed fee to recruit and retain individuals with a broad range of experience and skill to 
support the Board in the delivery of its duties.
Fees are reviewed annually.
Operation:
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and executive directors. The remuneration of 
the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Includes a Chairman’s fee and standard non executive fee. Additional fees are payable to Committee Chairs and the 
Senior Independent Director.
Increases are normally expected to be in line with the market, taking into 
account increases across the Group as a whole, subject to particular 
circumstances such as a significant change in role, responsibilities or 
organisation. 
None
Performance Period:
None
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have 
been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports. Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise as required under 
the Remuneration Regulations. 
The Committee operates the Annual Bonus plan, DSBP , Co-Investment Award and LTIP according to their respective rules which includes flexibility in a number of areas. These include:
•	 The timing of awards and payments
•	 The size of an award, within the maximum limits
•	 The participants of the plan
•	 The performance measures, targets and weightings to be used for the annual bonus plan, DSBP and long-term incentive plans from year to year
•	 The assessment of whether performance conditions have been met
•	 The treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Group
•	 The determination of a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof 
•	 The adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends).
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting
The Committee reviews the performance measures used in the incentive arrangements on an annual basis to ensure that they remain appropriate and aligned to the delivery of the annual 
business plan and Group strategy. The majority of annual bonus and DSBP measures will be focused on financial performance with the remainder linked to individual performance and/or strategic 
objectives. This approach is adopted in order to link pay to the delivery of overall Group performance measured across a balance of key strategic aims. The targets will be set by reference to 
internal budgeting and strategic plans for the financial and strategic measures and key objectives identified by the Committee for the personal performance measures.
Currently the LTIP uses a combination of Earnings per Share and total shareholder return based measures to reflect both an internal measure of Group performance as well as the delivery of 
shareholder value. Targets are set taking into account both internal and external assessments of future performance and what constitutes good and superior returns for shareholders.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust the targets and/or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and DSBP and to adjust targets for 
the long-term incentive plans if events happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original intended purpose.
The Committee will consider the bonus outcomes against all of the pre-set targets following their calculation and in exceptional circumstances may moderate (up and down) these outcomes to 
take account of a range of factors including the Committee’s view of overall Group performance for the year. No upward moderation would be undertaken without first consulting with  
major shareholders.
 
Remuneration Scenarios & Weighting 
The chart below shows executive director remuneration at three different levels of performance (minimum, mid-point and maximum) as set  
out above:
Minimum Total
Mid-point Mid-point
Total
Maximum
Minimum Total Total
Maximum
CEO CFO
£3,000
£2,500
£2,000
£1,500
£1,000
£500
£0
£3,315
£2,090
£865
£455
£965
£1,475
  LTIP
  Annual Bonus
Fixed Pay
£3,500
100% 42% 26% 100% 47% 31%
22%
31%
28%
41%
25%
33%
32%
42%
Footnotes: 
1. Excludes Gavin Darby’s Co-investment Award as this does not form part of his ongoing 
remuneration.
2. As the DSBP is based on annual performance it is included within Annual Bonus.
3. The value of share awards does not include any assumptions on share price movements.
4. The executive directors can participate in the Sharesave Plan on the same basis as 
other employees. For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in the 
Sharesave Plan has been excluded from the scenario charts.
5. Assumptions when compiling the charts are: 
Minimum = fixed pay only (base salary, benefits and pension). 
Mid-point = fixed pay plus 50% of Annual Bonus and DSBP payable and 50% of LTIP 
vesting. 
Maximum = fixed pay plus 100% of Annual Bonus and DSBP payable and 100% of LTIP 
vesting.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
67
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report continued
Service Contracts
Executive directors have rolling service contracts. The current executive directors’ service contracts contain the key terms shown in the below 
table. In the event that any additional executive directors are appointed it is likely that their service contracts will contain broadly similar terms.
Provision Detailed terms
Remuneration Salary, bonus, share incentives, expenses and pension entitlements in line with the above Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy Table. 
Change of Control The service agreements do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Notice Period Standard notice periods are set at 12 months.
Payment in lieu of 
notice
The Company may, at its discretion, pay a sum equal to base salary, benefits, and pension contributions which would 
have been earned during the Notice Period as payment in lieu of notice. This payment is payable in two six monthly 
instalments or until such earlier date alternative employment is secured, subject to mitigation.
In the event of the Company serving notice within 12 months following a change of control then employment will 
terminate immediately and the Company will make a payment in lieu of notice.
There is no entitlement to a pro rata bonus payment in lieu of notice.
The terms and conditions for non-executive directors are set out in their letters of appointment, which are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office and will be available at the AGM, as are executive service contracts. The appointment of non-executive directors is 
for a fixed term of three years which may be terminated by three months notice from either party, with the exception of Charles Miller Smith, where 
his appointment is governed by the Relationship Agreement with Warburg Pincus LLC and a one month notice period applies. The letters of 
appointment entitle the non-executive directors to receive fees but do not have provisions on payment for early termination.
Policy on Payment for Loss of Office
The Committee aims to deal fairly with cases of termination, while 
attempting to limit compensation and honour contractual remuneration 
entitlements. The principles that would be followed are:
•	 The executive directors have rolling contracts with 12 months’ notice 
periods. 
•	 The Company may elect to terminate employment immediately in 
circumstances where it considers it to be appropriate by making a 
payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the executive director’s salary, 
pension and benefits for the notice period in two equal instalments 
(the first within 28 days of termination and the second six months 
following the date of termination). These payments are subject to 
the executive director’s duty to mitigate his loss by finding alternative 
employment. If the executive director finds an alternative position, the 
payments will be reduced by the amount of remuneration received 
by the executive director pursuant to that alternative remunerated 
position. 
•	 Salary, pensions and benefits will generally not be paid to a “bad 
leaver” in lieu of notice. The Company may terminate an executive 
director’s employment without notice (or payment in lieu) in certain 
circumstances including where he commits an act of dishonesty, 
is guilty of gross misconduct or a serious breach of his service 
agreement.
•	 A time pro-rated cash bonus and DSBP (where relevant in respect 
of that bonus year) may be payable (and for the current CEO will be 
payable) for the period of active service from the start of the bonus 
year to the date on which the director’s employment terminates for 
‘good leavers’. Any unpaid bonus for the preceding completed bonus 
year may also be payable (and for the current CEO will be payable) to 
a ‘good leaver’. The amount of such bonus will be determined at the 
discretion of the Committee taking into account performance. Bonus 
under the DSBP could be paid in cash. There is no entitlement to any 
bonus (in respect of that or any previous bonus year) following notice 
of termination (or cessation of employment) for ‘bad leavers’ and they 
will not receive any bonus in such circumstances.
•	 Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under 
the Company’s share plans will be determined based on the relevant 
plan rules or award agreement. The default treatment is that any 
outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment. However, 
in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, injury, 
redundancy (not in respect of the DSBP), transfer of the employing 
company or business out of the Group (not in respect of the  
Co-Investment Award) or other circumstances at the discretion of the 
Committee (taking into account the individual’s performance and the 
reasons for their departure) ‘good leaver’ status can be applied.  The 
‘good leaver’ treatment under the various plans is as follows:
•	 DSBP awards will vest on the date of cessation of employment.
•	 LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date (unless the 
Remuneration Committee decides that the LTIP awards should 
vest on the date of cessation) subject to performance conditions 
(measured over the original time period or a shorter period where 
the LTIP awards vest on cessation of employment) and are 
reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance 
period actually served. The Remuneration Committee has the 
discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate 
to do so. However, it is envisaged that this would only be applied 
in exceptional circumstances. In determining whether an executive 
should be treated as a ‘good leaver’ or not, the Committee will 
take into account the performance of the individual and the 
reasons for their departure.
•	 The Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, determine 
that any unvested portion of the Co-Investment Award may vest 
on the date of cessation taking into account the extent to which 
the performance condition has been satisfied and reduced pro-
rata to reflect the period actually served between 1 May 2013 
and the date of termination of employment. The Remuneration 
Committee has the discretion to allow vesting to a greater extent if 
it considers it appropriate to do so.
•	 The Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to 
a departing Executive Director, where appropriate.
•	 Where it is necessary to discharge an existing legal obligation (or 
by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of 
settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the 
termination of a director’s office or employment the Committee may 
make a payment to a departing executive director.
•	 In the event of change of control of the Company, if the Company 
gives notice to terminate or the executive director is constructively 
dismissed, his employment shall terminate immediately and he will 
be entitled to a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to the executive 
director’s salary, pension and benefits for the 12 month notice period. 
The Co-Investment Award vests immediately and in full in the event of 
a change of control. Any share based entitlements will be dealt with in 
accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
68
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Recruitment Policy
On the recruitment of an executive director the Committee will aim to align the executive’s remuneration package with the approved Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. In arriving at a remuneration package the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the individual and the 
market rate for a candidate. The details of the recruitment policy are set out below:
New Appointments as an Executive Director
Reward Element Detailed terms
Base Salary In line with the above Directors’ Remuneration Policy table. However, includes discretion to pay lower base salary with 
incremental increases as new appointee becomes established in the role.
Pension and benefits In line with the above Directors’ Remuneration Policy table.
New executives are eligible to participate in the Company’s defined contribution scheme on a similar basis as all other 
new employees. Executive directors who receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension may salary sacrifice into the 
scheme but will not receive any additional contribution from the Company. 
A small number of current senior management are participants in the Company’s legacy defined benefit schemes and 
would continue to be participants should they be appointed as directors of the Company in future.
Performance based 
pay
Executive directors are entitled to participate in the Company’s Annual Bonus, DSBP and Long Term Incentive Plans in 
line with above Directors’ Remuneration Policy table. The maximum variable pay for the CEO will be 350% of the base 
salary and 255% of base salary for the CFO. In its discretion the Committee may set different performance measures 
to apply to awards made in year of appointment if it considers that to be appropriate.
Buy Outs In order to facilitate external recruitment of executive directors, it may be necessary for the Committee to consider 
buying out existing incentive awards which would be forfeit on the individual leaving their current employment. The 
Committee would seek, where possible, to provide a buy-out structure which was consistent with the forfeited awards 
in terms of quantum, vesting period and performance conditions.
The buy out award may necessitate the use of the flexibility in the Listing Rules to make such awards outside the 
existing LTIP .
Footnotes:
1. Should an executive appointment be made for an internal candidate, such an individual would be allowed to retain any and all provisions of their current remuneration package.
2. The Committee has discretion to authorise the payment of reasonable relocation costs which may be necessary to secure the appointment of an executive director.
Consideration of Employees/Wider Group
In line with current market practice, the Group does not actively consult with employees on executive remuneration. However, the Committee is 
kept updated during the year on salary increases within the Group, and the level of annual bonus awards, as well as overseeing participation in 
long-term incentives for below Board level senior management. As a result, the Committee is aware of how typical employee total remuneration 
compares to the potential total remuneration packages of executive directors. The Group HR Director is a regular attendee at meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee and is able to brief the Committee on meetings which have been held with employee representative bodies. 
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees 
The executive directors’ remuneration policy is set within the wider context of the Company’s remuneration policy for the wider workforce. The 
key differences of quantum and structure in pay arrangements across the Group reflect the different levels of responsibilities, skill and experience 
required for the role. Executive directors have a much greater emphasis on performance based pay through the annual bonus, DSBP and the LTIP . 
Salaries for management grades are reviewed annually in April each year and take account of both business and personal performance. Specific 
arrangements are in place at each site and these may be annual arrangements or form part of a longer term arrangement linked to the delivery of 
efficiency targets. 
All management grades participate in the annual bonus plan to ensure alignment with the Group’s strategic priorities. Senior management 
participate in long term incentive arrangements reflecting their contribution to Company performance and enhancing shareholder value. All 
employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company via the Sharesave Plan and executive directors through the share ownership guideline.
Consideration of Shareholders’ Views
The Remuneration Committee and the Board considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting immediately 
following the AGM and any action required is incorporated into the Remuneration Committee’s business plan for the ensuing period. This, and 
any additional feedback received from shareholders from time to time, is then considered by the Committee and as part of the Company’s annual 
review of remuneration arrangements.
Specific engagement with major shareholders may be undertaken when a significant change in remuneration policy is proposed or if a specific 
item of remuneration is considered to be potentially contentious. As highlighted in the Chairman’s letter on page 63 an extensive engagement 
exercise was undertaken following the appointment of Gavin Darby in February 2013 to explain the background to his appointment and the 
remuneration arrangements that had been put in place. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
69
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report continued
Non-executive directors’ emoluments
2013
Fee
(£)
2012
Fee
(£)
David Beever 265,000 174,373
Ian Krieger
7
65,864 9,500
Jennifer Laing 57,000 14,250
Charles Miller Smith 57,000 81,750
Pam Powell
8
37,380 —
David Wild
9
70,909 61,375
Former non-executive directors 
Ian McHoul
10
25,000 72,917
Footnotes: 
1.   Benefits include those mentioned in the summary table in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy report on pages 64–69.
2.   Gavin Darby was appointed as CEO on 4 February 2013. His basic salary is £700,000 p.a. 
and he receives a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary. Gavin Darby 
was awarded a bonus of £175,000 representing 25% of his salary in respect of 2013. In 
addition the first tranche of his Co-Investment Award which comprises of 492,524 shares 
will vest on 1
 
May 2014. For the purposes of this table the award has been valued at 
£688,492 based on the average share price for the last quarter of 2013.
3.   Alastair Murray was appointed as CFO on 30 September 2013. His basic salary is 
£400,000 per annum and he receives an annualised salary supplement in lieu of pension of 
7.5% of the Earnings Cap (£141,000 for the 2013/14 tax year) which equates to £10,575 
per annum together with an additional RPI adjusted pensions supplement of £21,610 in 
respect of 2013.
4.   Michael Clarke resigned as CEO on 28 January 2013. Michael Clarke remained as 
an employee of the Company until 30 June 2013. His base salary at the time of his 
resignation as CEO was £750,000 and he received a salary supplement in lieu of pension 
of 20% of base salary. Michael Clarke’s benefits include those mentioned in the summary 
table to the Director’s Remuneration Policy which included the use of the Group’s 
chauffeur car for business travel up until his resignation as CEO on 28 January 2013. 
Following the announcement of the Company’s 2012 annual results the first element 
of Mr Clarke’s recruitment award (contained in the “other” column on the above table) 
vested which included a cash payment of £241,500 and an award of 500,000 shares. The 
value of these shares was £417,500 based on the opening share price of 83.5p on the 
announcement of the 2012 results on the 22 March 2013.
5.   Mark Moran resigned as CFO on 30 September 2013. In April 2013 Mark Moran received 
a salary increase of 2% in line with all other management grades. Mark Moran remained 
as an employee of the Company until 31 October 2013. His base salary at the time of his 
resignation as CFO was £433,250 and he received an annualised salary supplement in lieu 
of pension of 9% of the Earnings Cap (£141,000 for the 2013/14 tax year) which equates 
to £12,609 per annum) together with an additional RPI adjusted pensions supplement 
of £21,610 for 2013. Following Mr Moran’s resignation in September 2013 he received a 
payment of £201,704 representing 5 months salary, benefits and pension allowance in lieu 
of the remaining 11 months of his contractual notice period. 
6.   Geoff Eaton resigned as an executive director on 4 February 2013. Geoff Eaton remained 
as an employee of the Company until 3 February 2014 in line with his contractual notice 
period. Geoff Eaton’s salary at the time of his resignation was £450,000 and he received 
an annualised salary supplement in lieu of pension of 9% of the Earnings Cap (£141,000 
for the 2013/14 tax year which equates to £12,609 per annum) together with an additional 
RPI adjusted pensions supplement of £21,610 for 2013.
7.   Ian Krieger received an additional annual pro rata fee of £13,000 for acting as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
8.  Pam Powell was appointed on 7 May 2013.
9.   David Wild received the standard non-executive director fee of £57,000 for 2013 and in 
addition he received a fee of £10,500 for acting as the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee. On 25 April 2013 Mr Wild was appointed as Senior Independent Director 
which has an annual pro rata fee of £5,000. Non-executive director fees are listed in the 
table on page 71.
10.  Ian McHoul retired at the AGM on 25 April 2013.
Annual Report on Remuneration
An advisory vote on this Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 29 April 2014. 
Single Figure Table (audited)
Base Salary +
Taxable 
Benefits
+ Pension +
Annual 
Bonus
+ DSBP + LTIP + Other =
Total  
Remuneration
The below table provides a breakdown of the various elements of executive director pay:
Executive 
directors’ 
emoluments
Salary
(£)
Taxable
Benefits
1
(£)
Pension
(£)
Annual bonus
(£)
DSBP
(£)
LTIP
(£)
Other
(£)
Total
(£)
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Gavin Darby
2
 638,480 — 17,194 — 127,750 — 175,000 — — — — — 688,492 — 1,646,916 —
Alastair Murray
3
101,587 — 4,705 — 8,046 — — — — — — — — — 114,338 —
Payments for former executive directors
Michael Clarke
4
375,000 750,000 13,795 49,575 75,000 150,000 — 750,000 — — — — 659,000 — 1,122,795 1,699,575
Mark Moran
5
358,834 425,000 15,217 17,965 28,340 32,910 — — — — — — 201,704 — 604,095 475,875
Geoff Eaton
6
450,000 109,239 22,925 5,604 34,056 8,090 — — — — — — — — 506,981 122,933
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
70
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
The Committee 
The table on page 52 identifies the Committee members and meeting 
attendance. In accordance with the Committee’s terms of reference, 
no one attending a Committee meeting may participate in discussions 
relating to his/her own terms and conditions of service or remuneration. 
Only independent non-executive directors may become members 
of the Committee. In addition the CEO, Group HR Director and New 
Bridge Street (remuneration advisors to the Committee) regularly attend 
by invitation. The General Counsel & Company Secretary acts as 
secretary to the Committee. Over the course of the year the Committee 
held three scheduled meetings together with a number of ad hoc 
meetings for specific business.
Advisers
New Bridge Street (NBS) (a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited) 
have been appointed as advisers to the Committee. During the year 
NBS provided advice in connection with executive remuneration 
arrangements. NBS are signatories of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group Code of Conduct. The Trustees of the Group’s pension schemes 
have appointed the pension advisory team of Aon Hewitt Limited to act 
as Administrator of the schemes and have also appointed individuals 
within Aon Hewitt Limited to act as Actuary to the schemes. NBS 
operates independently of the pension teams and the Committee is 
satisfied there is no conflict of interest. NBS received fees of £80,477 in 
respect of their advice to the Committee in 2013.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to:
•	 Design the overall Directors’ Remuneration Policy for executive 
directors and senior management and recommend to the Board for 
submission to shareholders;
•	 Review and approve the remuneration packages for the Chairman, 
executive directors, General Counsel & Company Secretary and 
Group Executive;
•	 Agree the terms of employment including recruitment and 
termination terms of executive directors, ensuring any payments on 
departure are in line with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy;
•	 Approve the design of all share incentive plans including all-
employee share schemes and where appropriate oversee any 
subsequent changes; and
•	 Recommend appropriate performance conditions and targets for 
the variable element of remuneration packages and determine the 
extent to which performance targets have been achieved.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Group’s 
website:  
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance
What We Did in 2013
•	 Discussed and approved the recruitment and exit packages for 
executive directors who were appointed or departed over the 
course of the year;
•	 Performed an annual review of executive directors’ and Group 
Executive base salaries;
•	 Reviewed and recommended executive directors’ and senior 
managers’ annual bonuses in respect of 2012 and set the targets 
for the annual bonus in respect of 2013 in accordance with the 
strategic objectives of the Group;
•	 Granted 2013 awards under the equity schemes operated by the 
Group;
•	 Discussed best practice in remuneration policy and disclosure in 
light of the Remuneration Regulations changes in this area and 
reviewed draft stages of this report;
•	 Reviewed retention risks for key senior management;
•	 Undertook a shareholder engagement exercise and reviewed the 
voting results for the 2012 Remuneration Report at the AGM; and
•	 Conducted a review of the Remuneration advisers and concluded 
that they continued to provide an effective service and accordingly a 
formal tender exercise was not required.
Salary & Fees
What We Did in 2013
Alastair Murray was appointed as CFO on 30 September 2013 with an 
annual salary of £400,000. Gavin Darby’s salary of £700,000 remained 
unchanged.
What We Plan to Do in 2014
No increases are proposed to the CEO’s or CFO’s salary in 2014, the 
next salary review for both executive directors will be in April 2015.
Non-Executive Directors
The fees of our non-executive directors are laid out in the below table, 
and remain unchanged during 2013.
NED fees
Chairman fee £265,000
Basic NED fee £57,000
Additional remuneration:
Audit Committee Chairman £13,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman £10,500
Senior Independent Director £5,000
All non-executive directors have entered into letters of appointment/ 
amendment as detailed in the table below. The appointments 
are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the 
Company’s Articles. Terms of appointment are for three years or 
the date of the AGM immediately preceding the third anniversary of 
appointment.
Non-executive 
director
Date of original 
appointment
Expiry of current
appointment/
amendment letter 
Notice 
period
David Beever 22 January 2008 AGM 2017 3 months
Ian Krieger 1 November 2012 AGM 2015 3 months
Jennifer Laing 1 October 2012 AGM 2015 3 months
Charles Miller Smith 16 June 2009 N/A 1 month
1
David Wild 7 March 2011 AGM 2014 3 months
Pam Powell 7 May 2013 AGM 2016 3 months
Footnote:
1. Upon completion of the Capital Refinancing Plan the notice period for Charles Miller Smith 
will be aligned with other non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors’ continued appointments are evaluated 
annually, based on their contributions and satisfactory performance. 
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early 
termination of an appointment of a non-executive director.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
71
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report continued
External Appointments
The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take on a 
non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company in order 
to broaden their experience and they are entitled to retain any fees 
they may receive. The current executive directors do not have external 
appointments with publicly quoted companies.
Annual Bonus
Each year the Committee sets individual performance targets and 
bonus potentials for each of the executive directors. Annually the 
Committee reviews the level of achievement against the performance 
targets set and based on the Committee’s judgement approves the 
bonus of each executive director. Annual bonus payments are not 
pensionable.
What We Did in 2013
Gavin Darby
Gavin Darby was awarded a bonus of £175,000 for 2013 representing 
25% of his salary (representing 16.6% of the maximum opportunity) 
as a result of the successful completion of his personal performance 
measures which were based on the creation of a cohesive and high 
performing leadership team and developing stakeholder relationships. 
This was based on the Committee’s assessment of Gavin’s 
performance over the year taking into account a range of criteria, 
including:
•	 The objectives put in place with the Group Executive;
•	 The establishment of a new leadership team forum which met 
regularly over the year;
•	 The recruitment of a new CFO;
•	 Succession plans reviewed for senior management;
•	 Relationship development with shareholders, customers, 
employees, banks and pension trustees; and
•	 Representation on key trade bodies such as the Institute of Grocery 
Distribution and Food and Drink Federation.
The Committee also assessed the financial performance and strategic 
targets noting the significant progress that had been made across 
a number of areas. However, despite the significant increase in 
underlying trading profit delivered in 2013 which had increased 17.7% 
on 2012, performance was below the stretching trading profit target set 
for the year. As a consequence the remaining performance conditions, 
which were subject to a trading profit underpin, were not met. The 
Committee considers the precise financial targets for 2013 to be 
commercially sensitive. Going forward the Committee has agreed that 
financial targets will, except in exceptional circumstances, be disclosed 
in the following year’s annual report.
Alastair Murray 
Alastair Murray was appointed in September 2013 and did not 
participate in the 2013 annual bonus plan.
Annual Bonus T argets for 2014
The Committee has determined that the financial performance 
target for 2014 will be based on trading profit as this is aligned to 
the Company’s strategy of category growth and also the switch in 
focus from volume to value. The actual 2014 trading profit target is 
considered commercially sensitive but will be disclosed as part of the 
performance assessment in the 2014 annual report and accounts. 
They also contain targets based on a range of short to medium term 
strategic targets and an element of personal performance, as set out 
below:
Gavin Darby
Performance Measure Weighting % of salary
Financial Performance targets: 50.0% 75%
•	 Trading Profit
Subject to a minimum trading profit underpin.
Short to medium term strategic objectives: 33.3% 50%
•	 Strengthening the balance sheet through the 
successful implementation of financial restructuring 
initiatives.
•	 Developing and agreeing with the Board a strategic 
three year plan for the Group.
•	 Establishing an effective governance structure for the 
new Hovis JV; and
•	 Concluding the Group’s de-complexity programme.
Subject to a minimum trading profit underpin.
Personal performance measures, including:
•	 Launching a new vision and values for the Group; and
16.6% 25%
•	 Implementation of actions identified as part of the 
2013 All Employee survey.
Total Annual Bonus 100% 150%
Alastair Murray
Performance Measure Weighting % of salary
Financial Performance targets: 50.0% 37.5%
•	 Trading Profit
Subject to a minimum trading profit underpin.
Short to medium term strategic objectives: 33.3% 25.0%
•	 Strengthening the balance sheet through the 
successful implementation of financial restructuring 
initiatives.
 
•	 Successful delivery of new forecasting and decision 
making systems and processes.
•	 Supporting the CEO in the development of a three 
year plan for the Group.
Subject to a minimum trading profit underpin.
Personal performance measures, including:
•	 Supporting the new Hovis JV and reviewing the 
finance and ISC functions on the basis of a stand 
alone Grocery business.
16.6% 12.5%
Total Annual Bonus 100% 75%
DSBP
The DSBP operates alongside the annual cash bonus. Awards can 
be based on the achievement of a range of Group-wide financial and 
strategic targets which are set at the start of each financial year. If 
the objective is met, the bonus earned will be converted into shares 
following the announcement of the results for the financial year and 
deferred for a period of up to two years. These shares will be subject to 
forfeiture over the period of deferral. All shares for these awards will be 
sourced in the market.
What We Did in 2013
Alastair Murray did not participate in the 2013 DSBP following his 
appointment in September 2013. The performance targets for 2013 
were based on 50% on trading profit and 50% on branded turnover. 
Following Mark Moran’s resignation no award will be made in respect  
of 2013.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
72
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
What We Plan to Do in 2014
Alastair Murray will participate in the DSBP in 2014. The Remuneration 
Committee has determined that for 2014, in order to support the 
delivery of the Group’s category growth strategy, it was important 
to focus on branded growth and cashflow. The 2014 targets are 
therefore based 50% on Power Brand turnover and 50% on a cash-
based target. The actual 2014 performance targets are considered 
commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2014 
annual report and accounts.
LTIP
The current LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011; awards have 
two elements, performance shares and matching shares.
The Committee determined in 2012 that whilst the business is in 
turnaround and the share price continues to be volatile, awards under 
the LTIP will take the form of performance shares only.
The table below details share interests which were awarded during the 
year and the total interests as at the year end. All awards are in the 
form of performance shares:
Gavin Darby (audited)
Date of Grant 22 Feb 2013
As at 1 Jan 2013 —
Granted in the year 1,477,572
Shares lapsed during the year —
As at 31 Dec 2013 1,477,572
Price on day of award 94.75p
Basis of Award 200% of salary
Face value of Award at date of grant £1,400,000
% of award at threshold 20%
Performance period 3 years ending 31 December 2015
As at 31 December 2013 Alastair Murray has no interests under the LTIP .
Mark Moran (audited)
Date of Grant 22 Feb 2013 20 Mar 2012
As at 1 Jan 2013 — 554,347
Granted in the year 672,823 —
Shares lapsed during the year 672,823 554,347
As at 31 Dec 2013 — —
Price on day of award 94.75p 115p
Basis of Award 150% of salary 150% of salary
Face value of Award at date 
of grant
£637,500 £637,500
% of award at threshold 20% 20%
Performance period 3 years ending 
31 December 2015
3 years ending 
31 December 2014
What We Did in 2013
The performance conditions attached to the 2013 LTIP awards are 
aligned with the strategy of the Group. The Group faces a number 
of challenges including delivering branded sales growth, improving 
relations with customers and reducing debt. The performance targets 
were therefore based on absolute share price and adjusted EPS 
performance which the Committee believes are fully aligned with the 
interests of shareholders at this stage in the Group’s turnaround. These 
measures were unchanged from 2012, however, in view of the focus 
on improving shareholder return the Committee has determined that 
the weighting across each measure should be altered in favour of 
absolute share price. Awards will only vest following the achievement of 
stretching performance targets.
The 2013 award was subject to an absolute TSR condition (2/3rds of 
the award) and an adjusted EPS condition (1/3rd of the award) based 
on the following targets:
% of relevant portion 
of award vesting
1
Adjusted EPS for the 
year ended 
31 December 2015
Absolute 
TSR
0% Below 32.9p Below 230p
20% 32.9p 230p
50% 36.5p 255p
100% 40.2p or greater 281p or greater
Footnote:
1. Straight line vesting between these points.
What We Plan to Do in 2014
The 2014 award will be subject to a relative TSR condition (comprising 
2/3rds of the award) and an adjusted EPS condition (comprising 
1/3rd of the award). The Committee determined that, following the 
completion of the proposed Capital Restructuring (details of which 
are set out on pages 40 and 41), the Group’s balance sheet would 
be significantly strengthened and therefore it would be appropriate to 
move from an absolute to a relative TSR condition. The condition will 
require at least a median ranking to be achieved for 20% of this part 
of the award to vest, with full vesting taking place for an upper quartile 
ranking against a selected comparator group of companies. The 
Committee determined that, given the uncertainty as to the number of 
shares to be issued under the proposed Placing and Rights Issue, it 
was necessary to delay the grant of the awards and the determination 
of the precise TSR and EPS targets until the Placing and Rights Issue 
had been completed. Full details of the performance conditions will be 
disclosed once the awards are made.
Co-Investment Award 
The Co-Investment Award is specific to Gavin Darby following his 
appointment as CEO in 2013 and is designed to align the CEO with 
shareholders’ and the delivery of share price growth. On appointment 
Gavin Darby acquired shares worth 100% of annual base salary in the 
Company. In return the Company made a matching award of shares 
worth 200% of salary which vest on the first of May 2014, 2015 
and 2016. The award is subject to a bonus having been paid for the 
relevant financial year and continued employment. 
Following the payment of an annual bonus to Gavin Darby in respect  
of 2013 the performance condition for the first tranche of his  
Co-Investment award (492,524) has now been satisfied and 
accordingly was reflected in the single figure table on page 70.
Gavin Darby (audited)
Date of Grant 22 February 2013
As at 1 Jan 2013 —
Performance Shares  
granted in the year
1
1,477,572
Shares lapsed during the year —
As at 31 Dec 2013 1,477,572
Price on day of award 94.75p
Basis of Award 200% of salary
Face value of Award £1,400,000
% of award at threshold N/A
Performance period Vests in three equal tranches on  
1 May 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Footnotes:
1. Full details of Gavin Darby’s Co-Investment Award are detailed in the 2012 annual report 
and accounts.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
73
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Remuneration Report continued
Share Interest Table
To align executive directors’ interests with those of shareholders they are expected to build a holding of shares within three years of appointment 
at least equal to their annual salary (valued at the time of purchase). All employees are encouraged to develop a shareholding in the Company via 
the Sharesave Plan. Awards under all Company share plans may be satisfied using either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market 
and held in the Company’s Employment Benefit Trust (which currently holds 97,122 shares). The Company complies with the Association of British 
Insurers guidelines in respect of the dilutive effect of newly issued shares. The table below shows directors’ interests in Company shares.
Director
Ordinary Shares 
owned as at 
31 Dec 2013
Ordinary shares 
owned as at 
31 Dec 
2012
Extent to
which share
 ownership
 guideline has
 been met
1
Unvested share 
interests under 
the LTIP
2
Unvested share
 interests under
 the
Co-Investment
 Award
2
Sharesave 
Plans
6
Total
Gavin Darby 750,268 — 100% 1,477,572 1,477,572 2,106 3,707,518
Alastair Murray
3
— — — — — — —
David Beever 31,900 31,900 — — — — 31,900
Ian Krieger 20,000 — — — — — 20,000
Jennifer Laing 16,078 — — — — — 16,078
Pam Powell
4
— — — — — — —
Charles Miller Smith
5
325,027 268,027 — — — — 325,027
David Wild 5,000 5,000 — — — — 5,000
Former directors
Michael Clarke
7
374,078 374,078 100% — — — 374,078
Mark Moran
7
1,754,000 1,754,000 236% 1,227,170 — — 2,981,170
Geoff Eaton
7
— — — — — — —
Ian McHoul
7
10,000 10,000 — — — — 10,000
Footnotes:
1. Shares are valued at the date of purchase for the purposes of determining if the share holding guideline has been met.
2. The LTIP and Co-Investment Award have performance conditions. For further details please see page 73 above.
3.  Alastair Murray was appointed on 30 September 2013. Due to a number of price sensitive strategic projects being undertaken, Alastair Murray has been in a prohibited period and unable to  
purchase shares. Alastair Murray intends to purchase shares in the Company following the release of the Company’s 2013 annual results.
4. Pam Powell was appointed on 7 May 2013.
5. Charles Miller Smith holds his shares in the form of contracts for difference.
6.  All employees were invited to participate in the 2013 Sharesave Plan at a discounted option price of 111.1p based on the average share price on 3 to 5 September 2013. Following a  
scaleback the maximum amount of options an individual could be awarded was 2,106. The Sharesave Plan has no performance conditions other than continued employment and will vest on 1 
December 2016.
7. For former directors the figures represent the number of shares held at the date immediately before they ceased to be directors.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
74
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Total shareholder return
Source: Thomson Reuters (Datastream)
350.0
300.0
250.0
200.0
150.0
100.0
50.0
0.0
31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 31 Dec 12 31 Dec 13
  Premier Foods
  FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts)
  FTSE Food Producers Index
Value (£)
The graph illustrates the performance of the Company against the 
FTSE 250 index and the FTSE Food Producers and Processors Index 
over the past five years as the Committee consider these to be the 
most appropriate comparator indices. 
The market price of a share in the Company on 31 December 2013 
was 125.0 pence; the range during the 2013 financial year was 59.75 
pence to 185.5 pence.
The table below shows the single figure for total remuneration, annual 
bonus and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 
the current year and the previous four years.
Year CEO
Single Figure 
for total 
remuneration
1
Annual  
bonus as a 
percentage 
of max bonus 
possible
LTIP shares 
vested as a 
percentage of 
max shares 
possible
2013 Gavin Darby £1,646,916 16% nil
Michael Clarke
2
£1,122,795 nil nil
2012 Michael Clarke £1,699,575 66% nil
2011 Michael Clarke £2,277,070 nil nil
Robert Schofield
3
£895,485 nil nil
2010 Robert Schofield £715,052 10% nil
2009 Robert Schofield £929,967 29% nil
Footnotes:
1. Details of single figure of total remuneration are set out on page 70.
2. Michael Clarke acted as CEO until 28 January 2013, details of his 2013 emoluments are 
given in the footnotes to the single figure table on page 70.
3.  Robert Schofield acted as CEO until the appointment of Michael Clarke on 16 August 2011. 
The 2011 figure for Robert Schofield includes all payments until retirement on 28 April 2012.
Percentage change on CEO pay
For the purpose of this table pay is defined as salary, benefits and 
annual bonus. The average pay of management grades is used for the 
purposes of comparison as management grades are members of the 
Group’s annual bonus plan.
CEO
1
Percentage 
Change
Base Salary -7%
Benefits -68%
Annual Bonus -77%
Management Grades
Base Salary 2%
Benefits
2
nil
Annual Bonus
3
nil
Footnotes:
1. CEO figures relate to Michael Clarke in respect of 2012 and Gavin Derby in respect of 2013.
2. There was no increase in benefits for management grades in the year. 
3. A very small number of management grades received a bonus in respect of 2012 and 
accordingly were not statistically significant when taken as a whole.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay
The following table sets out the amounts and percentage change  
in total employee costs and dividends for the years ended  
31 December 2012 and 2013. The terms of the current Facilities 
Agreement contain restrictions on the payment of dividends. Recurring 
cash flow and net debt have therefore been included as additional 
indicators. Cash flow demonstrates the cash available to reinvest in the 
business and service debt payments and the net debt highlights the 
overall reduction in debt over the course of the year.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
Total Employee Costs
1
293.1 387.5 -24%
Recurring cash flow
2
86.8 50.0 +73.6%
Net debt
3
830.8 950.7 -12%
Dividends paid nil nil nil
Footnotes:
1. Total employee costs include the cost of both Grocery and Bread businesses. The 
reduction in total employee costs represents disposals completed in 2012 and 2013 in 
addition to the closure of bakeries and mills in 2013. Please see Note 6 to the Financial 
Statements for further information.
2. Page 38 provides greater detail on recurring cash flow. 
3. Note 26 provides greater detail on the net debt figure.
AGM Voting
Vote Advisory vote on 2012 Remuneration Report
For 132,704,853 (98%)
Against 3,220,495 (2%) 
Abstain 12,711,358
Any issues raised & 
Company response
As highlighted in the Chairman’s letter on page 63 an 
extensive engagement exercise was undertaken following 
the appointment of Gavin Darby in February 2013 to explain 
the background to his appointment and the remuneration 
arrangements that had been put in place.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
75
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
Articles of Association
The Company’ s Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a 
general meeting. The Articles are available on the Group’ s website: 
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/corporate-governance/
articles-of-association.cfm
Profit and Dividends
The profit before tax on continuing operations for the financial year was 
£4.4m (2012 (restated): loss of £8m). The directors do not recommend the 
payment of a dividend for 2013 (2012: £nil).
Research and Development
Applied research and development work continues to be directed  
towards the introduction of new and improved products; the application  
of new technology to reduce unit and operating costs; and to improve 
service to customers. T otal research and development spend (including 
capitalised development costs) was £10.0m (2012 (restated): £18.4m).
Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance
This insurance covers the directors and officers against the costs of 
defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in their 
capacity as a director or officer of the Company and in respect of 
damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings. 
Substantial Shareholdings
Details of substantial shareholdings are set out on page 136.
Going Concern
On 4 March 2014, the Group announced its proposal to diversify its 
sources of finance to provide a solid foundation on which it can drive 
future growth through its category-based strategy and leveraging 
its strengths. This transformational capital restructure includes a 
fully underwritten equity offering of approximately £350m (gross of 
fees) through a placing and rights issue, the issue of £475m senior 
secured loan notes and a new £300m revolving credit facility with a 
smaller bank syndicate. Significantly, the Group has also reached a 
pensions framework agreement with the respective Pension Scheme 
trustees following the triennial actuarial valuation, which provides the 
platform for this new capital structure to be put in place. In order for 
the capital restructuring to proceed, and for the funds to be available, 
Shareholders will be required to vote at the General Meeting in order 
to (amongst other things) authorise the Board to allot shares in the 
Company under the placing and the rights issue.
The Group’s 2013 financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able 
to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Due to the inter-conditionality of the above elements of the refinancing, 
if the shareholders do not vote in favour of the resolutions and the 
placing and the rights issue do not occur, no funds will be available 
to be drawn by, or released to, the Group under the new revolving 
credit facility or the new bonds, and the revised schedules of pension 
contributions, modified funding arrangements and associated matters 
in relation to the relevant pension schemes pursuant to the new 
framework agreement will not become effective. If this were to be the 
case, although the Group’s current facilities do not expire within the 
next 12 months, the Group expects that it would be unable to comply 
with certain of its financial covenants under the current facilities on or 
after 31 December 2014. In this scenario, the Group would need to 
obtain certain consents or waivers from the Group’s lenders in respect 
of such financial covenants under the current facilities. If the Group 
were unable to maintain compliance with such financial covenants or 
were unable to obtain such consents or waivers, this would lead to a 
default under the Group’s existing financing arrangements, unless the 
Group were able to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities. While 
the Board would seek to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities 
in such circumstances, there can be no certainty that the Group would 
be able to do so either on acceptable terms or at all. In the event that 
the Group were unable to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities 
in these circumstances, the Group’s lenders would be able to demand 
repayment of all borrowings.
The Board has concluded that the resolutions which are required 
for the placing and the rights issue to proceed, such that the equity 
proceeds are received in line with the timetable set out in the 
associated Prospectus, are likely to be passed. The Board has taken 
into consideration the undertakings received from Shareholders that 
they will vote in favour of the resolution, historical voting trends, the 
underwritten element of the placing and the rights issue, and the 
backstop banks’ commitment to purchase the new bonds.
Nevertheless, the Board acknowledges that there is some theoretical 
uncertainty as to whether sufficient Shareholders will vote in favour 
of the resolutions to enable the capital restructuring to proceed. The 
Board believes that this uncertainty is extremely remote, but the 
consequence of not succeeding may be material. The directors believe 
that adopting the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements is appropriate. Nevertheless, the directors are 
prudently making full disclosure, as required by accounting standards, 
to indicate the existence of a material uncertainty, which may cast 
significant doubt about the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. The financial statements do not include the adjustments that 
would result if the Group were unable to continue as a going concern.
The auditor’s report of the financial statements contains an unmodified 
audit opinion. However, it includes an emphasis of matter in respect of 
going concern.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for 
the Annual Report
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). In preparing the Group financial 
statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Company and Group for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•	 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs 
issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively; 
and
Directors’ Report
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
76
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM Turn 10
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 
of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the 
financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence 
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Company’s website (www.premierfoods.co.uk). Legislation in 
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of 
this annual report.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken 
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 
49 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
•	 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and
•	 the Directors’ Report contained on pages 1 to 77 and 136 to 137 
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Independent Auditors
The Audit Committee has recommended PwC’ s reappointment and PwC 
has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors. The reappointment 
of PwC and the setting of their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 
AGM.
Auditors and the Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Companies Act requires directors to provide the Group’ s auditors 
with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever 
inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling 
them to give their audit report. The directors, having made appropriate 
enquiries, confirm that:
•	 So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the Group’ s auditors are unaware; and 
•	 Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as 
a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that the Group’ s auditors are aware of that information.
Summary of General Disclosures (Incorporated into this Directors’ Report)
Companies Act 2006 
S416 Names of all directors who served at any point during the year
Page 52
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008
Schedule 7.6 Financial risk management objectives and policies (inc. hedging) if material Page 116
Schedule 7.6 Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk Pages 110–117
Schedule 7.7 Important events since year end Pages 130–131
Schedule 7.7 Likely future developments Pages12 and 13
Schedule 5.5 & 7.10 Policy on disabled staff and careers Page 58
Schedule 7.11 Arrangements to engage employees Page 58
Schedule 7.13/14 Information on capital (securities transfer, restrictions, persons with significant holdings, special rights, voting rights in share scheme, agreements of 
holders) rules on appointment of directors and changing articles, agreements affected by change of control, employee/director agreements which  
may affect takeover
Page 126
Schedule 7.15/16/ 
17/18/19
Emissions information / statement explaining any omissions / method of calculation / ratios / comparatives / reporting period if different Page 27
By Order of the Board:
Andrew McDonald 
General Counsel & Company Secretary 
4 March 2014
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
77
GOVERNANCE 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
DID YOU KNOW?
WE SPENT OVER 
£1.3 BILLION WITH 
SUPPLIERS IN 2013, 
80% OF WHICH 
WAS WITH UK 
PRODUCERS AND 
SUPPLIERS.
Mr. Kipling Snack Packs
The Mr. Kipling Snack Pack range of individually wrapped cake 
slices, launched in 2011, have proved very popular for home-
snacking, lunchbox and on the go.
In 2013 we announced we are investing £20 million in a new production 
and packaging line for Snack Packs at our Carlton site. The new line will 
be capable of producing 300 million slices a year, doubling our current 
capacity. The investment is part of our broader plan to accelerate growth 
in our cake business. The installation will take around a year, involving 
a mixing station, oven and sophisticated packing robotics. In 2013 we 
added Chocolate, Banoffee and Caramel to the existing Lemon, and 
Angel Slice flavours. 
For more information on Consumers  
and Brands see pages
18-19 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
CONTENTS
This section contains the independent 
auditor’s report to shareholders, the 
financial statements and related notes 
and also supplementary information for 
shareholders.
Audit opinion 80-83
Group accounts 84-88
Notes to the financial statements 89-131
Company financial statements 132
Notes to the Company financial statements 133-135
Shareholder information 136-137
Glossary 138
Financial
Statements 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of Premier Foods plc
Report on the financial statements
Our opinion  
In our opinion:
•	 The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of 
the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit and of the Group’s and 
Parent Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
•	 The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
•	 The Parent Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
•	 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the 
remainder of this report.
Emphasis of matter - Going Concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not 
modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure 
made in note 2 to the financial statements concerning the Group’s 
and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The 
matters explained in note 2 to the financial statements relating to the 
Shareholder vote required for the fully underwritten rights issue due 
to take place on 8 April 2014, indicate the existence of a material 
uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Group’s and 
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial 
statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the 
Group or Company were unable to continue as a going concern.
What we have audited
The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial 
statements (the “financial statements”), which are prepared by Premier 
Foods plc, comprise:
•	 the Consolidated Company balance sheets as at 31 December 
2013;
•	 the Consolidated statement of profit or loss and statement of 
comprehensive income for the year then ended;
•	 the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended; 
•	 the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then 
ended; 
•	 the Parent Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ 
funds for the year then ended; and
•	 the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the Group financial statements comprises applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements comprises applicable law and United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have 
been presented elsewhere in the Annual report and accounts for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 (the “Annual Report”), rather than in the 
notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced from the 
financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
•	 whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
•	 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and
•	 the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to determine 
the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate 
the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for 
the Group financial statements as a whole to be £4.45million. In arriving 
at this value, we had regard to EBITDA, which we consider to be the 
most relevant measure of the Group’s recurring performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit above £220,000 as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting 
for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group comprises two divisions, being Grocery and Discontinued 
operations. The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 25 
reporting units, which together make up the Grocery, Discontinued 
operations and the Group’s centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined 
the type of work that we needed to perform at the reporting units to 
enable us to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Group’s 25 reporting units, we identified 5 that, in 
our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due 
to their size or risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures on certain 
balances and transactions were performed at the remaining operating 
units. This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group 
level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group 
financial statements as a whole.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of 
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in 
these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available 
evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures 
in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and 
other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 
procedures or a combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular 
focus in the current year. This is not a complete list of all risks or areas 
of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these areas of focus 
with the Audit Committee. Their report on those matters that they 
considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements 
is set out on page 61.
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Going Concern 
This was considered to be an area 
of focus due to the capital structure 
of the Group and its reliance on the 
refinancing to be completed after 
the financial statements are signed, 
which is fully disclosed in note 2 to the 
financial statements. 
 
The Group’s refinancing included a rights issue due to take place on 8 April 2014. We evaluated the 
likelihood of the successful completion of the rights issue. We also evaluated the likelihood of the rights 
issue raising sufficient funds to enable the Group to continue in operation for at least a year from the 
date of this report.
We tested the key judgements within the Group’s future cashflow forecasts, including power brand 
growth and transformation activities, by developing an understanding of and challenging the directors’ 
growth estimates, comparing historical growth estimates to past results to assess budgeting accuracy, 
and assessing the directors’ contingency plans.
We also considered forecast compliance with financial covenants, and assessed the sensitivity of the 
director’s calculations to changes in key inputs, in particular forecast underlying trading profit.
Our conclusion on going concern is below.
Carrying value of goodwill and 
parent company investment 
The Group holds material goodwill 
relating to continuing operations and 
the Parent Company holds a material 
investment in subsidiary on its balance 
sheet.
We focused on this area as the 
assessment of whether the goodwill 
in the Group financial statements and 
the investment in the Parent Company 
financial statements involves complex 
and subjective judgements by the 
directors about the future results of the 
business. The Company investment of 
£481.1 million was fully impaired by the 
directors in the year.
 
 
In evaluating whether any impairment was necessary to the carrying value of the goodwill relating 
to continuing operations and whether the impairment of the Parent Company’s investment was 
warranted, we obtained and tested the directors’ calculations (including the value in use computations 
and discount rate) and tested both the methodology and the assumptions applied. We also tested the 
historical accuracy of forecasts and budgets. 
We applied sensitivity analysis to the calculations to assess the impact of variations in the key 
assumptions, including the forecast underlying trading profit, both individually and in aggregate.
Sale of the Bread business 
We focused on this area due to the 
impact on the Group’s continuing 
operations (see note 10) and the 
significant impairment recognised on 
disposal, whose value was based on 
subjective judgements made by the 
directors; specifically the valuation of 
the contingent deferred consideration 
from the sale of the Bread business.
 
We tested the fair value less costs to sell off the Bread business by challenging the assumptions 
underpinning the directors’ evaluation of the deferred contingent consideration and agreeing the costs 
to sell to supporting documentation to check that they were appropriately recognised.
We also considered the adequacy of the disclosures within the Group financial statements.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
81
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members  
of Premier Foods plc
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Carrying value of deferred tax assets 
The Group holds significant deferred 
tax assets on the balance sheet.
We focused on this area as it involves 
complex and subjective judgements by 
the directors about the future results of 
the business.
 
We tested the directors’ assessment of the recoverability of both recognised and unrecognised 
deferred tax assets by evaluating the likelihood of achieving expected taxable profits against which 
such assets are to be utilised. To do this, we compared the expected taxable profits to board approved 
budgets and forecasts and evaluated the sensitivity of the judgement of whether the assets would be 
recoverable to the estimates of growth rates.
The valuation of the sales rebates 
and discount accruals 
Material sales rebates and discount 
accruals are held on the balance 
sheet, which require the directors to 
estimate expected levels of rebates 
and discounts with reference to recent 
promotional activity and historical 
invoicing trends. 
 
We tested the valuation of the sales rebates and discount accruals by challenging the directors’ 
judgements and comparing the value of the prior year accrual with actual discount invoicing received 
post year-end. 
We also tested the sufficiency of the accrual by comparing the amount and ageing of disputed 
balances against historic recovery rates from the Group’s customers
Risk of management override of 
internal controls  
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require we  
consider this.
 
 
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to 
“whistle-blow” inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Group’s internal 
audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements 
for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
This included testing manual journal entries and evaluating significant accounting estimates (for 
example, goodwill value in use computations) for evidence based judgements.
Risk of Fraud in Revenue 
Recognition 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a 
risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
We focused on the risk that revenue 
may have been recognised for all 
revenue streams for transactions that 
had not occurred.
 
 
We tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify any unusual or irregular items, which 
we agreed to supporting documentation to check that the revenue was recognised based on the 
date the goods are delivered and title passes. We also tested the reconciliations between the revenue 
systems used by the Group and its financial ledgers.
Going Concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 76, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s and Parent Company’s 
financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting. The 
going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company 
have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors 
intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial 
statements were signed. 
As outlined in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group’s and 
the Parent Company’s ability to remain in operation is reliant on the 
refinancing to be completed after the financial statements are signed, 
including the rights issue due to take place on 8 April 2014. As part 
of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going 
concern basis is appropriate, although because the successful 
completion of the rights issue is a prerequisite for the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, a material 
uncertainty exists which may cast significant doubt about the ability.
Because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, even if 
the rights issue is successfully completed, these statements are not 
a guarantee as to the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements;
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•	 the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on pages 46 to 77 in the Annual Report with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required to report by 
exception
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by 
law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on directors’ remuneration. We have no exceptions to report arising 
from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion a corporate governance statement has not been prepared 
by the Parent Company.  We have no exceptions to report arising from 
these responsibilities.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (“the Code”). We have nothing to report having performed our 
review.
On page 77 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision 
C.1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken 
as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. On page 61, as required 
by C.3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant 
issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how 
they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing 
our audit; or
•	 the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
•	 is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the 
audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set 
out pages 76 to 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and 
Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of 
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do 
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
Pauline Campbell  
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 March 2014
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
83
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Consolidated statement of profit or loss
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1  
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 856.2  1,070.9 
Cost of sales (556.1) (721.6)
Gross profit 300.1  349.3 
Selling, marketing and distribution costs (111.9) (141.6)
Administrative costs (133.5) (123.5)
Net other operating expense (2.1) (0.5)
Operating profit 5 52.6  83.7 
Before (loss)/profit on disposal of operations 55.0  50.6 
(Loss)/profit on disposal of operations 11 (2.4) 33.1 
Finance cost 7 (62.2) (86.1)
Finance income 7 2.4  4.1 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 7 11.6  (9.7)
Profit/(loss) before taxation from continuing operations  4.4  (8.0)
Taxation (charge)/credit 8 (51.1)  18.0 
(Loss)/profit after taxation from continuing operations (46.7)  10.0 
Loss from discontinued operations 10 (199.2) (27.9)
Loss for the year attributable to owners of the Parent (245.9) (17.9)
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share
From continuing operations (pence) 9 (19.5) 4.2
From discontinued operations (pence) 9 (83.1) (11.6)
From loss for the year (102.6) (7.4)
Adjusted earnings/(loss) per share
2
From continuing operations (pence) 9 25.9 28.2
From discontinued operations (pence) 9 1.8 (6.9)
From adjusted profit for the year 27.7 21.3
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
2. Adjusted earnings/(loss) per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) divided by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
The notes on pages 89 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1  
£m
Loss for the year (245.9) (17.9)
Other comprehensive (losses)/income
Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 23 (152.7) (191.4)
Deferred tax credit 8 8.4 37.2
Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation (0.3) —
Other comprehensive losses, net of tax (144.6) (154.2)
Total comprehensive losses attributable to owners of the parent (390.5) (172.1)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
The notes on pages 89 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
85
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Note
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
As at
31 Dec 2012
£m
ASSETS:
 Non-current assets
 Property, plant and equipment 13 196.3  374.2 
 Goodwill 14 713.9  713.9 
 Other intangible assets 15 575.5  677.0 
 Deferred tax assets 8 72.7  71.9 
 1,558.4  1,837.0 
 Current assets
 Assets held for sale 12 26.8 81.0 
 Inventories 17 68.9  116.2 
 Trade and other receivables 18 248.3  298.6 
 Financial assets — derivative financial instruments 21 0.5  1.0 
 Cash and cash equivalents 26 157.0  53.2 
 501.5  550.0 
Total assets 2,059.9  2,387.0 
LIABILITIES:
 Current liabilities 
 Liabilities held for sale 12 (1.4) (3.4)
 Trade and other payables 19 (336.7) (412.4)
 Financial liabilities 
 — short-term borrowings 20 (169.1) (229.8)
 — derivative financial instruments 21 (9.5) (19.6)
 Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (15.0) (25.6)
 Current income tax liabilities (0.7) (0.8)
 (532.4) (691.6)
 Non-current liabilities
 Financial liabilities — long-term borrowings 20 (818.7) (774.1)
 Retirement benefit obligations 23 (603.3) (466.8)
 Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (57.2) (48.3)
 Other liabilities 24 (30.4) (1.3)
 (1,509.6) (1,290.5)
Total liabilities (2,042.0) (1,982.1)
Net assets 17.9  404.9 
EQUITY:
 Capital and reserves
 Share capital 25 24.0  24.0 
 Share premium 25 1,124.7  1,124.7 
 Merger reserve 25 404.7  587.5 
 Other reserves 25 (9.3)  (9.3)
 Profit and loss reserve 25 (1,526.3) (1,322.1)
Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Parent 17.8  404.8 
 Non-controlling interest 0.1  0.1 
Total equity 17.9  404.9 
The notes on pages 89 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 84 to 131 were approved by the Board of directors on 4 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer
Consolidated balance sheet
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
£m
Cash generated from operating activities 26 123.4  56.4 
Interest paid (38.5) (56.8)
Interest received 2.6  4.3 
Taxation received — 0.3 
Cash generated from operating activities 87.5  4.2 
Sale of subsidiaries/businesses  90.8  312.2 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (32.6) (49.4)
Purchase of intangible assets (7.8) (17.2)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 14.8  0.2 
Cash generated from investing activities 65.2  245.8 
Repayment of borrowings (93.3) (312.2)
Proceeds from borrowings 91.0  1.5 
Proceeds from securitisation programme 24.3  72.4 
Financing fees and other costs of finance (27.5) (24.0)
Cash used in financing activities (5.5) (262.3)
Net inflow/(outflow) of cash and cash equivalents 147.2  (12.3)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 9.7  22.1 
Effect of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 (0.1)
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 26 157.0  9.7 
The notes on pages 89 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
87
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
 Note
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
£m
Merger
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Profit
and loss
reserve 
£m
Non-
controlling
interest
£m
Total
equity
£m
At 1 January 2013 24.0 1,124.7 587.5 (9.3) (1,322.1) 0.1 404.9
Loss for the year —  — — — (245.9) — (245.9)
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit liability 23 —  — — — (152.7) — (152.7)
Deferred tax credit 8 —  — — — 8.4 — 8.4
Exchange differences on 
translation —  — — — (0.3) — (0.3)
Other comprehensive losses —  — — — (144.6) — (144.6)
Total comprehensive losses —  — — — (390.5) — (390.5)
Share-based payments —  — — — 3.5 — 3.5
Realisation of merger reserve — — (182.8) — 182.8 — —
At 31 December 2013 24.0 1,124.7 404.7 (9.3) (1,526.3) 0.1 17.9
At 1 January 2012 24.0 1,124.7 606.0 (9.3) (1,172.8) 0.1 572.7
Profit for the year — — — — (17.9) — (17.9)
Remeasurements of defined 
benefit liability 23 — — — — (191.4) — (191.4)
Deferred tax charge 8 — — — — 37.2 — 37.2
Other comprehensive losses — — — — (154.2) — (154.2)
Total comprehensive losses — — — — (172.1) — (172.1)
Share-based payments — — — — 4.3 — 4.3
Realisation of merger reserve — — (18.5) — 18.5 — —
At 31 December 2012 24.0 1,124.7 587.5 (9.3) (1,322.1) 0.1 404.9
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
The notes on pages 89 to 131 form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
1. General information
Premier Foods plc (the “Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, registered number 
5160050, with its registered office at Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE. The principal 
activity of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) is the manufacture and distribution of branded and own label food and beverage 
products as described in note 16. Further information about the Group’s activities can be found in the Group at a Glance section of this annual 
report on pages 6 to 7. Copies of the annual report and accounts are available from this address.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 4 March 2014.
2. Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of Premier Foods plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (EU) (“adopted IFRS”) in response to IAS regulation (EC1606/2002), related 
interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and on the historical cost basis, with the 
exception of derivative financial instruments which are incorporated using fair value. Amounts are presented to the nearest £0.1m.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also 
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher 
degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are 
disclosed in note 3.
The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) or IFRIC (as 
endorsed by the EU), are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group:
International Financial Reporting Standards
Annual improvements 2011
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures — Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income
IAS 12 Income Taxes
IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits
There has been no significant impact on the Group’s results, net assets, cash flows or disclosures on adoption of new or revised standards in 
the period, other than on adoption of IAS 19 (Revised) as set out in note 23.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The following amendments to published standards, effective for periods on or after 1 January 2014, have been endorsed by the EU:
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
IAS 27 (Revised) Separate Financial Statements
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation — Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
The following standards and amendments to published standards, effective for periods on or after 1 January 2014, have not been endorsed 
by the EU:
International Financial Reporting Standards
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12  
and IAS 27
Investment Entities
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets
Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting
IFRIC 21 Levies
It is not expected that any of the new standards and interpretations not applied will have a material impact on the results, net assets or cash 
flows of the Group. 
Notes to the financial statements
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
89
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Basis for preparation of financial statements on a going concern basis
On 4 March 2014, the Group announced its proposal to diversify its sources of finance to provide a solid foundation on which it can drive 
future growth through its category-based strategy and leveraging its strengths. This transformational capital restructure includes a fully 
underwritten equity offering of approximately £350m (gross of fees) through a placing and rights issue, the issue of £475m senior secured 
loan notes and a new £300m revolving credit facility with a smaller bank syndicate. Significantly, the Group has also reached a pensions 
framework agreement with the respective Pension Scheme trustees following the triennial actuarial valuation, which provides the platform for 
this new capital structure to be put in place. In order for the capital restructuring to proceed, and for the funds to be available, Shareholders 
will be required to vote at the General Meeting in order to (amongst other things) authorise the Board to allot shares in the Company under the 
placing and the rights issue.
The Group’s 2013 financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able 
to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
Due to the inter-conditionality of the above elements of the refinancing, if the shareholders do not vote in favour of the resolutions and the 
placing and the rights issue do not occur, no funds will be available to be drawn by, or released to, the Group under the new revolving credit 
facility or the new bonds, and the revised schedules of pension contributions, modified funding arrangements and associated matters in 
relation to the relevant pension schemes pursuant to the new framework agreement will not become effective. If this were to be the case, 
although the Group’s current facilities do not expire within the next twelve months, the Group expects that it would be unable to comply with 
certain of its financial covenants under the current facilities on or after 31 December 2014. In this scenario, the Group would need to obtain 
certain consents or waivers from the Group’s lenders in respect of such financial covenants under the current facilities. If the Group were 
unable to maintain compliance with such financial covenants or were unable to obtain such consents or waivers, this would lead to a default 
under the Group’s existing financing arrangements, unless the Group were able to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities. While the 
Board would seek to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities in such circumstances, there can be no certainty that the Group would be 
able to do so either on acceptable terms or at all. In the event that the Group were unable to renegotiate or refinance the current facilities in 
these circumstances, the Group’s lenders would be able to demand repayment of all borrowings.
The Board has concluded that the resolutions which are required for the placing and the rights issue to proceed, such that the equity 
proceeds are received in line with the timetable set out in the associated Prospectus, are likely to be passed. The Board has taken into 
consideration the undertakings received from Shareholders that they will vote in favour of the resolution, historical voting trends, the 
underwritten element of the placing and the rights issue, and the backstop banks’ commitment to purchase the new bonds.
Nevertheless, the Board acknowledges that there is some theoretical uncertainty as to whether sufficient Shareholders will vote in favour 
of the resolutions to enable the capital restructuring to proceed. The Board believes that this uncertainty is extremely remote, but the 
consequence of not succeeding may be material. The directors believe that adopting the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements is appropriate. Nevertheless, the directors are prudently making full disclosure, as required by accounting standards, to 
indicate the existence of a material uncertainty, which may cast significant doubt about the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. The 
financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group were unable to continue as a going concern.
The auditor’s report of the financial statements contains an unmodified audit opinion. However, it includes an emphasis of matter in respect of 
going concern.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Premier Foods plc and entities controlled by the Company (its 
subsidiaries) up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the Company is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from 
involvement with an investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. In addition, comparatives are also restated to reclassify 
material disposed businesses into discontinued operations where appropriate.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Goodwill arises 
when the fair value of the consideration for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on acquisitions is 
capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
2.3 Revenue
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods net of sales rebates, discounts, value added tax and other taxes directly 
attributable to revenue and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised when the outcome of a transaction can be 
measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Revenue is 
recognised on the following basis:
(i) Sale of goods
Sales of goods are recognised as revenue on transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership, which typically coincides with the time when the 
merchandise is delivered to customers and title passes.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
2. Accounting policies (continued)
(ii) Sales rebates and discounts
Sales rebates and discount reserves are established at the time of sale based on management’s best estimate of the amounts necessary to 
meet claims by the Group’s customers in respect of these rebates and discounts. These estimates are based on experience and history. A 
provision is made at the time of sale and released, if unutilised, after assessment that the likelihood of such a claim being made has become 
remote.
2.4 Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”). 
The CODM is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments. See note 4 for further details. 
2.5 Share-based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee 
services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be 
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market 
vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the 
number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are 
expected to vest and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the statement of profit or loss, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity.
2.6 Foreign currency translation
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling, the Group’s presentation currency, at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the 
financial year. 
The results of overseas subsidiaries with functional currencies other than in sterling are translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange 
ruling in the year. The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising from 
re-translation at year end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded as a separate component of equity in other 
reserves. When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences previously taken to equity are recognised in the statement of profit or loss as 
part of the gain or loss on sale. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and 
translated at the closing rate.
All other exchange gains or losses are recorded in the statement of profit or loss.
2.7 Property, plant and equipment (“PPE”)
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
PPE is initially recorded at cost. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its 
working condition for its intended use. Subsequent expenditure is added to the carrying value of the asset when it is probable that incremental 
future economic benefits will transfer to the Group. All other subsequent expenditure is expensed in the period it is incurred.
Differences between the cost of each item of PPE and its residual value are written off over the estimated useful life of the asset using the 
straight-line method. Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual productive assets are performed 
annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear. Freehold land is not depreciated. 
The useful economic lives of owned assets range from 20 to 50 years for buildings, and 3 to 35 years for vehicles, plant and equipment.
All items of PPE are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable. 
Assets under construction represent the amount of expenditure recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment 
in the course of its construction. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the PPE include the employee costs and an 
appropriate portion of relevant overheads. When the item of property, plant and equipment is brought into use, it is depreciated. 
2.8 Business combinations and goodwill 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate 
of the acquisition date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured 
at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest. Acquisition related costs are recognised in 
profit or loss as incurred.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units (“CGUs”), 
or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is 
allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is 
monitored at the operating segment level.
The Group has applied IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’ to business combinations after 1 July 2009. The accounting for business 
combinations transacted prior to this date have not been restated. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
91
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.9 Intangible assets
In addition to goodwill the Group recognises the following intangible assets: 
Acquired intangible assets
Acquired trademarks, brands, customer relationships and licences that are controlled through custody or legal rights and that could be sold 
separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured. All of these assets are considered to have 
finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives that range from 7 to 40 years.
Research and development
Research expenditure is charged to the statement of profit or loss in the year in which it is incurred.
Costs incurred in developing a product, typically its recipe or packaging, are charged to income in the year in which they are incurred until the 
product or process is technically and commercially feasible in which case they are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic lives in 
accordance with IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’.
Software
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the 
Group are recognised as intangible assets when the project or process is technically and commercially feasible. Directly attributable costs 
that are capitalised as part of the software product include the software development employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant 
overheads.
Software development costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over a range of 3 to 10 years. 
The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined based on a review of a combination of factors including the asset ownership 
rights acquired and the nature of the overall product life cycle. Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual 
intangible assets are performed annually.
2.10 Impairment 
The carrying value of non-financial assets, other than goodwill and inventories, are reviewed at least annually to determine whether there is an 
indication of impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, that have suffered an impairment loss are 
reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Where an indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount is estimated based on the greater of its value in use and its fair value less 
costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the risks specific to each asset, are discounted to their 
present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the general risks affecting the food 
manufacturing industry.
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of profit or loss in the year in which they occur.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from 
continuing use that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. 
2.11 Financing cost and income
(i) Finance cost
Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the statement of profit or loss using the effective interest method.
(ii) Finance income
Finance income is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal amounts outstanding and the interest rates 
applicable, taking into consideration the interest element of derivatives.
2.12 Leases
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are capitalised 
and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of future minimum lease payments or fair value. Each asset 
is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. Obligations relating to finance leases, net 
of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included under borrowings. The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to 
accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting 
period. 
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rental 
costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line 
basis over the lease period.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.13 Inventories
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Where appropriate, cost includes production and other attributable overhead 
expenses as described in IAS 2 ‘Inventories’. Cost is calculated on a first-in, first-out basis by reference to the invoiced value of supplies 
and attributable costs of bringing the inventory to its present location and condition. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where the estimated selling price is lower than cost.
Provision is made for slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory where appropriate.
2.14 Taxation
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax
Income tax is recognised in the statement of profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other 
comprehensive income (“OCI”) in which case it is also recognised in OCI. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income  
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of  
previous years.
Deferred tax
Deferred taxation is accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable profit. Deferred taxation is not provided on the initial recognition 
of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than in a business combination, if at the time of the transaction there is no effect on either 
accounting or taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled based on tax rates 
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. It is recognised in the statement of profit or loss 
except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to OCI, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in OCI.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary 
difference can be utilised. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.15 Employee benefits
Group companies provide a number of long-term employee benefit arrangements, primarily through pension schemes. The schemes are 
generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds determined by periodic independent actuarial 
calculations. The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. 
Defined benefit plans
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually 
dependent on factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for remeasurements and past service costs. Defined 
benefit obligations are calculated using assumptions determined by the Group with the assistance of independent actuaries using the 
projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows using yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have 
terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Remeasurements arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of 
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Current service costs, past service costs, administration costs, and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability are recognised 
immediately in the statement of profit or loss.
Curtailments are recognised as a past service cost when the Group is demonstrably committed to make a significant reduction in the number 
of employees covered by a plan or amends the terms of a defined benefit plan so that a significant element of future service by current 
employees no longer qualifies or qualify for amended benefits.
Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which then invests 
the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund. The Group has no legal or 
constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
93
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit or loss as they fall 
due. Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recognised as either accruals or prepayments 
in the balance sheet.
2.16 Provisions
Provisions (for example restructuring or property exit costs) are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations 
as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate of the 
amount can be made. In the case of where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, 
the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is virtually certain. Where material, the Group discounts its 
provisions using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Where 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance expense.
2.17 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and the existence of which will only be confirmed by the occurrence 
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or the amount of obligation cannot be 
measured reliably. A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. When an outflow becomes 
probable, it is recognised as a provision. 
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and the existence of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group. Contingent assets are not recognised but are 
disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inflow of economic benefits is probable. When inflow is virtually certain an asset is 
recognised.
2.18 Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for 
impairment. A provision is made for impairment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the terms of the receivables. Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material. 
The rights and obligations relating to those trade receivables that have been sold to third parties are de-recognised from the balance sheet 
where the risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have transferred. Cash received from third parties in exchange for the transfer of 
ownership is recorded within cash and cash equivalents with the cost of financing prior to settlement by the customer recorded as interest on 
an accruals basis. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents, with original maturities at inception of less than 90 days, comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, and other 
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand, short-term deposits with an 
original maturity of three months or less held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and bank overdrafts.
Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements 
entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual 
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity 
instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate 
method. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs and inclusive of debt issuance costs) and the settlement or redemption of 
borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy for borrowing costs.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Trade payables and other liabilities 
are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable issue costs.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
2. Accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains 
or losses reported in the statement of profit or loss. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered 
into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. Movements in fair value of foreign exchange derivatives are recognised within other 
operating income and expense and those relating to interest rate swaps are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate 
financial instruments.
Other items at fair value through profit or loss
Other items at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. Movements in fair value are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial 
instruments. See notes 7 and 21 for further details.
2.19 Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets and associated liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than continuing use are classified 
as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets and associated liabilities are remeasured in accordance with 
the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. 
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
2.20 Deferred income
Deferred income is recognised and released over the period to which the relevant agreement relates.
3. Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements
The following are areas of particular significance to the Group’s financial statements and include the use of estimates and the application of 
judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of financial statements.
3.1 Employee benefits
The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations depends on a number of actuarial assumptions. The primary 
assumptions used include the discount rate applicable to scheme liabilities, the long-term rate of inflation and estimates of the mortality 
applicable to scheme members.
At each reporting date, and on a continuous basis, the Group reviews the macro-economic, Company and scheme specific factors 
influencing each of these assumptions, using professional advice, in order to record the Group’s ongoing commitment and obligation to 
defined benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19 (Revised). Key assumptions used are mortality rates, discount rates and inflation set with 
reference to bond yields. Each of the underlying assumptions is set out in more detail in note 23. 
3.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets
Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill are performed annually unless an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary. 
Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary. Examples 
of such triggering events include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of 
future operating losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows. The recoverable amounts of CGU’s are determined based on the higher of net 
realisable value and value in use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group has considered the impact of the assumptions used on the calculations and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment 
tests of the CGU’s carrying values. See note 14 for further details.
Acquired trademarks, brands and customer relationships are considered to have finite lives that range from 7 to 40 years. The determination 
of the useful lives takes into account certain quantitative factors such as sales expectations and growth prospects, and also many qualitative 
factors such as history and heritage, and market positioning, hence the determination of useful lives are subject to estimates and judgement. 
For further details see note 15.
3.3 Advertising and promotion costs
Trade spend and promotional activity is dependent on market conditions and negotiations with customers. Trade spend is charged to the 
statement of profit or loss according to the substance of the agreements with customers and the terms of any contractual relationship. 
Promotional support is generally charged to the statement of profit or loss at the time of the relevant promotion. These costs are accrued 
on best estimates. The actual costs may not be known until subsequent years when negotiations with customers are concluded. Such 
adjustments are recognised in the year when the liability becomes probable.
Expenditure on advertising is charged to the statement of profit or loss when incurred, except in the case of airtime costs when a particular 
campaign is used more than once. In this case they are charged in line with the airtime profile.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
95
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
4. Segmental analysis
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal reporting to the CODM. The CODM has been determined 
to be the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and 
the assessment of performance of the segments. 
The CODM uses divisional contribution as the key measure of the segments’ results; it is defined as gross profit after marketing and 
distribution costs and is a consistent measure within the Group and reflects the segments’ underlying trading performance for the period 
under evaluation. The reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to product types, 
has been used to identify and determine the Group’s operating segments.
The Group uses trading profit to review overall group profitability. Trading profit is defined as operating profit before re-financing costs, 
restructuring costs, profits and losses associated with divestment activity, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, the revaluation 
of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 and pension administration costs and net interest on the net defined benefit 
liability.
The Group’s operating segments are “Grocery” and “Discontinued operations”. The Grocery segment, which has been redefined to include 
all continuing operations, sells both sweet and savoury ambient food products. The Discontinued operations segment primarily sells bread, 
morning goods and flour products. During the year the Group realigned how it reported divisional results to the CODM in line with updated 
internal reporting lines; 2012 comparatives have been restated to reflect this change. In 2013 the Group’s operating segments have been 
monitored below divisional contribution for strategic purposes.
During 2012 the Group completed the disposal of the four Irish Brands (Chivers, Gateaux, McDonnells and the Erin licence), the Elephant 
Atta Ethnic Flour business, the Vinegar and Sour Pickles business and the Sweet Spreads and Jellies business and during 2013, the Group 
completed the disposal of the Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces business; the results of these businesses have not been reported separately 
as they were fully integrated within the Grocery and Bread segments in 2012.
On 27 January 2014 the Group announced the conditional sale of its majority share in the Bread business. The assets and associated 
liabilities to be sold with the transaction are held for sale in the financial statements. As a result of the transaction, the Bread business has 
been classified as a discontinued operation as it was a separate major component of the Group; 2012 comparatives have been restated to 
reflect this change.
The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2013 and for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the reconciliation of the segment 
measures to the respective statutory items included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
Year ended 31 Dec 2013
Grocery
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total 
Group
£m
Revenue
External 856.2  654.6  1,510.8 
Inter-segment — 27.0  27.0 
Result
Divisional contribution 202.9  27.8  230.7 
Total SG&A costs (63.4) (22.1) (85.5)
Trading profit 139.5  5.7  145.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets (43.8) (2.1) (45.9)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts (1.9) — (1.9)
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity (7.3) (11.9) (19.2)
Refinancing costs (0.2) — (0.2)
Net interest on pensions and administrative expenses (31.3) — (31.3)
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 55.0  (8.3) 46.7 
Impairment — (234.4) (234.4)
Loss on disposal of operations (2.4) —  (2.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 52.6  (242.7) (190.1)
Finance cost (62.2) — (62.2)
Finance income 2.4 — 2.4 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 11.6 — 11.6 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 4.4  (242.7) (238.3)
Depreciation (17.3) (15.6) (32.9)
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
4. Segmental analysis (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2012 (Restated)
1
Grocery
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
External 1,070.9  685.3  1,756.2 
Inter-segment 0.5  21.2  21.7 
Result
Divisional contribution 227.8  26.3  254.1 
Total SG&A costs (68.7) (48.2) (116.9)
Trading profit/(loss) 159.1  (21.9) 137.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets (50.4) (2.9) (53.3)
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 2.0 — 2.0 
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity (31.3) (14.8) (46.1)
Re-financing costs (1.1) — (1.1)
Net interest on pensions and administrative expenses (27.7) — (27.7)
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment and profit on disposal of operations 50.6  (39.6) 11.0 
Impairment — (36.2) (36.2)
Profit on disposal of operations 33.1  30.6  63.7 
Operating profit/(loss) 83.7  (45.2) 38.5 
Finance cost (86.1) (0.2) (86.3)
Finance income 4.1 — 4.1 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments (9.7) — (9.7)
Loss before taxation (8.0) (45.4) (53.4)
Depreciation (23.4) (16.2) (39.6)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Further details of the impairment to Discontinued operations are available in note 14 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Revenues, on a continuing basis, of £173.7m and £143.7m (2012: £226.9m and £174.6m) are derived from two external customers. 
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the same terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third 
parties. 
The Group primarily supplies the UK market, although it also supplies certain products to other European countries and a number of other 
countries. The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s revenue, which is allocated on the basis of geographical market destination 
and an analysis of the Group’s non-current assets by geographical location. 
Continuing operations — revenue
31 Dec 2013
£m
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1
£m
United Kingdom 821.3 1,019.4
Other Europe 21.7 29.5
Rest of world 13.2 22.0
Total 856.2 1,070.9
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
Discontinued operations — revenue
31 Dec 2013
£m
31 Dec 2012
 (Restated)
1
£m
United Kingdom 636.7 669.3
Other Europe 17.9 15.8
Rest of world — 0.2
Total 654.6 685.3
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
Non-current assets
31 Dec 2013
£m
31 Dec 2012
£m
United Kingdom 1,558.4 1,837.0
5. Operating profit for continuing operations
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
97
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
5a. Analysis of costs by nature
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
 (Restated)
1
£m
Employee benefits expense (note 6) 134.1 194.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.3 23.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 43.8 50.4
Operating lease rental payments 5.5  14.7 
Repairs and maintenance expenditure 23.4 34.7
Research and development costs 4.2 5.7
Loss on disposal of non-current assets 7.8 4.1
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss (0.2) 0.5
Past service credit relating to defined benefit schemes (22.3) (31.7)
Charge relating to restructuring and onerous lease provisions 7.3 31.3
Refinancing costs 0.2 1.1
Auditors’ remuneration 1.0 2.2
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Operating lease commitments are further disclosed in note 27.
5b. Auditors’ remuneration
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and  
consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services:
— The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.4
— Other services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1
— Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 2.3
Total auditors’ remuneration 1.0 3.2
The total operating profit charge for auditors’ remuneration was £1.0m (2012: £2.2m).
In 2012 £2.3m of costs were directly attributable to advice related to the Group’s re-financing and support with the necessary circulars in 
connection with the disposal programme. £1.0m of the £2.3m was capitalised, resulting in a total of £2.8m held on the balance sheet at  
31 December 2012, with the remaining £1.3m charged to operating profit. £0.7m of these capitalised fees were charged to operating profit in 
2013, resulting in a total of £2.1m held on the balance sheet at 31 December 2013.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
6.  Employees
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
  (Restated)
1
£m
Staff costs for the Group during the year — continuing operations
Wages and salaries (129.9) (174.1)
Social security costs (13.3) (17.9)
Termination benefits (1.1) (11.1)
Share options granted to directors and employees (4.1) (4.6)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 23) (2.0) (0.5)
Credit for defined benefit schemes (note 23) 16.3  13.4 
Total — continuing operations (134.1) (194.8)
Staff costs for the Group during the year — discontinued operations
Wages and salaries (142.6) (158.9)
Social security costs (13.2) (14.7)
Termination benefits (9.9) (1.0)
Share options granted to directors and employees (0.6) (0.1)
Contributions to defined contribution schemes (note 23) (1.4) (0.3)
Credit/(charge) for defined benefit schemes (note 23) 8.7  (17.7)
Total — discontinued operations (159.0) (192.7)
Total — continuing and discontinued operations (293.1) (387.5)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
Average monthly number of people employed (including executive and non executive directors):
2013
 Number 
2012
 Number 
Average monthly number of people employed — continuing operations
Management 720  799 
Administration 501  573 
Production, distribution and other 3,062  3,357 
Total — continuing operations 4,283  4,729 
Average monthly number of people employed — discontinued operations
Management 516  618 
Administration 211  321 
Production, distribution and other 3,369  4,119 
Total — discontinued operations 4,096  5,058 
Total — continuing and discontinued operations 8,379  9,787 
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed in the audited sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 70 to 75, which form part of 
these financial statements.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
99
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
7. Finance income and costs
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1
£m
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (7.7) (10.2)
Interest payable on term facility (17.4) (24.6)
Interest payable on revolving facility (5.8) (9.4)
Interest payable on interest rate derivatives (7.2) (5.8)
Interest payable on interest rate financial liabilities designated as other financial liabilities at  
fair value through profit or loss — (11.5)
Other interest payable (1.4) (0.7)
Amortisation of debt issuance costs and deferred fees (22.7) (13.1)
 (62.2) (75.3)
Write off of financing costs
2
 — (10.8)
Total finance cost (62.2) (86.1)
Interest receivable on bank deposits 2.4 4.1 
Total finance income 2.4  4.1 
Movement on fair valuation of interest rate derivatives 11.6 (14.8)
Movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial liabilities designated as other financial liabilities at  
fair value through profit or loss — 5.1 
Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 11.6  (9.7)
Net finance cost (48.2) (91.7)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
2. Relates to the write-off of debt issuance costs in 2012 relating to the Group’s previous financing agreement.
The net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments relates to a £11.6m favourable movement on interest rate swaps held 
(2012: £19.2m adverse). In 2012 there was an additional £9.5m favourable movement in swaps held before re-financing in March 2012.
8. Taxation
Current tax
Analysis of the (charge)/credit for the year:
Continuing 
operations
£m
Discontinued 
operations
£m
Total
£m
2013
Current tax
— Current year — — —
— Prior years — — —
Overseas current tax
— Current year — — —
— Prior years — — —
Deferred tax
— Current year (52.7) 37.9 (14.8)
— Prior years 3.2 — 3.2
— Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 20.0% (1.6) 5.6 4.0
Income tax (charge)/credit for the year (51.1) 43.5 (7.6)
2012 (Restated)
1
Current tax
— Current year — — —
— Prior years 0.1 — 0.1 
Overseas current tax 
— Current year (1.1) — (1.1)
— Prior years — — —
Deferred tax
— Current year 27.5  17.5  45.0 
— Prior years (13.9) — (13.9)
— Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 23.0% 5.4 — 5.4 
Income tax credit for the year 18.0 17.5  35.5 
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
8. Taxation (continued)
Income tax charge for the year
As a result of the 2012 Finance Act provision to reduce the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013 the applicable rate of 
corporation tax for the year is 23.25%. As a result of the 2013 Finance Act provision to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 20% from 1 April 
2015 deferred tax balances have been restated at 20%, the rate at which they are expected to reverse.
Tax relating to items recorded in OCI for continuing operations was:
 Year ended 
31 Dec 2013
£m
 Year ended 
31 Dec 2012 
(Restated)
1
£m
Deferred tax charge on reduction of corporate tax rate (13.3) (4.5)
Deferred tax credit on pension movements 28.3 41.4 
Deferred tax (charge)/credit on losses (6.6) 0.3 
8.4 37.2 
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%). The reasons for 
this are explained below:
 Year ended 
31 Dec 2013
 £m 
 Year ended 
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1
 £m 
Profit/(loss) before taxation for continuing operations 4.4  (8.0) 
Tax (charge)/credit at the domestic income tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) (1.0) 1.9
Tax effect of:
Non-deductible items
2
(0.3) 11.9 
Other disallowable items (0.5) (0.2)
Adjustment for overseas results taxed at different rate — (1.0)
Adjustment for share-based payments (1.0) (1.1)
Previously unrecognised losses utilised 3.3 11.7 
Capital gain on disposal of business (3.3) (13.0)
Adjustment due to current year deferred tax being provided at 20.0% (2012: 23.0%) 0.4 (0.6)
Movements in losses recognised
4
(52.2) 16.9 
Adjustment to restate opening deferred tax at 20.0% (2012: 23.0%) (1.6) 5.4 
Adjustments to prior years
3
3.2 (13.9)
Deferred tax released on disposal of properties 1.9 —
Income tax (charge)/credit (51.1) 18.0 
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation.
2. In 2012 non-deductible items primarily related to profits made on the disposal of businesses during the year.
3. In 2012 adjustments to prior years primarily related to a disclaim of capital allowances in 2011 group accounts not repeated in the tax returns.
4. The proposed disposal of the Bread business has resulted in a significant increase in the potential net deferred tax asset. As a result of this increase it has been decided 
that potential deferred tax assets relating to corporation tax losses should not be recognised in the current year.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the asset/(liability) arises 
and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled. In all cases this is 20.0% (2012: 23.0%) 
except for an asset of £0.5m (2012: £1.7m) relating to Irish retirement benefit obligations where the local rate of 12.5% has been used.
2013
£m
2012
(Restated)
1
£m
At 1 January 71.9 (10.9)
(Charged)/credited to the income statement (7.6) 36.5
Credited to OCI 8.4 37.2
Transferred to held for sale — 3.4
Disposal of subsidiaries/businesses — 5.7
At 31 December 72.7 71.9
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
101
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
8. Taxation (continued)
Due to the level of taxable profits anticipated the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £14.9m (2012: £20.5m) relating to capital 
losses, £95.9m (2012: £33.9m) relating to UK corporation tax losses and £24.9m (2012: £28.6m) relating to ACT. Under current legislation 
these losses can generally be carried forward indefinitely. 
Deferred tax liabilities
Intangibles 
£m
Other 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2012 (132.9) (4.3) (137.2)
Prior year restatement of opening balances 10.6  0.3  10.9 
Disposal of subsidiaries/businesses 5.7  —  5.7 
Current year credit 15.0  —  15.0 
Prior year charge (0.7) (0.6) (1.3)
Transfer to held for sale 2.3  —  2.3 
At 31 December 2012 (100.0) (4.6) (104.6)
Prior year restatement of opening balances 11.4 0.6 12.0 
Current year credit 3.8 — 3.8 
Prior year charge (0.3) — (0.3) 
Deferred tax credit on discontinued activities 12.1 — 12.1 
At 31 December 2013 (73.0) (4.0) (77.0)
Deferred tax assets
Accelerated 
tax depreciation 
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligation 
£m
Share based 
payments 
£m
Financial 
instruments 
£m
Losses  
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2012 6.3 70.0 (0.1) 50.1 — 126.3 
Prior year restatement of  
opening balances  
— To income statement (0.5) (1.0) — (4.0) — (5.5)
— To OCI — (4.5) — — — (4.5)
Current year (charge)/credit (7.8) — 0.4 1.8 24.2 18.6 
Credited to OCI — 41.4 — — 0.3 41.7 
Deferred tax credit on 
discontinued activities 7.3 0.1 — — 4.0 11.4
Prior year charge (12.6) — — — — (12.6)
Transferred to held for sale 1.1 — — — — 1.1
At 31 December 2012 
(Restated)
1
(6.2) 106.0 0.3 47.9 28.5 176.5
Prior year restatement of  
opening balances
— To income statement (3.2) (1.2) (0.1) (6.3) (2.8) (13.6) 
— To OCI — (12.3) — — (1.0) (13.3) 
Current year credit/(charge) 3.5 (0.5) 0.7 (1.9) (58.3) (56.5) 
Prior year credit/(charge) — 0.4 0.1 (37.2) 40.2 3.5 
Credited to OCI — 28.3 — — (6.6) 21.7 
Deferred tax credit on 
discontinued activities 31.4 — — — — 31.4 
At 31 December 2013 25.5 120.7 1.0 2.5 — 149.7
Net deferred tax asset £m
At 31 December 2013 72.7
At 31 December 2012 71.9
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Where there is a legal right of offset and an intention to settle as such, deferred tax assets and liabilities may be presented on a net basis. This 
is the case for most of the Group’s deferred tax balances and therefore they have been offset in the tables above. Substantial elements of the 
Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, primarily relating to the defined benefit pension obligation, are greater than one year in nature.
Deferred tax assets in respect of corporation tax losses are only recognised as other deferred tax assets are realised and to the extent that it 
is anticipated they will be utilised in the near future.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
9. Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic loss per share has been calculated by dividing the loss attributable to owners of the parent of £245.9m (2012: £17.9m loss) by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company. 
Year ended 31 Dec 2013 Year ended 31 Dec 2012 (Restated)
1
Basic
Dilutive effect 
of share 
options Diluted Basic
Dilutive effect 
of share 
options Diluted
Continuing operations
 (Loss)/profit after tax (£m)  (46.7) (46.7)  10.0  10.0 
 Weighted average number of shares (m)  239.8  — 239.8  239.8 — 239.8 
 (Loss)/earnings per share (pence)  (19.5) — (19.5) 4.2 — 4.2 
Discontinued operations
 Loss after tax (£m)  (199.2) (199.2) (27.9) (27.9)
 Weighted average number of shares (m)  239.8 —  239.8  239.8 — 239.8 
 Loss per share (pence)  (83.1) —  (83.1) (11.6) — (11.6)
Total 
 Loss after tax (£m)   (245.9) (245.9) (17.9) (17.9)
 Weighted average number of shares (m)  239.8 —  239.8  239.8 — 239.8 
 Loss per share (pence)  (102.6) —  (102.6) (7.4) — (7.4)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Dilutive effect of share options
The dilutive effect of share options is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume 
conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The only dilutive potential ordinary shares of the Company are share options. A calculation 
is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share 
price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to the outstanding share options. 
No adjustment is made to the profit or loss in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share.
2013
 Number 
2012
Number
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share 239,828,166 239,806,206
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
— Share options 453,414 —
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share 240,281,580 239,806,206
Given that the Group made a loss in the year there is no dilutive effect of share options.
Adjusted earnings per share (“Adjusted EPS”)
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.  
Net regular interest payable is defined as net interest after excluding non-cash items, including write-off of financing costs, fair value 
adjustments on interest rate financial instruments and other interest.
Trading profit and Adjusted EPS have been reported as the directors believe these provide an alternative measure by which the shareholders 
can better assess the Group’s underlying trading performance.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
103
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
9. Earnings/(loss) per share (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2013
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Operating profit/(loss) 52.6 (242.7) (190.1)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets — 234.4 234.4
Loss on disposal of operations 2.4 — 2.4
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment and profit on disposal of operations 55.0 (8.3) 46.7
Net interest on pension and administrative expenses 31.3 — 31.3
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 1.9 — 1.9
Amortisation of intangible assets 43.8 2.1 45.9
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity 7.3 11.9 19.2
Re-financing costs 0.2 — 0.2
Trading profit 139.5 5.7 145.2
Less net regular interest payable (58.4) — (58.4)
Adjusted profit before tax 81.1 5.7 86.8
Notional tax at 23.25% (18.9) (1.3) (20.2)
Adjusted profit after tax 62.2 4.4 66.6
Average shares in issue (m) 239.8 239.8 239.8
Adjusted EPS (pence) 25.9 1.8 27.7
Net regular interest payable
Net interest payable (48.2) — (48.2)
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments (11.6) — (11.6)
Exclude other interest 1.4 — 1.4
Net regular interest payable (58.4) — (58.4)
Year ended 31 Dec 2012 (Restated)
1
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Total
£m
Operating profit/(loss) 83.7 (45.2) 38.5
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets — 36.2 36.2
Profit on disposal of operations (33.1) (30.6) (63.7)
Operating profit/(loss) before impairment and loss on disposal of operations 50.6 (39.6) 11.0
Net interest on pension and administrative expenses 27.7 — 27.7
Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts (2.0) — (2.0)
Amortisation of intangible assets 50.4 2.9 53.3
Restructuring costs associated with divestment activity 31.3 14.8 46.1
Re-financing costs 1.1 — 1.1
Trading profit/(loss) 159.1 (21.9) 137.2
Less net regular interest payable (69.5) — (69.5)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before tax 89.6 (21.9) 67.7
Notional tax at 24.5% (22.0) 5.4 (16.6)
Adjusted profit/(loss) after tax 67.6 (16.5) 51.1
Average shares in issue (m) 239.8 239.8 239.8
Adjusted EPS (pence) 28.2 (6.9) 21.3
Net regular interest payable
Net interest payable (91.7) (0.2) (91.9)
Exclude write-off of financing costs and other 11.8 0.1 11.9
Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments 9.7 — 9.7
Exclude other interest 0.7 0.1 0.8
Net regular interest payable (69.5) — (69.5)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
10. Discontinued operations
Income and expenditure incurred on discontinued operations during the year predominantly comprises the Bread business, in light of the 
announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 2014, in addition to other operations that 
were disposed of in prior years.
Note
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
£m
Revenue 654.6 685.3 
Operating expenses (662.9) (724.9)
Operating loss before impairment and profit on disposal of operations (8.3) (39.6)
Impairment 14 (234.4) (36.2)
Profit on disposal of operations — 30.6 
Operating loss (242.7) (45.2)
Finance cost — (0.2)
Loss before taxation (242.7) (45.4)
Taxation credit 43.5  17.5 
Loss after taxation on discontinued operations for the year (199.2) (27.9)
Further details of the impairment to Discontinued operations are available in note 14 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
During the year, discontinued operations contributed to a net inflow of £14.7m (2012: £11.8m inflow) to the Group’s operating cash flows, a 
net inflow of £3.8m (2012: £14.6m inflow) to investing activities and £nil (2012: £34.0m outflow) to financing activities.
11. Disposal of businesses
On 2 February 2013, the Group completed its sale of the Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces business to Mizkan for £92.5m before disposal 
costs. This is not a discontinued operation as it was previously integrated and reported as part of the Grocery business.
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Net cash inflow arising on disposal:
Initial consideration 92.5
Proceeds deferred, working capital adjustments and disposal costs (17.8)
Net cash inflow for the year 74.7
Property, plant and equipment 37.6
Intangible assets and goodwill 34.2
Inventories 8.7
Provisions and lease obligations (3.4)
Net assets disposed 77.1
Loss on disposal before tax (2.4)
12. Assets and liabilities held for sale
As at 31 December 2013, the assets and associated liabilities relating to the Bread business were held for sale in light of the announcement 
of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 2014. The disposal is expected to be completed in the 
second quarter of 2014. On recognition of the assets and liabilities as held for sale, an impairment loss of £234.4m was recognised in order to 
write down the disposal group to fair value less costs to sell. Management has assessed fair value less costs to sell based on the initial cash 
consideration of £15.0m being received for 51% of the business, less estimated costs to sell. 
The Bread business is presented in the “Discontinued operations” reportable segment in accordance with “IFRS8 Operating Segments”. 
As at 31 December 2012, the assets and associated liabilities relating to the Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces business were held for sale 
in light of the announcement of the conditional sale of this business on 30 October 2012. The disposal completed on 2 February 2013 for 
consideration of £92.5m.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
105
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
12. Assets and liabilities held for sale (continued)
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets:
 Property, plant and equipment — 37.6 
 Goodwill — 31.1
 Other intangible assets — 3.1
Current assets:
 Inventories 25.0 9.2
 Trade and other receivables 1.8 —
Total assets held for sale 26.8 81.0
Current liabilities:
 Trade and other payables (1.4) —
 Deferred tax liabilities — (3.4)
Total liabilities held for sale (1.4) (3.4)
Net assets and liabilities held for sale 25.4 77.6
13. Property, plant and equipment
 
Land and 
buildings
£m
Vehicles, plant 
and equipment
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 143.2 404.3 68.4 615.9
Additions — — 43.4 43.4
Disposals (16.5) (73.7) (4.5) (94.7)
Reclassifications (1.4) 1.4 — —
Transferred from intangible assets
2
— 44.8 — 44.8 
Transferred into use 1.5  78.2  (79.7) —
Reversal of fair value adjustment
1
 79.5  7.9 — 87.4 
Transferred to held for sale (12.0) (51.4) (0.8) (64.2)
At 31 December 2012 194.3 411.5 26.8 632.6
Additions — 0.2  27.8  28.0 
Disposals (17.0) (19.5) — (36.5)
Transferred to intangible assets and transferred into use 2.5 19.9  (27.9) (5.5)
At 31 December 2013 179.8 412.1 26.7 618.6
Aggregate depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2012 (19.5) (179.1) — (198.6)
Depreciation charge for the year (4.8) (34.8) — (39.6)
Disposals 5.4  39.9 — 45.3 
Impairment charge (5.6) (4.1) (2.8) (12.5)
Reclassifications (0.4) 0.4 — —
Reversal of fair value adjustment (23.6) (56.0) — (79.6)
Transferred to held for sale 2.9  23.7 — 26.6 
At 31 December 2012 (45.6) (210.0) (2.8) (258.4)
Depreciation charge for the year (3.6) (29.2) — (32.8)
Disposals 9.1  15.3 — 24.4 
Impairment charge (71.8) (83.7) — (155.5)
At 31 December 2013 (111.9) (307.6) (2.8) (422.3)
Net book value
At 31 December 2011 123.7 225.2 68.4 417.3
At 31 December 2012 148.7 201.5 24.0 374.2
At 31 December 2013 67.9 104.5 23.9 196.3
1. Following an exercise to verify property, plant and equipment in 2012, fair value adjustments that arose on the acquisition of RHM in 2007 were corrected.
2. £44.8m of assets were classified as intangible assets at 31 December 2011. These were reclassified to property, plant and equipment in 2012.
The net book value of the Group’s vehicles, plant and equipment includes an amount of £nil (2012: £0.7m) in respect of assets held under 
finance leases. None of the additions of £28.0m for the year related to assets held under finance leases (2012: £nil). 
The Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including property, plant and equipment.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
13. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Impairment
An impairment charge of £155.5m was recognised in 2013 against property, plant and equipment due to the write down of the Bread 
business to fair value less costs to sell in light of the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on  
27 January 2014.
An impairment charge of £12.5m was recognised in 2012 due to planned site closures and restructuring from the Group’s decision to exit a 
branded and own label contract in the Bread division.
14. Goodwill
2013
£m
2012
£m
Carrying value
At 1 January  713.9  856.2 
Disposals — (111.2)
Transferred to held for sale — (31.1)
At 31 December  713.9  713.9 
Goodwill attached to each of the Group’s CGU’s is as follows:
2013
 £m 
2012
 £m 
Grocery 713.9 713.9
Net carrying value of goodwill 713.9  713.9 
Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired. The recoverable amount 
of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, depending on the way in which the value of the CGU 
is expected to be recovered.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions for calculating value in use are those relating to the cash flows, long term growth rate and discount rate.
Cash flow assumptions
The cash flows used in the value in use calculation are pre-tax cash flows based on the latest approved management forecasts in respect 
of the following four years. These are calculated as trading profit before depreciation. Assumptions regarding these future cash flows are 
based upon actual results in prior periods adjusted for expected developments in the following years with reference to market conditions and 
reasonable management expectations for the businesses including short term growth projections where appropriate. All income and costs are 
taken into account.
An estimate of capital expenditure required to maintain these cash flows is also made. 
Long term growth rate assumptions
The four year management forecasts are extrapolated in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector. The growth 
rate applied is 2.40% (2012: 2.25%) and is not considered to be higher than the average long-term industry growth rate.
Discount rate
The discount rate applied to the cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax rate based on the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) which 
would be anticipated for a market participant investing in the Group. The directors believe it is appropriate to use a single common discount 
rate for all impairment testing as each CGU shares similar risk profiles.
The Group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment 
testing. At 31 December 2013, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecasted cash flows has been determined to be 11.3% (2012: 11.2%).
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow 
projections, could significantly affect the Group’s impairment evaluation and hence results.
Impairment
A total impairment charge of £234.4m was recognised in 2013 primarily against property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 
allocated to the Bread CGU. This was due to the write down of the Bread business to fair value less costs to sell in light of the announcement 
of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 2014.
A total impairment charge of £23.7m was recognised in 2012 against other intangible assets allocated to the Bread CGU.
With regards to the Grocery CGU, the directors believe no reasonable change in circumstances that would impact the key assumptions used 
in the impairment testing would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
107
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
14. Goodwill (continued)
Impairment charge
Property, Plant 
and Equipment
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets
£m
Other assets
£m
Total
£m
2013
Bread 155.5 66.9 12.0  234.4 
2012
Bread 12.5 23.7  —  36.2 
15. Other intangible assets
Software
£m
Brands/ 
trademarks/ 
licences
£m
Customer 
relationships
£m
Assets under 
construction
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 January 2012 163.1  893.2  149.1  37.3  1,242.7 
Additions — — — 12.7  12.7 
Disposals (1.2) (44.9) (14.3) — (60.4)
Transfer to property, plant and equipment
1
 (44.8) — — — (44.8)
Transferred into use 32.9 — — (32.9) —
Transferred to held for sale — (7.1) — — (7.1)
At 31 December 2012 150.0  841.2  134.8  17.1  1,143.1 
Additions — — — 5.8  5.8 
Disposals (17.5) — — — (17.5)
Transferred from PPE and transferred into use 7.3 12.0 — (13.8) 5.5 
At 31 December 2013 139.8  853.2  134.8  9.1  1,136.9 
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2012 (55.1) (234.1) (130.8) — (420.0)
Disposals 1.0  14.8  11.1 — 26.9 
Amortisation charge for the year (18.9) (27.4) (7.0) — (53.3)
Impairment charge — (23.7) — — (23.7)
Transferred to held for sale — 4.0 — — 4.0 
At 31 December 2012 (73.0) (266.4) (126.7) — (466.1)
Disposals 17.5 — — — 17.5 
Amortisation charge for the year (12.1) (27.6) (6.2) — (45.9)
Impairment charge (14.3) (52.6) — — (66.9)
At 31 December 2013 (81.9) (346.6) (132.9) — (561.4)
Net book value
Net book value 31 December 2011 108.0 659.1 18.3 37.3 822.7
Net book value 31 December 2012 77.0  574.8  8.1  17.1  677.0 
Net book value 31 December 2013 57.9 506.6  1.9  9.1  575.5 
Brands, trademarks and licences are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful 
lives of 20 to 40 years. Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 10 years. Customer relationships are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 7 years. All amortisation is recognised within administrative costs for 2013 
and 2012.
Included in the assets under construction additions for the year above are £1.7m of internal costs (2012: £6.1m).
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including other intangible assets.
Impairment
An impairment charge of £66.9m was recognised in 2013 against other intangible assets due to the write down of the Bread business to fair 
value less costs to sell in light of the announcement of the conditional disposal of the Group’s majority share in this business on 27 January 
2014.
An impairment charge of £23.7m was recognised in 2012 against other intangible assets as a result of adverse trading conditions experienced 
in the year.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
15. Other intangible assets (continued)
The material brands held on the balance sheet are as follows:
Brand/Trademark
Carrying 
value at
 31 Dec 2013
£m
Estimated 
useful life 
remaining
Years
Bisto 139.3 23
Oxo 89.7 33
Batchelors 73.1 23
Sharwoods 65.8 23
Mr Kipling 54.1 23
16. Investments
Principal subsidiaries
Name of Subsidiary 
Country of incorporation
or registration and principal 
operations Principal activity
Effective interest in ordinary 
share capital at 31 December
2013 2012
Operating subsidiaries
Premier Foods Group Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution of 
ambient food products, cakes, 
bread, own label and other food 
products
100% 100%
Premier Foods Group Services Limited United Kingdom Head Office company 100% 100%
Other subsidiaries
Premier Foods Investments Limited United Kingdom Financing company 100% 100%
Each of the principal subsidiary undertakings has the same year-end as Premier Foods plc. The companies listed above are those that 
materially affect the results and the assets of the Group. The Company has taken advantage of s.410 (2) of the Companies Act 2006 and in 
accordance a full list of subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the Company’s next annual return.
17. Inventories
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials 18.2 45.7
Work in progress 2.7 2.6
Finished goods and goods for resale 48.0 67.9
Inventories 68.9 116.2
Inventory write-offs in the year amounted to £16.4m (2012: £15.7m)
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including inventories.
18. Trade and other receivables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 254.2 279.5
Trade receivables provided for (29.4) (16.3)
Net trade receivables 224.8 263.2
Prepayments 13.1 27.2
Other tax and social security receivable 0.2 7.2
Other receivables 10.2 1.0
Trade and other receivables 248.3 298.6
The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including trade and other receivables. At year end the Group has 
benefited from a £120m securitisation programme to allow it to borrow against trade receivable balances. Further details of the securitisation 
programme are available in note 20 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
19. Trade and other payables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables (268.8) (316.3)
Tax and social security payable (16.3) (13.1)
Other payables and accruals (51.6) (83.0)
Trade and other payables (336.7) (412.4)
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
109
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
20. Bank and other borrowings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current:
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Revolving (note a) (17.6) (15.0)
Debt issuance costs 0.3 0.3 
(17.3) (14.7)
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Term (note a) (32.4) (77.4)
Debt issuance costs 0.6  1.5 
 (31.8) (75.9)
Bank overdrafts — (43.5)
Total bank borrowings due within one year (49.1) (134.1)
Finance lease obligations (note 21) — (0.1)
Securitisation facility (note b)   (120.0) (95.6)
Total borrowings due within one year (169.1) (229.8)
Non-current:
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Revolving (note a) (186.9) (116.7)
Debt issuance costs 3.4  7.7 
 (183.5) (109.0)
Secured Senior Credit Facility — Term (note a) (647.1) (677.8)
Debt issuance costs 11.9  13.1 
 (635.2) (664.7)
Total bank borrowings due after more than one year (818.7) (773.7)
Finance lease obligations (note 21) — (0.3)
Other loans  — (0.1)
Total borrowings due after more than one year (818.7) (774.1)
Total bank and other borrowings (987.8) (1,003.9)
The borrowings are secured by a floating charge over all assets of the Group.
Cash and bank deposits and short-term borrowings have been offset to the extent possible in accordance with the Group’s banking 
agreements.
The total facility as at 31 December 2013 was £1,036.3m (2012: £1,142.4m). 
(a) Senior Term Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement
The term loan and revolving credit facility mature on 30 June 2016. The current applicable bank margin is 3.25%. Additionally, amortisations 
will occur semi-annually from 30 June 2014. Banking covenants of net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/interest are in place and are tested 
biannually. 
A floating to fixed amortising swap with a nominal value of £745m is in place, attracting a swap rate of 1.59%.
All term loan and securitised debt attract interest charges based on LIBOR.
(b) Securitisation facility
The debtors securitisation facility is secured against the Group’s trade receivables. It is a three year programme maturing in December 2016, 
with a £120m facility priced at 2.75% above the cost of commercial paper.
See note 31 for details of the Group’s capital restructuring.
21. Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (arising from adverse movements in foreign currency, commodity 
prices and interest rates), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage certain of these 
risks. The management of these risks, along with the day-to-day management of treasury activities is performed by the Group’s treasury 
function. The policy framework governing the management of these risks is defined by the Board. The framework for management of these 
risks is incorporated into a policies and procedures manual.
The Group also enters into contracts with suppliers for its principal raw material requirements, some of which are considered commodities, 
diesel and energy. These commodity and energy contracts are part of the Group’s normal purchasing activities. Some of the risk relating 
to diesel is mitigated with the use of derivative financial instruments. The Treasury Risk Management Committee monitors and reviews the 
Group’s foreign currency exchange, commodity price and energy price exposures and recommends appropriate hedging strategies for each.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
21. Financial instruments (continued)
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
The Group’s main operating entities’ functional currency and the Group’s presentation currency is sterling although some transactions are 
executed in non-sterling currencies, including Euros and US dollars. The transactional amounts realised or settled are therefore subject to the 
effect of movements in these currencies against sterling. Management of these exposures is centralised and managed by the Group’s treasury 
function. It is the Group’s policy to manage the exposures arising using forward foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options. 
Hedge accounting is not sought for these transactions. 
The Group generates some of its profits in non-sterling currencies and has assets in non-sterling jurisdictions, principally the Euro. 
The principal foreign currency affecting the translation of subsidiary undertakings within the Group financial statements is the Euro. The rates 
applicable are as follows:
Principal rate of exchange EUR/£ 
Year ended 
31 Dec 2013
Year ended 
31 Dec 2012
Year end 1.2006 1.2257
Average 1.1796 1.2317
The majority of the Group’s assets and liabilities are denominated in the functional currency of the relevant division or subsidiary.
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures as at 31 December 2013 and 2012 that gave rise to net currency gains and losses 
recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss as a result of monetary assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the 
functional currency of the subsidiaries involved.
Functional currency of subsidiaries
 
Sterling
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2013
Net foreign currency monetary assets:
— Euro (1.6) — (1.6)
— US dollar 0.6 — 0.6 
Total (1.0) — (1.0)
At 31 December 2012
Net foreign currency monetary assets:
— Euro 0.5 — 0.5
— US dollar 0.8 — 0.8
Total 1.3 — 1.3
In addition the Group also has forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding at the year-end in order to manage the exposures 
above but also to hedge future transactions in foreign currencies. The sterling nominal amounts outstanding are as follows:
 
2013
(Payable)/ 
receivable
£m
2012
(Payable)/ 
receivable
£m
Euro (38.0) (48.6)
US dollar (18.4) (15.2)
Total (56.4) (63.8)
Sensitivities are disclosed below using the following reasonably possible scenarios.
If the US dollar were to weaken against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would decrease by 
£1.2m (2012: £1.3m decrease).
If the US dollar were to strengthen against sterling by 20 US dollar cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would increase 
by £2.2m (2012: £1.6m increase).
If the Euro were to weaken against sterling by 10 Euro cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would decrease by £1.9m 
(2012: £2.9m decrease).
If the Euro were to strengthen against sterling by 10 Euro cents, with all other variables held constant, post tax profit would increase by £2.7m 
(2012: £3.4m increase).
This is primarily driven by the effect on the mark to market valuation of the foreign exchange derivatives of the Group where the hedged rates 
differ from the spot rate. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
111
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
21. Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Commodity price risk
The Group purchases a variety of commodities for use in production and distribution which can experience significant price volatility, which 
include, inter-alia, wheat, cocoa, edible oils, diesel and energy. The price risk on these commodities is managed by the Group through the 
Treasury Risk Management Committee. It is the Group’s policy to minimise its exposure to this volatility by adopting an appropriate forward 
purchase strategy or by the use of derivative instruments where they are available. 
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s borrowing facilities comprise term debt and a revolving facility, principally in sterling. Interest is charged at floating rates plus a 
margin on the amounts drawn down, and at half the margin for the non-utilised portion of the facility, hence the borrowings are sensitive to 
changes in interest rates.
The Group then seeks to mitigate the effect of adverse movements in interest rates by entering into derivative financial instruments that reduce 
the level of exposure to floating rates. The target of fixed/capped debt is defined in the Group treasury policy and procedures however the 
amount hedged can be amended subject to agreement by the board. Hedge accounting is not sought for these transactions.
The gross cash flows on the interest rate derivatives are sensitive to changes in interest rates as they are driven by three month LIBOR which 
is reset on a quarterly basis. As at 31 December 2013 the reset rate was 0.526% (2012: 0.515%).
The weighted average interest rate for these derivative financial instruments is as follows:
Weighted 
average 
interest rate 
(%)
Currency: Sterling
At 31 December 2013 1.6
At 31 December 2012 1.6
The following table reflects the likely contractual maturity date of the interest rate derivative contracts taking into account zero cost call 
features, where market rates at the balance sheet date indicate they will be triggered by the banks.
Within 1 year
£m
1 and 2 years
£m
2 and 3 years
£m
3 and 4 years
£m
4 and 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
2013
Derivative financial 
liabilities:
— Fixed rate 25.0 85.0 510.0 — — — 620.0
2012
Derivative financial 
liabilities:
— Fixed rate 80.0 25.0 85.0 510.0 — — 700.0
Fixed rate derivative financial liabilities constitute one swap with a nominal value of £620m (2012: £700m) which is an amortising floating to 
fixed interest rate swap maturing in 2016.
Cash and deposits earn interest at floating rates based on banks short-term treasury deposit rates. Short-term trade and other receivables are 
interest-free. 
The Group’s provisions of £72.2m as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £73.9m) include £27.2m relating to onerous leases (2012: £18.7m) which 
are considered to be floating rate financial liabilities. These cash flows are discounted where the effect is material.  
At 31 December 2013, for every 50 basis points reduction in rates below the last floating reset rate of 0.526% (2012: 0.515%) (based on three 
month LIBOR) with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would decrease by £0.8m (2012: £1.1m decrease). 
At 31 December 2013, if interest rates were 200 basis points higher than the last floating reset rate of 0.526% (2012: 0.515%) (based on 
three month LIBOR), with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would increase by £3.2m (2012: £4.5m increase).  
The Group’s other financial assets and liabilities are not exposed to material interest rate risk.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
21. Financial instruments (continued)
(b) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are cash and cash deposits and trade and other receivables.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial 
institutions and trade receivables are due principally from major grocery retailers (though it is the Group’s policy to insure trade debt).
At 31 December 2013 trade and other receivables of £57.2m (2012: £77.9m) were past due but not impaired. These relate to customers with 
whom there is no history of default.
The ageing of trade and other receivables was as follows:
 Past due 
Fully 
performing
£m
1–30 days
£m
31–60 days
£m
61–90 days
£m
91–120 days
£m
Over 120 days
£m
Total
£m
Trade and other 
receivables
2013 177.8 20.0 10.3 7.2 6.6 13.1 235.0
2012 186.3 34.8 7.8 6.0 5.3 24.0 264.2
At 31 December 2013, trade and other receivables of £29.4m (2012: £16.3m) were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for. 
The total includes receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security against its financial assets.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January 16.3 27.5
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (0.6) (25.9)
Provision for receivables impairment raised 13.7 14.7
At 31 December 29.4 16.3
The Group has benefited from a £120m securitisation programme to allow it to borrow against trade receivable balances. 
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a weekly 
basis, normally covering a period of three months.
In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as part of the Group’s overall budgeting and forecasting processes and performance is 
monitored against this each month. This is intended to give the Board sufficient forward visibility of debt levels.
The Group’s net debt level can vary significantly from month to month and there is some volatility within months. This reflects trading patterns, 
timing of receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, patterns of inventory holdings and the timing of the spend on major capital and 
restructuring projects. For these reasons the debt levels at the year-end date may not be indicative of debt levels at other points throughout 
the year.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
113
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
21. Financial instruments (continued)
The following table analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
 
Within 1 year
£m
1 and 2 years
£m
2 and 3 years
£m
3 and 4 years
£m
4 and 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2013
Trade and other payables (320.4) — — — — — (320.4)
Bank Term Loan (50.0) (60.0) (569.5) — — — (679.5)
Bank Revolver Facility 
(Drawn down) — — (204.5) — — — (204.5)
Other loans (120.0) — — — — — (120.0)
At 31 December 2012
Trade and other payables (399.3) — — — — — (399.3)
Bank overdraft (43.5) — — — — — (43.5)
Bank Term Loan (77.4) (50.0) (60.0) (567.8) — — (755.2)
Bank Revolver Facility 
(Drawn down) (15.0) — — (116.7) — — (131.7)
Finance leases (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) — — — (0.5)
Other loans — (95.7) — — — — (95.7)
The Bank Term Loan and Bank Revolver Facility are re-priced quarterly to LIBOR, and other liabilities are not re-priced before the  
maturity date.
The Group has £275.2m (2012: £195.6m) of facilities available and not drawn as at 31 December 2013 expiring between 2 and 3 years.
The borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group.
The following table analyses the contractual undiscounted cash flows of interest on the floating rate debt to maturity (based on the last fixed 
rate reset of 0.526% (2012: 0.515%) plus applicable margin).
Within 1 year
£m
1 and 2 years
£m
2 and 3 years
£m
3 and 4 years
£m
4 and 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
Interest       
2013 32.7 31.0 14.8 — — — 78.5
2012 25.7 32.7 30.3 14.0 — — 102.7
The following table analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the 
balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed are the undiscounted cash flows. 
 
Within 1 year
£m
1 and 2 years
£m
2 and 3 years
£m
3 and 4 years
£m
4 and 5 years
£m
Over 5 years
£m
Total
£m
At 31 December 2013
Forward foreign 
exchange contracts:
— Outflow (56.4) — — — — — (56.4)
— Inflow 54.7 — — — — — 54.7
Commodities:
— Outflow (7.0) — — — — — (7.0)
Interest rate swaps:
— Outflow (10.0) (8.8) (3.9) — — — (22.7)
— Inflow 3.3 2.9 1.3 — — — 7.5
 (15.4) (5.9) (2.6) —  — — (23.9)
At 31 December 2012
Forward foreign 
exchange contracts:
— Outflow (63.8) — — — — — (63.8)
— Inflow 64.4 — — — — — 64.4
Commodities:
— Outflow (6.4) — — — — — (6.4)
Interest rate swaps:
— Outflow (10.6) (10.1) (8.8) (3.9) — — (33.4)
— Inflow 3.4 3.3 2.9 1.3 — — 10.9
 (13.0) (6.8) (5.9) (2.6) — — (28.3)
The above table incorporates the contractual cash flows of the interest rate derivatives with floating rates of interest calculated based on 
LIBOR of 0.526% (2012: 0.515%) at the balance sheet date. 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
21. Financial instruments (continued)
(d) Fair value
The following table shows the carrying amounts (which approximate to fair value except as noted below) of the Group’s financial assets 
and financial liabilities. Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between 
informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest. Set out below is a summary of methods 
and assumptions used to value each category of financial instrument.
 
 
2013
Book & Market 
Value
£m
2012
Book & Market 
Value
£m
Loans and receivables: 
Cash and cash equivalents 157.0 53.2
Trade and other receivables 235.0 264.2
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options 0.2 0.7
— Commodity and energy derivatives 0.3 0.3
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options (1.9) (0.3)
— Commodity and energy derivatives — (0.1)
— Interest rate swaps (7.6) (19.2)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables (320.4) (399.3)
Bank Term Loan (679.5) (755.2)
Bank Revolver Facility (Drawn down) (204.5) (131.7)
Bank overdraft — (43.5)
Finance leases — (0.4)
Other loans (120.0) (95.7)
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2013 using the following fair 
value measurement hierarchy:
•	 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
•	 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or 
indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
•	 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3).
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as at 31 December.
2013
Level 2
2012
Level 2
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments:
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options 0.2 0.7
— Commodity and energy derivatives 0.3 0.3
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivative financial instruments:
— Forward foreign currency exchange contracts/currency options (1.9) (0.3)
— Commodity derivatives — (0.1)
— Interest rate swaps (7.6) (19.2)
Fair value estimation
Derivatives
Forward exchange contracts are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Hedge accounting has not been applied to forward 
contracts and as a result the movement in the fair value of £2.0m has been charged to the statement of profit or loss in the year (2012:  
£1.9m credit). 
Commodity derivatives are marked to market using prevailing prices and are also not designated for hedge accounting. As a result the fair 
value movement of £0.1m has been credited to the statement of profit or loss (2012: £0.2m credit). 
Interest rate swaps are marked to market using prevailing market prices. Interest rate swaps are also not designated for hedge accounting. As 
a result the movement in the fair value of £11.6m has been charged to the statement of profit or loss in the year (2012: £14.8m charge). 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
115
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
21. Financial instruments (continued)
Short and long term borrowings, loan notes and interest payable
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest rate cash flows. The fair value of the floating rate debt 
approximates the carrying value above. 
Finance lease liabilities
The fair value of finance lease liabilities approximated book value in 2012.
Trade and other receivables/payables
The carrying value of receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year is deemed to reflect the fair value given their short 
maturity. The fair values of non-current receivables/payables are also considered to be the same as the carrying value due to the size and 
nature of the balances involved. 
(e) Obligations under finance leases
Minimum lease payments
Present value of minimum lease 
payments
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Not later than one year — 0.1 — 0.1
Later than one year but not later than five years — 0.3 — 0.2
Later than five years — 0.1 — 0.1
— 0.5 — 0.4
Less: Future finance charges — (0.1) n/a n/a
Present value of lease obligations — 0.4 — 0.4
Less: Amounts due for settlement within 12 months n/a n/a — (0.1)
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months n/a n/a — 0.3
As at 31 December 2013 there were no assets held under finance leases.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the average effective borrowing rate was nil% (2012: 3.8%).
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, and thus expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis 
and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. 
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations in 2012 approximated their carrying value. The Group’s obligations under finance leases in 2012 
were secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.
(f) Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns 
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to reduce 
debt. In order to bring gearing down the Group is in the process of an asset reduction programme aimed at reducing debt. During the year 
the Group has used disposal proceeds of £93.3m to repay borrowings.
As part of the re-negotiated banking facilities the Group was required to repay £330m of disposal proceeds by 30 June 2014 to the banking 
syndicate. This was exceeded and completed ahead of schedule (proceeds of £92.5m from the sale of the Sweet Pickles and Table Sauces 
business were received on 4 February 2013). 
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil).
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided 
by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as equity plus net debt.
The gearing ratios at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 were as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Total borrowings (987.8) (1,003.9)
Less cash and cash equivalents 157.0 53.2
Net debt (830.8) (950.7)
Total equity (17.7) (404.9)
Total capital (848.5) (1,355.6)
Gearing ratio 98% 70%
The increase in gearing in 2013 is primarily due to large non-cash charges in relation to impairment of the Bread business and an increase in 
the retirement benefit obligation.
Under the Group’s financing arrangement, the Group is required to meet two covenant tests which are calculated and tested on a 12 month 
rolling basis at the half year and full year, each year. The Group has complied with these tests at June and December 2013. 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
21. Financial instruments (continued)
(g) Financial compliance risk
Risk
The Group continues to operate with a high level of net debt of £830.8m (2012: £950.7m) and is subject to operating within banking 
covenants set out in its refinancing agreement agreed with its bank syndicate in March 2012, which include net debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/
interest covenant tests. In the event these covenants are not met then the Group would be in breach of its financing agreement and, as would 
be the case in any covenant breach, the banking syndicate could withdraw their funding to the Group.
In addition to covenant compliance the Group must ensure that it manages its liquidity such that it has sufficient funds to meet its obligations 
as they fall due.
It also supports three defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, all three schemes have significant technical funding deficits which could 
have an adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. 
Mitigation
The Group has financing arrangements which provide funding until June 2016 and has in place a debtor securitisation program to provide 
additional funding and liquidity. In addition, the Group achieved its trading expectations for 2013.
The Group reviews its performance on an ongoing basis and formally tests and reports on covenant compliance to the Group’s banking 
syndicate at each reporting date as well as providing forecast covenant compliance tests twice a year. In the event of a forecast covenant 
breach the Group would seek a covenant waiver or amendment from its banking syndicate.
The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions. Cash flow forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a weekly 
basis, normally covering a period of three months. In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as part of the Group’s overall budgeting and 
forecasting processes and performance is monitored against this each month.
Funding agreements have been reached with the trustees of the pension schemes which mitigate our exposure in 2014. During 2013 the UK 
defined benefit schemes were closed to future accrual which will help mitigate the deficit going forward. The Group continues to monitor the 
pension risks closely working with the trustees to ensure a collaborative approach. See note 31 for details of the Group’s capital restructuring.
22. Provisions for liabilities and charges
Restructuring 
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 (22.9) (24.0) (46.9)
Utilised during the year 14.0  4.2 18.2
Additional charge in the year (37.2) (11.4) (48.6)
Unwind of provision (0.3) (0.5) (0.8)
Released during the year 3.4  0.8 4.2
Reclassifications (1.1) 1.1 —
At 31 December 2012 (44.1) (29.8) (73.9)
Utilised during the year 26.2  4.2 30.4
Additional charge in the year (14.8) (17.7) (32.5)
Unwind of provision (0.3) (0.2) (0.5)
Released during the year 1.5  2.8 4.3
Reclassifications 0.8  (0.8) —
At 31 December 2013 (30.7) (41.5) (72.2)
Analysis of total provisions:
2013
£m
Current  (7.4) (7.6) (15.0)
Non-current  (23.3) (33.9) (57.2)
 (30.7) (41.5) (72.2)
Analysis of total provisions:
2012
£m
Current  (25.0) (0.6) (25.6)
Non-current  (19.1) (29.2) (48.3)
 (44.1) (29.8) (73.9)
Restructuring provisions at 31 December 2013 primarily relate to provisions for non-operational leasehold properties. Restructuring provisions 
at 31 December 2012 primarily relate to provisions in respect of the restructuring of the Bread business and programmes aimed at reducing 
the Group’s overhead cost base.
Other provisions at 31 December 2013 and 2012 primarily relate to insurance claims, dilapidations against leasehold properties and 
environmental liabilities. The costs relating to dilapidation provisions will be incurred over a number of years in accordance with the length 
of the leases. These provisions have been discounted at rates between 0.81% and 3.62%. The unwinding of the discount is charged to the 
statement of profit or loss under interest payable.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
117
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
23. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes under current and former employees have built up an entitlement to retirement 
benefits on their retirement. These are as follows:
(a) The Premier schemes, which comprise:
Premier Foods Pension Scheme (“PFPS”)  
Premier Ambient Products Pension Scheme (“PAPPS”)  
Premier Grocery Products Pension Scheme (“PGPPS”)  
Premier Grocery Products Ireland Pension Scheme (“PGPIPS”)  
Chivers 1987 Pension Scheme  
Chivers 1987 Supplementary Pension Scheme. 
(b) The RHM schemes, which comprise:
RHM Pension Scheme 
Premier Foods Ireland Pension Scheme
The most recent full actuarial valuation of both the PFPS and RHM pension schemes was carried out on 31 March 2010 / 5 April 2010. 
Valuations as at 31 March 2013 / 5 April 2013 are currently being carried out and are due to be completed in 2014.
The exchange rates used to translate the overseas Euro based schemes are £1.00 = 1.1796 Euros for the average rate during the year, and 
£1.00 = 1.2006 Euros for the closing position at 31 December 2013.
In July 2010, the UK government announced changes to the inflation index used for statutory pension increases (both for pensions in 
payment and pensions in deferment) to apply to private sector pension schemes. In 2012 a credit to past service costs of £46.4m in respect 
of the RHM pension scheme was recognised. 
In March 2012, as part of the Group’s re-financing package, trustees of the Group’s UK pension schemes agreed to defer deficit contribution 
payments until 1 January 2014.
On 30 September 2013 the Group’s UK defined benefit pension schemes closed to future accrual. The future pension provision for these 
members is now made through the Group’s defined contribution pension scheme. In accordance with IAS 19 (Revised), the scheme 
obligations were re-valued by the scheme actuaries immediately prior to the change and assumptions reviewed at that date. The resulting 
change of £18.2m has been credited to the income statement within past service costs.
All defined benefit plans are held separately from the Company under Trusts. Trustees are appointed to operate the schemes in accordance 
with their respective governing documents and pensions law. The schemes meet the legal requirement for member nominated trustees 
representation on the trustee boards and the UK schemes have appointed a professional Independant Trustee as Chair of the boards. The 
members of the trustee boards undertake regular training and development to ensure that they are equipped appropriately to fulfil their 
function as trustees. In addition each trustee board has appointed professional advisers to give them the specialist expertise they need to 
support them in the areas of investment, funding, legal, covenant and administration.
The trustee boards of the UK schemes generally meet at least 4 times a year to conduct their business. To support these meetings the 
Trustees have delegated certain aspects of the schemes’ operation to give specialist focus (e.g. investment, administration and compliance) 
to committees for which further meetings are held as appropriate throughout the year. These committees regularly report to the full trustee 
boards.
The schemes invest through investment managers appointed by the trustees in a broad range of assets including UK and Global equities and 
Corporate and Government bonds. The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor any property occupied 
by, or other assets used by, the Group. The pension schemes hold a security over the assets of the Group which rank pari passu with the 
banks in the event of insolvency.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The main risks to which the company is exposed in relation to the funded pension schemes are as follows:
•	 Liquidity risk — all schemes have significant technical funding deficits which could have an adverse impact on the financial condition of 
the Group. The Company does not pay dividends and is restricted from paying dividends under the terms of its financing arrangements. 
The Group is also restricted from raising additional forms of debt finance (other than a basket of c.£20m) and is not able to use free cash 
flow for acquisitions. Funding agreements were in place with the trustees of the pension schemes which mitigated the Group’s exposure 
in 2013. The current Schedule of Contributions in place following the 2010 actuarial valuations provide for the deficit contributions to 
resume from January 2014 and continue until 2022. The Group continues to monitor the pension risks closely working with the trustees 
to ensure a collaborative approach. See note 31 for details of the revised Schedule of Contributions, agreed as part of the capital 
restructuring.
•	 Mortality risk — the assumptions adopted make allowance for future improvements in life expectancy. However, if life expectancy 
improves at a faster rate than assumed, this would result in greater payments from the schemes and consequently increases in the 
schemes liabilities. The trustees review the mortality assumption on a regular basis to minimise the risk of using an inappropriate 
assumption.
•	 Yield risk — a fall in government bond yields will increase both the scheme’s assets and liabilities. However, the liabilities may grow by 
more in monetary terms, thus increasing the deficit in the scheme.
•	 Inflation risk — the majority of the scheme’s liabilities increase in line with inflation and so if inflation is greater than expected, the liabilities 
will increase. 
The schemes can limit (or “hedge”) their exposure to the yield and inflation risks described above by investing in assets that move in the 
same direction as the liabilities in the event of a fall in yields, or a rise in inflation. The RHM pension scheme has fully hedged interest rate and 
inflation exposure to the extent of its funding level. The PFPS is in the process of implementing a 30% hedging of its liabilities and has put in 
place a plan to increase the hedging level when market conditions are considered to be attractive.
The liabilities of the schemes are approximately 49% in respect of former active members who have yet to retire and approximately 51% in 
respect of pensioner members already in receipt of benefits. The mean duration of the liabilities is approximately 17 years.
IAS 19 (Revised) has been applied retrospectively from 1 January 2012. The principal change is that, expected returns on plan assets of 
defined benefit plans are not recognised in profit or loss. Instead, interest on the net defined benefit obligation is recognised in profit or loss, 
calculated using the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation. In addition certain administration expenses are recognised 
in profit or loss rather than being deducted from the return on plan assets under the previous standard. Comparatives have been restated for 
the impact of the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised). IAS 19 (Revised) does not impact the balance sheet.
Impact of transition to IAS 19 (Revised) on consolidated statement of profit or loss
  
As at 
31 Dec
 2013
£m
As at 
31 Dec
2012
£m
Increase in pensions expense (37.9) (40.2)
Decrease in current tax expense 8.4   9.5
Net decrease in profit and loss for the year (29.5) (30.7)
Attributable to equity holders of the parent (29.5) (30.7)
Non-controlling interest — —
Increase in remeasurements in other comprehensive income 37.9 40.2
Increase in tax effect of remeasurements in other comprehensive income (8.4) (9.5)
Net increase in other comprehensive income 29.5 30.7
Net increase in total comprehensive income — —
Attributable to equity holders of parent — —
Non-controlling interest — —
There was no material impact on the Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows and consolidated balance sheet.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
119
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
At the balance sheet date, the combined principal actuarial assumptions used for all the schemes were as follows:
 
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes
2013
Discount rate 4.40% 4.40%
Inflation — RPI 3.35% 3.35%
Inflation — CPI 2.35% 2.35%
Expected salary increases n/a  n/a
Future pension increases 2.15% 2.15%
2012
Discount rate 4.45% 4.45%
Inflation — RPI 2.95% 2.95%
Inflation — CPI 2.15% 2.15%
Expected salary increases 3.95% 3.95%
Future pension increases 2.05% 2.05%
For the smaller overseas schemes the discount rate used was 3.50% (2012: 3.40%), expected salary increases are not applicable as closed 
to accrual (2012: 3.00%), and future pension increases of 1.75% (2012: 1.75%). 
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The assumptions are as 
follows:
Premier 
schemes
RHM 
schemes Total
2013 Life expectancy
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 87.8 86.3 86.7
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 90.0 88.5 88.8
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.2 87.6 88.0
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 91.5 90.0 90.3
2012 Life expectancy
Male pensioner, currently aged 65 88.1 86.1 86.6
Female pensioner, currently aged 65 90.2 88.5 88.9
Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.4 87.4 87.9
Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 91.8 90.0 90.5
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities at the year end is as follows:
Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £63m/£65m
Inflation — RPI Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by £27m/£26m
Inflation — CPI Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by £27m/£26m
Assumed life expectancy at age 60 (rate of mortality) Increase by 1 year Increase by £121m
The sensitivity information has been derived using projected cash flows for the Schemes valued using the relevant assumptions and 
membership profile as at 31 December 2013. Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The fair values of plan assets split by type of asset are as follows:
Pension scheme assets
Premier 
schemes
£m
Percentage
 of total
%
RHM schemes
£m
Percentage
 of total
%
Total
£m
Percentage
 of total %
Assets with a quoted price in an active 
market at 31 December 2013:
UK equities 0.9 0.2 46.6 1.7 47.5 1.5
Global equities 19.3 3.6 232.9 8.8 252.2 7.8
Government bonds 12.1 2.3 503.6 18.7 515.7 16.0
Corporate bonds 60.3 11.3 323.8 12.1 384.1 11.9
Property 0.9 0.2 180.8 6.7 181.7 5.6
Absolute return products 370.2 69.7 898.0 33.4 1,268.2 39.4
Cash 9.1 1.7 183.2 6.8 192.3 6.0
Other 58.6 11.0 0.1 — 58.7 1.8
Assets without a quoted price in an 
active market at 31 December 2013:
Infrastructure funds — — 193.5 7.2 193.5 6.0
Swaps — — (116.6) (4.3) (116.6) (3.6)
Private equity — — 190.2 7.1 190.2 5.9
Other — — 50.9 1.8 50.9 1.7
Fair value of scheme assets at  
31 December 2013 531.4 100 2,687.0 100 3,218.4 100
Assets with a quoted price in an active 
market at 31 December 2012:
UK equities 0.7 0.1 95.3 3.6 96.0 3.0
Global equities 16.0 3.0 299.3 11.2 315.3 9.8
Government bonds 15.5 2.9 572.9 21.4 588.4 18.3
Corporate bonds 86.5 16.1 522.3 19.5 608.8 19.0
Property 1.0 0.2 104.3 3.9 105.3 3.3
Absolute return products 271.7 50.7 440.4 16.5 712.1 22.2
Cash 9.5 1.8 493.5 18.5 503.0 15.7
Other 135.0 25.2 — — 135.0 4.2
Assets without a quoted price in an 
active market at 31 December 2012:
Infrastructure funds — — 153.2 5.7 153.2 4.8
Swaps — — (194.6) (7.3) (194.6) (6.1)
Private equity — — 185.9 7.0 185.9 5.8
Other — — 0.9 — 0.9 —
Fair value of scheme assets at  
31 December 2012 535.9 100 2,673.4 100 3,209.3 100
The schemes invest in interest rate and inflation swaps to protect from fluctuations in interest and inflation.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes are as follows:
  
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013
Present value of funded obligations (916.9) (2,904.8) (3,821.7)
Fair value of plan assets 531.4 2,687.0 3,218.4
Deficit in scheme (385.5) (217.8) (603.3)
2012
Present value of funded obligations (871.1) (2,805.0) (3,676.1)
Fair value of plan assets 535.9 2,673.4 3,209.3
Deficit in scheme (335.2) (131.6) (466.8)
The aggregate deficit has increased by £137m during the year (2012: £184m) primarily due to the increase in actuarial inflation  
assumptions used. 
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
121
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows:
  
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013
Opening defined benefit obligation (871.1) (2,805.0) (3,676.1)
Current service cost (3.4) (7.6) (11.0)
Past service credit 17.7 18.3 36.0
Interest cost (37.3) (121.3) (158.6)
Remeasurement losses (56.6) (118.4) (175.0)
Exchange differences (1.3) (0.4) (1.7)
Contributions by plan participants (2.2) (4.0) (6.2)
Benefits paid 37.3 133.6 170.9
Closing defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2013 (916.9) (2,904.8) (3,821.7)
2012 (Restated)
1
Opening defined benefit obligation (781.9) (2,656.5) (3,438.4)
Current service cost (6.3) (11.5) (17.8)
Past service credit/(cost) (18.6) 31.6 13.0
Interest cost (37.3) (124.0) (161.3)
Remeasurement losses (58.1) (160.2) (218.3)
Exchange differences 1.0 0.4 1.4
Contributions by plan participants (3.8) (6.8) (10.6)
Benefits paid 33.9 122.0 155.9
Closing defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2012 (871.1) (2,805.0) (3,676.1)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows:
  
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013    
Opening fair value of plan assets 535.9 2,673.4 3,209.3
Interest income on plan assets 22.9 116.1 139.0
Remeasurement gains 2.1 20.2 22.3
Administrative costs (5.9) (5.7) (11.6)
Contributions by employer 10.8 12.1 22.9
Contributions by plan participants 2.2 4.0 6.2
Exchange differences 0.7 0.5 1.2
Benefits paid (37.3) (133.6) (170.9)
Closing fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2013 531.4 2,687.0 3,218.4
2012 (Restated)
1
   
Opening fair value of plan assets 514.2 2,641.8 3,156.0
Interest income on plan assets 24.4 124.4 148.8
Remeasurement gains 14.1 12.8 26.9
Administrative costs (1.8) (12.9) (14.7)
Contributions by employer 16.1 23.0 39.1
Contributions by plan participants 3.8 6.8 10.6
Exchange differences (1.0) (0.5) (1.5)
Benefits paid (33.9) (122.0) (155.9)
Closing fair value of plan assets at 31 December 2012 535.9 2,673.4 3,209.3
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The reconciliation of the net defined benefit liability over the period is as follows:
  
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013
Deficit in schemes at beginning of period (335.2) (131.6) (466.8)
Amount recognised in profit or loss (6.0) (0.2) (6.2)
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (54.5) (98.2) (152.7)
Contributions by employer 10.8 12.1 22.9
Currency (losses)/gains (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
Deficit in schemes at end of period (385.5) (217.8) (603.3)
2012 (Restated)
1
Deficit in schemes at beginning of period (267.7) (14.7) (282.4)
Amount recognised in profit or loss (39.6) 7.6 (32.0)
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income (44.0) (147.4) (191.4)
Contributions by employer 16.1 23.0 39.1
Currency losses — (0.1) (0.1)
Deficit in schemes at end of period (335.2) (131.6) (466.8)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows:
Premier
schemes
£m
RHM
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013
Remeasurement loss on plan liabilities (56.6) (118.4) (175.0)
Remeasurement gain on plan assets 2.1 20.2 22.3
Net remeasurement loss for the year (54.5) (98.2) (152.7)
2012
Remeasurement loss on plan liabilities (58.1) (160.2) (218.3)
Remeasurement gain on plan assets 14.1 12.8 26.9
Net remeasurement loss for the year (44.0) (147.4) (191.4)
The actual return on plan assets was a £161.3m gain (2012: £175.7m gain), which is £22.3m more (2012: £26.9m more) than the interest 
income on plan assets of £139.0m (2012: £148.8m) at the start of the relevant periods. 
The remeasurement loss on liabilities of £175.0m (2012: £218.3m loss) comprises a loss on member experience of £45.0m (2012: £33.6m 
loss), and a loss due to changes in actuarial assumptions of £130.0m (2012: £184.7 loss).
The net remeasurement loss taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income was £152.7m (2012: £191.4m loss). These were 
£124.4m (2012: £148.9m) net of taxation (with tax at 23.25% for UK schemes, and 12.5% for Irish schemes).
The Group expects to contribute approximately £8.8m to its defined benefit plans in 2014 in relation to expenses and government levies 
(2013: £25.6m, including regular contributions) and £83m (2013: £2.0m) of additional contributions to fund the scheme deficits under the 
2012 Schedule of Contributions. The increase in future deficit funding is a result of the revised re-financing package whereby the Trustees 
of the Group’s UK pension schemes have agreed to the suspension of deficit contribution payments until 1 January 2014. See note 31 for 
details of the revised Schedule of Contributions, agreed as part of the capital restructuring.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
123
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
23. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)
The total amounts recognised in profit or loss are as follows:
 
Premier 
schemes
£m
RHM 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
2013
Operating profit
Current service cost (3.4) (7.6) (11.0)
Past service credit 17.7 18.3 36.0
Administrative costs (5.9) (5.7) (11.6)
Net interest cost (14.4) (5.2) (19.6)
Total (6.0) (0.2) (6.2)
2012 (Restated)
1
Operating profit
Current service cost (6.3) (11.5) (17.8)
Past service (cost)/credit (18.6) 31.6 13.0
Administrative costs (1.8) (12.9) (14.7)
Net interest (cost)/income (12.9) 0.4 (12.5)
Total (39.6) 7.6 (32.0)
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Defined contribution schemes
A number of companies in the Group operate defined contribution schemes, predominantly stakeholder arrangements. In addition a number 
of schemes providing life assurance benefits only are operated. The total expense recognised in the statement of profit or loss of £3.4m 
(2012: £0.8m) represents contributions payable to the plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans. 
24. Other liabilities
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred financing fees (15.8) –
Deferred income (14.0) –
Other accruals (0.6) (1.3)
Other liabilities (30.4) (1.3)
25. Reserves and Share capital
Share premium
The share premium reserve comprises the premium paid over the nominal value of shares for shares issued.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises the non-statutory premium arising on shares issued as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries where 
merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, less subsequent realised losses relating to those acquisitions. During the 
year the Company transferred to the P&L reserve an amount that became realised on the write down of the Bread business.
Other reserves
Other reserves comprise the hedging reserve, which represents the effective portion of the gains or losses on derivative financial instruments 
that have historically been designated as hedges, and the translation reserve, which represents exchange differences arising from re-
translation at year end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Profit and loss reserve
The profit and loss reserve represents the cumulative surplus or deficit and the own shares reserve which represents the cost of shares in 
Premier Foods plc, purchased in the market and held by the Employee Benefit Trust on behalf of the Company in order to satisfy options and 
awards under the Company’s incentive schemes.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
25. Reserves and Share capital (continued)
Share capital
Number of 
shares
Ordinary shares
£m
Share premium
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2011 239,805,802 24.0 1,124.7 1,148.7
Shares issued under share option schemes 404 — — —
At 31 December 2012 239,806,206 24.0 1,124.7 1,148.7
Shares issued under share option schemes 21,960 — — —
At 31 December 2013 239,828,166  24.0  1,124.7 1,148.7
During the year 21,960 (2012: 404) ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued to certain employees at a price of 70 pence per ordinary 
share (2012: 96 pence) pursuant to exercise of share options under the Sharesave Plan.
Share award schemes
The Company has share award schemes for certain senior executives and key individuals. For 2013, a summary of the Company’s share 
award schemes is as follows:
1. A CEO Co-Investment Award (“CEO Co-Investment Award”). The scheme is structured as a share matching plan and was specifically 
created to facilitate the recruitment of Gavin Darby as CEO in 2013. Gavin Darby is required to commit and retain a significant amount of 
capital in the form of Premier Foods’ shares. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the 
periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled and vest on 1 May 2014, 1 May 2015 and 1 May 
2016. No further awards will be made under this plan.
2. A Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2011 LTIP”) for executive directors and senior managers, approved by shareholders in 2011. The 2011 LTIP 
comprises two elements; performance shares and matching shares.
For Performance Shares, participants have the right to subscribe for ordinary shares at nil cost. The number of shares subject to awards, 
the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These awards are equity-settled 
and have a maximum term of three years. 
The vesting of the 2011 Performance Share award is conditional on achievement of an earnings per share performance target. The 
vesting of the 2012 and 2013 Performance Share awards are conditional on achievement of a combination of absolute adjusted earnings 
per share targets and average share price targets.
For Matching Shares, participants are required to commit and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier Foods’ shares. 
The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given 
below. These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of three years. 
The vesting of the 2011 Matching Share award is conditional on achievement of an absolute share price target. Matching Shares were not 
awarded in 2012 or 2013.
3. A Deferred Share Bonus Plan (“DSBP”) for executive directors and senior managers which operates alongside the annual bonus plan. 
Awards are satisfied in the form of shares deferred for a period of up to two years. There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 
2013.
4. A Restricted Stock Plan (“RSP”) which provides specific ad-hoc share awards to senior managers. Awards are normally subject only to 
continued employment. These awards may be equity-settled or cash-settled and normally have a retention term of two to three years.
5. Michael Clarke Recruitment Award (“Recruitment Award”). Awards made following the appointment of Michael Clarke to compensate 
him for forfeited equity awards from his previous employer. The Recruitment Award was subject to continued employment and the 
Remuneration Committee’s assessment of both personal and Group performance at the relevant vesting dates. A portion of the awards 
granted under the Recruitment Award relating to employment in 2013 have now vested and been exercised. The remaining options 
lapsed on cessation of employment in June 2013. There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
6. A Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2004 LTIP”) for executive directors and senior managers approved by shareholders in 2004. The number of 
shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below. These 
awards were equity-settled and had a maximum term of three years. No further awards are anticipated under this plan.
The performance and vesting conditions of the scheme are aligned with those of the Co-Investment Plan below. During the year, 
performance conditions were not met and the 2010 award lapsed in full. There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013. 
7. A Co-Investment Plan (“2007 CIP”) for executive directors and senior managers. The scheme was structured as a share matching plan 
and the individuals involved in the scheme were required to commit and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier Foods’ 
shares. The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded 
are given below. These awards were equity-settled and had a maximum term of three years. No further awards are anticipated under  
this plan.
The vesting of matching awards is conditional on achievement against a combination of EPS and TSR performance targets. During the year 
performance conditions were not met and so the 2010 CIP award lapsed in full. There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
125
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
25. Reserves and Share capital (continued)
Share option schemes
The Company has share option schemes for certain senior executives and key individuals. The employees involved in the schemes hold 
options to subscribe for up to 6.7m (2012: 6.1m) ordinary shares of 10 pence each between 2014 and 2016, granted at prices ranging 
between 10 pence per ordinary share and 1,620 pence per ordinary share. For 2013, a summary of the Company’s share option schemes is 
as follows:
1. A Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“Sharesave Plan”) for all employees. The employees involved in this HMRC approved save 
as you earn scheme have the right to subscribe for up to 6.5m ordinary shares. The number of shares subject to options, the periods 
in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below. These options are equity-settled, have a 
maximum term of 3.5 years and generally vest only if employees remain in employment to the vesting date.
2. The Company adopted an Executive Share Option Scheme (“ESOS”) at the time of flotation for executive directors and senior managers. 
A portion of the options granted under the ESOS have now vested and are exercisable between three and ten years after grant as certain 
performance criteria have been met. These options are equity-settled and the number of shares subject to options, the periods in which 
they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below. The last award was made in 2004 and will lapse in 
2014, no further awards will be made under this scheme. 
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc CEO Co-Investment Award are as follows:
Premier Foods plc CEO Co-Investment Award
2013
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year — —
Granted during the year 1,477,572 10
Outstanding at the end of the year 1,477,572 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — —
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years. The weighted average fair 
value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Performance share award) are as follows:
Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Performance share award)
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 3,883,365  10  564,653  10 
Granted during the year 2,150,395 10 3,608,689 10
Forfeited during the year (2,986,906) 10 (289,977) 10
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,046,854 10 3,883,365 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.6 years (2012: 2.1 years). The weighted 
average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Matching share award) are as follows:
Premier Foods plc 2011 LTIP (Matching share award)
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 267,376  10  267,376  10 
Forfeited during the year (140,749) 10 — —
Outstanding at the end of the year 126,627 10 267,376 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.4 years (2012: 1.4 years). 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
25. Reserves and Share capital (continued)
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc Restricted Stock Plan are as follows: 
Premier Foods plc Restricted Stock Plan
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 104,347  10 — —
Granted during the year 3,931,327 10 104,347 10
Outstanding at the end of the year 4,035,674 10 104,347 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.2 years (2012: 2.3 years). The weighted 
average fair value of awards granted during the year was nil pence per award.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc Recruitment Award are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Recruitment Award
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 875,000  10 — —
Granted during the year — — 875,000 10
Exercised during the year (500,000) 10 — —
Forfeited during the year (375,000) 10 — —
Outstanding at the end of the year — — 875,000 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2004 LTIP are as follows:
Premier Foods plc 2004 LTIP
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 196,330 10 509,167 10
Forfeited during the year (196,330) 10 (312,837) 10
Outstanding at the end of the year — — 196,330 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013. 
Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods plc 2007 CIP are as follows:
Premier Foods plc 2007 CIP
2013 2012
Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Awards
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 308,414 10 833,428 10
Forfeited during the year (308,414) 10 (525,014) 10
Outstanding at the end of the year — — 308,414 10
Exercisable at the end of the year — — — —
There were no awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
127
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
25. Reserves and Share capital (continued)
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods plc Sharesave Plan are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Sharesave Plan
2013 2012
Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 5,959,333 114 6,191,072 170
Exercised during the year (21,960) 70 (592) 96
Granted during the year 2,391,628 111 2,367,721 51
Forfeited during the year (1,850,155) 166 (2,598,868) 228
Outstanding at the end of the year 6,478,846 98 5,959,333 114
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,044,438 152 462,306 360
During the year 2.4m (2012: 2.4m) options were granted under the Sharesave schemes, with a weighted average exercise price at the date of 
exercise of 111 pence per ordinary share (2012: 51 pence). 
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average exercise price of 98 pence (2012: 114 pence), and a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 1.9 years (2012: 1.9 years).
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods plc ESOS are as follows:
Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme
2013 2012
Year of expiry Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p) Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 131,885 1,620 131,885 1,620
Outstanding at the end of the year 2014 131,885 1,620 131,885 1,620
Exercisable at the end of the year 131,885 1,620 131,885 1,620
The options outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average exercise price of 1,620 pence (2012: 1,620 pence), and a weighted 
average remaining contractual life of 0.6 years (2012: 1.6 years).
In 2013, the Group’s continuing operations recognised an expense of £3.8m (2012: £4.7m), related to all equity-settled share based payment 
transactions. 
A summary of the range of exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life is shown below: 
Weighted average remaining life and exercise prices
As at 31 Dec 2013 As at 31 Dec 2012
Number 
outstanding at 
end of the year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
Number 
outstanding at 
end of the year
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
(p)
At 10 pence 8,686,727 1.3 10 5,530,485 1.8 10
£0.10 to £9.90 6,478,846 1.9 98 5,959,333 1.9 114
£10.00 to £20.00 131,885 0.6 1,620 131,885 1.6 1,620
Total 15,297,458 1.5 61 11,621,703 1.9 81
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
26. Notes to the cash flow statement
Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash flows from operating activities
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
(Restated)
1
£m
Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) before taxation 4.4 (8.0)
Net finance cost 48.2 91.7
Operating profit 52.6 83.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.3 23.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 43.8 50.4
Loss/(profit) on the sale of businesses 2.4 (33.1)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7.8 4.1
Revaluation losses/(gains) on financial instruments 1.9 (2.1)
Employee incentive schemes 4.1 4.6
Net cash inflow from operating activities before interest, tax and movements in working capital 129.9 131.0
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 5.0 (8.8)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 35.7 (0.1)
Decrease in trade and other payables and provisions (45.6) (53.8)
Movement in retirement benefit obligations (16.3) (23.7)
Cash generated from continuing operations 108.7 44.6
Discontinued operations 14.7 11.8
Cash generated from operating activities 123.4 56.4
1. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the Bread business as a discontinued operation and the adoption of IAS 19 (Revised).
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
£m
Net inflow/(outflow) of cash and cash equivalents 147.2 (12.3)
Decrease in finance leases 0.4 0.3
(Increase)/decrease in borrowings (21.4) 262.0
Other non-cash movements (6.3) (205.6)
Decrease in borrowings net of cash 119.9 44.4
Total net borrowings at beginning of year (950.7) (995.1)
Total net borrowings at end of year (830.8) (950.7)
Analysis of movement in borrowings 
As at  
1 Jan 2013
£m
Cash flow
£m
Other  
non-cash 
movements
£m
As at  
31 Dec 2013
£m
Bank overdrafts (43.5) 43.5 — —
Cash and bank deposits 53.2  103.7  0.1  157.0 
Net cash and cash equivalents 9.7  147.2  0.1  157.0 
Borrowings — term facilities (755.2) 75.7 — (679.5)
Borrowings — revolving credit facilities (131.7) (72.8) — (204.5)
Finance leases (0.4) 0.4  — —
Securitisation facility (95.7) (24.3) —  (120.0)
Gross borrowings net of cash
1
 (973.3) 126.2  0.1  (847.0)
Debt issuance costs 22.6 — (6.4) 16.2 
Total net borrowings
1
 (950.7) 126.2  (6.3) (830.8)
1. Borrowings excludes derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities fair valued through profit or loss.
The Group has the following cash pooling arrangements where both the Group and the bank have a legal right of offset:
As at 31 Dec 2013 As at 31 Dec 2012
Offset 
asset
Offset 
liability
Net 
offset 
asset
Offset 
asset
Offset
liability
Net 
offset 
asset
Cash, cash equivalents and bank 
overdrafts 322.8 (165.8) 157.0 261.2 (251.5) 9.7
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
129
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the financial statements
27. Operating lease commitments
The Group has lease agreements in respect of property, plant and equipment, for which future minimum payments extend over a number  
of years. Leases primarily relate to the Group’s properties, which principally comprise offices and factories. Lease payments are typically 
subject to market review every five years to reflect market rentals, but because of the uncertainty over the amount of any future changes, 
such changes have not been reflected in the table above. Within our leasing arrangements there are no significant contingent rentals, renewal, 
purchase or escalation clauses.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for continuing operations are as follows:
2013 2012
Property
£m
Plant and
 Equipment
£m
Property
£m
Plant and
 Equipment
£m
Within one year 3.8 0.5 12.0 5.5
Between 2 and 5 years 13.2 1.3 44.0 4.4
After 5 years 15.6 — 66.8 0.1
Total operating lease commitments 32.6 1.8 122.8 10.0
The Group sub-lets various properties under non-cancellable lease arrangements. Sub-lease receipts of £1.5m (2012: £1.2m) were 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss during the year. The total future minimum sub-lease payments at the year end is £3.1m  
(2012: £3.4m).
28. Capital commitments
Capital expenditure for continuing operations contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets — 0.4 
Property, plant and equipment 3.1 8.5
Total capital commitments 3.1 8.9
29. Contingencies
There were no material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2013. Other contingencies and guarantees in respect of the Parent Company are 
described in note 9 of the Parent Company financial statements.
30. Related party transactions
Key management personnel of the Group are considered to be the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Group Executive. 
Details of their remuneration are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”.  
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited section of the Annual Report on Remuneration on 
pages 70 to 75.
Year ended
31 Dec 2013
£m
Year ended
31 Dec 2012
£m
Short term employee benefits 5.8 5.6 
Post employment benefits 0.3 0.2 
Termination benefits — 0.2 
Share based payments 3.6 1.3 
Total 9.7 7.3 
WP X Investments Limited (“Warburg Pincus”) is considered to be a related party of the Group by virtue of its 17.3% (2012: 17.3%) equity 
shareholding in Premier Foods plc and of its power to appoint a member to the Board of directors, which has been exercised. 
Apart from the information above there were no other related party transactions.
31. Subsequent events
Disposal of Bread business
On 27 January 2014 the Group announced that it had agreed to sell a majority share in the Bread business to The Gores Group LLC. The 
disposal is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014.
The disposal is subject to and conditional upon: (i) the passing of the resolutions by shareholders at the General Meeting; (ii) Premier Foods 
plc obtaining certain consents and/or waivers from the lenders under the Group’s finance facilities; (iii) Premier Foods plc obtaining certain 
consents and/or waivers from the trustees of each of the pension schemes; and (iv) obtaining competition approval from the European 
Commission. Conditions (ii) and (iii) will be satisfied upon completion of the capital refinancing plan. 
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
31. Subsequent events (continued)
Premier Foods plc has agreed to pay The Gores Group LLC reasonable out-of-pocket costs if the disposal does not complete due to a failure 
to satisfy the conditions (except that, where the disposal does not complete due to a failure to satisfy the competition condition, Premier 
Foods plc will only be liable for The Gores Group LLC’s costs if it is responsible for such failure). The costs indemnity is capped at the lower of 
The Gores Group LLC’s costs and 1% of Premier Foods plc’s market capitalisation at the time of signing the disposal agreement.
Capital Restructuring
On 4 March 2014 the Group announced its proposal to diversify its sources of finance to provide a solid foundation on which it can drive future 
growth through its category based strategy and leveraging its strengths. This transformational capital restructure includes a fully underwritten 
equity raise of approximately £350m (gross of fees) through a placing and rights issue, the issue of £475m senior secured loan notes and a new 
£300m revolving credit facility with a smaller bank syndicate. Significantly, the Group has also reached a pensions framework agreement with the 
Pension Scheme trustees following the triennial actuarial valuation which provides the platform for this new capital structure to be put in place.
Equity Issue
The Group announced it is proposing to raise new equity of approximately £350m gross of fees. The issue will be fully underwritten by a group 
of lending banks. This issuance will reduce the indebtedness of the Group and substantially strengthens the balance sheet.
Pensions Agreement
The Group has agreed what it considers to be a comprehensive and significant agreement with the Pension Scheme trustees. The pension 
deficit contribution schedule will, on completion of the capital restructuring, be revised, with the impact of reducing cash payments when 
compared to the previous schedule by £161m over the next six years. Committed deficit contributions are fixed until December 2019 and set 
out in the “Capital Refinancing Terms” table below. Under the new arrangements, the Pension Schemes will be granted security up to £450m 
(in aggregate) and will have certain dividend matching rights for any dividends paid by the Group up to 2019. 
Revolving Credit Facility and Securitisation Facility
The Group’s existing term loan and revolving credit facilities will be repaid to the respective lenders on completion of the recapitalisation. These 
facilities will be replaced by senior secured notes and a revolving credit facility of £300m which is due to mature in March 2019 and attracts 
an initial bank margin of 3.50% above LIBOR. The Group has agreed with the lenders of the new revolving credit facility that dividends are 
permitted to be distributed to shareholders when the Group’s Net debt/EBITDA ratio falls below a ratio of 3.0x. This facility has been arranged 
with a significantly smaller group of lenders than was the case previously and includes an appropriate covenant package, the details of which 
are set out in the “Capital Refinancing Terms” table below.
Following completion of the joint venture transaction, the Group’s ability to draw on its existing securitisation facility of £120m is expected to 
reduce to around £60m and attracts a margin of 2.75% above the cost of commercial paper.
Senior Secured Notes
To achieve its objective of diversifying its sources of finance, the Group also announced its intention to raise approximately £475m of senior 
secured notes. This programme will extend the maturity of this tranche of the Group’s debt by up to seven years and will bring in a new and 
diversified investor base. The notes are likely to be issued as a combination of fixed and floating rates, although in the case of floating rate 
notes the Group intends to use plain vanilla swaps to eliminate the net interest rate exposure. The Group has also entered into a backstop 
arrangement on standard market terms under which issuance of these notes is effectively underwritten.
Capital Refinancing Terms
Equity Approximate firm placing: £100m
Approximate rights issue: £250m
Approximate gross issue proceeds: £350m
Pension Contributions fixed until 2019, revised deficit contribution schedule as follows:
2014  £35m
2015    £9m
2016  £42m
2017  £50m
2018  £44m
2019  £42m
Total £222m
Recovery period extended to 2032
Lending facilities Revolving credit facility (“RCF”) £300m
RCF maturity March 2019
RCF margin 3.50% + LIBOR
Committment fee on undrawn facilities 40% of applicable margin
Securitisation facility & margin £120m at 2.75% + cost of commercial paper
Senior Secured Notes Amount £475m
Tenor 6 year floating/7 year fixed
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
131
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Premier Foods plc — Company financial statements
The following statements reflect the financial position of the Company, Premier Foods plc as at 31 December 2013 and 2012. These financial 
statements have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”). The directors 
have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a Company profit and loss 
account.
Balance sheet
Note
As at
31 Dec 2013
£m
As at
31 Dec 2012
£m
Fixed assets 
 Investments in Group undertakings 3 —  479.1 
Current assets 
 Debtors 4 895.6  660.4 
 Deferred tax assets 6 1.1  0.9 
 Cash at bank and in hand  0.3  0.3 
Total assets  897.0  1,140.7 
 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (314.1) (59.7)
Net current assets 582.9  601.9 
Total assets less current liabilities  582.9  1,081.0 
Capital and reserves    
 Called up share capital 7 24.0  24.0 
 Share premium account 7 1,124.7  1,124.7 
 Merger reserve 7 —  29.7 
 Profit and loss account 7 (565.8)  (97.4)
Total shareholders’ funds  582.9 1,081.0 
The notes on pages 133 to 135 form an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 132 to 135 were approved by the Board of directors on 4 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
Alastair Murray 
Chief Financial Officer
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
1.  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable 
accounting standards in the United Kingdom (“UK GAAP”), under the historical cost convention. The loss for the year of £501.6m (2012: 
£246.4m loss) is recorded in the accounts of Premier Foods plc. The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under section 
408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
The directors consider that the accounting policies set out below are the most appropriate and have been consistently applied.
The Company is exempt under the terms of Financial Reporting Standard 8 “Related Party Disclosures” (“FRS 8”) from disclosing related party 
transactions with entities that are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Premier Foods plc Group or investees of the Premier Foods plc Group.
Fixed asset investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in their value.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account deferred taxation. 
The Company provides in full for deferred tax arising from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial 
statements and their inclusion in tax computations to the extent that a liability or an asset is expected to be payable or recoverable in the 
foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences 
are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The 
Company discounts its deferred tax liability as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable benefit will be available against the temporary difference 
can be utilised. Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Cash and liquid resources
Short-term cash deposits, which can be called on demand without any material penalty, are included within cash balances in the  
balance sheet.
Share based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans. The fair value of employee share option plans is 
calculated using an option-pricing model. In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 20, Share-Based Payment (“FRS 20”), the 
resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the options for employees employed by the Parent 
Company, or treated as an investment in subsidiaries in respect of employees employed by the subsidiaries where the cost is recharged.  
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting. 
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the 
impact of any non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included 
in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the 
number of options that are expected to vest and recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit and loss, with a 
corresponding adjustment to equity.
Dividends
Dividend distribution to the Company shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders, and for interim dividends in the period in which they are paid.
Operating lease agreements
Leases in which a significant portion of risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rental 
costs under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis 
over the lease period.
2. Operating profit
Audit fees in respect of the Company are £nil (2012: £nil). Note 5b of the Group consolidated financial statements provides details of the 
remuneration of the Company’s auditors on a Group basis.
At 31 December 2013, the Company had three employees (2012: three), and their remuneration totalled £1.6m (2012: £2.3m). This excludes 
the Company’s six (2012: eight) non executive directors whose remuneration totalled £0.6m (2012: £0.7m). Directors’ emolument disclosures 
are provided in the Single Figure Table on page 70 of this annual report.
Notes to the Company financial statements
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
133
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Notes to the Company financial statements
3. Investments in Group undertakings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost
At 1 January 1,757.3 1,753.9
Additions 2.0 3.4
At 31 December 1,759.3  1,757.3 
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January (1,278.2) (1,024.2)
Impairment charge for the year (481.1) (254.0)
At 31 December (1,759.3) (1,278.2)
NBV at 31 December — 479.1
Impairment
An impairment charge of £481.1m (2012: £254.0m) was recognised in the year against the value of the Company’s investment in subsidiaries 
principally as a result of the announcement of the conditional sale of the Group’s majority share in the Bread business on 27 January 2014.
During the year, a capital contribution of £2.0m (2012: £3.4m) was given in the form of share incentive awards to employees of subsidiary 
companies which were reflected as an increase in investments. See note 16 in the Group financial statements for a list of the principal 
subsidiary undertakings. The companies listed are those that principally affect the results and assets of the Company. The directors consider 
that to give full particulars of subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. A full list of subsidiary undertakings is 
available from the Company Secretary.
4. Debtors
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 895.6 660.4
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment, are repayable on demand and are not subject to 
interest rate risk as they are interest free, with the exception of £330.2m (2012: £319.7m) which attracted interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 
3.0% (2012: LIBOR plus 3.0%). Carrying value approximates fair value. 
5. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts owed to group undertakings (297.5)  (45.2) 
Corporation tax (16.6)  (14.5) 
Total creditors falling due within one year (314.1) (59.7)
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, have no fixed date of repayment, are repayable on demand and are not subject to 
interest rate risk as they are interest free, with the exception of £39.4m (2012: £38.7m) which attracted interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.0% 
(2012: LIBOR plus 3.0%). Carrying value approximates fair value.
6. Deferred tax
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 January  0.9  0.8 
Charged to the profit and loss account 0.2 0.1 
At 31 December 1.1 0.9 
The deferred tax asset relates to share-based payments.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
7. Called up share capital and other reserves
 
Called up share 
capital
£m
Share premium 
account
£m
Merger reserve
£m
Profit and loss 
account 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 24.0  1,124.7  228.0  (53.6) 1,323.1 
Loss for the year — — — (246.4) (246.4)
Realisation of merger reserve (b) — — (198.3) 198.3 —
Share based payments (a) — — — 4.3  4.3 
At 31 December 2012 24.0  1,124.7  29.7  (97.4) 1,081.0 
Loss for the year — — — (501.6) (501.6)
Realisation of merger reserve (b) — — (29.7) 29.7 —
Share based payments (a) — — — 3.5  3.5 
At 31 December 2013 24.0  1,124.7  —  (565.8) 582.9 
Called up share capital
2013
£m
2012
£m
Issued and fully paid
239,828,166 (2012: 239,806,206) ordinary shares of 10 pence each 24.0 24.0
(a) Share based payments
The costs reflect the Company’s share option schemes in operation. Further details are available in note 25 of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements.
The charge relating to employees of the Company amounted to £1.7m (2012: £1.0m). Further details of these schemes can be found in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 70 to 75.
(b) Realisation of merger reserve
The Company transferred to the profit and loss account an amount that became realised on the write down of the related investment.
8. Operating lease commitments
At 31 December 2013, the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of land and buildings as 
follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Between 2 and 5 years 0.3 —
After 5 years —  0.3 
The lease expense has been borne by a subsidiary company.
9. Contingencies and guarantees
Premier Foods plc has provided guarantees to third parties in respect of borrowings of certain subsidiary undertakings. The maximum amount 
guaranteed at 31 December 2013 is £1.2bn (2012: £1.2bn).
10. Subsequent events
Details of subsequent events are shown in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
135
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Share capital information
The Company’s issued share capital at 31 December 2013 comprised 239,828,166 ordinary 10p shares. During the year, 21,960 ordinary shares 
were issued; details of the movements can be found in note 25. All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights, the rights to 
receive dividends and distributions on a winding up.
Substantial shareholdings
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority’s (“FCA”) Disclosure and Transparency Rules (“DTRs”) is 
published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Group’s website. As at 4 March 2014, the Company has been notified of the following 
interests of 3% or more in the Company:
Shareholder
Ordinary
shares
% of 
 capital
Nature
 of holding
Warburg Pincus 41,573,972 17.33 Direct
Paulson & Co. Inc 25,830,000 10.77 Direct
Schroders plc (Cazenove Capital Management Limited) 24,024,331 10.02 Indirect
Standard Life Investments Ltd. 12,178,274 5.08 Direct
JPMorgan Asset Management U.K. Limited 11,953,403 4.98 Indirect
Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM) 9,220,355 3.84 Direct
Shareholder Information & Frequently 
Asked Questions (“FAQs”)
Restrictions on transfer of securities
In accordance with the Articles there are no 
restrictions on share transfers, limitations 
on the holding of any class of shares or any 
requirement for prior approval of any transfer.
SHAREHOLDER FAQs
Many of the information requests received by 
our shareholder helpline can be found in the 
investor section of our website. Shareholders 
can also sign up for regulatory news alerts to 
receive an email when news on the Group is 
released. These include additional financial 
news releases throughout the year, which are 
not mailed to shareholders.
www.premierfoods.co.uk/investor-
relations/
Managing your shares
The Company’s Register of Members 
is maintained by our registrar, Equiniti. 
Shareholders with queries relating to their 
shareholding should contact Equiniti directly 
using the details given in key contacts below.
Duplicate documents
Many shareholders still receive duplicate 
documentation from having more than one 
account on the share register. If you think 
you fall into this category and would like 
to combine your accounts, please contact 
Equiniti.
Notifying the Company of a change 
of address
Shareholders should notify Equiniti in writing of 
any change. If shares are held in joint names, 
the notification must be signed by the first 
named shareholder.
Notifying the Company of a change 
of name
To notify the Company of a change of name 
please inform Equiniti in writing. A copy of any 
marriage certificate or change of name deed 
should be provided as evidence of the name 
change.
Transferring Premier Foods plc 
shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires 
the completion of a stock transfer form. These 
forms are available by calling Equiniti. 
Lost Premier Foods plc share 
certificate(s)
Shareholders who have lost their share 
certificate(s) or have had their certificate(s) 
stolen should inform Equiniti immediately by 
phone. 
Found an old share certificate for 
Premier Foods plc
Shareholders who find they have an old share 
certificate and wish to find out its value should 
contact Equiniti directly using the details 
below. 
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, 
the value of which makes it uneconomic to 
sell them, may wish to consider donating 
them to charity through ShareGift, a registered 
charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh 
Foundation. Find out more at  
www.sharegift.org or call  
+44 (0)20 7930 3737.
Viewing the Articles of the Company
The Articles and other documents referred 
to in this annual report are available for 
inspection at the registered office. The Articles 
set out the powers of directors, amongst 
other things, and are available on the Group’s 
website:
www.premierfoods.co.uk/about-us/
corporate-governance/articles-of-
association.cfm
Shareholder security
Shareholders are reminded to remain vigilant 
against the threat of share scams and fraud. 
In particular be wary of any unsolicited mail 
or phone calls offering to buy or sell shares or 
offers of free reports about the Company. For 
further information and guidance please refer 
to the FCA’s website:  
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams.
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
136
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM)
The AGM usually takes place in London and 
is an opportunity for all shareholders to ask 
questions and vote on the resolutions put 
forward by the Board. At least 20 working 
days before the AGM the Notice of AGM, 
a copy of this annual report (if they request 
a copy in writing) and a Form of Proxy are 
issued to shareholders. All documents relating 
to the AGM are available on the Group’s 
website.
The Notice of AGM sets out the proposed 
resolutions and a brief synopsis of each of 
them. Shareholders are invited to either attend 
the AGM in person or appoint a proxy to vote 
on their behalf. Voting at the AGM is by poll as 
this gives a more democratic outcome given 
that the proxy votes are added to the votes 
cast in person. Details of the proxy votes for, 
against and withheld are made available on the 
Group’s website after the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and 
Remuneration committees are normally 
available at the AGM to take any relevant 
questions and all other directors are expected 
to attend. All directors attended the 2013 
AGM.
2014 AGM — Tuesday 29 April 2014 
at 11.00 am
The 2014 AGM will be held at the Holiday 
Inn — Bloomsbury, Coram Street, London, 
WC1N 1HT. 
KEY CONTACTS
Registered office and head office
Premier Foods plc, Premier House,  
Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, 
St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE.  
Registered in England and Wales (5160050). 
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary
Andrew McDonald 
email:  
company.secretary@premierfoods.co.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
Investor Relations
Richard Godden 
email: investor.relations@premierfoods.co.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)1727 815850.
Registrar 
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. 
Tel: 0871 384 2030 or +44 (0)121 415 7047.  
Textel/Minicom: 0871 384 2255 or  
+44 (0)121 415 7028. 
(Calls to 0871 numbers cost 8p per minute 
plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30 am 
to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.)
Stock code: PFD www.premierfoods.co.uk
137
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 22941.04 13 March 2014 9:23 AM    Proof 3
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as 
Adjusted Profit before tax less a notional tax 
rate for the Group divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the 
period
Adjusted Profit before tax
Trading profit less net regular interest payable
Amortisation
An annual charge made in a company’s profit 
and loss account to reduce the value of an 
intangible asset to its residual value over its 
useful economic life
Articles
Articles of Association — the constitution of 
the Company
Called-up share capital
Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid 
Capex
Capital Expenditure
Capital Refinancing Plan/
Capital Restructuring
A plan comprising of three components: the 
raising of gross proceeds of approximately 
£350 million by way of a Placing and Rights 
Issue; the raising of gross proceeds of 
approximately £475 million by way of the issue 
of senior secured loan notes; and a £300 
million new Revolving Credit Facility
CGU
Cash-generating unit — the smallest 
identifiable group of assets that generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of the 
cash inflows from other assets or groups of 
assets
Code
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012
Companies Act
The Companies Act 2006
Company (the)
Premier Foods plc
CSR
Corporate Social Responsibility
DSB
Deferred Share Bonus plan
Divisional Contribution
Trading profit before all SG&A costs
EBITDA
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation
EPS
Earnings Per Share — calculated as total 
earnings divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the period
FCA
Financial Conduct Authority
Fair value
The amount for which an asset could be 
exchanged, or a liability settled, between 
knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s 
length transaction
Finance lease
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks 
and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset
FRC
Financial Reporting Council
Free Cash Flow
The amount of money that a business has 
at its disposal at any given time after paying 
out operating costs, interest payments on 
bank loans and bonds, salaries, research and 
development and other fixed costs
FSA
Food Standards Agency 
FTSE 250/350 (index)
Index comprising the 250/350 largest 
companies listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in terms of their market 
capitalisation
FY
Full year/Financial Year
GDAs
Guidance Daily Amounts
Group (the)
The Company and its subsidiaries
Group Executive
The Group Executive support the CEO in 
carrying out the duties delegated to him by 
the Board
HMRC
Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
Hovis Joint Venture
An agreement to create a stand alone joint 
venture for the Bread business.
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
IMS
Interim Management Statement
Intangible assets
An identifiable non-monetary asset without 
physical substance e.g. patents, goodwill, 
trademarks and copyrights
Interest rate hedging 
Entering into a financial derivative to protect 
against unfavourable changes in interest rates 
Interest rate swaps
An agreement between two parties that allows 
either party to modify the interest cost without 
changing the characteristics of the underlying 
debt
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
LIBOR
The London inter-bank offered rate
Mark to market
The recording of a financial asset or liability to 
reflect its fair value rather than its book value
Net regular interest payable
The net interest after excluding non-cash 
items, namely exceptional write-off of 
financing costs, accelerated amortisation of 
debt issuance costs, fair value adjustments 
on interest rate financial instruments and the 
unwind of the discount on provisions
Non-branded
Non-branded products comprise retailer 
brand and business to business sales
Operating lease
A lease that is not a Finance lease
Operating Profit
A company’s profit after deducting its 
operating costs from gross profit
Ordinary Share
An ordinary share of 10 pence in the share 
capital of the Company
Pro forma
Pro forma comparisons are calculated as 
follows: current year actual results (which 
include acquisitions and/or disposals from the 
relevant date of completion) are compared 
with prior year actual results, adjusted to 
include the results of acquisitions and/or 
disposals for the commensurate period in the 
prior year
Relationship Agreement
The relationship agreement entered into 
between the Company and Warburg Pincus 
LLC dated 5 March 2009.
RIDDOR
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous 
Occurrences Regulations 
RPI
Retail Price Index
SG&A
Selling, general and administrative costs
Trading Profit
Operating profit before re-financing costs, 
restructuring costs, profits and losses 
associated with divestment activity, 
amortisation and impairment of intangible 
assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange 
and other derivative contracts under IAS39 
and pension administration costs and net 
interest on the net defined benefit liability.
TSR
Total Shareholder Return — the growth in 
value of a shareholding over a specified period 
assuming that dividends are reinvested to 
purchase additional shares
YoY
Year on year 
Glossary
Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts 2013
138
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Cautionary Statement
The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to shareholders of Premier Foods plc (“the Company”). The Company, its directors, employees and advisers do 
not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly 
disclaimed. It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of the Company. These statements and 
forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could 
cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts. Nothing in this annual report 
should be construed as a profit forecast.
Trademarks
The Group’s trademarks are shown in italics throughout this annual report. The Group has an exclusive worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name on certain 
products. The Group has an exclusive licence to use the Cadbury trademark in the UK (and other specified territories) on a variety of ambient cake products. Cadbury is a 
trademark of Mondelez International, Inc.
This Annual Report is printed by an FSC
®
 (Forest Stewardship 
Council) certified printer using vegetable based inks. 
This report has been printed on Claro Silk, a white coated paper and 
board using 100% EFC pulp.
Our Brands 22941.04 24 March 2014 11:20 AM    Proof 3
Premier Foods plc
Premier House
Centrium Business Park
Griffiths Way
St Albans
Hertfordshire
AL1 2RE
T 01727 815850
F 01727 815982
Registered in England and Wales No. 5160050
www.premierfoods.co.uk
 Premier Foods plc  Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013
COSTS
