 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns is a leading pub 
company in the UK with around  
4,500 pubs nationwide.
Our aim is to become the UK’s  
highest quality, most trusted and  
best value leased pub company.
Business review
Highlights 01
Chairman’s statement 02
Chief Executive Officer’s review 03
Our approach to managing risks  
and uncertainties 07
Our key risks and uncertainties 08
Financial review 10
Our pubs 12
Our partners 13
Punch support 14
Our people and CSR 15
Governance
Board of Directors 16
Directors’ report 18
Corporate governance statement 21
Report on Directors’ remuneration 27
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and  
the financial statements 36
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 37
Consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 38
Consolidated balance sheet 39
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 40
Consolidated cash flow statement 41
Company balance sheet 42
Company statement of changes in equity 43
Company income statement 43
Company cash flow statement 44
Notes to the financial statements 45
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Punch Taverns plc 86
Financial glossary 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
01
Business review
KPIs
*
Highlights
Underlying financial performance* – in line with expectations
n  EBITDA of £238m (2011: £258m)
n  Profit before tax of £64m (2011: £76m)
n  Basic earnings per share of 7.2p (2011: 8.6p)
n  Strong cash position; £264m of cash reserves, of which  
£90m held outside of the securitisations
n  Net debt decreased by £137m
Operational KPIs*
n  Average net income** per pub broadly flat across the year 
n  Substantive agreements at 94% 
n  Core substantive like-for-like net income** -1%  
(Partners on secure agreements for greater than 1 year)
n  Total core estate like-for-like net income** -3.7% 
n  475 pubs disposed together with other assets for £130m,  
£1m ahead of book value and at a multiple of 18 times EBITDA
Operational headlines
n  Continued progress on delivering our key strategic initiatives:
Core estate:
1.  Invest to improve customer environment and increase food sales: 
Record £38m invested in 400 core pubs; food mix up  
3 percentage points to 24%
2.   Attract high quality Partners: 25% increase in applicant numbers, 
growing number of multiple operators 
3.   Drive sales: Additional 1,100 Partners in the Punch Buying Club,  
a 65% increase, 45% of drinks orders now online, up from 21% 
last year
4.   Improve Punch support: Successful launch of the Punch Franchise 
Tenancy agreement, free WiFi to be rolled out across our estate  
in 2013
Non-core estate:
5.  Disposal of non-core sites: Disposal programme on track to 
deliver a core estate of 3,000 pubs within the next 5 years 
* before non-underlying items and discontinued operations
** net income represents revenue less cost of drink sales (gross profit)
EBITDA £m
2010 2011 2012
290.8
257.7
238.0
Profit before tax £m
2010 2011 2012
89.8
76.3
64.0
Basic earnings per share p
2010 2011 2012
9.9
8.6
7.2
Net debt £m
2011 2012
2,263.6
2,126.4
2010 not reported as net debt included the Spirit 
business prior to demerger. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
02
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased with the progress  
we have made on delivering  
on our key strategic initiatives. 
Stephen Billingham Chairman
Corporate Governance
The Board sets itself high standards of corporate governance  
in order to facilitate effective and prudent management that 
can deliver the long term success of the company. The details  
of our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code  
is set out in our corporate governance statement.
People
We are making good progress towards our long term objective 
to become the UK’s highest quality, most trusted and best value 
leased pub company. Delivering on this objective is only possible 
with the skills and commitment of the Punch team. The 
improvements in the level of service and support to our Partners 
that I have seen across the business in the last year is testament 
to their calibre and commitment.
I am pleased with the progress we have made on delivering on 
our key strategic initiatives. The level of activity in investment, 
Partner recruitment and food development has been particularly 
strong in the second half of the year and this high level of 
activity is continuing in the new financial year.
Having completed a detailed and thorough review of the capital 
structure options, we can now move forward to the next stage 
of the process. Discussions have already commenced with 
certain of the Group’s key stakeholders to seek their input and 
following this we will look to engage with all our stakeholders.
Board
In March, Angus Porter joined our Board as Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.  
Angus has a wealth of experience having been a Non-executive 
Director of MyTravel Group, Alliance and Leicester and  
Thomas Cook, and has held executive positions at Mars,  
British Telecom, Abbey National and WPP.
Angus replaced Mark Pain who stepped down from the Board, 
having completed his service on the Board for the transitional 
period following the demerger of the Spirit business in 2011.
We have announced the appointment of John Allkins  
to our Board as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. 
John brings valuable experience having held senior executive 
positions at MyTravel Group, Equant NV and British Telecom.
John will replace Ian Fraser who will not be seeking re-election 
at the AGM in December and will retire from the Board after 
eight years service. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
03
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Our strategy is to focus on our  
high quality, well located core  
estate of approximately 3,000 pubs. 
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer
Business review
We underwent a significant reorganisation of our field teams  
in 2011 with 73% of pubs having a change of Partnership 
Development Manager (PDM) following the transfer of  
c.550 leasehold pubs to Spirit at the time of the demerger and 
the transfer of pubs to the turnaround division. This disruption  
had an impact on our rate of letting and investment activity  
in the first half of the year as our field teams improved their 
understanding of their new areas and established strong 
relationships with their new Partners. I am pleased to report 
that this slowdown in activity has been more than compensated 
for by record levels of letting and investment activity in  
the second half of the year. 
While our pubs had made strong plans to maximise the 
opportunities offered by the Jubilee and sporting events over 
the summer, these were outweighed by the impact of the wet 
weather on market demand. Notwithstanding these short-term 
challenges we continued to make good progress towards  
our long-term goal of growth in the core estate. This includes 
record levels of investment in over 400 core pubs and an 
additional 1,100 Partners joining the Punch Buying Club.  
We also benefited from a positive mix shift towards food  
during the year which was up 3 percentage points to 24%  
of Partner revenue.
We are committed to improving on the level of support we 
provide to our Partners and see this as being fundamental  
to returning the core estate to growth. We have successfully 
launched our new Punch Franchise Tenancy Agreement in  
a limited number of pubs and will roll this out nationally this 
year. We have strong plans in place to build on the progress we 
have made, including increasing the size of specialist field teams 
in the areas of investment, marketing and food development, 
the roll-out of free WiFi across our pub estate and the provision 
of non-tied goods and services through the Punch Buying Club. 
We intend to deliver these improvements without increasing  
the cost base of the business and will continue to focus on cost 
reduction as we downsize the non-core estate and improve 
back office efficiency.
Market and strategic overview
The combination of a long-term decline in drinking-out of 
approximately 3.5% per annum, changing customer behaviour, 
relative price positioning and the impact of regulation means 
that the number of pubs in the UK is expected to continue to 
decline. Whilst we believe the long-term growth in eating-out 
will continue to support the pub industry, we believe the  
benefit will favour the larger food led destination pubs and  
so a disproportionate number of the closures will be from 
smaller predominantly drinks led pubs.
 
Punch’s stated strategy is therefore to focus on its high quality, 
well located core estate of approximately 3,000 pubs. These 
pubs are well positioned to outperform the broader market 
drinks volume declines and grow food revenues. While net 
income in the core estate remained in decline this year, and  
we anticipate a comparable decline in the short-term as we 
continue to rebalance rents in the coming year, we expect a 
return to growth the following financial year. In the medium 
term, we have a clear operational plan to return the core estate 
to growth of c.2% per annum in both Partner earnings and 
Punch net income. 
The strategy for the non-core estate also remains consistent 
with a focus on maximising cash returns whilst the pubs are let, 
and then to deliver in excess of book value on the disposal of 
the pubs. The disposal programme remains on track and the 
Group expects to deliver c.£630m from the disposal of the 
2,278 pub non-core estate over the next five years of which 
£172m has already been delivered from 683 pub disposals  
over the last 18 months, against a book value of £169m.  
Whilst these pubs continue to have access to the same 
operational tools and infrastructure as the core estate, they  
are expected to continue to suffer volume declines materially 
greater than the broader market. As a result, we expect these 
pubs to continue to experience profit declines, albeit with an 
improving trend as we dispose of the worst performing  
pubs first. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
04
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Core Turnaround Central Punch
Aug 2012 pub 
numbers 2,934 1,595 – 4,529
Revenue £377m £115m – £492m
Net income £222m £66m – £287m
EBITDA £209m £57m £(28)m £238m
Core estate
The core division comprising 2,934 pubs accounts for 79% of 
Punch outlet EBITDA. These pubs have a much higher average 
net income per pub than the turnaround estate at c.£75,000, 
and have experienced a decline in net income of 3.7% in  
the year. 
Trading performance has been impacted this year by disruption 
following the demerger of Spirit combined with the wettest 
April to June period since records began. In line with the 
performance of the core division, market statistics confirm  
a sharp decline in beer sales during this period.
Underlying performance in the business continues to be robust 
with like-for-like net income in pubs that have been on full 
substantive agreements for more than one year being down just 
1%. Within this, trading in the South of England continues to 
outperform the rest of the UK.
Despite the difficult market conditions the level of pub failures 
remains in line with last year. The majority of these pubs will 
receive investment to reposition their offering in their local 
marketplace and are currently in the process of being re-let on 
full substantive agreements. As at the year end date 94% of  
the pubs in the core estate were let on substantive agreements, 
leaving 183 core pubs (6%) available for letting of which 73 
have new Partners in place awaiting legal completion.
Throughout the year, management actions have been focused 
on delivering our four key objectives:
i)  Investing to improve the customer environment and 
increase food sales: We invested in over 400 core pubs 
during the year and increased our average spend per pub to 
£90,000, with the rate of investment having accelerated in 
the second half of the year. Our focus has been on new lets 
where there is an opportunity to invest to improve food 
participation and the consumer environment. 
  Alongside increased investment in the core estate, we are 
increasing the level of pub support, providing more influence 
over the customer offer. We are in the process of introducing 
dedicated Pub Launch Teams to help design and implement 
the full customer offer including product ranging, events 
planning, service delivery and promotional activity.
  Food sales represent a significant opportunity for our 
Partners and we have a 5 year target to increase the food 
sales mix to 35% of Partner revenue. Our catering experts 
have performed 1,900 Partner visits in the year to develop 
the food offer, increasing the estimated food sales mix in 
our pubs by 3% to 24% of Partner revenue. Our strategy  
is to improve the food offering across our estate, using 
managed house principles and supporting our Partners  
with food specifications and menu costing. 
 
ii)   Attracting high quality Partners: The core estate remains 
stable with pub failures remaining in line with previous years 
and an average tenure of over 5 years. New applicant 
enquiries continue to be very strong at approximately  
400 enquiries per month, representing a 25% increase 
compared to the prior year and we are experiencing a trend 
moving back towards long leases. We now have over 200  
of our Punch Buying Club leases in place which reward our 
Partners for outperformance and our new agreements are 
attracting an increased interest from small multiple pub 
operators and micro brewers alike. Our recruitment website 
has been completely overhauled and will be re-launched in 
October with greatly enhanced CRM capabilities.
iii)   Driving sales growth: The use of the Punch Buying Club 
has doubled in the year with 45% of our drinks orders now 
being taken online, up from 21% as at August 2011. The 
Punch Buying Club now has 2,800 Partners and gives access 
to exclusive deals, and through the Punch Buying Club blog 
Partners can provide feedback on issues, seek advice, share 
best practice and access exclusive marketing and point of 
sale materials. 
  The product offers, marketing and promotional support  
we offer our Partners have proved extremely popular  
with 48% of our Partners attending our industry leading 
roadshows, a doubling in our design and print service and 
record participation in sales activities such as the UK’s 
largest darts competition (up 12%), quiz nights (up 72%) 
and SIBA cask ale sales (up 40%).
iv)   Effective Punch support: Partnership Development 
Managers (PDMs) are key to driving the performance of  
our pubs. We have invested in industry leading training  
in partnership with the BII, piloting the first Level 4 
qualification in Multiple Retail Management, which we 
expect all of our PDMs to complete by the end of this year. 
  The new Punch Franchise Tenancy agreement has been 
successfully launched, aimed at community local pubs and 
new entrants to the sector. This fully supported open book 
agreement provides more support to our Partners and 
increases our influence over the customer offer. Initial results 
in the limited number of pubs with the new agreement have 
been encouraging and we aim to roll it out nationally  
this year.
  In a drive to support our Partners to improve retail standards 
in our pubs we introduced a mystery visit programme this 
year providing independent feedback on the consumer 
experience and beer quality. The programme which has 
been well received and clearly demonstrates the link 
between high retail standards and pub performance  
will be rolled out across the core estate this year.
  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
05
Business review
 Building on the success of the Punch Buying Club, we are now 
extending the services and range of products we offer to 
include the roll-out of free WiFi across our pub estate and the 
provision of further non-tied goods and services. Through the 
Buying Club we are committed to simplifying the administrative 
burden for our existing and prospective Partners and to drive 
down the cost to our Partners of running a pub.
Turnaround estate
The turnaround division comprising 1,595 pubs with a book 
value of £469m accounts for 21% of Punch outlet EBITDA. 
These pubs are predominately small, wet led and have a much 
lower average net income per pub at c.£36,000 and which 
have declined by 9% in the last financial year. Given the limited 
scope for investment, these pubs are more likely to be impacted 
by the long-term decline in drinking out and as a result are 
expected in time to generate more value through disposal  
than retention. 
Since we created the turnaround division we have further 
refined our operating strategy, segmenting the division into two 
groups, ‘sell now / sell later’ and ‘protect and grow’. The ‘sell 
now / sell later’ pubs (1,029 pubs) will be sold over the next 1-3 
years while the ‘protect and grow’ pubs (566 pubs) will be held 
and operated over the near-term and sold over the next 3-5 
years. This additional segmentation supports our objectives of 
maximising our profits for as long as we own the pub, including 
limited targeted investment in ‘protect and grow’ pubs and in 
optimising our disposal proceeds by selling at the right time.
Maximising short-term returns: While these non-core pubs 
remain in our portfolio, we remain committed to driving 
operating performance and maximising the profits from  
these outlets. Net income in non-core pubs on substantive 
agreements is broadly stable with all the decline coming  
from non-substantive pubs in the process of disposal.
Maximising value on disposal: During the year we sold  
475 pubs, together with other assets for proceeds of £130m, 
£1m ahead of book value. The disposed pubs generated  
just £7.4m of EBITDA over the last 12 months, equating to  
a disposal multiple of 18x, demonstrating the accretive nature 
of these disposals.
We are on track with our disposal programme in extracting 
maximum value from our non-core assets in line with book 
value and reducing our estate down to c.3,000 core pubs within 
the next 5 years. We aim to sell c.400 non-core pubs in the 
2012-2013 financial year.
Matthew Clark joint venture
Matthew Clark, the 50% joint venture with Accolade, owned 
by Champ Private Equity, continues to perform satisfactorily  
in a very competitive market providing a post-tax contribution 
to Punch of £3.4m for the year. Matthew Clark has significant 
scale in its marketplace as the largest independent drinks 
wholesaler and distributor to the UK leisure and hospitality 
industry, with gross annual turnover of c.£700m and c.20,000 
customers. Turnover increased by 9% in the joint venture’s  
last financial year and the business has clear plans for continued 
growth in market share from which Punch will benefit.
Regulatory
Punch is committed to developing a responsible approach in 
working with our Partners and in the marketplace in which we 
operate. Our BIIBAS accredited Code of Practice is now firmly 
embedded in the business and lays out clearly what our Partners 
should expect from us when committing to a lease agreement. 
Our Code of Practice goes further than the requirements of the 
Industry Framework Code, which has been made legally binding 
in the year.
Further progress has been made towards self regulation with 
two complaint review bodies now available to licensees. PIRRS 
exists to provide low cost resolution for rent disputes and our 
Partners are now able to take complaints relating to any other 
part of our Code of Practice to PICAS.
Punch continues to play a full role in the pub sector through 
membership of the BBPA and support for the BII, ALMR and 
FLVA. Pubs play a vital role in the economy providing local 
employment particularly for young people and we continue  
to engage with Government on the need for investment in the 
sector as a key part of the wider growth agenda for the UK 
economy. We believe the economic case for reduction in VAT  
in the hospitality sector is compelling with the potential to 
create thousands of new jobs and have given our full support  
to the VAT Club campaign led by Jacques Borel. 
Social responsibility
Pubs play a vital role at the heart of the community and Punch 
continues to support key initiatives such as Pub is the Hub and 
work with the Licensed Trade Charity. Our pubs are significant 
contributors to local fund raising with many of them recording 
their achievements through PubAid. Our teams in our support 
centre in Burton are also involved in the local community 
providing help to local causes through the Punch Community 
Promise Scheme. 
We believe that pubs provide a safe supervised environment  
for the consumption of alcohol and Punch is committed to the 
Alcohol Responsibility agenda providing support to Drinkaware 
and the Portman Group. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
06
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Capital structure review 
Objectives
During the year, the Board appointed Goldman Sachs and 
Blackstone as advisors to assist in undertaking a detailed review 
of the options to optimise the Group’s capital structure. This 
review examined (i) Punch’s current business strategy in light  
of current and expected operating conditions; and (ii) Punch’s 
current capital structure position.
The key objective of the review was to identify all options that 
could deliver shareholder and wider stakeholder value and to 
assess them against the following criteria:
• Creation of a sustainable capital structure; and
• Feasibility of successful execution.
Current capital structure 
The Group is financed through two whole business 
securitisations, the Punch A Securitisation (£1,477m of gross 
debt) and the Punch B Securitisation (£914m of gross debt),  
as well as certain cash resources held across the Group.  
As at the year end, the Group held £264m of cash resources  
(of which £90m was held outside the securitisation structures), 
compared to loan amortisation due within 1 year of £57m.  
In addition to cash resources held outside the securitisations, 
Punch also holds a 50% interest in the Matthew Clark  
joint venture. 
The majority of the trading assets of the Group are held in the 
two securitisation structures, and whilst the securitisations 
generated underlying profits and positive net cash flow (before 
debt repayments and disposals) in the year, they required 
financial support through the use of cash resources held outside 
of the securitisations to maintain compliance with their DSCR 
(Debt Service Cover Ratio) covenants. Without this support, 
both the Punch A and Punch B Securitisations would have 
breached their respective DSCR covenant levels in the year. 
August 2012
Punch A
 securitisation
Punch B 
securitisation
Reported 2-qtr DSCR  
(including support) 1.36x 1.51x
Underlying 2-qtr DSCR  
excluding support 1.08x 1.05x
DSCR covenant level 1.25x 1.25x
Net support from cash resources held outside of the 
securitisations amounted to £21m for the year, being £79m  
of gross support less £58m of cash payments from the 
securitisations to the wider Group during the year. Given 
expectations for the level of performance of the Group and the 
anticipated debt service requirements, it is expected that the 
level of support required will increase in the next financial year.
While this financial support provides valuable time to identify 
appropriate legal and capital restructuring options, it is not 
sustainable over the medium to long-term. A restructuring  
of both securitisations is therefore required in order to avoid  
a covenant default and deliver value to stakeholders. 
Since the year end, the Group has continued to provide financial 
support to the securitisations to allow restructuring options  
to be developed. The continuation of that support into each 
securitisation will continue to be reviewed on a regular basis  
in light of all relevant circumstances. 
Status of the review
The scope of the review undertaken by the Board has been 
extensive with a number of alternatives considered. While  
no decision has been taken as to the preferred solution to 
restructure the Group’s capital structure, the following 
conclusions have been drawn from the review:
•  Both securitisations are over levered and unsustainable in 
their current form;
•  Significant amendments to each of the Punch A and Punch B 
securitisation structures are necessary, including one or more 
of a material reduction in debt, an increase in the maturities 
of the debt and changes to the financial covenants; 
•  Although both the Punch A and Punch B securitisations need 
to be restructured, given the differences in their stakeholder 
profiles, their legal and financial structures and the 
contractual linkages between them and the wider Group, the 
optimal restructuring solution and implementation timetable 
may differ for each securitisation;
•  Proposed changes to the capital structure should be 
developed for both the Punch A and Punch B securitisation 
structures to protect the material financial and operational 
benefits that both enjoy as being part of the wider group;
•  Operational covenant amendments are also required to allow 
the securitised businesses to continue to maximise returns 
through further investment in the core estate and the 
ongoing disposal of non-core assets;
•  The Board believes that it is likely that a covenant default 
would have a material adverse impact on the value of the 
underlying businesses; and
•  While the Group continues to maintain significant cash 
balances, providing time and optionality, it is preferable  
to work towards identifying a preferred solution as soon as 
practicable so that any uncertainty around potential changes 
to the legal and capital structure of the securitisations does 
not impact on the underlying performance of what is a very 
profitable and high quality pub business.
Given the adverse impact that a covenant default could have on 
all stakeholders, the Board believes that it is in the best interests 
of the stakeholders to pursue a consensual restructuring 
solution. On the basis of the dialogue with stakeholders to date, 
the Board remains confident that a restructuring can be 
successfully implemented.
Next steps and discussions with stakeholders
The Board is mindful that uncertainty around the Group’s 
capital structure could have a negative impact on the Group’s 
underlying business and that as a result it is likely to be in the 
best interest of all stakeholders to identify and implement a 
preferred solution to restructure the Group’s capital structure  
as soon as practicable.
As part of the review process, the Board initiated discussions 
with certain of its major shareholders and other significant 
stakeholders to seek their input on the range of options under 
consideration. While these discussions have assisted the Board 
in reaching the conclusions set out today they remain ongoing. 
At the appropriate time, the Board will be initiating a process  
to identify debt holders in both the Punch A and Punch B 
securitisations and extending these discussions to the 
bondholders in both securitisations. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
07
Business review
Our approach to managing risks 
and uncertainties
Punch has a formal risk management process in place which  
is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the risks and 
uncertainties to which it is exposed. 
Management teams from across the Group carry out regular 
risk workshops and update our risk register. Risks are 
highlighted and then assessed based on the probability of  
them occurring and the impact they may have on the business. 
A consistent approach for reporting risks on a risk matrix 
ensures that Punch is able to prioritise its risks. Mitigation plans 
are implemented where necessary to ensure that risks are 
managed appropriately. The Board has ultimate responsibility 
for the risk management framework and formally reviews the 
material risks to the Group regularly as well as discussing 
changing or emerging risks on an ongoing basis. The Board is 
responsible for ensuring that business risks are appropriately 
managed by the executive management team and monitors 
recently introduced key risk performance measures on a 
periodic basis, to track the movement of these key risks. 
The Internal Audit function provides assurance to the Board  
on key controls and the management of risks within Punch.  
The Audit and Risk Committee annually reviews the overall 
effectiveness of the risk management framework. 
Punch is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, economic 
and regulatory risks and uncertainties. Our main risks and how 
we manage them are shown in the following pages; however, 
this is not an exhaustive list of all of the risks which Punch is 
exposed to. Some of the risks Punch faces are external and 
therefore beyond our control. Some risks may not be known  
at present or may be considered to be currently immaterial,  
but could develop into material risks in the future. The risk 
management processes are therefore designed to manage the 
risks which may have a material impact on our ability to meet 
our strategic objectives, rather than fully mitigate all risks. 
The Board is aware that these risks and uncertainties may either 
singularly or collectively affect Punch’s revenue, our costs, the 
value of our assets, our reputation or our ability to meet our 
strategic objectives and it is therefore committed to continually 
reviewing and improving the risk management framework. 
 
Risk management
framework
Identify and
evaluate risks
Identify controls
or mitigation
already in place
Monitor and track
progress and
key risk KPIs
Plc Board
Management
Departments
Risk owners
• Risk workshops
• Assess risk tolerance 
 and risk appetite
• Update to risk registers
• Risk matrix reporting
Implement
mitigating
action plans
Test controls Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
08
Our key risks and uncertainties
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Market and economic risks
Economic climate 
The recent recession and continued uncertain outlook for the UK 
economy has affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending 
across both the retail and leisure industries. Delays in economic recovery 
or further challenges such as further duty increases could affect 
consumer expenditure, our Partners’ businesses and Punch’s revenue. 
•  We carry out regular reviews of the impact of economic conditions on 
our budget and strategic plans. 
•  We provided c.£1.2m per period to support our Partners during the 
difficult conditions last year resulting in 94% of our core estate pubs 
now being on a substantive agreement. 
•  We continue to monitor the financial health of our Partners via a 
Partner Support Tool, together with analysis to highlight potential 
failures, and the new Partnership Development Manager roles launched 
last year have helped grow and diversify our Partners’ businesses. 
Property valuations
Fluctuations in the UK property market as well as the current uncertain 
market conditions could impact the value of Punch’s property portfolio 
and our ability to dispose of pubs at an appropriate value.
 
•  We have conducted full estate reviews and regularly update these  
to allow us to assess the future strategy for pubs within the estate. 
•  This has allowed us to invest where appropriate; consider possible 
alternative use; or dispose of those which no longer fit our  
future strategy.
•  We invested £42m on developing and improving the quality of our 
estate during the year. 
•  We carry out an annual review for any indicators of impairment.
Increasing costs
Increases in any of our key supply costs due to availability of products, 
the economic climate or inflationary price increases is an ongoing risk  
to our business. 
•  We continue to negotiate supplier contracts to protect us against 
significant increases in drink costs. 
•  Careful cost control processes ensure that costs are budgeted,  
closely monitored and subject to appropriate authorisation.
Liquidity risk
Punch’s capital structure is made up of debt, issued share capital  
and reserves. 
Punch is financed through two whole business securitisations, the  
Punch A Securitisation (£1,477m of gross debt) and the Punch B 
Securitisation (£914m of gross debt), as well as certain cash resources 
held across the Group. As at the year end, the Group held £264m of cash 
resources, of which £90m was held outside the securitisation structures.
The key short-term liquidity risk is the requirement to meet scheduled 
debt service costs as they fall due. The secured loan notes which make up 
the majority of our financing have an average weighted life of 15 years, 
with approximately 83% (August 2011: 85%) of the capital balance on 
these loan notes being repayable after more than five years. 
•  Cash flow forecasts are regularly produced to assist management  
in identifying liquidity requirements and are stress-tested for  
possible scenarios. 
•  Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits such that they are 
readily available to settle short-term liabilities or fund capital additions.
•  There are a number of options available to the Group to help meet  
debt service costs, including the acceleration of the disposal of 
non-core pubs (with disposal proceeds being used to repay debt)  
and a reduction in capital expenditure on the securitised estate (with 
surplus cash being used to repay debt).
Financial
Financial covenant and refinancing risk
Both of Punch’s securitisation structures have a Debt Service Cover Ratio 
(DSCR) and Net Worth financial covenant.
While there was significant headroom in the two Net Worth financial 
covenants as at the year end, both securitisations required financial 
support through the use of cash resources held outside of the 
securitisations to maintain compliance with their DSCR covenants. 
Without this support, both securitisations would have breached their 
respective DSCR covenant levels in the year.
Net support from cash resources held outside of the securitisations 
amounted to £21m for the year, being £79m of gross support less  
£58m of cash payments from the securitisations to the wider Group 
during the year.
The ability of the securitisations to continue to make cash payments  
to the wider Group and to comply with their DSCR covenants in the 
near-term is dependent on either continuing to receive financial support 
from the Group or agreeing with the relevant securitisation stakeholders 
to amend the terms of the DSCR covenants.
If a DSCR covenant breach were to occur, this could lead to circumstances 
in which the securitisations’ lenders may be able to request early 
repayment of all outstanding borrowings. Were this to occur, the 
securitisations may have insufficient cash resources to repay all  
of their borrowings.
•  Covenants are closely monitored and stress-tested to ensure we are 
able to generate sufficient returns to service our debt and meet our 
covenant requirements. 
•  A Group support mechanism has been in place throughout the year, 
whereby cash resources held outside of the securitisations have been 
used to lower the cost of drinks purchased by the two securitisations  
to maintain compliance with their DSCR covenants.
•  Additional options available to the Group to improve the securitisations’ 
DSCR covenant performance include the prepayment of debt using 
proceeds from the disposal of the non-core estate and the reduction  
of capital expenditure on the securitised estate, with surplus cash being 
used to repay debt.
•  The Board has recently completed a review of the Group’s capital 
structure and has commenced discussions with certain major 
shareholders and other significant stakeholders on a range of possible 
options available to restructure the securitisations in a consensual way, 
so as to enable the securitisations to continue to comply with their 
financial covenants (including the DSCR covenant) without the need  
for ongoing Group support.
•  The Board are of the opinion that it is in the best interests of 
stakeholders to agree to a consensual restructuring of the 
securitisations and the Directors are of the view that a consensual 
restructuring can be achieved.
Interest rate risk
Punch is exposed to interest rate risk from loan notes and borrows  
at both fixed and floating rates of interest. 
The use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments 
exposes Punch to fair value interest rate risk such that Punch would not 
benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned 
costs, such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial 
instruments be restructured or repaid early. As at the year end,  
the fair value liability of interest swap agreements was £331m.
Further information on Punch’s financial instruments can be found in  
note 23 to the financial statements.
•  Punch employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate 
swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile. 
•  Punch has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 100%  
of all external debt (August 2011: 100%) was either at fixed rates or 
was converted to fixed rates as a result of swap arrangements,  
reducing our exposure to changes in interest rates
•  Future debt requirements are closely monitored to assist  
management in identifying the appropriate strategy for interest  
rate hedge arrangements. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
09
Business review
Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls
Financial
Pensions
Punch has a defined benefit pension scheme which must be funded to 
meet required benefit payments. The value and funding of the scheme  
is subject to risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected  
price inflation, changes in bond yields and future salary increases.  
The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities  
may vary resulting in an increased deficit being recognised on our 
balance sheet. 
•  The defined benefit pension scheme is closed to new members; and 
instead we operate defined contribution schemes for our employees.
•  We maintain a close relationship with the trustees of the  
pension scheme. 
Internal financial control 
Punch is committed to maintaining a robust internal control environment. 
A lack of control could result in financial fraud or material error in our 
financial statements. 
 
•  Robust internal controls operate over all key processes including  
general controls such as segregation of duties and authorisation  
of contracts and expenditure. 
•  The Internal Audit function reviews and reports on strengths and 
weaknesses in the internal control environment. 
Change management
Punch is reliant on the successful implementation of change  
programmes to deliver both day-to-day operational improvements and 
our strategic plan. 
 
•  Formal project management processes are used across the business to 
prepare project objectives and plans and to ensure progress is tracked 
and results measured.
•  Major projects are well communicated across the business so that  
a joined up approach is maintained.
Operational and People
Information systems, technology and security
Punch is reliant upon information systems and technology for many 
aspects of its business, which could cause damage if they were to fail  
for any length of time. 
 
•  An incident management and business continuity plan is in place for 
critical business processes to ensure the business is able to continue 
operating in the event of a major incident.
•  We have an off-site disaster recovery facility if access to our support 
centre, or its systems, is affected. 
Product quality
Punch is exposed to product quality risk in relation to drink which is 
supplied to us and sold on to our Partners. 
 
•  Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is 
maintained and that drink products are fully traceable.
•  Our incident management plan is designed so that products can be 
recalled quickly if required.
Supply chain management
Punch places reliance on our key suppliers and distributors to ensure 
continuous supply of food, drink and other products into our pubs. 
Punch is exposed to the risk of interruption or failure of suppliers or 
distributors, resulting in our products not being delivered on time  
or to our required standards. 
 
•  Punch has reviewed the disaster recovery and business continuity plans 
of our key distributors. 
•  We monitor product quality closely and consider action which may be 
required to provide substitute products or suppliers if required.
People risks
Failure to recruit, train and successfully retain successful Partners, and 
high calibre employees for our support teams may impact the ability  
to deliver our strategic five-year plan and operational objectives. 
 
 
 
•  We provide industry leading induction training and coaching 
programmes for our new Partners.
•  We have improved our succession planning at all levels to ensure we 
attract and retain high calibre people.
•  We carry out an annual Employee Engagement Survey and regular 
listening groups to obtain direct feedback from our employees. 
•  We have a remuneration strategy to ensure our teams are paid fairly 
and competitively. 
Regulatory
Health and safety
A health and safety accident or incident could lead to serious illness, 
injury or even loss of life to one of our Partners, employees or visitors,  
or significantly impact Punch’s reputation. 
 
•  A health and safety management committee meets to consider all 
aspects of health and safety across Punch and to report to the Board  
of Directors on the status of health and safety.
•  We have formally documented and briefed health and safety policies 
for our support centre and field-based teams and carry out annual risk 
assessments in key areas.
Changes in legislation
Punch is subject to many different areas of regulation, many due to the 
high level of control over the sale of alcohol. Increasing focus in areas 
such as binge drinking, underage drinking, and health impacts over 
recent years also means that the Government may introduce further 
regulation which may significantly affect our business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Punch works closely with our Partners and the rest of the industry to 
address the key issues facing the pub sector.
•  We actively participate in consultation processes and have attended 
consultation meetings discussing the Government’s ‘Rebalancing the 
Licensing Act’ initiative.
•  We work closely with the BBPA and other industry bodies and have 
provided input into the Institute of Licensing’s response to the 
Government’s ‘Rebalancing the Licensing Act’ initiative.
•  We ensure that our training covers all aspects of licensing requirements 
and have due diligence in place to confirm that our pubs meet relevant 
licensing legislation.
•  Punch works closely with local Licensing Boards, to ensure individual 
pub licensing requirements are met and any issues are highlighted as 
soon as possible.
•  Punch’s Code of Practice exceeds the requirements of the Pub Industry 
Framework Code (Version 5 Dec 2011), with the 3rd edition being 
accredited by the British Institute of Innkeeping in April 2012. Any 
amendments to the Code of Practice will be in line with the Pub 
Industry Framework Code and will not fall below those standards.  
The Punch Code of Practice clearly sets out the promises we make  
and exactly how we intend to honour them. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
10
Financial review
Steve Dando Finance Director
Results for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012:
Underlying results
2012
£m
2011
£m
Revenue 491.7 521.7
Operating costs (257.1) (268.0)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture 3.4 4.0
EBITDA 238.0 257.7
Depreciation and amortisation (13.5) (16.5)
Net finance costs (160.5) (164.9)
Profit before taxation 64.0 76.3
Tax (16.0) (21.3)
Net earnings 48.0 55.0
Basic EPS 7.2p 8.6p
The underlying financial results have been impacted by the 
decline in on-trade drinks volumes, pub failures and negative 
rent reviews together with the ongoing strategic disposal 
programme. Despite the challenging UK consumer environment 
average net income per pub was broadly flat over the year, 
benefiting from the disposal of underperforming assets.
Underlying results
2012
£m
2011
£m
Average pub numbers 4,791 5,232
Year end pub numbers 4,529 5,004
Revenue 
Drink 351.4 368.1
Rent 127.3 139.3
Machine income & other 13.0 14.3
Total revenue 491.7 521.7
Gross margin
Drink 147.9 163.1
Rent 126.8 139.4
Machine income & other 12.5 13.5
Total gross margin 287.2 316.0
Revenue declined by 6% to £492m with an 8% decline in 
underlying EBITDA. This compares to a reduction in the average 
estate size of 8%. 
Net underlying financing costs decreased by 3% to £161m 
primarily due to the net repayment of £70m of debt, of which 
£14m was ahead of schedule. The weighted average interest 
rate for the Group’s borrowings, including the impact of interest 
rate swaps, at the balance sheet date is 6.9%. Underlying profit 
before tax was £64m, a decrease of 16% on last year. The tax 
charge before non-underlying items of £16m equates to an 
effective tax rate of 25%. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
11
Business review
Non-underlying items
There is a net non-underlying profit after tax of £3m. This 
reflects a £11m charge arising from the movement in the fair 
value of certain interest rate swaps, a £3m charge for asset 
write-downs, a £1m goodwill charge and a £4m charge for 
restructuring costs. These charges were offset by a £1m profit 
on disposal of properties, a £2m credit for the buy back of debt 
at below par prices and a £4m credit relating to share schemes. 
The tax effect of all of these items, together with the resolution 
of prior year tax matters, gave rise to a tax credit of £15m.
Earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share have decreased by 16%  
to 7.2p. The basic earnings per share of 7.7p has been impacted 
by the non-underlying items detailed above.
Dividends
The Board is not proposing to recommend a final dividend 
for the year, and it is unlikely that the Board will be able to 
recommend any distributions to shareholders prior to the 
implementation of a restructuring. In the current climate  
it remains prudent to retain cash reserves and to further 
strengthen the balance sheet.
Capital structure and cash flow
The nominal value of net debt decreased by £137m, 6% in the 
year to £2,126m. Net borrowings at the year end comprise:
2012
£m
2011
£m
Cash (263.9) (196.5)
Debt
Securitised loans due within 1 year 57.4 56.2
Securitised loans due after 1 year 2,332.9 2,403.9
Nominal value of gross debt 2,390.3 2,460.1
Nominal value of net debt 2,126.4 2,263.6
In addition to the £264m of cash resources as at 18 August 2012, 
the Group also held £315m of restricted cash (cash drawn 
against liquidity facility agreements following a credit rating 
downgrade in June 2012 to the liquidity facility provider, The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc). The restricted cash is ring 
fenced from an operational perspective and cannot be utilised 
for any activities other than their original purpose and matches 
a corresponding cash-backed borrowings liability.
The Group has been cash generative across the year. Strong 
cash generation of £216m at the operational level has enabled 
the Group to continue to invest in the Punch estate with £42m 
of capital investment. Cash flow has been further enhanced  
by £130m of cash generated from disposals.
Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the 
Annual Report, the Directors are required to consider whether 
the Group can continue as a going concern for the foreseeable 
future; that is for at least 12 months from the date of signing  
of this Report. After making enquiries, and considering the 
matters which are described in note 1 to the financial 
statements, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis. 
However, the Directors are making full disclosure, as required  
by accounting standards, to indicate the existence of material 
uncertainties facing parts of the business. Further details are  
set out in the note 1 to the financial statements.
Current trading and outlook
Trading in the first eight weeks of the new financial year has 
been in line with management expectations. While the UK 
consumer environment is likely to remain challenging in the 
short-term, we have a clear operational plan to return the core 
estate to growth in the medium-term and extract maximum 
value from our non-core assets. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
12
Our pubs
We have 3,000 of the highest quality tenanted and leased 
pubs in the UK in our core division. Our plan remains to 
invest in our core estate to fulfil their full potential over 
the long term for both Punch and our Partners.
Investments
More than 400 pubs have been invested 
in this year to make them the very best  
of type in their area with an increased 
average spend of £90,000 per pub. 
Investment has focused on pubs with 
new Partners, where we can create a 
better pub environment and to start or 
grow food sales.
Disposal programme
Due to a well planned and executed 
disposal programme, 475 non core pubs 
have been sold from our estate together 
with other assets for proceeds of £130m, 
£1m ahead of book value. There are 
1,595 non core pubs remaining in our 
turnaround division where our teams are 
focused on maximising profits from these 
pubs as we dispose of them over the next 
few years. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
13
Business review
Our partners
We have the best tenanted and leased pubs so 
we want to attract and retain the most innovative 
and talented people to run them.
Flexible leases
There are now more than 200 Punch 
Buying Club leases in place which reward 
our Partners for outperformance. New 
Partners are increasingly being attracted 
to leases over tenancies and Partner 
retention is also improving with an 
average lease length of over 5 years.
Innovative recruitment
We have implemented a range of 
innovative and industry leading 
recruitment methods targeting multiple 
operators and microbrewers. As a result 
our applicant numbers have risen by 25% 
and we have a significantly increased 
talent bank of quality prospects wanting 
to run their own pub. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
14
Punch support
We aim to provide the best Partner support in the 
sector, helping our Partners to build their businesses 
at the heart of their communities.
Code of Practice
Our BIIBAS accredited Code of Practice 
forms the foundation for our relationship 
with our Partners, laying out clearly what 
they can expect from us and what we 
expect from them. The Code of Practice 
is now legally binding and has been  
rolled out and embedded in all areas  
of our business.
Summer of Our Lives
The Summer of Our Lives competition 
encouraged every one of our pubs to 
make plans for the packed summer 
schedule of Olympics, Euros and the 
Queen’s Jubilee. Hundreds of pubs took 
part with the winner, The Bell at Kesgrave, 
receiving a dray of beer and extensive 
press coverage, as well cementing its 
place at the heart of the community. 
Buying Club success
The Punch Buying Club has continued  
to grow with more than 2,800 Partners 
now online, ordering 45% of drinks 
orders through the site. More than  
48% of pubs attended the Buying Club 
Roadshows, which were supported by  
a series of Spring Fairs and Partner events 
throughout the year. The UK’s biggest 
darts competition and pub quiz also took 
place under the Buying Club banner, with 
thousands of event nights taking place in 
the run up to the national finals. 
Developing food
We believe that wherever possible  
food should be part of successful pub 
businesses. Our industry leading team  
of catering development managers have 
completed more than 1,900 Partner visits 
to introduce and develop the pub’s food 
offer, increasing the estimated food sales 
mix in our pubs by 3% to 24%.
Training 
Our Partner training programme provides 
support for Partners from day one of 
their relationship with us. Our Partners 
took part in more than 4,067 days of 
training, ranging from the Ready for 
Business Programme completed by all 
new Partners to bespoke site specific 
training for investments. This year has 
also seen the company’s accreditation  
by the BII for the Level 4 qualification in 
Multiple Licensed Premises Management 
and continuing involvement in the Level 7 
Masters qualification in partnership with 
Leeds Metropolitan University.
Partnership Development Managers
The Partnership Development Manager 
(PDM) role has now been rolled out in the 
business, which is focused on helping our 
core pubs grow their business to its full 
potential. An ongoing programme of 
Continuing Professional Development is in 
place and as part of the same programme 
all PDMs will complete the BII Level 4 in 
Multiple Licensed Premises Management.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
15
Business review
Our people and CSR
We want our people to be the very best  
in the business with Partner first attitudes 
and a passion for pubs.
An award winning business
We are proud to have received a ‘Highly 
Commended’ award for Best Leased and 
Tenanted Pub Company at the Publican 
Awards. We are equally proud of those 
pubs who were finalists at the Great 
British Pub Awards and the 263 pubs 
which appeared in the CAMRA Good 
Beer Guide. Punch employees were also 
recognised at the ALMR Operations 
Manager of the Year awards, where  
the company had three finalists. 
Pubs at the heart of the community
We recognise the role of the pub at the 
heart of the community and continue to 
support the Pub is the Hub initiative, 
through funding and active participation 
in regional advisory boards by our senior 
management team.
Licensed trade charity
For the fourth year running, Punch has 
funded the Licensed Trade Charity’s 
volunteer visitor programme, which 
covers the training and travel expenses  
of volunteers who give support to people 
in crisis who are working in or retired 
from the trade.
Responsible Retailing
We believe that the vast majority of  
pubs throughout the UK already provide 
a well regulated environment for the 
responsible retailing of alcohol. We 
remain committed to building on this 
through our support of Drinkaware  
and as signatories of the Portman Group 
and through our active promotion of  
the ‘Why Let the Good Times Go Bad?’ 
campaign to tackle binge drinks.
All of our Partners receive extensive 
responsible retail training as part of  
our Ready for Business training course,  
which is compulsory for all new Partners.
VAT Club
We believe the economic case for 
reduction in VAT in the hospitality sector 
is compelling with the potential to create 
thousands of new jobs and have given 
our full support to the VAT Club 
campaign led by Jacques Borel. 
Proud Awards
We continue to reward and recognise  
our teams for their hard work through 
our internal recognition scheme – the 
PROUD awards. Our PROUD values were 
refreshed and re-communicated at our 
conference, a company wide business 
update which took place in Burton. 
Punch Community Promise
Through our offices in Burton, the Punch 
Community Promise initiative continues 
to support dozens of local causes in 
Staffordshire with more than just money. 
Each staff member has one day a year 
allocated to volunteer for a local charity. 
Lobbying for change 
Punch continues to play a full role in the 
pub sector through membership of the 
BBPA and support for the BII, ALMR and 
FLVA. Through our membership of the  
All Party Parliamentary Beer Group we 
have invited almost a dozen MPs to work 
a shift in our pubs and we continue to 
engage with MPs and other stakeholders 
in the community on a regular basis.  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
16
Board of Directors
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer
Angus Porter Senior Independent Director
John Allkins Independent Non-executive Director Ian Dyson Non-executive Director
Stephen Billingham Chairman
Steve Dando Finance Director
Ian Fraser Independent Non-executive Director Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
17
Governance
Stephen Billingham Chairman
Stephen Billingham, 54, joined Punch Taverns as Chairman  
in September 2011. He was Finance Director of British Energy 
Group plc, playing an instrumental role in delivering the 
turnaround and strong performance of the business, its relisting, 
its move up to the FTSE 100 and the sale to EDF in 2009 for 
£12.5bn. Prior to this, Stephen was Group Finance Director of 
WS Atkins plc during its successful financial recovery and has 
been Group Treasurer of BICC plc (now Balfour Beatty plc)  
and Severn Trent plc. Stephen is currently Chairman of Royal 
Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust and a Government appointed 
Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
of URENCO Ltd.
Steve Dando Finance Director 
Steve Dando, 40, joined Punch Taverns in 2003 as Chief 
Accountant and was promoted to Group Financial Controller  
in 2009 and Finance Director in July 2011. During his time with 
Punch, Steve has played a major role in the development of  
the group and has a wealth of experience, previously holding  
a number of senior finance roles with Courtaulds Plc. Steve is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England  
& Wales and started his career at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
John Allkins Independent Non-executive Director
John Allkins, 63, was appointed as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in October 2012. John is also a 
Non-executive Director of Renold plc, Fairpoint Group plc, 
Linpac Senior Holdings Limited and Albemarle & Bond Holdings 
plc. John has also been a Non-executive Director of Intec 
Telecom Systems plc and Molins plc. He was previously Group 
Finance Director of MyTravel Group plc and Chief Financial 
Officer of Equant NV, prior to which he held a number of 
finance director roles within British Telecom.
Ian Fraser Independent Non-executive Director
Ian Fraser, 55, was appointed as an Independent Non-executive 
Director in September 2004. He started his professional career 
with Deloitte in Glasgow and Paris, qualifying as an accountant 
in 1981. From this he moved to hold various financial positions 
with Esmark, Schlumberger and ADT before joining Safeway 
Stores in the UK in 1989 as a member of the commercial team. 
Following several senior positions Ian was appointed as Buying 
Director of Safeway in 1994. In 2000 he joined Orange UK to 
lead the Retail and Distribution Division and was appointed 
Chief Operating Officer of the UK group in 2003. In February 
2005 he was appointed by CVC as CEO of Kwik Fit, a position 
he held until the successful sale to the Itochu Corporation  
in June 2011. He was appointed CEO of Enterprise Plc in 
November 2011. Ian is a graduate of The University of Glasgow, 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland 
and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement  
of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce. He was also invited  
to become a Keeper of the Quaich in 1997.
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer
Roger Whiteside, 54, was appointed Chief Executive Officer  
of Punch in August 2011 following the demerger of Spirit.  
Prior to that he was Managing Director of Punch Partnerships, 
the leased division of the pre-demerger group. Prior to joining 
Punch Roger was CEO of the Thresher Group and has also held 
roles as Joint Managing Director of Ocado and Head of Food 
for Marks and Spencer. In addition, Roger is a Non-executive 
Director of Greggs plc.
Angus Porter Senior Independent Director
Angus Porter is the Senior Independent Director and also 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Angus Porter,  
aged 55, was appointed as Senior Independent Director and 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2012. He is 
currently the CEO of the Professional Cricketers’ Association, 
and a Non-executive Director of Direct Wines Limited and TDC. 
In his career to date, Angus has been a Non-executive Director 
of MyTravel Group, Alliance and Leicester, and Thomas Cook, 
and has held senior Executive positions at Mars, British Telecom, 
Abbey National and WPP. 
Ian Dyson Non-executive Director
Ian Dyson, 50, joined Punch Taverns as CEO in September 2010. 
Following the demerger of Spirit in August 2011, Ian was 
appointed Chief Executive Officer of Spirit Pub Company and 
became a Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns. Ian was 
previously with Marks and Spencer plc where he was Group 
Finance and Operations Director and prior to that Group 
Finance Director. He also held roles as Finance Director of The 
Rank Group plc and Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.  
Ian is also a Non-executive Director of Betfair Group plc. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
18
Directors’ report
The Directors present their Annual Report to shareholders on 
the affairs of the Group and the Company together with the 
audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended  
18 August 2012.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is 
provided in other appropriate sections of the full Annual Report 
and Financial Statements 2012. These include the Business 
review, the Corporate governance statement, the Report on 
Directors’ remuneration and the Group financial statements  
and these are accordingly incorporated into this Directors’ 
report by reference.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the period are set out in the 
Consolidated income statement on page 37. As announced on 
24 October 2012 the Directors will not be proposing the 
payment of a final dividend. 
Principal activity and review of the business
The Group’s main trading activity is the operation of public 
houses under the leased model. This involves the granting of 
leases to tenants who operate the pub as their own business, 
paying rent to the Group, purchasing beer and other drinks 
from the Group and entering into profit-sharing arrangements 
for income from leisure machines. 
A review of the period’s activities and future developments,  
and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the 
Group, are included in the Business review. The management of 
business risk is set out in the Corporate governance statement 
and Our risks and uncertainties on pages 21 and 07 of this 
report and key performance indicators are shown on page 01. 
The Group’s risk management policies in relation to the use of 
financial instruments are set out in note 23 to the Group 
financial statements.
Directors and their interests
The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 16  
to 17. 
During the period, the following board changes took place:
•	 on 15 September 2011, Peter Cawdron retired as Chairman  
of the Board and Stephen Billingham was appointed in his 
place; and
•	 On 31 March 2012, Mark Pain stepped down as Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director and Angus Porter was 
appointed in his place.
On 25 October 2012, subsequent to the year end, John Allkins 
will be appointed a Non-executive Director.
Details of Directors’ service contracts are contained within  
the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 27 to 35.
The procedure for the appointment, replacement and 
re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination  
and Governance Committee is disclosed in the Corporate 
governance statement on pages 21 to 26.
At the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting 
(AGM), to be held on 14 December 2012, Angus Porter and 
John Allkins will offer themselves for election in accordance 
with the Company’s Articles of Association, this being the first 
opportunity for shareholders to approve their appointments. 
Stephen Billingham, Ian Dyson, Roger Whiteside and  
Steve Dando will all stand for re-election at the forthcoming 
AGM. Ian Fraser will retire at the forthcoming AGM and will not 
seek re-election. The biographical details of each Director can 
be found on pages 16 to 17 of this report.
The beneficial interests of Directors and their connected 
persons, who held office at 18 August 2012, in the share capital 
of the Company are shown below.
At
19 October
2012
Ordinary
shares
At
18 August
2012
Ordinary
shares
At
20 August
2011
Ordinary
shares
Stephen Billingham 0 0 N/A
Roger Whiteside 31,465 31,465 29,892
Steve Dando 24,535 24,535 23,146
Ian Dyson 304,168 404,168 402,084
Ian Fraser 29,177 29,177 29,177
Angus Porter 0 0 N/A
A statement of the Directors’ remuneration and their interests 
in the various share incentive schemes of the Company is set 
out in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 27  
to 35.
No notification has been received of any change in the interests 
of the Directors and their connected persons during the period 
18 August 2012 to 19 October 2012 with the exception of the 
sale on 22 August 2012 of 100,000 ordinary shares held by Ian 
Dyson through a personal pension plan. These shares were sold 
due to an administrative action taken by the manager of the 
pension plan and not as a result of an instruction from  
Ian Dyson.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract 
with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the period.
Powers of the Directors
Subject to the Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 
and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, 
the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who 
may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Directors’ conflicts of interests
During the period, the Board has continued to review the 
interests of the Directors and their connected persons and  
has authorised any interests which conflicted or potentially 
conflicted with the interests of the Company. The Nomination 
and Governance Committee will continue to conduct periodic 
reviews of conflict authorisations to determine whether the 
authorisation given should continue, be added to or be revoked 
by the Board.
Directors’ indemnity
As governed by the Companies Act 2006, the Group maintains 
liability insurance for its Directors and officers. On 26 February 
2006 a subsidiary company within the Group, Punch Taverns 
(PGE) Limited, granted indemnity cover for the benefit of the 
Group’s Directors and officers. The indemnity is uncapped in 
amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they 
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director  
or officer of the Group, and was in effect during the financial 
year and continues to date. Neither the indemnity nor insurance 
cover provides cover in the event that a Director or officer is 
proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
19
Governance
Substantial shareholdings
As at 19 October 2012, being the last practicable day prior to 
the publication of this report, the Company has been notified  
of the following substantial interests (representing 3% or more) 
in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Shareholding made up of:
Shareholder
Total 
holding
Ordinary
 shares
Contracts for
 difference
Total return
 swaps
Glenview Capital   
 Management LLC 18.21% 18.21% – –
Luxor Capital  
 Group LLC 11.79% – – 11.79%
Octavian 
 Advisors LP 9.34% – – 9.34%
Aberforth   
 Partners 9.33% 9.33% – –
Alchemy Special   
 Opportunities LLP 7.60% 7.60% – –
Avenue Europe   
 Management Ltd 6.04% – 6.04% –
Legal & General   
 Investment   
 Management Ltd 3.45% 3.45% – –
 
Political and charitable contributions
During the period the Group made charitable contributions  
of £28,250 which included £20,000 of trade volunteer 
sponsorship and £6,750 sponsorship of trade awards  
(2011: £17,943). No political contributions were made  
during the period (2011: nil).
The Company does not make political donations and has no 
intention of making donations nor incurring such expenditure. 
As the relevant legislation is very broadly drafted the Company, 
as a precautionary measure, includes a resolution at the AGM  
to permit the Company to make political donations and incur 
political expenditure.
Employees 
The total number of employees at the end of the period was 
454. The Group recognises the value of its employees and seeks 
to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment  
in which to work. It places considerable importance on 
communications with employees which take place at many 
levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal 
level. We hold regular staff briefings and events, and  
evaluate staff motivation and morale through an annual 
engagement survey.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and 
the Group operates an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan 
(SIP) which is open to all employees of the Group including the 
Executive Directors. Currently, 130 eligible employees participate 
in the SIP which provides employees with the opportunity of 
purchasing £1,500 of shares per annum out of pre-tax salary 
either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis (partnership 
shares) and the Company awarding additional shares on a  
1:1 ratio (matching shares). The partnership shares are held  
in trust, using an Employee Benefit Trust (EBT), for a period  
of three years at the end of which the matching shares will 
normally be released provided that the partnership shares have 
been retained and that the employee is still employed by the 
Group at this time. During this time the shares are beneficially 
owned by employees, attract voting rights and are eligible  
for dividends. The voting rights in respect of these shares  
are exercised by the trustees on behalf of the employees. 
If after three years the employee elects to keep the matching 
shares in the EBT for a further two years (i.e. after a total period 
of five years) the matching shares are released to the employee 
free of tax and National Insurance.
The Group is committed to promoting diversity across the 
Group. To this end, the Group is committed to providing equal 
opportunities in recruitment, promotion, career development, 
training and reward to all employees without discrimination. 
The Group gives full consideration to applications for 
employment from disabled persons where the requirements of 
the job can be adequately fulfilled by such persons. The Group 
continues to be supportive of the employment of disabled 
persons in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, 
provided that they can be employed in a safe working 
environment. Where existing employees become disabled,  
it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide 
continuing employment under normal terms and conditions.
The environment
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral  
to its business operation.
Creditor payment policy and practice
It is the Group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between 
the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms 
and conditions have been complied with. At 18 August 2012 
the Company had nil (2011: nil) days’ purchases outstanding  
in trade creditors.
Significant agreements
The Company is party to certain non-material agreements 
(including trust deeds relating to the Company’s employee share 
incentive plans) that contain change of control provisions in the 
event of the takeover of the Company but these are not 
considered to be significant on an individual basis.
Additional information for shareholders
At 18 August 2012, the Company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of shares known as ordinary shares. 
The Share capital note on page 75 of this report contains full 
details of shares allotted and provides an explanation of the 
movements in share capital, during the period. Only 1,165,508 
partnership shares, in respect of the Company’s SIP, totalling 
£557.81, were purchased by the Company during the period.
At the last AGM, held on 16 December 2011, the Company 
obtained shareholder authority to buy back up to 65,993,084 
shares (representing approximately 10% of the Company’s 
ordinary shares in issue as 31 October 2011). It was made clear 
that this authority would only be exercised by the Directors after 
they had given due consideration to the effects on earnings per 
share and the benefits for shareholders. During the period, the 
Directors did not exercise their right to buy back any of the 
Company’s shares currently in issue. This authority is due to 
expire at the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM where 
new authority to buy back up to 66,484,671 shares 
(representing approximately 10% of the Company’s ordinary 
shares in issue as at the date of the AGM Notice) will be sought.  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
20
Directors’ report continued
Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for 
Directors to allot up to 221,615,571 shares in the Company 
(representing approximately one-third of the Company’s 
ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) as at the date 
of the AGM Notice) and up to 443,231,141 equity securities 
(representing approximately two-thirds of the Company’s 
ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares) as at the date 
of the AGM Notice. This will replace the authority granted by 
shareholders at the Company’s previous AGM. The Board  
will also seek authority to disapply pre-emption rights over 
33,242,336 shares (representing approximately 5% of the 
Company’s ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the  
AGM Notice). 
The Directors have no present intention to exercise any of the 
above authorities except to satisfy the allotment of shares  
under the Company’s employee share incentive plans.
Further details of the above resolutions are contained within  
the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company 
other than: (i) those which may from time to time be applicable 
under existing laws and regulations (for example under the 
Market Abuse Directive); (ii) pursuant to the Company’s dealing 
code whereby persons discharging managerial responsibilities 
(and their connected persons) of the Company require approval 
from the Company to deal in the Company’s securities and are 
prohibited from dealing during a ‘close period’ and (iii) those 
contained in any restriction notice (as defined in the Articles  
of Association) issued by the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the shares in the 
Company other than those contained in any restriction notice 
issued by the Company of which none is currently in issue.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or on voting rights. In addition, there are no people 
holding securities that carry special rights with regard to control 
of the Company.
There are no provisions contained in any of the Directors’ or 
employees’ service contracts which provide for compensation 
for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a 
takeover bid.
General meetings
At a general meeting of the Company’s shareholders, the 
Company’s Articles of Association may be amended by special 
resolution. Also at a general meeting of the Company’s 
shareholders on a show of hands every member who is present 
in person and by proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote.  
On a poll every member who is present in person and by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.  
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation  
to their holdings provided that each proxy does not vote in 
relation to the same shares. The Notice of Meeting sent to 
shareholders with this report gives full details of deadlines for 
exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to 
vote in relation to resolutions to be considered at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Post-balance sheet events
Subsequent to the year end there were no post balance  
sheet events.
Forward looking statements
The financial information in the business review should be read 
in conjunction with the audited financial statements. Readers 
are cautioned that forward looking statements are not 
guarantees of future performance and involve risks and 
uncertainties. The discussion of estimated amounts generated 
from the sensitivity analyses is forward looking and also involves 
risks and uncertainties. Caution should be exercised in relying 
on these analyses. Actual results may differ materially from 
those in forward looking statements.
Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the 
Annual Report, the Directors are required to consider whether 
the Group can continue as a going concern for the foreseeable 
future; that is for at least 12 months from the date of signing of 
this Report. After making enquiries, and considering the matters 
which are described in note 1, the Directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a 
going concern basis. However, the Directors are making full 
disclosure, as required by accounting standards, to indicate the 
existence of material uncertainties facing parts of the business. 
Further details are set out in note 1.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information  
to auditors
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware 
and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditors are aware of that information. 
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Company’s 
auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board of Directors
Ed Bashforth
Company Secretary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
21
Governance
Corporate governance statement
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance and demonstrates this by being fully compliant with 
all the provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the ‘Code’) and chapter 7 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules (the ‘DTR’) throughout the period from 21 August 2011 to 
18 August 2012. A copy of the Code is available on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website (www.frc.org.uk).
This report, together with the Directors’ report (which  
includes information as required by section 7.2.6 of the DTR,  
as permitted by section 7.2.9 of the DTR) and the Report on 
Directors’ remuneration, provides an overview of how the 
Group has applied the principles of the Code throughout the 
period. It details the work and activities undertaken by the 
Company’s relevant Committees and sets out the key features 
of the Company’s governance structure. 
The Role of the Board
The Company is headed by an effective Board which  
is collectively responsible for the long-term success  
of the Company. 
The work of the Board is structured around scheduled Board 
meetings which are linked to key events in the Company’s 
corporate calendar, with additional meetings and conference 
calls convened to consider matters which are time-critical or 
which require further discussion.
Together the Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s 
shareholders for the Group’s performance and sets the strategic 
aims and objectives of the Group to fulfil this responsibility.  
The Board determines the Company’s key policies, agrees on 
performance criteria and delegates to senior management their 
planning and implementation. Overall, the Board ensures that 
all necessary resources are in place in order for the Company to 
meet its objectives and that all decisions are taken objectively 
and in the interest of the Company and its shareholders.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational 
management of the Company to the Executive Directors and 
other senior management, it retains a schedule of matters 
which are dealt with by the Board. These include, amongst 
others, strategy and management, structure and capital, 
financial reporting and controls, significant contracts, material 
acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
During the period the Board held 14 scheduled Board meetings, 
the attendance of which was as follows:
Director meetings
Board
 meetings
Nomination
 and
 Governance
 Committee
 meetings
Audit 
and Risk
 Committee
 meetings
Remuneration
 Committee
 meetings
Roger Whiteside 14/14 N/A N/A N/A
Steve Dando 14/14 N/A N/A N/A
Stephen Billingham
1
14/14 4/4 N/A 2/2
Angus Porter
2
6/6 1/1 2/2 1/1
Ian Dyson
3
14/14 4/4 6/6 3/3
Ian Fraser
4
14/14 4/4 6/6 3/3
Peter Cawdron
5
1/1 0/0 N/A 1/1
Mark Pain
6
8/8 3/3 4/4 2/2
1
  Stephen Billingham was appointed to the Board as Chairman on  
15 September 2011 to replace Peter Cawdron. Stephen was appointed 
Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee and was appointed 
as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
2
  Angus Porter was appointed to the Board as the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director in place of Mark Pain on 31 March 2012 and was 
appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and a member of the 
Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
3
   Ian Dyson is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Nomination and 
Governance Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
4
   Ian Fraser will step down as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on  
25 October 2012 and will be replaced by the newly appointed Non-executive 
Director John Allkins. Ian remains a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, 
Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
5
  Peter Cawdron retired as Chairman of the Board on 15 September 2011  
and was replaced by Stephen Billingham. Peter also retired as Chairman  
of the Nomination and Governance Committee and as a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
6
  Mark Pain resigned as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2012. Mark also 
resigned as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination 
and Governance Committee.
Division of Responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of 
the Company between the running of the Board and the 
executive responsibility for the running of the Company’s 
business. No one individual has unfettered powers  
of decision.  
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer which has been formally 
documented and approved by the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects 
of its role. 
On 15 September 2011, Stephen Billingham was appointed 
Chairman following the retirement of Peter Cawdron.  
On appointment, Stephen Billingham met the independence 
criteria set out in the Code.
 
As Chairman of the Board, Stephen Billingham is  
responsible for:
•	 the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and 
setting its agenda; 
•	 ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion  
of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues;
•	 arranging the regular evaluation of the performance  
of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors;
•	 promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating 
the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and 
ensuring constructive relations between Executive and 
Non-executive Directors;
•	 ensuring that, through the Company Secretary, the members 
of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information; 
•	 ensuring effective communication with shareholders. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
22
Corporate governance statement continued
The Chief Executive Officer, supported by the Finance Director, 
is responsible for:
•	 developing strategic operating plans;
•	 preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for 
the Group and closely monitoring performance against plans 
and budgets; 
•	 ensuring effective communication with shareholders; and 
•	 overseeing the day-to-day management of the Group.
Non-executive Directors
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, 
Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and  
help develop proposals on strategy. 
In addition to their attendance at Board and Committee 
meetings, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met 
without the Executive Directors to discuss the operational 
performance of the Group as a whole. During the period, the 
Non-executive Directors have also had the opportunity to meet 
without the Chairman to review his performance in line with 
the Company’s objectives.
The Company actively encourages its Non-executive  
Directors to:
•	 challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the  
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors;
•	 scrutinise the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives;
•	 monitor the reporting of performance;
•	 satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information 
and that financial controls and systems of risk management 
are robust and defensible; and
•	 ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession 
planning arrangements are in place in relation to the 
Executive Directors and other senior members of the 
management team.
If not satisfied with the outcome, the Non-executive Directors 
can record their concerns in the Company’s Board Minutes until 
action is taken to remedy their concern.
Angus Porter was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director replacing Mark Pain who stepped down 
from the Board on 31 March 2012. The Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director is responsible for:
•	 supporting the Chairman;
•	 leading the other Non-executive Directors in the review  
of the Chairman;
•	 monitoring the division of responsibilities between  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and
•	 being available to shareholders to express any concerns  
which the Executive Directors have failed to resolve  
in a satisfactorily manner.
The Composition of the Board
The Board and its committees have the appropriate 
balance of skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge 
their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.  
The Board includes an appropriate combination of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors so that no individual or small  
group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making. 
The Board has two Executive and four Non-executive Directors.
On 15 September 2011, Stephen Billingham was appointed  
as Chairman of the Board following the retirement of  
Peter Cawdron.
On 31 March 2012 Mark Pain stepped down as a Non-executive 
Director and was replaced by Angus Porter.
On 25 October 2012 John Allkins will be appointed a 
Non-executive Director.
It is considered that the Board is of sufficient size that the 
balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the size  
of the business.
When deciding chairmanship and membership of committees 
the Board takes into account that undue reliance is not placed 
on particular individuals.
No one other than the committee chairman and members is 
entitled to be present at a meeting of the Nomination and 
Governance, Audit and Risk or Remuneration Committees,  
but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
The Board has assessed the independence of its Non-executive 
Directors against the provisions of the Code and has concluded 
that, under the definitions used, Ian Fraser, Angus Porter and 
John Allkins are independent in character and judgement and 
have no relationships that are likely to affect, or could appear  
to affect, their judgement as Directors of the Company. Due to 
his length of service as a Non-executive Director Ian Fraser will 
retire at the forthcoming AGM and will not seek re-election. 
Stephen Billingham was also considered independent upon  
his appointment as Chairman. Ian Dyson, due to his previous 
appointment as Chief Executive Officer of the Company until  
his resignation from the role at demerger of the Spirit Business 
from the Punch Group (‘demerger’) on 1 August 2011, is not 
considered to be independent.
Appointments to the Board
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure  
for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.  
During the period, Peter Cawdron resigned as Chairman  
of the Nomination and Governance Committee and Stephen 
Billingham was appointed in his place. Angus Porter was 
appointed as a member of the Committee to replace Mark Pain. 
Subsequent to the year end John Allkins was appointed as  
a member of the Committee. The Committee’s terms of 
reference can be found on the Company’s website  
www.punchtaverns.com.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
23
Governance
During the period the Nomination and Governance Committee 
held 4 scheduled Nomination and Governance Committee 
meetings, the attendance of which is shown in the table  
on page 21.
Senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Company Secretary, may be invited to attend for part or all 
of each meeting. 
The main purpose of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee is to review the structure, size and composition 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience) of the  
Board, lead the process for Board appointments and  
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
adjustments that are deemed necessary. Other areas of 
responsibilities include:
•	 consideration of the Company’s succession plans which are in 
place for Board members and the senior management team;
•	 the identification, evaluation and nomination of candidates  
to fill Board vacancies;
•	 reviewing Directors’ conflicts of interests and making 
recommendations to the Board to authorise such conflicts 
where applicable;
•	 regularly reviewing the membership of the Company’s 
committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed upon 
certain individuals; and
•	 making recommendations in respect of Board re-election  
by shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director chaired the 
Nomination and Governance Committee meetings at which 
candidates for the appointment as successor of the Chairman  
of the Board were discussed, and at which an appointment  
was recommended. 
All Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms 
subject to re-election and to statutory provisions relating  
to the removal of a Director. Any term beyond six years for  
a Non-executive Director is subject to particularly rigorous 
review and should take into account the need for progressive 
refreshing of the Board. Ian Fraser was appointed in September 
2004 and has therefore exceeded the six year term, Ian will 
retire as a Non-executive Director at the forthcoming AGM  
and will not seek re-election.
When considering new appointments the Company has a 
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure which is based  
on merit and assessed objective criteria. The Nomination  
and Governance Committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience required for the position and 
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required. 
Before any appointment is made the Committee obtains details 
of any interests the candidate may have which conflict or may 
conflict with the interests of the Company and considers 
whether, despite any such conflict, there are nevertheless 
grounds for recommending the candidate for appointment.  
This procedure was utilised during the period in the 
appointments of Stephen Billingham and Angus Porter and also 
in the appointment of John Allkins subsequent to the year end. 
In conjunction with an external recruitment agency, a job 
specification was drawn up, open advertising used and 
interviews undertaken by the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and other Non-executive Directors.
The Company has decided to voluntarily provide data on the 
proportion of women in the workforce, in senior management 
and on the Board. As at the date of this report the percentage 
of women employed in the whole organisation was 43%, 11% 
of the Executive Committee members are female and 25% of 
senior management positions are held by women. 
Whilst there are currently no women on the Board, the 
Nomination and Governance Committee ensures that there  
is an appropriate balance of men and women on any short list 
for Board positions.
Commitment
Directors allocate sufficient time to the Company to 
discharge their responsibilities effectively. 
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive 
Directors are available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business hours and from  
15 minutes prior to and during the Company’s Annual  
General Meeting (AGM). On appointment, the Company’s 
Non-executive Directors are informed of the expected time 
commitment that will be required and is recommended that 
they set aside enough time to demonstrate satisfactory time 
commitment to their new role. Details of other commitments 
and potential conflicts of interest are disclosed to the 
Nomination and Governance Committee and approved before 
appointment, and any subsequent changes are notified to the 
Board. For the appointment of the Chairman, the Nomination 
and Governance Committee prepared a job description which 
included an assessment of the expected time commitment. 
The Company would not agree to the Executive Directors  
taking more than one non-executive directorship in, or the 
chairmanship of, a FTSE 100 company.
Development
All Directors should receive induction on joining the 
Board and should regularly update and refresh their skills 
and knowledge. 
On appointment, the Chairman together with the Company 
Secretary ensures that each Director receives a tailored 
induction programme that includes:
•	 individual time with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer 
and other members of the Board;
•	 meetings with the Company’s external advisors, substantial 
shareholders, brokers and lawyers;
•	 an internal induction course which introduces the Group,  
its divisions and its employees;
•	 visits to the Group’s leased pubs and those of competitors; 
and
•	 external training courses, if required.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director 
their training and development needs. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
24
Corporate governance statement continued
Information and Support
The Board is provided with timely information in a form 
and of quality appropriate to enable it to discharge  
its duties. 
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures 
that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information. 
In preparation for every Board meeting, each Director receives 
documentation including a detailed report on current trading 
and full papers on matters where the Board will be required  
to make a decision or give its approval. These matters are 
discussed during the Board meeting, with the Chief Executive 
Officer and Finance Director giving an overview of how the 
Group is performing against expectations. In addition, the 
Board receives presentations from other members of senior 
management and external advisors to aid their understanding 
when applicable.
All Directors, especially Non-executive Directors, have access  
to independent professional advice at the Company’s expense 
where it is judged necessary to discharge their responsibilities  
as Directors.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is responsible for:
•	 ensuring that good information flows within the Board, its 
Committees and between the Non-executive Directors and 
senior management;
•	 facilitating induction and assisting with professional 
development as required;
•	 advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all  
governance matters;
•	 providing assistance and information on corporate 
administration and legal matters; and
•	 ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all 
applicable legislation and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary  
is a matter for the Board.
Evaluation
The Board undertakes formal and rigorous annual 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its 
Committees and individual Directors 
The Board agreed that, due to the changes at demerger and the 
subsequent Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director appointments made during the year, that it would  
be more effective during the period to undertake a formal 
evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees 
and individual Directors. The Board considered that the best 
means of effectively undertaking this process was a 
combination of self- and peer-assessment. This process was  
led by the Chairman except in relation to his own performance 
as Chairman, which was led by the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. The results of such reviews are 
discussed by the Board and any appropriate action plan agreed.
Re-election
All Directors are submitted for annual re-election subject 
to continued satisfactory performance. 
Under the Company’s Articles of Association all new Directors 
are required to stand for election at the first AGM after their 
appointment. Following their appointments, Angus Porter  
and John Allkins will stand for election at the Company’s 
forthcoming AGM. Stephen Billingham, Ian Dyson, Roger 
Whiteside and Steve Dando, will stand for re-election at the 
forthcoming AGM. Ian Fraser will retire at the forthcoming 
AGM and will not seek re-election. The biographical details of 
each Director can be found on pages 16 to 17 of this report.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board is responsible for determining the nature  
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in 
achieving its strategic objectives. The Board maintains 
sound risk management and internal control systems. 
The Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the 
effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls to 
ensure the effectiveness of those controls in order to safeguard 
shareholders’ interests and Company assets and guarantee that 
robust financial reporting processes are in place, and reports to 
the Board that it has done so. Such systems, including controls 
for financial, operational, compliance and risk management 
matters, are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk 
of failure to achieve the Company’s strategic objectives. 
However, it should be recognised that these systems can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
To enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage the 
significant risks of the Group, the Company has an ongoing 
process, in the form of a risk management framework  
(the Company’s Risk Register), which is regularly reviewed and 
updated by the Board. The processes are in accordance with the 
guidance of the Turnbull Committee and have been in place for 
the whole of the period and up to the date of this report. 
The Board has established, with a view to providing effective 
internal control, the following key procedures:
•	 regular Board meetings to consider the schedule of matters 
reserved for the Board;
•	 a formal annual review of corporate strategy, including 
regular reviews of risks facing the business;
•	 a Company Risk Register which identifies the key risks facing 
the business and how these risks are monitored and managed 
on an ongoing basis;
•	 an established organisational structure with clearly defined 
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority;
•	 documented and enforced policies and procedures;
•	 appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their 
allotted responsibilities;
•	 comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the 
Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with 
performance monitored against them and explanations 
obtained for material variances;
•	 a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board 
approval for major projects (post investment appraisals are 
conducted and are reviewed by the Board); Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
25
Governance
•	 an Internal Audit function which performs continuous 
assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk 
management and the internal control environment;
•	 an Audit and Risk Committee of the Board, comprising 
Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial 
control matters as appropriate;
•	 regular reporting by the Audit and Risk Committee to the 
Board of Directors regarding internal audit, control updates 
and any changes to accounting policies and any accounting 
and legal developments;
•	 documented fraud, anti-bribery and whistleblowing policies 
and procedures, regular review of current whistleblowing 
regulations, and reporting of any whistleblowing incidents  
to the Audit and Risk Committee;
•	 a regular review of treasury policies and activities by the  
Audit and Risk Committee; 
•	 an established programme of management and staff 
development and succession planning; and
•	 formal financial reporting processes for preparation of the 
consolidated accounts.
Using this monitoring process, the Audit and Risk Committee, 
on behalf of the Board, has conducted a review of the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control during the period 
and has considered the material developments which have 
taken place since the year end. The Board is satisfied that the 
review demonstrated that the Company’s internal control 
system is effective.
Audit and Risk Committee and Auditors
The Board has established formal and transparent 
arrangements for considering how it should apply the 
corporate reporting and risk management and internal 
control principles and for maintaining an appropriate 
relationship with the Company’s auditor. 
During the period, following the departure of Mark Pain,  
Angus Porter became a member of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. On 25 October 2012 Ian Fraser will step down  
as Chairman of the Committee and will be replaced by  
John Allkins. Ian remains as a member of the Committee.  
The Committee is made up of four Non-executive Directors, 
John Allkins, Ian Fraser, Angus Porter and Ian Dyson, at least 
one of whom has recent and relevant financial experience.  
John Allkins, Ian Fraser and Angus Porter are independent.  
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found  
on the Company’s website www.punchtaverns.com. 
During the period the Audit and Risk Committee held 6 
scheduled committee meetings, the attendance of which  
is detailed in the table on page 21.
Senior management, including the Finance Director, Company 
Secretary and internal and external auditors may be invited to 
attend for part or all of each meeting. The internal and external 
auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit and Risk 
Committee and its Chairman.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for:
•	 monitoring and reviewing matters relating to the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls;
•	 conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness  
of the internal control environment on behalf of the Board;
•	 the Company’s financial reporting process, ensuring a 
balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s 
position and prospects are reported;
•	 the scope and results of internal audit;
•	 the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of internal and external audit; 
•	 making recommendations on the appointment or 
re-appointment of the external auditors; and
•	 the independence and objectivity of the auditors. 
To maintain the independence of the external auditors, the 
Board has determined a policy detailing what non-audit services 
can be provided by the Company’s external auditors. Under  
this policy, work of a consultancy nature is not offered to  
the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and 
value-added benefits to the Company. The Audit and Risk 
Committee monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the 
external auditors and details of these fees can be found in  
note 3 of the Notes to the financial statements. 
During the period and to the date of this report, the work of 
the Audit and Risk Committee has included consideration of the 
following matters:
•	 the financial statements in the 2011 and 2012 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements and the interim report issued in 
April 2012. 
•	 reports from the external auditors in relation to the 2011  
and 2012 final audits and the 2012 interim review;
•	 the independence and objectivity of the external auditors;
•	 the evaluation of the performance of the external auditors;
•	 the approval of the 2012 external audit plan and fee proposal;
•	 the progress of the internal audit programme and matters 
arising and the effectiveness and workload of the internal 
audit department and the adequacy of available resource;
•	 the maintenance of an effective system of internal  
financial control; 
•	 anti-bribery policy and procedures; and
•	 the Company’s whistleblowing procedures, including 
reviewing any whistleblowing or fraud incidents  
which occurred. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
26
Corporate governance statement continued
Remuneration
The remuneration procedure is formal and transparent 
and levels of remuneration are appropriate. 
During the period, Angus Porter was appointed Chairman  
of the Remuneration Committee following the departure of  
Mark Pain on 31 March 2012. On 25 October 2012, subsequent 
to the year end, John Allkins will be appointed as a member  
of the Committee.
All Committee members were independent Non-executive 
Directors. The terms of reference of the Committee can be 
found on the Company’s website www.punchtaverns.com. 
During the period the Remuneration Committee held 3 
scheduled committee meetings, the attendance of which is 
detailed in the table on page 21. 
Senior management, including the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and Company Secretary may be invited to attend for 
part or all of each meeting.
The main purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to:
•	 recommend to the Board the Company’s policy for the 
remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, 
Executive Directors and other members of senior 
management;
•	 take into account factors which it deems necessary with the 
objective of ensuring that appropriate incentives are provided 
to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a 
fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions 
to the success of the Company; 
•	 review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by 
the Board and shareholders and determine each year whether 
awards will be made and when;
•	 determine the overall amount of share awards and  
the individual award levels to Executive Directors and  
senior management; 
•	 determine targets for any performance-related payments; 
and
•	 determine the policy for and scope of the pension 
arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and 
compensation commitments in relation to Executive Directors 
and senior management.
The levels of remuneration are reviewed for all Executive and 
Non-executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee at 
least annually to ensure that they are sufficient to attract,  
retain and motivate the Directors and are linked to both the 
Company’s and their individual performance. Further details  
of the work of the Remuneration Committee and the levels of 
remuneration paid to the Board during the period, including 
details of how remuneration levels are set and external 
benchmarking procedures, can be found in the Report on 
Directors’ remuneration which can be found on pages 27 to 35.
Relations with shareholders
There is a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.  
Communications with shareholders are given high priority to 
ensure that a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects is given. The Company aims to 
provide as much information as is commercially sensible to both 
existing and potential investors, recognising that transparency is 
the best way to develop understanding of the Company’s 
strategy, performance and growth potential. 
The Company encourages two-way communication with both 
its institutional and private shareholders and aims to provide a 
timely response to all enquiries. There is a regular dialogue with 
institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the 
Company’s announcement of the preliminary year end and 
interim results. 
The AGM is used to communicate with shareholders  
and encourage participation.  
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional  
and private shareholders and welcomes their participation.  
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit 
and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination and Governance 
Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director attend the AGM to answer any relevant questions.  
All members of the Board are available to meet with major 
shareholders if requested.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders 
at least 20 working days before the meeting. Separate 
resolutions on each substantially separate issue are proposed, 
and all valid proxy appointments received are properly counted 
and recorded.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
27
Governance
Report on Directors’ remuneration
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Punch Taverns plc remuneration report for the year ended 18 August 2012, for which we will be 
seeking approval from shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
This is my first Remuneration Report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and, given that executive remuneration 
continues to be a high profile issue, the Committee has carried out a review of the post 2011 demerger remuneration policy  
in light of the Company’s strategy and feedback received from investors during 2012. The conclusions of this review, which have 
been discussed with the Company’s major investors and representative bodies, are summarised below:
•	 Base salary levels and pension provision for Executive Directors remain at appropriate levels and, as such, should not be increased 
for 2012/13.
•	 Annual bonus provision, which was set at 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the Finance 
Director post demerger (reflecting the need to focus on short-term performance improvement) should be reduced. Going 
forward, the maximum bonus potential will be set at 175% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Finance 
Director for 2012/13 (the ‘transitional year’), reducing to 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% of salary for the 
Finance Director for 2013/14 onwards. Targets will be based around sliding scale profit hurdles underpinned by a number of 
strategic/personal targets.
•	 Bonus deferral will continue to operate although to reflect the significant reduction in bonus potential, rather than a third  
of any payout being deferred into shares for 2 years, 50% of any bonus award over 50% of salary will be deferred into shares  
for 2 years. A clawback provision will continue to operate.
•	 The long-term incentive grant policy, which was set at 50% of salary p.a. post demerger, will be increased to a more market 
consistent 100% of salary award over the next two years. However, while the grant policy will be set at 100% of salary from 
2013/14 onwards, the Committee expects to grant an award over 50% of salary in November 2012 and may decide, in the 
2012/13 transitional year, to grant a further award of up to 100% of salary but only following a successful conclusion to the 
current capital restructuring project.
To the extent that a 2012/13 transitional year post capital restructuring LTIP award is granted, in order to encourage greater 
Executive Director share ownership and therefore closer alignment to shareholders, individuals may be given the opportunity to 
invest their own funds into Punch Taverns plc shares in order to receive an additional 1:1 matching award on up to 25% of salary 
(i.e. taking the maximum LTIP award which may be granted in 2012/13 to 200% of salary). The matching arrangement, which  
will be operated through the existing LTIP, is only intended to be operated once and will not, therefore, form part of the ongoing 
long-term incentive policy. Given the desire to ensure that packages are aligned with shareholders and given the difficulties in 
setting robust three-year financial performance metrics at the current time, relative TSR against a bespoke group of companies  
and a pan-sector group of companies will continue to be operated. 
 
Further details on the above are set out within the report overleaf.
The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders vote to approve the Report on Directors’ remuneration.
On behalf of the Board
Angus Porter
Remuneration Committee Chairman Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
28
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Introduction
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the ‘Regulations’). The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority, and describes how the Board has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (the ‘Code’) relating to remuneration matters. The report is divided into two parts. The first part contains the commentary on 
remuneration policy which is not required to be audited. The second part contains the remuneration tables that have been audited 
in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
Unaudited information
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’)
For details of the Committee, please see the Corporate governance statement on pages 21 to 26.
Advisers to the Committee
The Committee received independent remuneration advice from New Bridge Street (‘NBS’). This independent adviser was 
appointed by the Committee and is accountable to it and provides no other services to the Company. The terms of engagement 
between the Committee and NBS are available from the Company Secretary on request. In addition, Computershare provides 
administration services connected to the Executive and all-employee share plans. The Committee also consults with the Chief 
Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and Group Human Resources Director. However, no executive is permitted to participate 
in discussions or decisions about their personal remuneration. 
Remuneration policy
The Committee’s reward policy is designed to help drive business performance and maximise shareholder value. It continues  
to be based on the following principles:
•	 Remuneration should be viewed holistically (‘Total Reward’), taking account of all reward elements;
•	 Total Reward should be set at a market-competitive level to retain and recruit people of the required talent and experience;
•	 Packages should be structured so that most of Total Reward is dependent on performance;
•	 Total Reward costs should be monitored and controlled; and
•	 Total Reward should support the creation of shareholder value.
Total Reward levels are compared against both listed UK pub, restaurant and hospitality sector companies and those UK companies 
of a similar size and complexity to the Group in other relevant sectors although external market comparisons are used with 
appropriate caution. The table below summarises each element of the Company’s Total Reward policy for Executive Directors  
and highlights any changes being made for 2012/13 and 2013/14 onwards which are described in more detail below.
Component Purpose Key features
2011/12
Year just ended
2012/13
Transitional year
2013/14 +
Ongoing policy
Fixed Remuneration
Base salary To recognise the market 
value of the employee 
and the role
• 	 Rev iewed 	 an n ual ly
• 		 N o 	 i ncr eas es 	 si nc e	
demerger
CEO = £430,000
FD = £275,000
CEO = £430,000
FD = £275,000
CEO = £430,000
 FD = £275,000
(subject to annual 
review)
Pension To provide a market 
competitive level of 
contribution to pension
CEO = 25% of salary
FD = 20% of salary
CEO = 25% of salary
FD = 20% of salary
CEO = 25% of salary
FD = 20% of salary
Variable Remuneration
Annual 
performance 
bonus
To drive and reward 
annual performance 
of individuals, teams 
and the Group
• 		 Per f ormanc e 	 t arg et s	
based on sliding  
scale Profit before  
Tax targets and 
personal/strategic 
targets
CEO = 250% of salary
FD = 200% of salary
1/3rd of any bonus  
is deferred into shares  
for 2 years
CEO = 175% of salary
FD = 150% of salary
50% of any bonus  
above 50% of salary  
is deferred into shares  
for 2 years
CEO = 150% of salary
FD = 125% of salary
50% of any bonus 
above 50% of salary  
is deferred into shares 
for 2 years
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
To drive and reward 
sustained performance 
of the Group and to 
align the interests with 
those of shareholders
• 		 Per f ormanc e 	 t arg et s	
based on relative  
total shareholder  
return
CEO = 50% of salary
FD = 50% of salary
CEO = up to 50% of salary
FD = up to 50% of salary
In addition, for 2012/13  
only: (i) a further 100%  
of salary award may be 
granted following a 
successful capital 
restructuring; and (ii) subject 
to a successful capital 
restructuring grant being 
made, individuals may invest 
up to 25% of salary in Punch 
Taverns plc shares to receive  
a 1:1 match (i.e. taking the 
LTIP award up to a maximum 
of 200% of salary for 
2012/13 only)
CEO = 100% of salary
FD = 100% of salary Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
29
Governance
The chart below shows the relative proportions of package components for the Chief Executive Officer’s ongoing policy, assuming 
a 150% of salary annual bonus potential and a normal LTIP award of 100% of salary.
Elements of remuneration
Base salary and benefits
The table below shows the current base salaries for both Executive Directors.
Name Position
2011/12 
Base Salary
2012/13 
Base Salary
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer £430,000 £430,000
Steve Dando Finance Director £275,000 £275,000
Base salary levels for the Executive Directors were reviewed in March 2012 although no increases were awarded.
The Company’s policy is to provide Executive Directors with a market-competitive level of benefits, including Company car  
or car allowance, private medical insurance, lump-sum life insurance for death in service and income protection insurance  
for long-term disability.
Annual bonus
For 2011/12
For 2011/12, annual bonus arrangements were based on challenging sliding scale profit targets. The maximum potential was set  
at 250% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 200% of salary for the Finance Director. One third of any bonus award is 
deferred into Punch Taverns plc shares for 2 years and a clawback provision is operated, whereby the Committee may seek to 
clawback any bonus amounts paid to executives which are subsequently found to have been based on materially inaccurate results.
As a result of the Company achieving an above threshold but below target result Executive Directors received a bonus equivalent  
to 36.5% of salary for 2011/12. Details of the bonus awards made to Executive Directors are set out on page 33.
For 2012/13
The 2012/13 annual bonus arrangements will continue to operate as above albeit the arrangement will be strengthened with  
the addition of a number of strategic/personal underpins. Given the rebalancing of the package, potential will be reduced.
Going forward, the maximum bonus potential will be set at 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary  
for the Finance Director for 2012/13 (the ‘transitional year’), reducing to 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and  
125% of salary for the Finance Director for 2013/14 onwards. Targets will be based around sliding scale profit hurdles underpinned 
by a number of strategic/personal targets surrounding letting, the performance of the core estate and the disposal programme  
(i.e. failure to meet the strategic/personal targets in full will reduce the profit-related bonus).
Bonus deferral will continue to operate although to reflect the significant reduction in ongoing bonus potential, rather than a third 
of any payout being deferred into shares for 2 years, 50% of any bonus award over 50% of salary will be deferred into shares for  
2 years. A clawback provision will continue to operate.
n Base salary and pension contribution 34%
n Annual bonus (max) 40%
n Long-term incentive (max) 26% Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
30
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 (‘LTIP’)
Awards granted under the LTIP have the following features:
•	 performance shares
•	 vesting is dependent on total shareholder return (TSR) performance and continued service
•	 maximum annual award levels continue to be 200% of base salary (face value) although actual awards in 2011 were limited  
to 50% of base salary
•	 performance and vesting periods are normally three years
There are two TSR peer groups: 50% of an award is measured against a peer group of UK listed pub companies (Enterprise Inns, 
Fuller, Smith & Turner, Greene King, JD Wetherspoon, Marston’s, Mitchells & Butlers and Spirit) with the other 50% of an award 
measured against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) as follows:
Pub company
 group
FTSE 250 
Index
% of 
total award
Below Median / Index 0% 0% 0%
Median / Index* 12.5% 12.5% 25%
Upper Quartile (Median / Index + 5% p.a.)* 50% 50% 100%
*Straight-line vesting between points
In addition to the TSR targets above, the Committee will consider, inter alia, the Group’s like-for-like sales performance, underlying 
profit performance and debt levels when determining whether the Group’s financial performance is consistent with level of vesting 
suggested by the relative TSR targets.
These performance conditions were selected by the Committee as they are important measures of the comparative value delivered 
to shareholders.
For 2012/13
The long-term incentive grant policy, which was set at 50% of salary p.a. post demerger (the only grant to Executive Directors post 
demerger was made in November 2011), will be increased to a more market consistent 100% of salary award over the next two 
years. However, while the grant policy will be set at 100% of salary from 2013/14 onwards, the Committee expects to grant an 
award over 50% of salary in November 2012 and may decide, in the 2012/13 transitional year, to grant a further award of up to 
100% of salary but only following a successful conclusion to the current capital restructuring project. 
Connected to any 2012/13 transitional year post capital restructuring grant and to encourage greater Executive Director share 
ownership (all recent LTIP grants have either lapsed or the performance targets are significantly underwater), and therefore closer 
alignment to shareholders, individuals may invest their own funds into Punch Taverns plc shares in order to receive an additional 1:1 
matching award on up to 25% of salary (i.e. taking the maximum LTIP award which may be granted in 2012/13 to 200% of salary). 
The matching arrangement, which will be operated through the existing LTIP at the Remuneration Committee’s discretion, is only 
intended to be operated once and will not, therefore, form part of the ongoing long-term incentive policy which will comprise  
of a 100% of salary LTIP award per annum, as stated above. 
Given the desire to ensure that packages are aligned with shareholders and given the difficulties in setting robust three-year 
financial performance metrics at the current time, relative TSR against the bespoke group of companies and the pan-sector group 
of companies will continue to be operated. In addition to TSR performance, the Committee will continue to consider like-for-like 
sales, underlying profit performance and debt levels to assess whether the Company’s financial performance is consistent with  
the level of vesting suggested by the TSR targets.
Share Bonus Plan
The Share Bonus Plan enables the Committee to award part or all of any annual bonus in the form of the Company’s shares,  
which the recipient is not permitted to sell during a restricted period (normally two years). As stated above, the deferral policy 
going forwards will be for 50% of any bonus above 50% of salary will be deferred into Company shares for a two-year period. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
31
Governance
Dilution
In accordance with shareholder guidelines, the Committee applies a limit on the amount of shares that can be issued to satisfy all 
its employee share plan awards of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period. Of this 10%, only  
half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements. Based on awards granted since flotation in 2002 and 
excluding those awards held by Spirit employees (historic dilution was shared between Punch and Spirit at demerger based on 
whether award-holders were employed by Punch or Spirit post demerger), the Company’s current dilution position is as follows:
Limit
Current 
Dilution level
10% in ten years 1.99%
5% in ten years 1.40%
Shareholding requirement
The Committee requires that all individuals who participate in the Company’s LTIP satisfy a minimum shareholding requirement 
within five years of appointment to the Board. Targets are set to encourage Directors to retain shares received from share incentive 
schemes. As a result of the particular circumstances of the demerger of the Spirit business, the Committee will require these 
shareholding requirements to be achieved within five years of the demerger date. The table below shows the shareholding 
requirement for Executive Directors, and their current personal shareholding:
Name Position
Shareholding requirement 
(% of base salary) To be achieved by
Current shareholding
 (% of base salary)
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer 150% August 2016 0.5%
Steve Dando Finance Director 100% August 2016 0.6%
All-employee share arrangements
During 2011/12 the Group operated an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP) details of which can be found in the Directors’ 
report on page 19. 
Directors’ contracts
The policy on termination is that the Group does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations. In addition, Executive 
Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss. The Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure. 
None of the Executive Directors’ contracts provides for liquidated damages. There are no special provisions contained in any of the 
Executive Directors’ contracts which provide for longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company. Further, there are 
no special provisions providing for additional compensation on an Executive Director’s cessation of employment with the Group.
Executive Directors
Company 
notice period Contract date
Unexpired term of 
contract (months)
1
Potential 
termination 
payment
Potential 
payment on 
change of 
control /
 liquidation
Current Directors
Roger Whiteside 12 months 14 October 2008 Rolling contract 12 months’ salary Nil
Steve Dando 12 months 2 June 2003 Rolling contract 12 months’ salary Nil
1
 Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director
Non-executive Directors
Company 
notice period Contract date
Unexpired term of 
contract (months)
Current Directors
Stephen Billingham 6 months 15 September 2011 23
Ian Fraser 1 month 23 September 2004 10
Mark Pain
1
1 month 8 November 2007 N/A
Ian Dyson 1 month 1 August 2011 10
Angus Porter 1 month 26 March 2012 29
John Allkins
2
1 month 25 October 2012 36
1
 Stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2012
2
 Will be appointed as Non-executive Director on 25 October 2012 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
32
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Non-executive Directors’ fees
All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based upon 
recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (or, in the case of the Chairman, is determined by the Committee 
based on recommendations from the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer) within the limits 
set by the Articles of Association and based on the median level of fees payable to peers in the same comparator group as that 
used for Executive Directors’ remuneration. Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Group’s share incentive 
schemes or performance-based plans and are not eligible to join any of the Group’s pension schemes.
It is the Board’s policy to take into account the following factors in determining the fees of the Non-executive Directors:
•	 the median level of fees for similar positions in the market; and
•	 the time commitment each Non-executive Director makes to the Group (through membership of the Audit and Risk, 
Remuneration and Nomination and Governance Committees).
The following table sets out the current Non-executive fees:
2012/13 2011/12
Company Chairman £250,000 £250,000
Basic fee £42,000 £42,000
Senior Independent Non-executive Director £45,000 £45,000
Additional fees for chairing the Audit and Risk or Remuneration Committee £10,000 £10,000
Additional fees for chairing the Nomination and Governance Committee £5,000 £5,000
Total shareholder return performance graph
The graph shows the Company’s performance, measured by total shareholder return (TSR), compared with the FTSE 350 Travel and 
Leisure Index and the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts). The Committee considers these to be relevant indices for 
TSR comparison as the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index for the majority of the five-year period 
presented and, following the Spirit demerger, is now positioned in the FTSE Small Cap.
£120
£100
£80
£60
£40
£20
£0
Aug 2007
Aug 2008
Aug 2009
Aug 2010
Aug 2011
Aug 2012
Punch Taverns
FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding investment trusts)
FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index
Source: Thompson Reuters
The graph above shows the value, at 18 August 2012, of £100 invested in Punch Taverns plc on 18 August 2007 compared with  
the value of £100 invested in the FTSE SmallCap and FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Indexes over the same period. The other points 
plotted are the values at the intervening year ends. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
33
Governance
Audited information
The total of Directors’ emoluments in the year was £1,551,000 (2011: £3,633,000), including pension contributions of £153,000 
(2011: £322,000). The remuneration of the Directors during the year was as follows: 
Annual Remuneration
Basic Salary / fees
 
Benefits
1
Bonus
Gain on release 
of shares
 
Pension
 Other payments 
made to former 
Directors Total
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
2012
£000
2011
£000
Executive Directors
Roger Whiteside 430 405 23 23 157 430 – – 96 73 – – 706 931
Steve Dando 275 138 19 10 100 275 – – 57 22 – – 451 445
Non-executive Directors 
Stephen Billingham
2
236 – – – – – – – – – – – 236 –
Angus Porter
3
23 – – – – – – – – – – – 23 –
Ian Fraser 52 52 – – – – – – – – – – 52 52
Ian Dyson
4
42 – – – – – – – – – – – 42 –
Peter Cawdron
5
9 155 – – – – – – – – – – 9 155
Mark Pain
6
32 43 – – – – – – – – – – 32 43
Former Directors – 1,212 – 41 – – – – – 227 – 527 – 2,007
Total 1,099 2,005 42 74 257 705 – – 153 322 – 527 1,551 3,633
1
 Benefits comprise the following elements; health cover, car, fuel, death in service and income protection.
2
  Appointed Chairman to the Board on 15 September 2011 to replace Peter Cawdron. Stephen was appointed Chairman of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
3
  Appointed to the Board as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director in place of Mark Pain on 31 March 2012 and was appointed as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee.
4
  Ian Dyson was Chief Executive Officer of Punch Taverns plc until the demerger in the last financial year, when he became Chief Executive Officer of Spirit Pub 
Company plc (‘Spirit’) and a Non-executive Director of Punch Taverns plc. Under the terms of the demerger, Ian’s Non-executive Director fees were paid to Spirit 
until he ceased employment with Spirit on 16 December 2011. From 17 December 2011 to the end of the financial year, Ian’s Non-executive Director fees have been 
paid directly to him. Ian’s Executive Director remuneration for the last financial year is included within the Former Directors figure. 
5
  Retired as Chairman of the Board on 15 September 2011 and was replaced by Stephen Billingham. Peter also retired as Chairman of the Nomination and Governance 
Committee and as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
6
  Resigned as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2012. Mark also resigned as a member 
of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination and Governance Committee. 
Pension
During the period Roger Whiteside received a Group contribution into his personal pension arrangement representing 25% of his 
pensionable salary. Steve Dando received a Group contribution paid into the Company’s pension scheme representing 20% of his 
pensionable salary. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
34
Report on Directors’ remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in the Group’s share plans
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
The following table sets out the awards made under the LTIP. Full details of the operation of the LTIP are set out in the first part  
of this report. 
Value of shares conditionally awarded Value of shares released
Directors 
Date of
 award
Date of
 release
Share price
 at date of
 award (£)
Number 
as at 
21 August
 2011 £000
Percentage
 of salary 
at date 
of award
Awarded
 during the
 period
Lapsed 
during the
 period
Market 
price at 
date of
 release /
 lapse (£)
Gain on
 release
£000
Number
as at
18 August 
2012
£000
Roger Whiteside 10.11.08 10.11.11 1.66 488,950 812 200 – 488,950 0.11 – –
16.10.09 16.10.12 0.90 888,888 800 200 – 888,888 0.07 – –
19.11.10 19.11.13 0.58 860,585 500 125 – – – – 860,585
30.11.11 30.11.14 0.12 – 215 50 1,779,801 – – – 1,779,801
Total 2,238,423 2,640,386
Steve Dando 10.11.08 10.11.11 1.66 91,677 152 100 – 91,677 0.11 – –
16.10.09 16.10.12 0.90 83,333 75 50 – 83,333 0.07 – –
19.11.10 19.11.13 0.58 301,204 175 100 – – – – 301,204
30.11.11 30.11.14 0.12 – 137 50 1,138,245 – – – 1,138,245
Total 476,214 1,439,449
Ian Dyson 13.10.10 05.03.13 0.72 2,412,150 1,737 200 – 1,305,399 – – 1,106,751
19.11.10 19.11.13 0.58 2,323,580 1,348 200 – 1,492,519 – – 831,061
Total 4,735,730 2,797,918 1,937,812
The 2008, 2009 and 2010 awards were originally granted over ordinary shares in Punch Taverns plc. As a result of the demerger  
in the last financial year, consistent with the treatment of shareholders, individuals received an award over one Spirit share for each 
Punch share under award to ensure they were kept whole. Awards will continue to run until the normal vesting dates and the Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) targets will continue to apply although post demerger, performance relates only to Punch’s share price 
(i.e. it will exclude the share price performance of Spirit).
The award granted to Ian Dyson on 13 October 2010, as the then Chief Executive Officer was awarded to compensate him for 
share awards which lapsed upon resigning from his previous employer. This award was granted in accordance with Listing Rule 
9.4.2(2) and will normally be released between 5 May 2013 and 4 May 2020 subject to the extent that total shareholder return 
targets are met. This award, along with the award granted to Ian Dyson on 19 November 2010 were both pro-rated upon him 
ceasing employment with Spirit on 16 December 2011.
As a result of failing to hit the threshold Group relative TSR performance targets, the November 2008 LTIP awards and October 
2009 LTIP awards lapsed in full. In addition to the relevant underpin being deemed to have been met awards granted in November 
2010 and November 2011 will only be released if the Group’s TSR is equal to or greater than the median/index level of performance 
of the respective comparator groups over the three year period from grant at which point 25% of the award will be released.  
Full release of the award will occur for upper-quartile/index+5% p.a. performance with straight-line release between the threshold 
and maximum performance levels. Full details of the performance conditions, attached to the November 2010 and November 2011 
awards are detailed on page 30 in the first part of this report. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
35
Governance
Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is the current all employee share plan operated by the Group. The following table sets out the shares purchased and 
awarded under the SIP in respect of the Executive Directors. Full details of the operation of the SIP are set out in the Directors’ 
report on page 19 and in note 28 to the accounts which can be found on page 76.
Directors 
Date of
award
Date of 
release
Share price 
at date of
 purchase of
 partnership
 shares and
 award of
 matching
 shares (£)
Number
as at
21 August
 2011
Partnership
 shares
 purchased
 during 
the period
Matching
 shares
 conditionally
 awarded 
during 
the period
Partnership 
or dividend
 shares 
released 
during 
the period
Matching
 shares 
released 
during 
the period
Matching
 shares 
forfeit 
during 
the period
Gain on
 release of
 matching
 shares
Number 
as at
18 August
 2012
Roger Whiteside 24.07.09 24.07.12 0.95 3,146 – – 1,573 1,573 – – 0
27.07.10 27.07.13 0.78 3,846 – – – – – – 3,846
28.06.11 28.06.14 0.72 4,168 – – – – – – 4,168
Total 11,160 8,014
Steve Dando 17.10.08 17.10.11 1.23 2 – – 1 1 – – 0
26.06.09 26.06.12 1.08 2,778 – – 1,389 1,389 – – 0
27.07.10 27.07.13 0.78 3,846 – – – – – – 3,846
28.06.11 28.06.14 0.72 4,168 – – – – – – 4,168
Total 10,794 8,014
Ian Dyson
1
28.06.11 28.06.14 0.72 4,168 – – 2,084 2,084 – – 0
Total 4,168 0
1
  Ian Dyson purchased his Partnership SIP shares on 28 June 2011 when he was Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Under the terms of the SIP, the Company 
awarded additional shares on a 1:1 ratio (Matching shares). 
 
Discretionary Share Plan (DSP)
The DSP is a legacy option scheme. The Company does not currently intend to make any future grants under the DSP. The last 
award under the DSP was made in January 2006. Full details of the operation of the DSP are set out in note 28 to the accounts 
which can be found on page 76. 
Exercise period
Directors
Date of 
grant From To
Exercise
price (£)
Number of
 options at
21 August
 2011
Number of
 options at
18 August
 2012
Number of
 options
already
vested
Steve Dando 17.11.04 17.11.07 17.11.14 5.51 2,203 2,203 2,203
16.11.05 16.11.08 16.11.15 7.67 1,656 1,656 1,656
Total 3,859 3,859 3,859
No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the period
The performance conditions for option vesting were 40% of options vest if EPS growth of RPI +8% p.a., 100% vests if EPS growth 
of RPI +12% p.a.
Share Bonus Plan (SBP)
The following table sets out the award under the SBP in relation to the 2010/2011 annual bonus consistent with the requirement 
for Executive Directors to defer a third of any net of tax annual bonus award. Full details of the operation of the SBP are detailed  
on page 30 in the first part of this report and note 28 to the accounts which can be found on page 76. 
Directors
Date 
of grant
Deferral 
period
Share Price 
at date of
 award (£)
Number of
 shares at 
21 August
 2011
Awarded
 during 
the period
Number of 
shares at
 18 August
 2012
Roger Whiteside 27.10.11 2 years 0.1025 – 671,219 671,219
Total 671,219
Steve Dando 27.10.11 2 years 0.1025 – 429,268 429,268
Total 429,268
The share price at the close of business on 18 August 2012 was £0.0739, during the period the highest share price was £0.125  
and the lowest was £0.0561.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board. It complies with  
the Companies Acts and related regulations. This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming  
Annual General Meeting. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
36
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that 
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law 
and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the 
group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and  
the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps  
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Director’s responsibility statement
The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge:
a)  the group and parent company financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give 
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group as a whole; and
b)  the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
On behalf of the Board
Roger Whiteside   Steve Dando
Chief Executive Officer   Finance Director
23 October 2012   23 October 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
37
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 52 weeks to 20 August 2011
 Notes
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items
(note 6) 
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
 items
£m
Non-
underlying
 items
(note 6)
£m
Total
£m
Continuing operations
Revenue 2 491.7 – 491.7 521.7 85.5 607.2
Operating costs before depreciation  
and amortisation (257.1) (4.0) (261.1) (268.0) (78.8) (346.8)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture 3.4 – 3.4 4.0 – 4.0
EBITDA
1
238.0 (4.0) 234.0 257.7 6.7 264.4
Depreciation and amortisation (13.5) – (13.5) (16.5) (1.6) (18.1)
Impairment – (3.4) (3.4) – (367.0) (367.0)
Goodwill charge – (1.1) (1.1) – (82.7) (82.7)
Profit on sale of non-current assets – 1.3 1.3 – 3.1 3.1
Operating profit / (loss) 3 224.5 (7.2) 217.3 241.2 (441.5) (200.3)
Finance income 4 6.4 7.0 13.4 5.6 38.7 44.3
Finance costs 5 (166.9) – (166.9) (170.5) (1.7) (172.2)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps – (11.4) (11.4) – (7.2) (7.2)
Profit / (loss) before taxation 64.0 (11.6) 52.4 76.3 (411.7) (335.4)
UK income tax (charge) / credit 8 (16.0) 14.7 (1.3) (21.3) (2.1) (23.4)
Profit / (loss) for the financial period  
from continuing operations 48.0 3.1 51.1 55.0 (413.8) (358.8)
Discontinued operations 9
Loss on discontinued operations – – – – (507.9) (507.9)
Profit / (loss) for the financial period 
attributable to owners of the parent company 48.0 3.1 51.1 55.0 (921.7) (866.7)
Earnings / (loss) per share 10
– basic (pence) 7.2 7.7 8.6 (134.8)
– diluted (pence) 7.2 7.7 8.6 (134.8)
1
  EBITDA represents earnings before depreciation and amortisation, impairment, goodwill charge, profit on sale of non-current assets, finance income, finance costs, 
movement in fair value of interest rate swaps and tax of the Group. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
38
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
Notes
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
 £m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Profit / (loss) for the period attributable to owners of the parent company 51.1 (866.7)
Actuarial gains / (losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 30 2.4 (3.8)
Losses on cash flow hedges (57.4) (64.4)
Transfers to the income statement on cash flow hedges 1.7 39.1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 8 7.2 8.1
Other comprehensive losses for the period (46.1) (21.0)
Total comprehensive income / (losses) for the period attributable  
to owners of the parent company 5.0 (887.7) Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
39
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 18 August 2012
Notes
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 12 2,463.9 2,541.7
Operating leases 13 6.0 6.4
Other intangible assets 13 0.9 2.3
Goodwill 13 180.0 181.1
Investments in joint venture 33 44.5 43.1
Other investments 14 8.8 7.4
Deferred tax assets 18 2.0 –
2,706.1 2,782.0
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 34.1 46.7
Current income tax assets 0.8 4.4
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 20 106.9 125.8
Cash and cash equivalents 19 263.9 196.5
Restricted cash 19 315.0 –
720.7 373.4
Total assets 3,426.8 3,155.4
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (121.1) (145.9)
Short-term borrowings 22 (61.5) (61.3)
Cash-backed borrowings 24 (315.0) –
Derivative financial instruments 23 (38.4) (38.0)
Provisions 25 (2.4) (1.8)
(538.4) (247.0)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 22 (2,373.4) (2,448.7)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (293.1) (233.6)
Deferred tax liabilities 18 – (3.1)
Retirement benefit obligations 30 (2.7) (7.9)
Provisions 25 (11.0) (13.0)
 (2,680.2) (2,706.3)
Total liabilities (3,218.6) (2,953.3)
Net assets 208.2 202.1
Equity
Called up share capital 27 0.3 0.3
Share premium 455.0 455.0
Hedge reserve (226.1) (179.7)
Share based payment reserve 9.7 12.1
Retained earnings (30.7) (85.6)
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent company 208.2 202.1
On behalf of the Board
Roger Whiteside  Steve Dando
23 October 2012  23 October 2012 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
40
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Hedge 
reserve
£m
Share based
 payment
 reserve
£m
Retained
 earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Total equity at 21 August 2010 0.3 455.0 (162.6) 8.5 1,173.4 1,474.6
Loss for the period – – – – (866.7) (866.7)
Other comprehensive losses for the period – – (17.1) – (3.9) (21.0)
Total comprehensive loss for the period  
attributable to owners of the parent company – – (17.1) – (870.6) (887.7)
Shares purchased and held in trust – – – – (1.7) (1.7)
Share based payments – – – 3.6 1.4 5.0
Demerger of the Spirit business (note 9) – – – – (388.1) (388.1)
Total equity at 20 August 2011 0.3 455.0 (179.7) 12.1 (85.6) 202.1
Profit for the period – – – – 51.1 51.1
Other comprehensive (losses) / gains for the period – – (46.4) – 0.3 (46.1)
Total comprehensive (loss) / income for the period 
attributable to owners of the parent company – – (46.4) – 51.4 5.0
Share based payments – – – (2.4) 3.5 1.1
Total equity at 18 August 2012 0.3 455.0 (226.1) 9.7 (30.7) 208.2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
41
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit / (loss) 217.3 (200.3)
Depreciation and amortisation 13.5 18.1
Impairment 3.4 367.0
Goodwill charge 1.1 82.7
Profit on sale of non-current assets (1.3) (3.1)
Share based payment expense recognised in profit 1.1 3.0
Decrease / (increase) in trade and other receivables 3.2 (9.7)
Decrease in trade and other payables (15.4) (49.5)
Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement (2.7) (1.8)
Decrease in provisions and other liabilities (1.0) (0.2)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture (3.4) (4.0)
Cash generated from continuing operations 215.8 202.2
Cash generated from discontinued operations – 113.6
Dividend received from joint venture – 8.0
Income tax received 4.4 8.7
Net cash from operating activities 220.2 332.5
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (41.2) (47.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 33.0 61.7
Proceeds from sale of operating leases 0.3 0.1
Proceeds from sale of other non-current assets held for sale 96.8 56.7
Purchase of other intangible assets (0.6) (0.2)
Interest received 5.0 3.4
Cash generated from continuing operations 93.3 74.2
Cash generated from discontinued operations – (41.8)
Net cash generated from investing activities 93.3 32.4
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings (67.8) (99.8)
Repayment of derivative financial instruments (5.1) (17.8)
Interest paid (171.3) (171.9)
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (1.3) (2.0)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (0.3) (0.4)
Costs of terminating financing arrangements (0.3) (1.2)
Cash used in continuing operations (246.1) (293.1)
Cash used in discontinued operations – (77.0)
Net cash used in financing activities (246.1) (370.1)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents:
– from continuing operations 67.4 –
– from discontinued operations – (5.2)
– less: cash held by the Spirit business at demerger – (114.8)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 67.4 (120.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 196.5 316.5
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 263.9 196.5 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
42
Company balance sheet
at 18 August 2012 
Notes
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 16 1,341.9 1,340.8
Receivables 17 1,098.8 973.3
Deferred tax assets 18 8.2 10.5
2,448.9 2,324.6
Current assets
Receivables 17 0.2 4.0
Cash and cash equivalents 19 4.3 0.6
4.5 4.6
Total assets 2,453.4 2,329.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (0.2) (0.2)
(0.2) (0.2)
Non-current liabilities
Other non-current payables 26 (1,617.0) (1,624.5)
(1,617.0) (1,624.5)
Total liabilities (1.617.2) (1,624.7)
Net assets 836.2 704.5
Equity
Called up share capital 27 0.3 0.3
Share premium 455.0 455.0
Share based payment reserve 9.7 12.1
Retained earnings 371.2 237.1
Total equity 836.2 704.5
On behalf of the Board
Roger Whiteside   Steve Dando
23 October 2012   23 October 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
43
Financial statements
Company statement of changes in equity
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
Company income statement
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
Share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Share based 
payment 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Total equity at 21 August 2010 0.3 455.0 8.5 784.2 1,248.0
Loss for the period – – – (160.4) (160.4)
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – (160.4) (160.4)
Share based payments – – 3.6 1.4 5.0
Demerger of the Spirit business (note 9) – – – (388.1) (388.1)
Total equity at 20 August 2011 0.3 455.0 12.1 237.1 704.5
Profit for the period – – – 130.6 130.6
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – 130.6 130.6
Share based payments – – (2.4) 3.5 1.1
Total equity at 18 August 2012 0.3 455.0 9.7 371.2 836.2
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s income statement has not been included in these 
financial statements. The Company’s profit for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012 was £130.6m (August 2011: loss of £160.4m). Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
44
Company cash flow statement
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011 
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating loss (0.6) (303.2)
Release of intercompany debt – 305.1
Decrease / (increase) in receivables 1.9 (1.8)
Increase in other payables – 0.2
Net cash flow from operating activities 1.3 0.3
Interest received 0.1 1.5
Net cash generated from investing activities 0.1 1.5
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from new intercompany debt 9.1 12.2
Repayment of intercompany debt (6.6) (180.0)
Other financing costs (0.2) –
Net cash used in financing activities 2.3 (167.8)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3.7 (166.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 0.6 166.6
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 4.3 0.6 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
45
Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
1. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements presented in this document have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union. The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has taken advantage of the 
exemption provided under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial 
instruments to fair value, and in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under 
IFRS as adopted by the European Union. New standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), becoming effective during the year, have not 
had a material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Going concern
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors have prepared detailed operating and cash 
flow forecasts, which cover a period of more than 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. These show 
that the Group has adequate funds for the foreseeable future to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group is financed through two whole business securitisations, the Punch A Securitisation (£1,477m of gross debt) and the 
Punch B Securitisation (£914m of gross debt), as well as certain cash resources held across the Group. At 18 August 2012,  
the Group’s liquidity position was strong with £264m of cash resources (of which £90m was held outside of the securitisation 
structures), compared to loan amortisation due within 1 year of £57m. The Group is currently in full compliance with the financial 
covenants contained in its securitisation arrangements.
Whilst the securitisations generated underlying profits and positive net cash flow (before debt repayments and disposals) in the 
year, they required financial support through the use of cash resources held outside of the securitisations to maintain compliance 
with their DSCR (Debt Service Cover Ratio) covenants. Without this support, both securitisations would have breached their 
respective DSCR covenant levels in the year. Net support from cash resources held outside of the securitisations amounted to  
£21m for the year, being £79m of gross support less £58m of cash payments from the securitisations to the wider Group during 
the year.
The ability of the Group’s securitisations to continue to comply with their DSCR covenants in the near term is dependent  
on either the continuation of group support or reaching agreement with the relevant stakeholders to amend the terms of the 
financial covenants.
The Group continues to engage in discussions with certain of its major shareholders and other significant stakeholders to review  
a range of restructuring options in respect of the securitisations. Following a process which will be initiated at the appropriate time 
to identify debt holders in both the securitisations, the Group will be seeking to engage in discussions with those debt holders 
ahead of recommending a proposal to restructure each of the securitisations in a consensual way, so as to allow them to continue 
to comply with their financial covenants (including the DSCR covenants) without the need for ongoing group support.
The Directors of Punch Taverns plc are of the opinion that it is in the best interests of stakeholders to agree to a consensual 
restructuring of both of the securitisations and the Directors are of the view that a consensual restructuring can be achieved. 
However, given the differences in their stakeholder profiles, their legal and financial structures and the contractual linkages 
between them and the wider Group, the restructuring solution and implementation timetable may differ for each securitisation.
If a consensual restructuring of the Group’s securitisations is not achieved and a covenant breach were to occur in a securitisation 
then this could lead to circumstances in which the lenders to that securitisation may be able to request early repayment of all 
outstanding borrowings. Were this to occur the relevant securitisation may have insufficient cash resources to repay all of its 
borrowings, and cease to be a going concern which in turn would result in a significant reduction in the Group’s operations.  
These circumstances represent a material uncertainty that casts significant doubt on the ability of a significant part of the Group  
to continue as a going concern and, in such circumstances, part of the Group may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its 
liabilities in the normal course of business.
Further information in relation to the Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 
performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 03 to 06 and Our risks and uncertainties 
on pages 07 to 09. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are described in the Financial review on pages 
10 to 11 and in notes 19, 22 and 23, together with information on the Group’s strategies surrounding managing interest rate risk, 
liquidity risk, capital risk and credit risk. 
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand 
pounds, except where indicated. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
46
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
New standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards, interpretations and amendments which have been endorsed by the EU:
Effective for the Group and the Company in these financial statements:
•	 Amendments to IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement’
•	 Amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’
•	 Amendments to IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ 
•	 Amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
•	 Amendments to certain IFRSs and IASs arising from the April 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRS by the IASB 
The above amendments to published standards have had no material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group  
or the Company for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012.
Effective for the Group and the Company for the next financial year:
•	 IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ – effective from 1 July 2012
•	 IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ – effective from 1 January 2012
Effective for the Group and the Company for future years:
•	 IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ – effective from 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ – effective from 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ – effective from 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ – effective from 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’ – effective from 1 January 2013
•	 IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ – effective from 1 January 2013.
The standards effective for future years have not yet been adopted by the European Union and therefore do not form part  
of IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Basis of consolidation
Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company (Punch Taverns plc) and all  
of its subsidiaries. 
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the 
date on which control is transferred out of the Group. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment in value  
in the financial statements of the Company. Investments in joint ventures are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the 
Group’s share of accumulated comprehensive income, less distributions received and less any impairment in value.
Other investments in which the Group has an interest are reviewed dependent on how much control the Group has. If the Group 
maintains day-to-day control over the investment, the investment is treated as a subsidiary and the results and position are 
consolidated into the Group financial statements.
All intra-group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in full. 
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration of the business 
combination over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Following  
initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Where a significant level of assets are 
transferred between segments or disposed, the goodwill attributable to these assets is also transferred or charged to the income 
statement, respectively.
Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is not amortised. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary 
acquired, the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
47
Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Operating leases and other intangible assets
The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are 
carried as intangible assets. These operating leases together with other intangible assets are capitalised at cost. Amortisation  
is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets. The estimated  
useful lives are as follows:
Operating leases
Over the term of the lease
Software 
3 to 10 years
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the lease 
term on a straight-line basis.
Property, plant and equipment
Properties held at 22 August 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were revalued at that date and this revaluation is the deemed  
cost under IFRS.
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings include removable items, which are generally regarded as within landlord ownership. These are 
depreciated in accordance with the policy detailed below.
Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised 
impairment in value. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less estimated residual  
values, by equal annual instalments as follows:
Licensed properties, unlicensed properties and owner-occupied properties
50 years or the life of the lease if shorter
Landlord’s fixtures and fittings, office furniture and fittings and motor vehicles
5 years
Information technology equipment
3 to 5 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
An annual assessment of residual values is performed and there is no depreciable amount if residual values are the same as, 
or more than, book value. Residual values are based on the estimated amount that would be currently obtainable from disposal  
of the asset net of disposal costs if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful life.
Impairment 
Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets that are subject to depreciation or 
amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not 
be recoverable. A review for indicators of impairment is performed annually. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by 
which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less 
costs to sell and value in use. Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs. When  
an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the 
carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, up to the carrying amount that would 
have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic resources as a result 
of past events.
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance 
sheet date. Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material. The discount rate used to determine the 
present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
48
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
Borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with  
the borrowings. 
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method. Amortised cost is calculated taking account of any issue costs, and any discounts or premiums on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised, as well as through the  
amortisation process.
When debt is purchased from the market, a profit or loss is recognised at the point of purchase. The debt is then held  
at amortised issue value until it is cancelled. 
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation
Income tax expense comprises both the income tax payable, based on taxable profits for the year, and deferred tax.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or where the deferred tax 
asset or liability arises on an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, 
carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, 
based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Movements in 
deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement, except where they relate to items charged or credited directly  
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
For properties acquired as part of a business combination, movements in the deferred tax liability resulting from indexation 
allowance are taken to the income statement until the tax base cost plus indexation allowance reaches the fair value on acquisition, 
and to other comprehensive income thereafter for historic revaluation surpluses.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Leasing 
Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified  
as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower,  
the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease 
obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve  
a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring operating leases are accounted for as intangible assets and amortised over the lease 
term on a straight-line basis.
Pensions
The Group operates one defined benefit scheme which requires contributions to be made to separately administered funds.  
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Group’s defined benefit arrangements is the difference 
between the fair value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities. Any defined benefit assets are limited to the 
total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits in the form of any future refunds from  
the scheme or reductions in future contributions to the scheme. The cost of providing benefits under the scheme is determined 
using the projected unit credit actuarial method. The current service cost is charged to operating profit. The interest cost and the 
expected return on assets are shown within finance costs and finance income respectively. The cumulative net deficits on this 
defined benefit pension scheme have been recognised in full in equity at the date of transition to IFRS and subsequent actuarial 
gains and losses are recognised in full as they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. 
The Group also contributes to money purchase pension plans for employees. Contributions are charged to the income statement  
as they become payable. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
49
Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risk associated with interest rate 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially accounted for and subsequently re-measured to fair value.  
The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. 
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument,  
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value 
hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or cash flow hedges where  
they hedge exposure to variability in forecast transactions.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, 
as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. The Group also documents its 
assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are 
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated as and qualify as cash flow hedges are 
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies  
for hedge accounting. At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in 
equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or 
loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately. The replacement or rollover of a hedging instrument 
into another hedging instrument is not an expiry, sale or termination where such replacement or rollover is part of the documented 
hedging strategy.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Changes in fair value of any derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately  
in the income statement. 
Share based payment transactions
A number of employees of the Group (including Directors) receive an element of remuneration in the form of share based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares (‘equity-settled transactions’).
Equity-settled transactions are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of 
shares is determined by the share price at the date of grant. The fair value of transactions involving the granting of share options  
is calculated by an external valuer based on a binomial model, a beta model or the Black-Scholes model dependent upon the  
most appropriate valuation model for the individual scheme. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any 
performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Punch Taverns plc (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period based on the Group’s estimate of how many of the awards will eventually vest. No expense is recognised for 
awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been 
modified. In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification,  
as measured at the date of the modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet 
recognised for the award is recognised immediately. However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and 
designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were  
a modification to the original award, as described in the previous paragraph. The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
Revenue
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods  
and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT. All operations take place solely in the  
United Kingdom. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
50
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
1. Accounting policies continued
Drink sales 
Revenue in respect of drink sales is recognised at the point at which the goods are provided, net of any discounts or volume  
rebates allowed.
Rents receivable 
Rents receivable are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
Machine income
The Group’s share of net machine income is recognised in the period to which it relates. 
Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent components of the Group that have been disposed of in accordance with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current 
assets for sale and discontinued operations’. The profit or loss after taxation from discontinued operations is disclosed as a single 
line in the income statement beneath profit after taxation from continuing operations. The cash flows from discontinued operations 
are also disclosed as a single line item in each category of the cash flow statement.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amount. An estimate 
for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Receivables are written off against the 
doubtful debt provision when management deems the debt to be no longer recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and  
are not depreciated.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the 
asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the sale and completion should  
be expected within one year from the date of classification.
Other investments
Other investments, such as holdings in shares in other companies, are held at fair value, and any movements in the fair value are 
taken to the income statement in the period they occur.
Dividend distribution
Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements in the period in which the 
dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Non-underlying items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider 
will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments. 
Further detail on the nature of non-underlying items is included in note 6.
Significant accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements including those relating to income taxes,  
deferred tax, financial instruments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, valuations, provisions and  
post-employment benefits.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets 
and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different 
assumptions and conditions. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
51
Financial statements
1. Accounting policies continued
The estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are  
detailed below.
Goodwill impairment
The Group assesses whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating  
units (CGUs) to which goodwill has been allocated is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require 
assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present 
value of those cash flows. These assumptions are disclosed in note 15. Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and operating leases
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment if circumstances suggest that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. Recoverable amounts are determined based on value-in-use calculations and estimated sale proceeds. 
These calculations require assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order 
to calculate the present value of those cash flows. These assumptions are disclosed in note 15. Actual outcomes may vary from 
these estimates.
Post-employment benefits
The present value of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities is determined on an actuarial basis and depends on a number  
of actuarial assumptions which are disclosed in note 30. Any change in these assumptions could impact the carrying amounts  
of pension liabilities.
Onerous lease provisions 
The Group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties 
where rental expense is in excess of income. The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the experience 
of internal property experts; however, any changes to the estimated method of exiting from the property could lead to changes  
to the level of the provision recorded.
Effectiveness of cash flow hedges
The Group performs an assessment of the probability of future cash flows on the floating rate notes and related interest rate 
swaps. Where future expected hedged cash flows are expected to still be highly probable, the Group continues to account for 
these as effective cash flow hedges, with the effective portion being recognised in equity. Where future expected cash flows are 
deemed not to be highly probable but are still expected to occur, the Group discontinues hedge accounting from the date of the 
assessment. From this date, all movements in the fair value of the cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement. Where 
future expected cash flows are deemed to no longer be expected to occur, the Group discontinues hedge accounting from this 
date and recycles the existing accumulated amounts in equity in the income statement. From this date all future movements in the 
fair value of the cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement.
The implications of a potential debt restructuring of the securitisation arrangements have been considered with regards to the 
continued effectiveness of hedge accounting for the interest rate swaps and also in relation to whether the hedge reserve should 
be recycled through the income statement. At the balance sheet date, no firm decisions on the debt restructuring had been made 
and the interest rate swaps arrangements were considered to remain highly effective in matching the underlying cash flows of the 
floating rate notes. 
Following the year end and to the date of issuing these financial statements no firm decisions on the debt restructuring had been 
made. The effectiveness of cash flow hedges and the appropriateness of continuing to hold the hedge reserve will continue  
to be reviewed as the Group progresses towards a restructuring of its securitisation arrangements. Should a restructuring of  
the securitisation debt arrangements result in the cash flows related to a hedged transaction no longer being expected to occur, 
the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity will be recycled through the consolidated income statement immediately.
Authorisation of financial statements
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements of Punch Taverns plc for the period ended 18 August 2012 were authorised for 
issue by the Board of Directors on 23 October 2012 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Roger Whiteside 
and Steve Dando.
Corporate information
Punch Taverns plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England. The Company’s shares are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
52
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
2. Segmental analysis 
The Punch business consists of a core estate and a turnaround estate, each having its own clear strategy. Each of these strategic 
business units consists of a number of cash generating units (CGUs), which are individual pubs. These CGUs generate their  
own revenues, which are consolidated to give the Group revenue and as a result, Group revenue is not reliant on one  
significant customer. 
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, represented by the Board, reviews the performance of the core and turnaround divisions 
separately, at an EBITDA level, as included in the internal management reports.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom.
 52 weeks to 18 August 2012
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 269.1 82.3 – 351.4
Rental income 99.0 28.3 – 127.3
Other revenue 8.6 4.4 – 13.0
Underlying revenue 376.7 115.0 – 491.7
Underlying operating costs
1
(167.3) (57.9) (31.9) (257.1)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture – – 3.4 3.4
EBITDA before non-underlying items 209.4 57.1 (28.5) 238.0
Underlying depreciation and amortisation (13.5)
Operating non-underlying items (7.2)
Net finance costs (153.5)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (11.4)
UK income tax charge (1.3)
Profit for the financial period from continuing operations 51.1
1
 Unallocated underlying operating costs represent corporate overheads that are not allocated down to the divisional performance.
     52 weeks to 20 August 2011
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Drink revenue 270.5 97.6 – 368.1
Rental income 102.1 37.2 – 139.3
Other revenue 8.9 5.4 – 14.3
Underlying revenue 381.5 140.2 – 521.7
Underlying operating costs
1
(163.9) (72.1) (32.0) (268.0)
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture – – 4.0 4.0
EBITDA before non-underlying items 217.6 68.1 (28.0) 257.7
Underlying depreciation and amortisation (16.5)
Operating non-underlying items (441.5)
Net finance costs (127.9)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (7.2)
UK income tax charge (23.4)
Loss for the financial period from continuing operations (358.8)
1
 Unallocated underlying operating costs represent corporate overheads that are not allocated down to the divisional performance.
Assets and liabilities
 18 August 2012
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets 2,272.8 468.9 15.1 2,756.8
Unallocated assets – – 670.0 670.0
Total assets 2,272.8 468.9 685.1 3,426.8
Segment liabilities – – – –
Unallocated liabilities – – (3,218.6) (3,218.6)
Total liabilities – – (3,218.6) (3,218.6)
Net assets 2,272.8 468.9 (2,533.5) 208.2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
53
Financial statements
2. Segmental analysis continued
Assets and liabilities 
 20 August 2011
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Segment assets 2,259.8 583.3 11.9 2,855.0
Unallocated assets – – 300.4 300.4
Total assets 2,259.8 583.3 312.3 3,155.4
Segment liabilities – – – –
Unallocated liabilities – – (2,953.3) (2,953.3)
Total liabilities – – (2,953.3) (2,953.3)
Net assets 2,259.8 583.3 (2,641.0) 202.1
Capital expenditure 
   18 August 2012
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Acquisition spend – – – –
Investment spend 38.2 1.6 2.0 41.8
Total capital expenditure 38.2 1.6 2.0 41.8
Capital expenditure 
 20 August 2011
  
Core
£m
Turnaround
£m
Unallocated
£m
Total
£m
Acquisition spend – – – –
Investment spend 29.0 11.6 7.1 47.7
Total capital expenditure 29.0 11.6 7.1 47.7
There are no sales between the segments. Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, operating leases, non-current 
assets held for sale and goodwill and exclude other intangible assets, receivables, cash, taxation, investments in joint ventures and 
other investments, whilst all liabilities are unallocated.
3. Analysis of expenses 
The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations:
 
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011 
£m
Drink costs 203.5 243.9
Leasehold rentals
1
8.8 13.0
Share of post-tax profit from joint venture (3.4) (4.0)
Depreciation 11.1 14.3
Amortisation 2.4 3.8
Impairment losses 3.4 367.0
Goodwill charge 1.1 82.7
Profit on sale of non-current assets (1.3) (3.1)
Other costs 48.8 89.9
Total costs deducted from revenue to determine operating profit
2
274.4 807.5
1
 Includes utilisation of property lease provisions of £0.9m (August 2011: £1.9m).
2
   Included within total costs in the prior period are £117.8m relating to the Spirit leased estate. These are shown in more detail in note 6. In addition there are further 
non-underlying costs of £4.0m which are included within other costs above (August 2011: £32.7m).  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
54
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
3. Analysis of expenses continued
Auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
 52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011 
£m
Statutory audit services
Audit of Group financial statements 0.2 0.2
Audit of subsidiary companies pursuant to legislation – –
 
Non-audit related services
Other services
1
– 1.6
1
 Relates to the demerger of the Spirit business in the prior period (note 9). 
The accounts of the parent company do not include details of remuneration receivable by the auditor and its associates for 
non-audit services, as the Group accounts are required to include this information as required by Regulation 5(1)(b) of The 
Companies (Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements) Regulations 2008 on a consolidated basis.
4. Finance income
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011 
£m
Bank interest receivable 3.5 2.7
Pension finance income 2.9 2.9
Non-underlying finance income (note 6) 7.0 38.7
Total finance income 13.4 44.3
5. Finance costs
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011 
£m
Interest payable on loan notes
1
161.2 164.4
Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.4
Pension finance costs 3.1 2.7
Amortisation of deferred issue costs 1.8 2.0
Effect of unwinding discounted provisions 0.7 1.0
Non-underlying finance costs (note 6) – 1.7
Total finance costs 166.9 172.2
1
  Interest payable on loan notes is net of £5.7m credit (August 2011: £5.9m credit) for the amortisation of fair value adjustments and £2.3m net credit  
(August 2011: £2.5m net credit) for interest rate swaps, all of which relates to financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss. 
  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
55
Financial statements
6. Non-underlying items
In order to provide a trend measure of underlying performance, profit is presented excluding items which management consider 
will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or as a result of specific accounting treatments.  
In addition, the results of the leased pubs that formed part of the Spirit business that was demerged in the prior period  
are shown as non-underlying. Included in the income statement are the following non-underlying items:
  52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Results of the Spirit leased estate to demerger
Revenue – 85.5
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation – (46.1)
Depreciation and amortisation – (1.6)
Impairment losses (note 15) – (60.4)
Goodwill charge – (10.3)
Profit on sale of non-current assets – 0.6
Operating loss for the Spirit leased estate – (32.3)
Other operating non-underlying items
Business separation costs – (30.0)
Restructuring, redundancy and other related one-off costs (4.0) (2.8)
Movement on property liabilities – 0.1
Impairment losses (note 15) (3.4) (306.6)
Goodwill charge
1
(1.1) (72.4)
Profit on sale of non-current assets 1.3 2.5
(7.2) (409.2)
Finance income
Loan note redemptions
2
1.7 37.6
Movement in fair value of provision for share scheme settlement
3
1.1 1.1
Movement in fair value of Spirit shares held
4
1.4 –
Profit on sale of shares held in trust 1.7 –
Other non-underlying finance income 1.1 –
7.0 38.7
Finance costs
Movement in fair value of Spirit shares held
4
– (1.7)
– (1.7)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps
5
(11.4) (7.2)
Total non-underlying items before tax (11.6) (411.7)
Tax
Tax impact of non-underlying items 9.6 (3.4)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods 5.1 1.3
14.7 (2.1)
Total non-underlying items after tax 3.1 (413.8)
1
  Represents the goodwill relating to those core pubs disposed of in the period and the £72.4m write down of goodwill relating to the apportioned value  
of goodwill allocated to those pubs transferred to the turnaround division in the prior period and subsequently impaired. 
2
  Represents profit on the purchase of securitised debt together with the write-off of related deferred issue costs.
3
  Represents movement in fair value of shares held to settle future share schemes and release of provision for share schemes (see note 9).
4
  Represents movement in fair value of shares held as an investment (see note 9).
5
  Represents the movement in the fair value of interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting. Whilst the interest rate swaps are considered to be 
effective in matching the amortising profile of existing or planned floating rate borrowings, they do not meet the definition of an effective hedge due to changes  
in expected future maturity profiles.  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
56
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
7. Employees and Directors
The staff costs for continuing operations are set out below:
 52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Wages and salaries 18.0 24.9
Social security costs 2.1 2.8
Share based payments 1.1 3.0
Other pension costs 1.2 1.5
22.4 32.2
The average number of employees employed by the Group in continuing operations during the period was as follows:
 52 weeks to 
18 August 
2012
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011 
Management and administration
1
458 651
1
 Employee numbers relate to actual employees rather than full time employee equivalents.
The Directors are remunerated by the Company.
Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in the ‘Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 27 to 35.
8. Taxation
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
Tax charged / (credited) in the income statement
 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 52 weeks to 20 August 2011
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying
£m
Total
£m
Underlying
£m
Non-
underlying
£m
Total
£m
Current tax on continuing operations 
UK corporation tax – current year 2.0 (2.0) – 22.9 (0.1) 22.8
UK corporation tax – adjustments in respect of prior years – (0.8) (0.8) – 0.4 0.4
2.0 (2.8) (0.8) 22.9 0.3 23.2
Deferred tax on continuing operations (note 18)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  
– current year 14.0 (7.6) 6.4 (1.6) 3.5 1.9
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 
– adjustments in respect of prior years – (4.3) (4.3) – (1.7) (1.7)
14.0 (11.9) 2.1 (1.6) 1.8 0.2
Total tax charge / (credit) in the income statement  
on continuing operations 16.0 (14.7) 1.3 21.3 2.1 23.4
Income tax credit on discontinued operations – – – – (46.2) (46.2)
Total tax charge / (credit) 16.0 (14.7) 1.3 21.3 (44.1) (22.8) Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
57
Financial statements
8. Taxation continued
Tax on items credited to equity
In addition to the amount credited to the income statement, tax movements recognised directly in equity through the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income were as follows:
 52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011
£m
Deferred tax
Deferred tax charge / (credit) on gain / (loss) on actuarial valuation of pension schemes 0.7 (1.0)
Deferred tax credit on effective element of cash flow hedges (7.9) (6.9)
Deferred tax credit on other items charged to equity – (0.2)
Deferred tax credit recognised directly in equity (7.2) (8.1)
(b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The effective rate of tax is different to the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below: 
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
£m
 52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before tax on continuing operations 52.4 (335.4)
Tax at current UK tax rate of 25.22% (August 2011: 27.22%) 13.2 (91.3)
Effects of:
Net effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes and non-taxable income (underlying items) (0.1) 0.5
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (non-underlying items) (5.1) (1.3)
Current period non-underlying (credits) / charges (6.7) 115.5
Total tax charge reported in the income statement on continuing operations 1.3 23.4
Details of the non-underlying tax credits and charges are included in note 6.
9. Discontinued operations
At a General Meeting on 26 July 2011, the Company’s shareholders approved the demerger of the Spirit business. 
On 1 August 2011, the Spirit business was demerged from the Group. The demerger was effected by the following steps:
•	 A new holding company, Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited was incorporated, into which the Spirit business was transferred
•	 £61m of cash was transferred from Punch Taverns plc to Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited
•	 The entire share capital of Spirit Pub Company (Holdco) Limited was transferred to Spirit Pub Company plc, a non-group company. 
In return, Spirit Pub Company plc issued one ordinary share in itself to each Punch Taverns plc shareholder for each one ordinary 
share of Punch Taverns plc held on 1 August 2011. 
These transactions resulted in the demerger of the Spirit business from the Group. 
The Spirit business at the time of the demerger consisted of approximately 800 managed pubs and 550 leased pubs. Since the 
managed pub business represented a separate major line of business for the Group, the results of that segment are shown as 
discontinued in these financial statements. However the 550 leased pubs that were demerged do not represent a separate major 
line of business under the definitions within IFRS 5, so the results of these pubs have not been shown as discontinued, but instead 
are shown as non-underlying in these financial statements.
The disclosures below relate only to the demerged Spirit managed business segment. The disclosures do not include the Spirit 
leased business segment as this segment cannot be classified as discontinued within the definitions of IFRS 5. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
58
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
9. Discontinued operations continued
a) The results of the Spirit managed business before demerger were as follows:
 49 weeks to
 31 July 2011 
£m
Revenue 608.4
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation (see note (b) below) (529.5)
EBITDA 78.9
Depreciation and amortisation (30.0)
Impairment (4.9)
Profit on sale of non-current assets 0.7
Operating profit 44.7
Finance income 50.0
Finance costs (57.4)
Movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (21.9)
Profit before taxation 15.4
UK income tax credit 46.2
Profit for the financial period 61.6
(b) An analysis of operating costs incurred by the Spirit managed business prior to demerger is as follows:
 49 weeks to
 31 July 
2011
£m
Drink and food costs 176.9
Managed pub running costs 266.4
Leasehold rentals 40.2
Depreciation 26.9
Amortisation 3.1
Impairment losses 4.9
Profit on sale of non-current assets (0.7)
Other costs 46.0
Total costs deducted from revenue to determine operating profit 563.7
(c)  Income tax relating to the Spirit managed business is as follows:
 49 weeks to 
31 July 
2011
£m
Current tax credit 25.4
Deferred tax credit 20.8
Total tax credit 46.2
(d)  The loss from discontinued operations shown in the income statement is made up as follows:
 49 weeks to
 31 July
2011 
£m
Profit in the financial period up to demerger of the discontinued business 61.6
Dividend in specie 388.1
Share based payments 2.0
Net assets of Spirit business demerged
1
(959.6)
(507.9)
1
 The net assets of the Spirit business demerged includes both the managed and leased businesses.
The value of the dividend in specie represents the fair value of the Spirit business. This has been derived based on the fair value  
of a subordinated loan advanced by the Group to the Spirit business, the value of Spirit debenture bonds that were funded by 
Punch Taverns plc and an amount of cash that was transferred to the Spirit business on demerger.
Prior to demerger, the Company allotted shares to cover future outstanding awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, which  
are being held in a Trust controlled by the Group. At demerger, a financial asset has been recognised by the Group for the total 
number of Spirit shares that are being held by the Group, and a provision has been recognised for the number of Punch and Spirit 
shares that have been allotted in order to satisfy awards that are outstanding to employees now employed by the Spirit group.  
The £2.0m profit on the recognition of these has been shown above. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
59
Financial statements
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated  
as cancelled.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (adjusted for the effects of dilutive options).
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares are set out below:
 52 weeks to 
18 August 2012 
52 weeks to 
20 August 2011
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Earnings
£m
Per share
 amount
pence
Results attributable to ordinary shareholders:
Basic earnings / (loss) per share 51.1 7.7 (866.7) (134.8)
Diluted earnings / (loss) per share 51.1 7.7 (866.7) (134.8)
Supplementary earnings per share figures:
Basic earnings per share before non-underlying items 48.0 7.2 55.0 8.6
Diluted earnings per share before non-underlying items 48.0 7.2 55.0 8.6
Basic loss per share on discontinued operations – – (507.9) (79.0)
Diluted loss per share on discontinued operations – – (507.9) (79.0)
The impact of dilutive ordinary shares is to increase weighted average shares by nil (August 2011: 28,000) for employee share options.
 
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012
No. (m)
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
No. (m)
Basic weighted average number of shares 662.9 642.8
Diluted weighted average number of shares 662.9 642.8
11. Dividends
Other than the dividend in specie to effect the demerger of the Spirit business as discussed in note 9, no dividends have been 
declared and paid during the current or prior year. 
The Directors will not be proposing the payment of a final dividend. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
60
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
12. Property, plant and equipment 
Land and
 buildings
£m
Public house
 fixtures 
and fittings
£m
Other 
assets
£m
Total
£m
Cost or deemed cost
At 21 August 2010 4,977.2 324.7 26.9 5,328.8
Additions 59.2 49.3 1.2 109.7
Transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (134.6) (0.2) – (134.8)
Disposals (136.8) (14.5) (1.1) (152.4)
Demerger of the Spirit business (1,895.3) (285.4) (11.3) (2,192.0)
At 20 August 2011 2,869.7 73.9 15.7 2,959.3
Additions 37.1 6.9 0.4 44.4
Transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (153.0) (5.1) – (158.1)
Disposals (57.9) (3.7) (0.1) (61.7)
At 18 August 2012 2,695.9 72.0 16.0 2,783.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 21 August 2010 451.2 174.7 11.1 637.0
Charge for the year 5.4 33.0 2.8 41.2
Impairment losses (note 15) 352.6 1.4 – 354.0
Transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (63.7) (0.2) – (63.9)
Disposals (65.2) (9.4) – (74.6)
Demerger of the Spirit business (328.8) (146.7) (0.6) (476.1)
At 20 August 2011 351.5 52.8 13.3 417.6
Charge for the year 1.3 8.3 1.5 11.1
Impairment losses (note 15) 3.4 – – 3.4
Transfers to non-current assets classified as held for sale (77.5) (5.1) – (82.6)
Disposals (26.3) (3.1) (0.1) (29.5)
At 18 August 2012 252.4 52.9 14.7 320.0
Net book value at 18 August 2012 2,443.5 19.1 1.3 2,463.9
Net book value at 20 August 2011 2,518.2 21.1 2.4 2,541.7
The cost of work in progress within property, plant and equipment at 18 August 2012 was £11.8m (August 2011: £9.5m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases.  
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are motor vehicles held under finance leases with a net book value of  
£0.5m (August 2011: £1.1m) and properties held under finance leases with a net book value of £2.3m (August 2011: £3.0m).
Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of £2,426.9m (August 2011: £2,505.2m) over which the 
Group’s borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
61
Financial statements
13. Goodwill, operating leases and other intangible assets
Operating
 leases
£m
Other
 intangible
 assets
£m
Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 21 August 2010 160.2 16.4 495.1
Additions – 0.5 –
Disposals (3.2) – –
Demerger of the Spirit business (116.1) (1.3) (241.6)
At 20 August 2011 40.9 15.6 253.5
Additions – 0.6 –
Disposals (1.5) – (1.6)
At 18 August 2012 39.4 16.2 251.9
Amortisation
At 21 August 2010 73.9 11.1 –
Charge for the year 4.0 2.9 –
Disposals (2.7) – –
Impairment (note 15) 11.2 – 82.7
Demerger of the Spirit business (51.9) (0.7) (10.3)
At 20 August 2011 34.5 13.3 72.4
Charge for the year 0.4 2.0 –
Disposals (1.5) – (0.5)
At 18 August 2012 33.4 15.3 71.9
Net book value at 18 August 2012 6.0 0.9 180.0
Net book value at 20 August 2011 6.4 2.3 181.1
Included within operating leases are properties with a net book value of £4.4m (August 2011: £4.8m) over which the Group’s 
borrowings are secured by way of fixed and floating charges.
Other intangible assets relate to computer software.
14. Other investments
£m
Spirit shares held
At 20 August 2011 7.4
Movement in fair value of shares held (note 6) 1.4
At 18 August 2012 8.8
15. Impairment losses
Property, plant and equipment and operating leases
When any indicators of impairment are identified, property, plant and equipment and operating leases are reviewed for impairment 
based on each cash-generating unit (CGU). The CGUs are individual pubs. The carrying values of these individual pubs are 
compared to the recoverable amount of the CGUs, which is the higher of value in use (VIU) and fair value less costs to sell (FVLCS).
During the 52 week period to 20 August 2011, the Group commissioned independent market research on the UK eating and 
drinking out market and its position in it. This review was undertaken as part of a comprehensive review of the Group’s strategy, 
operating performance and capital structure, the outcome of which was announced on 22 March 2011.
This review reinforced the Group’s view that the long term decline in drinking out in pubs will continue, driven by changing 
consumer behaviour, relative price positioning and the impact of regulation. Conversely, the long term growth in eating out  
in pubs will continue, driven by economic growth, changing consumer behaviour and improvements in the quality, service and 
value for money offering in the pub industry. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
62
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
15. Impairment losses continued
The outcome of this review led the Group to conclude that, given the structural challenges faced by the leased estate, a more 
aggressive reduction in the estate size is required. This will enable the Group to move more quickly to a position from which we can 
deliver sustainable growth in profits and cash flow. This analysis led to the conclusion that our turnaround estate, comprising those 
properties that can generate more value through disposal than retention, was around 2,400 pubs at the time of the review. It is 
expected that these pubs will be disposed of over a five year period. 
The values of these turnaround pubs were then reviewed, with the carrying value of these individual pubs being written down to 
the higher of their FVLCS and their VIU. As a result, a £306.6m impairment was charged in the prior year. In addition, a £60.4m 
impairment charge was incurred on the Spirit leased estate.
During the 52 week period to 18 August 2012, the FVLCS of the non-current assets classified as held for sale have been reviewed, 
and a further impairment of £3.4m has been identified.
The impairments recognised in the current and prior periods are as follows:
52 weeks to
 18 August
2012
£m
52 weeks to 
20 August
 2011
£m
Property, plant and equipment 3.4 359.1
Operating leases – 7.9
3.4 367.0
 
Cash flows used in the VIU calculation of non-core pubs are based on earnings before interest and taxation. Since non-core pubs 
have been identified as not having a viable future to Punch as a pub, their VIU has been calculated by extrapolating the earnings  
of these pubs for a period of three years, and then using the FVLCS at that time as the terminal value at the end of year three.  
The cash flow forecasts used assume an ongoing trading decline for these pubs. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied  
to cash flow projections is 8.0% (August 2011: 8.0%). In practice, due to the projected decline in profits in the turnaround estate, 
the majority of pubs were written down to their FVLCS as their VIU is below this level. Estimates of FVLCS were based on valuations 
undertaken by in-house property experts.
Included within the above are reversals of impairment losses of property, plant and equipment of £nil (August 2011: £27.4m).  
The impairment reversals were primarily due to the identification of pubs where expected future cash flows have risen to a level 
such that their VIU is now above carrying value.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the synergistic benefits of operating a large pub estate and is allocated to groups of CGUs. In the prior period, 
the leased estate was reorganised from one group of CGUs to separate core and turnaround property structures. The allocation of 
leased goodwill between core and turnaround indicated that no goodwill should be allocated to the turnaround estate given the 
low value of the properties in the estate and the low level of synergistic benefits. 
During the prior period following the strategic review, a further c. 1,400 pubs were transferred in to the turnaround estate, and  
at that stage goodwill of £72.4m was reallocated to the turnaround estate. The intention to dispose of these turnaround properties  
in the medium term triggered an impairment review and an impairment charge of £82.7m was taken against this goodwill, which 
included a £10.3m charge on goodwill allocated to pubs in the Spirit leased estate. For goodwill impairment purposes, the 
recoverable amount of the turnaround group of CGUs was based on an aggregate of the higher of the FVLCS and the VIU for the 
turnaround pubs. The basis of these calculations is set out in the property, plant and equipment and operating lease impairment 
disclosures above.
In addition during the prior period, a review for impairment was carried out on the remaining goodwill allocated to pubs in the core 
estate. This review compared the carrying amount of the goodwill to the net realisable value, being the higher of the FVLCS and 
VIU. Cash flows used in the VIU calculation were based on earnings before interest and taxation, and used the forecasted cash 
flows included within the Group business plan for the first five years, and then the cash flows were extrapolated for a further  
45 years, applying a multiple of ten as the terminal value. The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate applied to cash flow projections 
was 8.0%. The growth rate applied to cash flows over the 45 year period was 2.25%. Based on this review, no impairment of 
goodwill on the core estate was identified. 
During the current period, a review completed using the same criteria as the previous period on the remaining goodwill allocated  
to pubs in the core estate also concluded that no impairment was required. 
Neither a 2% decrease in the growth rate assumption, nor a 1% increase in the discount rate assumption would have led to an 
impairment in either the current or prior period. 
  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
63
Financial statements
16. Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures
Company
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 1,335.8
Additions 5.0
At 20 August 2011 1,340.8
Additions 1.1
At 18 August 2012 1,341.9
During the period, the Company made a capital contribution of £1.1m (August 2011: £5.0m) to its immediate subsidiary 
undertaking, Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited. 
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures at 18 August 2012 are as follows:
Name of company Nature of business
Subsidiary undertakings owned directly:
Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited Holding company
All of which are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Punch Taverns (PGE) Limited:
Punch Partnerships (PGRP) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Partnerships (PTL) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Partnerships (PML) Limited Pub operating company
Punch Taverns (Services) Limited 
(formerly Punch Partnerships (PPCS) Limited) Intermediate supply company
Punch Taverns Finance plc Financing company
Punch Taverns Finance B Limited Financing company
Punch Taverns (Finco) Limited Financing company
Punch Taverns (PRAF) Limited Financing company
Punch Taverns (Offices) Limited Property company
Joint ventures:
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited Intermediate holding company of Matthew Clark
The Company owns 100% of the ordinary share capital directly or indirectly and controls 100% of the voting rights of the 
companies listed above, with the exception of Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, of which the Company indirectly owns 50%  
of the ordinary share capital and exercises joint control.
All the companies listed above are incorporated in England and Wales other than Punch Taverns Finance B Limited, which  
is incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
In addition to those investments listed above, the Group also maintains day-to-day control over Punch Taverns plc General 
Employee Benefit Trust, a Trust set up purely for holding shares related to share based payment schemes. Although no company  
in the Group owns any shares either directly or indirectly in Punch Taverns plc General Employee Benefit Trust, the financial 
statements are also consolidated into the Group financial statements in accordance with SIC 12.
Exemption has been taken to exclude subsidiary undertakings whose results or financial position do not principally affect the 
financial statements from the above disclosure.
  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
64
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
17. Trade and other receivables
 Group Company
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade receivables 24.3 35.0 – –
Amounts owed by group undertakings – – 0.2 2.1
Prepayments and accrued income 8.9 10.8 – 1.7
Tax and social security receivable – – – 0.2
Other receivables 0.9 0.9 – –
34.1 46.7 0.2 4.0
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts due from group undertakings – – 1,098.8 973.3
18. Deferred tax
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
Deferred tax
 Group  Company
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
(Liabilities) / assets at beginning of period (3.1) (10.7) 10.5 –
(Charged) / credited to income statement (note 8) (2.1) 20.8 (2.3) 10.5
Credited to other comprehensive income 7.2 8.1 – –
Demerger of the Spirit business – (21.3) – –
Assets / (liabilities) at end of period 2.0 (3.1) 8.2 10.5
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below: 
Deferred tax assets
Group 
Tax losses
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
liabilities
£m
Financial 
instruments
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 26.3 6.2 109.1 7.7 149.3
Credited / (charged) to income statement 46.1 (3.9) (19.3) 2.7 25.6
Credited to other comprehensive income – 1.0 6.9 0.2 8.1
Demerger of the Spirit business (58.4) (1.4) (22.2) (6.1) (88.1)
At 20 August 2011 14.0 1.9 74.5 4.5 94.9
Charged to income statement (4.6) (0.6) (1.1) (0.9) (7.2)
(Charged) / credited to equity – (0.7) 7.9 – 7.2
At 18 August 2012 9.4 0.6 81.3 3.6 94.9
Company 
Tax losses
£m
At 21 August 2010 –
Credited to income statement 10.5
At 20 August 2011 10.5
Charged to income statement (2.3)
At 18 August 2012 8.2 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
65
Financial statements
18. Deferred tax continued
Deferred tax liabilities
Group
Accelerated
 capital 
allowances
£m
At 21 August 2010 160.0
Charged to income statement 4.8
Demerger of the Spirit business (66.8)
At 20 August 2011 98.0
Credited to income statement (5.1)
At 18 August 2012 92.9
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £43.1m (August 2011: £57.7m) and unused capital losses of 
£1,652.4m (August 2011: £1,656.6m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect 
of £40.8m (August 2011: £56.0m) of such losses, which are expected to be utilised against future profit streams within the Group. 
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £1,654.7m (August 2011: £1,658.9m) of losses due to the 
unpredictability of future profit streams. Current legislation deems that these losses may be carried forward for an unlimited 
number of years.
The 2011 Budget on 23 March 2011 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 23% over a period of 4 years from 
2011. The first reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% (effective from 1 April 2011) was substantively enacted 
on 20 July 2010, and further reductions to 26% (effective from 1 April 2011) and 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) were 
substantively enacted on 29 March 2011 and 5 July 2011 respectively.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced a further reduction in the corporation tax rate to 24% (effective from 1 April 2012) 
and to 23% (effective from 1 April 2013). These rates were substantively enacted on 26 March 2012 and 3 July 2012 respectively.  
A further 1% rate reduction in a future period will reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 22%. This will reduce the company’s 
future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax asset at 18 August 2012 has been calculated based on the future rate of 23% which was substantively enacted  
at the balance sheet date.
19. Cash
 Group Company
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 263.9 196.5 4.3 0.6
Restricted cash
1
315.0 – – –
1
 Represents ring fenced funds drawn down following a rating downgrade of one of the liquidity facility providers (note 23).  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
66
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
20. Non-current assets classified as held for sale
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 106.9 125.8
Non-current assets classified as held for sale represents pubs that are individually being actively marketed for sale with varying 
expected completion dates within one year. The value of non-current assets classified as held for sale represents the expected net 
disposal proceeds, and is the value after an impairment charge of £3.4m. As at 18 August 2012 £106.9m of the non-current assets 
classified as held for sale population were situated in the turnaround estate (August 2011: £125.8m).
21. Trade and other payables
 Group Company
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Trade payables 37.1 35.8 – –
Other tax and social security payable 8.8 12.7 0.2 –
Other payables 26.6 29.4 – 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 48.6 68.0 – –
121.1 145.9 0.2 0.2
22. Financial liabilities
 18 August 2012 20 August 2011
 Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within 
one year
£m
after more
 than one
year
£m
Total
£m
within 
one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc 27.4 1,450.6 1,478.0 26.5 1,481.7 1,508.2
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited 33.4 920.1 953.5 33.8 963.3 997.1
Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 60.8 2,370.7 2,431.5 60.3 2,445.0 2,505.3
Obligations under finance leases 0.7 2.7 3.4 1.0 3.7 4.7
Total financial liabilities 61.5 2,373.4 2,434.9 61.3 2,448.7 2,510.0 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
67
Financial statements
22. Financial liabilities continued
Secured loan notes
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various assets of the Group.
Interest is paid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes. Scheduled capital repayments are made quarterly on those loan  
notes that are amortising. The details for the secured loan notes, including the date of the final scheduled instalment for each class 
of note, as indicated in its description, are as follows:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc:
 18 August 2012 20 August 2011
 Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within 
one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
within
 one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
Class A1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2022 at 7.274% per annum – 270.0 270.0 – 270.0 270.0
Class A2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by July 2020 at 6.82% per annum 22.2 210.9 233.1 22.2 233.1 255.3
Class B1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2026 at 7.567% per annum – 79.5 79.5 – 79.5 79.5
Class B2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by July 2029 at 8.374% per annum – 83.7 83.7 – 87.4 87.4
Class B3 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by July 2031 at LIBOR
1
 +0.24% to July 2014  
and LIBOR
1
 +0.60% thereafter – 134.0 134.0 – 134.0 134.0
Class C secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by April 2033 at 6.468% per annum – 85.1 85.1 – 85.1 85.1
Class M1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by October 2026 at 5.883% per annum 5.7 103.3 109.0 4.8 109.0 113.8
Class M2(N) secured floating rate notes repayable  
by July 2029 at LIBOR
1
 +0.20% to July 2014  
and LIBOR
1
 +0.50% thereafter – 398.7 398.7 – 398.7 398.7
Class D1 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by October 2032 at LIBOR
1
 +0.82% to July 2014  
and LIBOR
1
 +2.05% thereafter – 83.7 83.7 – 83.7 83.7
27.9 1,448.9 1,476.8 27.0 1,480.5 1,507.5
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 0.6 4.8 5.4 0.7 5.5 6.2
Less: deferred issue costs (1.1) (3.1) (4.2) (1.2) (4.3) (5.5)
27.4 1,450.6 1,478.0 26.5 1,481.7 1,508.2
1
 For 3 month deposits.
In the current period, the Group redeemed Class B2 notes with a nominal value of £3.7m.
In the prior period, the Group redeemed notes with a nominal value of £111.4m, being £20.3m Class B1, £30.2m Class B2,  
£25.0m Class B3, £12.2m Class C, £3.9m Class M1 and £19.8m Class D1 notes.
These figures are net of notes held by the Group not yet cancelled, which as at 18 August 2012 were £nil (20 August 2011:  
£1.5m Class B1, £12.0m Class B2 and £5.0m Class B3 notes held by Punch Taverns (Finco) Limited).
  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
68
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
22. Financial liabilities continued
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited:
 18 August 2012 20 August 2011
 Amounts falling due Amounts falling due
within 
one year
£m
after more
 than one 
year
£m
Total
£m
within 
one year
£m
after more
 than one
year
£m
Total
£m
Class A3 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2022 at 7.369% per annum 15.3 166.8 182.1 15.0 182.1 197.1
Class A6 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by December 2024 at 5.943% per annum – 220.0 220.0 – 220.0 220.0
Class A7 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2033 at 4.767% per annum 11.5 165.0 176.5 11.0 176.5 187.5
Class A8 secured floating rate notes repayable  
by June 2033 at LIBOR
1
 +0.28% until June 2015  
and LIBOR
1
 +0.7% thereafter 2.7 46.3 49.0 3.2 58.9 62.1
Class B1 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2025 at 8.44% per annum – 61.5 61.5 – 61.5 61.5
Class B2 secured fixed rate notes repayable  
by June 2028 at 6.962% per annum – 99.4 99.4 – 99.4 99.4
Class C secured floating rate notes repayable  
by June 2035 at LIBOR
1
 +1.1% until June 2015  
and LIBOR
1
 +2.75% thereafter – 125.0 125.0 – 125.0 125.0
29.5 884.0 913.5 29.2 923.4 952.6
Add: premium arising from fair value adjustment 4.5 38.2 42.7 5.1 42.7 47.8
Less: deferred issue costs (0.6) (2.1) (2.7) (0.5) (2.8) (3.3)
33.4 920.1 953.5 33.8 963.3 997.1
1
 For 3 month deposits.
In the current period, the Group redeemed Class A8 notes with a nominal value of £10.3m.
In the prior period, the Group sold notes with a nominal value of £34.2m, being £2.5m Class A3, £24.7m Class A7 and £7.0m  
Class B2 notes.
These figures are net of notes held by the Group not yet cancelled, which as at 18 August 2012 were £13.1m Class A7, £16.0m 
Class B1 and £25.6m Class B2 notes held by Punch Partnerships (PML) Limited (20 August 2011: £13.9m Class A7, £16.0m Class B1 
and £25.6m Class B2 notes held by Punch Partnerships (PML) Limited). Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
69
Financial statements
22. Financial liabilities continued
Interest rate swaps
The Group has taken out various interest rate swaps to reduce the interest rate risk associated with floating rate loans as follows:
Punch Taverns Finance plc
Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into which swap the LIBOR interest rate on the Class B3, Class M2(N) and Class 
D1 floating rate notes to a fixed rate of 5.954%. The capital amount of these swaps reduces over time to match the contractual 
repayment profile of the floating rate notes. 
Punch Taverns Finance B Limited
Interest rate swap agreements have been entered into which swap the LIBOR interest rate on the Class A8 and Class C notes  
to a fixed rate of 5.1% and 4.7577% respectively. The capital amount of these swaps reduces over time to match the contractual 
repayment profile of the floating rate notes. Although the Class A8 swap ensures that cash flows are perfectly hedged over the life 
of the notes, it was deemed ineffective as at 21 August 2010 due to the intention to purchase and cancel a portion of these notes 
ahead of their expected legal maturity.
After taking account of the various interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure of the Group’s financial 
liabilities is set out below. There are no financial liabilities other than short term payables and provision for share schemes excluded 
from this analysis:
  18 August 2012 20 August 2011
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m
Total
£m
Secured loan notes:
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance plc 1,478.0 – 1,478.0 1,508.2 – 1,508.2
Issued by Punch Taverns Finance B Limited 953.5 – 953.5 997.1 – 997.1
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2,431.5 – 2,431.5 2,505.3 – 2,505.3
Obligations under finance leases 3.4 – 3.4 4.7 – 4.7
Total financial liabilities 2,434.9 – 2,434.9 2,510.0 – 2,510.0
Interest rate analysis
The weighted average effective interest rates of interest-bearing loans and borrowings, including the effect of interest rate swaps, 
at the balance sheet date are as follows:
18 August
 2012
%
20 August
 2011
%
Secured loan notes 6.9 6.9
Finance leases 6.5 6.5
The average interest rate for Group loans and borrowings is 6.9% (August 2011: 6.9%).
Obligations under finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
 18 August 2012 20 August 2011
Minimum
 lease 
payments
£m
Present value
 of future
 obligations
£m
Minimum
 lease 
payments
£m
Present value
 of future
 obligations
£m
Within one year 0.7 0.7 1.0 1.0
Within one to five years 1.5 1.1 2.3 1.8
Over five years 7.1 1.6 8.4 1.9
9.3 3.4 11.7 4.7 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
70
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
22. Financial liabilities continued
Maturity of Group debt
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s debt at 18 August 2012 and 20 August 2011 based on contractual, 
undiscounted cash flows including interest.
 Period ended 18 August 2012
Within 
one year
£m
One to
 two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than
 five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 57.4 64.2 293.2 1,975.5 2,390.3
– interest 113.7 109.8 300.7 558.6 1,082.8
– interest rate swaps 49.9 49.7 178.0 678.5 956.1
221.0 223.7 771.9 3,212.6 4,429.2
 Period ended 20 August 2011
Within 
one year
£m
One to
 two years
£m
Two to 
five years
£m
More than 
five years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– capital 56.2 57.8 244.8 2,101.3 2,460.1
– interest 118.6 114.9 321.1 668.0 1,222.6
– interest rate swaps 49.8 49.5 166.4 730.8 996.5
224.6 222.2 732.3 3,500.1 4,679.2
The contractual maturity of trade and other payables is within one year.
23. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Financial assets
Receivables (amortised cost) 24.3 35.0
Cash and short-term deposits 263.9 196.5
Liquidity facility agreement drawdown 315.0 –
Other investments 8.8 7.4
612.0 238.9
Financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps – at fair value through profit or loss 13.2 13.0
Interest rate swaps – not at fair value through profit or loss 318.3 258.6
Amortised cost 2,468.6 2,541.1
Finance lease obligations 3.4 4.7
Liquidity facility agreement drawdown 315.0 –
Provision for share schemes 4.8 5.9
3,123.3 2,823.3
The Company holds financial assets and financial liabilities at amortised cost as shown in note 33.
All derivative financial instruments are held on the balance sheet at fair value; the effective portion of changes in the fair value  
of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are recognised in equity. The gain or loss 
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled 
in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss. Changes in fair value of any derivative 
financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised immediately in the income statement. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
71
Financial statements
23. Financial instruments continued
The Group’s principal financial instruments, other than derivative financial instruments, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid 
resources. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various 
other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Following the demerger of the Spirit business, a financial asset has been recognised by the Group for the total number of Spirit 
shares that are being held by the Group, and a provision has been recognised for the number of Punch and Spirit shares that have 
been allotted in order to satisfy awards that are outstanding to employees now employed by the Spirit group.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, capital risk, credit risk and market 
risk. There is no material currency exposure as all material transactions and financial instruments are in sterling. The Group has no 
material exposure to equity securities or commodity price risk and it is the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial 
instruments shall be undertaken. The Board reviews and agrees policies for each of these risks and they are summarised on  
pages 07 to 09.
Interest rate risk
As the Group has no significant interest bearing assets, other than cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s income and operating 
cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. Income and cash flows from cash and cash equivalents 
fluctuate with interest rates.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity shareholders’ funds and loan notes. The Group borrows at both 
fixed and floating rates of interest and then employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to generate the 
desired interest rate profile and to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The cash balances attract interest  
at floating rates. 
Where over-hedging arises (for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes) the Group will seek to eliminate the 
over-hedging, where this is financially practicable, by terminating the over-hedge. As at the year end, the Group held £nil  
(August 2011: £5.0m) of floating rate notes for which interest swaps remain outstanding. 
The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 100% of all loans at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: 100%)  
were either at fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements thereby largely eliminating the Group’s 
exposure to changes in interest rates.
Cash flows associated with cash deposits, debt and interest rate swaps and the fair value of these instruments fluctuate with 
changes in interest rates. If the interest rates had been 1% higher or lower during the period, the effect on the income statement 
would be as follows:
Interest 
receivable
£m
Interest 
payable
£m
Movement 
in fair value 
of interest 
rate swaps
£m
Period ended 18 August 2012
Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) 2.6 – 5.0
Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) (2.6) – (5.7)
Impact on equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) – – 109.0
Impact on equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) – – (126.7)
Period ended 20 August 2011
Impact on income statement if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) 2.4 – 5.9
Impact on income statement if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) (2.4) – (6.8)
Impact on equity if interest rates increased by 1%: gain / (loss) – – 104.9
Impact on equity if interest rates decreased by 1%: gain / (loss) – – (122.7)
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes 
the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the Group would not benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed  
to unplanned costs, such as breakage costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
72
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
23. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The Group’s funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods offering flexibility and cost-effectiveness to match the 
requirements of the Group. The Group is primarily financed by secured loan notes, with approximately 83% (August 2011: 85%)  
of the capital balance on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years from the balance sheet date, subject to 
relevant covenants being met. The Board continues to review alternative sources of finance. The Group’s objective is to smooth  
the debt maturity profile and to arrange funding ahead of requirements where required so maturing short term debt may be 
refinanced or paid as it falls due. Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist management in identifying liquidity 
requirements and are stress-tested for possible scenarios. This includes assessments of the ability to meet the restricted payment 
conditions in the two securitisation structures in order that cash can be released to the top company level. Should either 
securitisation not meet the restricted payment conditions, then cash generated may under certain circumstances become trapped 
within that securitisation (not made available to the wider group) to naturally de-lever that securitisation. Cash balances are 
invested in short term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short term liabilities or to fund capital additions. 
The Group holds a £147.0m (August 2011: £294.0m) undrawn liquidity facility within the Punch A securitisation and £nil  
(August 2011: £168.0m) within the Punch B securitisation. The liquidity facilities are available to meet debt service obligations 
falling due in the securitisations to the extent that there are insufficient funds available from operations to meet such payments, 
and for no other purpose.
Following a downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service of the short term rating of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc in June 
2012, the provider of part of the Group’s total liquidity facility arrangements, the Group exercised its contractual entitlement under 
the liquidity facility agreement and a drawing was made for £315.0m, being the available commitment amount of £147.0m for the 
Punch A securitisation and £168.0m for the Punch B securitisation. The funds drawn down are ring fenced from an operational 
perspective and cannot be utilised for any activities other than their original purpose. An asset (note 19) and a corresponding 
liability (note 24) have been recognised in these financial statements. 
Capital risk
The Group’s capital structure is made up of net debt, issued share capital and reserves. These are managed effectively to minimise 
the Group’s cost of capital, to add value to shareholders and to service debt obligations. The Group’s debt is divided into two 
separate securitisations. The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures, which are reported to the debt providers on  
a quarterly basis. The Group assesses the performance of the business, the level of available funds and the short to medium term 
strategic plans concerning capital spend as well as the need to meet financial covenants and such assessment influences the level  
of dividends payable. In the current period, the Group has reduced the nominal value of its securitised debt by £69.8m through 
normal amortisation of the loan notes and by prepaying some debt ahead of schedule. The period end Debt Service Cover Ratio 
(DSCR) covenants for the two securitisations at 18 August 2012 were 1.36 times EBITDA and 1.51 times EBITDA, ahead of the 
financial covenant of 1.25 times EBITDA. The Group has provided support into the securitisations during the period to ensure  
that the DSCR remains above its covenanted level.
Credit risk
With the exception of cash and short term deposits invested with banks and financial institutions, there are no significant 
concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by  
the carrying value as at the balance sheet date. The Group’s objective is to minimise credit risk by ensuring that surplus funds are 
invested with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings and that the Group deals with third parties that have been 
subject to credit checks, or that have good credit scores, where appropriate. Trade and other receivables, as shown on the 
Consolidated balance sheet, comprise a large number of individually small amounts from unrelated customers and are shown  
net of a provision for doubtful debts. Management estimates the provision for doubtful debts based on a review of all individual 
receivable accounts, experience and known factors at the balance sheet date, taking into account any collateral held in the form of 
cash deposits, which is quantified. These cash deposits are applied against unpaid debt when licensees leave the pubs, and vary in 
size. The amount of cash deposits held at 18 August 2012 is £24.2m (August 2011: £26.2m). These are held on the balance sheet 
within trade and other payables. Receivables are written off against the doubtful debt provision when management deems the 
debt no longer recoverable. 
An analysis of the provision held against trade receivables for doubtful debts is shown below:
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Provision for doubtful debts at beginning of period 3.1 5.3
Charged to income statement 2.1 6.4
Utilised during the period (2.2) (3.5)
Released during the period (0.8) (4.1)
Derecognised on demerger of Spirit business – (1.0)
Provision for doubtful debts at end of period 2.2 3.1 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
73
Financial statements
23. Financial instruments continued
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date, net of the doubtful debt provision, is as follows:
18 August 
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Live debt Current 22.2 31.6
0-35 days past due – –
Over 35 days past due 2.1 3.4
Closed debt – –
24.3 35.0
Live debt represents balances outstanding from current licensees. Closed debt relates to outstanding balances from customers  
that are no longer current licensees of the Group.
There are no indicators at 18 August 2012 that debtors will not meet their payment obligations in respect of the net amount  
of trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet. 
Market risk
Following the demerger of the Spirit business, the Group is exposed to market risk since it holds an investment in Spirit Pub 
Company plc shares in order to satisfy outstanding share awards. The value of the financial asset recognised, being all Spirit  
shares held by the Group, and the financial liability recognised, being the obligation to deliver Punch and Spirit shares to satisfy 
outstanding awards for Spirit group employees, will vary with the share price of the Spirit shares, with any gain or loss being 
recognised in the income statement at each balance sheet date. There is no risk that the Group will not be able to satisfy the 
awards in the future, since sufficient shares were allotted to satisfy all outstanding awards.
Derivative financial instruments
The carrying values of derivative financial instruments in the balance sheet are as follows:
 Group
 18 August 2012
Current
 liabilities
£m
Non-current
 liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 38.4 293.1
     
 Group
 20 August 2011
Current 
liabilities
£m
Non-current
 liabilities
£m
Interest rate swaps 38.0 233.6
The interest rate swaps replace the LIBOR rate on the Group’s secured floating rate loan notes and bank loans with a fixed rate.  
The capital amount of the swaps reduces over time to match the contractual repayment profile of the associated notes over their 
life (see note 22 for more detail). Of the total carrying value of the interest rate swaps £318.3m (August 2011: £258.6m) qualify  
as, and are treated as, cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 and movements in their fair values are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The remaining £13.2m (August 2011: £13.0m) do not qualify for hedge accounting with movements  
in their fair value being recognised in the income statement.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities
With the exception of the Group’s secured loan notes, there are no material differences between the carrying value  
of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of the Group’s secured loan notes at 18 August 2012 is £2,431.5m (August 2011: £2,505.3m) and the fair value, 
measured at market value, of this debt at that date is £1,491.1m (August 2011: £1,599.7m).  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
74
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
23. Financial instruments continued
Fair value hierarchy
Financial instruments carried at fair value are required to be measured by reference to the following levels:
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
Level 2 –  inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly  
(i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 – inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
The value of the Spirit shares held as a financial asset and the value of the Punch and Spirit shares held as a financial liability  
have been measured by a level 1 valuation method.
All other financial instruments carried at fair value have been measured by a level 2 valuation method.
24. Cash-backed borrowings
 Group Company
 
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Cash-backed borrowings
1
315.0 – – –
1
 Representing a draw down of funds following a rating downgrade of one of the liquidity facility providers (note 23).
25. Provisions
Group
Onerous
 contracts
£m
Property 
leases
£m
Insurance
£m
Share 
schemes
£m
Total
£m
At 21 August 2010 3.8 80.3 5.4 – 89.5
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions 1.0 6.1 – – 7.1
Charged to income statement – 56.9 4.3 5.9 67.1
Utilised during the period (4.4) (15.7) (4.3) – (24.4)
Released during the period – (40.5) – – (40.5)
Demerger of the Spirit business (0.4) (78.2) (5.4) – (84.0)
At 20 August 2011 – 8.9 – 5.9 14.8
Unwinding of discount effect of provisions – 0.7 – – 0.7
Charged / (credited) to income statement – 0.2 – (1.1) (0.9)
Utilised during the period – (0.9) – – (0.9)
Released during the period – (0.3) – – (0.3)
At 18 August 2012 – 8.6 – 4.8 13.4
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Current 2.4 1.8
Non-current 11.0 13.0
13.4 14.8
Onerous contracts
The onerous contracts provision related to the termination costs for supply contracts, acquired on the acquisition of the Spirit group 
in January 2006, that expired in August 2011. The onerous cost element of these contracts was provided for based on anticipated 
future volumes and the difference between contract prices and market prices.
Property leases
The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss-making premises. The provision covers 
the expected shortfall between operating income and rents payable. Payments are expected to be ongoing on these properties  
for a number of years. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
75
Financial statements
25. Provisions continued
Insurance
The provision for insurance related to an estimate of monies that may become payable on claims not yet made to the Group.  
The insurance provision was wholly related to the managed business, and has been derecognised on the demerger of that business.
Share schemes
The provision for share schemes represents the liability that will be due to Spirit employees should the share schemes that they  
are eligible employees vest. The Group currently holds Punch and Spirit shares in order to satisfy these share schemes, which  
are held at cost and fair value respectively, and remeasured at each balance sheet date, with any movement being taken to the  
income statement.
The Company has no provisions.
26. Other non-current payables
 Company
 
18 August
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Amounts owed to group undertakings 1,617.0 1,624.5
1,617.0 1,624.5
Included within amounts owed to group undertakings are various loan balances, for which additional detail is disclosed in note 33. 
Remaining balances have no restrictive terms or conditions associated with them.
27. Share capital 
18 August
 2012
No. (000)
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
No. (000)
20 August
 2011
£m
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 0.04786p 664,479 0.3 659,656 0.3
The movements in the called-up share capital are set out below:
Ordinary
 shares
No. (000)
Ordinary
 shares
£m
At 21 August 2010 642,781 0.3
Issued on exercise of share options 16,875 –
At 20 August 2011 659,656 0.3
Issued on exercise of share options 4,823 –
At 18 August 2012 664,479 0.3
Rights of shareholders 
All ordinary shares in issue at 18 August 2012 rank pari passu in all respects. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
76
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
28. Share based payments
The Company has five share incentive schemes by which Directors and employees are able to acquire shares in the Company.  
All of these schemes are equity-settled schemes. IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity-settled awards after  
7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Discretionary Share Plan
The first scheme is a Discretionary Share Plan (DSP) whereby options are granted to senior management over ordinary shares  
in the Company, at the prevailing market price at time of grant. These options vest after a three year performance period, with 
performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee, and are then exercisable for a period of between seven and ten years. 
Performance targets for options granted on 31 January 2006 and 16 November 2005 are set on a sliding scale of earnings per 
share growth with 40% of options vesting on growth of RPI +8% per annum up to 100% vesting on growth of RPI +10% per 
annum. Performance targets for options granted on 17 November 2004 are set on a sliding scale of earnings per share growth with 
40% of options vesting on growth of RPI +8% per annum up to 100% vesting on growth of RPI +12% per annum. Performance 
targets for options granted on 2 March 2004 are set on a sliding scale of earnings per share growth with 40% of options vesting 
on growth of RPI +12% per annum up to 100% vesting on growth of RPI +15% per annum. No options have been granted under 
this scheme since 31 January 2006.
Long Term Incentive Plan
The second scheme is a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) whereby senior management will receive conditional rights over ordinary 
shares in the Company. Eligible employees are awarded rights to the issue of a maximum number of shares at the beginning of  
a three year period, a proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period depending on the extent to 
which the performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation is made are satisfied. Further 
information on the performance conditions of the Long Term Incentive Plan are shown in the Report on Directors’ remuneration  
on pages 27 to 35. At 18 August 2012 eligible employees held rights over ordinary shares that may result in the issue  
of 2,926,490 shares on 16 October 2012, 3,420,744 shares on 19 November 2013 and 3,725,164 shares on 30 November 2014.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
The third scheme is a Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSB), whereby senior management received part of their post-tax annual bonus 
in shares. No awards were made in relation to the DSB during the period and no shares are being held in trust.
Share Bonus Plan
The fourth scheme is a Share Bonus Plan (SBP) whereby, senior management received part of their post-tax annual bonus in shares. 
During the period 1,473,951 shares were awarded under the SBP and are being held in trust. These awards, as they formed part of 
the individuals’ annual bonuses, are not subject to further performance criteria and will be released to the individuals on the second 
anniversary of the award. 
Share Incentive Plan
The fifth scheme is a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) open to all eligible employees, whereby proceeds contributed by employees are  
used to buy shares in the Company at prevailing market values. These shares are called Partnership Shares and are held in a trust on 
behalf of the employee. For every Partnership Share bought by the employee the Company will give the employee one share free  
of charge (‘Matching Share’). The employees have to take their shares out of the plan on leaving the Group and will not be entitled 
to the Matching Share if they leave within three years of buying the Partnership Shares. If the Company awards dividends to its 
shareholders, the employee will receive a dividend on each of the Partnership and Matching Shares they hold. The Company 
arranges for the dividends to be used to buy extra shares (‘Dividend Shares’). Dividend Shares must be held in the plan for three 
years before they can be removed unless the employee leaves the Group in which case they must be taken out. The scheme  
was introduced in June 2004 with shares being acquired at market values on an annual or monthly basis. As at 18 August 2012 
2,697,852 shares (August 2011: 2,023,918 shares) had been issued by the Company to the trust at par value. The par value of the 
shares issued that has been deducted from reserves is negligible. The market value of these Punch Taverns plc and Spirit Pub 
Company plc shares at 18 August 2012 was £1.5m (August 2011: £1.1m).
Fair value of share awards
The fair value is measured using the valuation technique that is considered to be the most appropriate to value each class of award. 
Discretionary Share Plan
There were no awards made in relation to the Discretionary Share Plan during the current or the previous period.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
77
Financial statements
28. Share based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan
The key assumptions for awards made in the current and previous period are as follows:
Grant date
30 November
2011
11 July 
2011
19 November
 2010
13 October 
2010
Valuation model Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Monte Carlo
Share price at date of grant £0.12 £0.71 £0.60 £0.77
Shares under option 3,725,164 442,008 9,910,452 2,412,150
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected volatility 43.0% 39.0% 53.0% 54.0%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk free rate 0.6% 0.9% 1.1% 0.9%
Expected dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Expectation of meeting performance criteria 100% 100% 100% 100%
Fair value per option £0.07 £0.41 £0.30 £0.42
Expected volatility has been calculated based on the historic volatility of the Company’s share price corresponding to the expected 
life of the option or share award.
The expected term of the options is based on the life to the point of expected exercise. This is determined through analysis of 
historically evidenced exercise patterns of option holders.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
Share Incentive Plan
The fair value of the Matching Shares issued under the Company’s Share Incentive Plan is recognised as the market value  
of the shares issued at the date of purchase. This charge is spread over the three-year vesting period on a straight line basis.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan
There were no awards made in relation to the Deferred Share Bonus Plan during the current or the previous period.
Movements in options and awards under share based payment schemes
Reconciliations of movements for the DSP, LTIP, DSB, SBP and SIP schemes over the 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 are shown below:
Discretionary Share Plan 
52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012
No.
 52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012 
WAEP
1
52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011
No.
 52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011 
WAEP
1
Outstanding at beginning of period 1,976,000 237 2,005,076 241
Expired during the period (1,938,561) 232 (29,076) 502
Forfeited during the period (2,347) 866 – –
Outstanding at end of period 35,092 478 1,976,000 237
Outstanding at end of period due to Group employees 35,092 1,967,953
Outstanding at end of period due to Spirit employees – 8,047
Exercisable at end of period 35,092 478 1,976,000 237
1
 Weighted average exercise price (pence). Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
78
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
28. Share based payments continued
Long Term Incentive Plan  
18 August 
2012
No.
20 August 
2011
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period 21,101,421 12,719,903
Granted during the period 3,725,164 12,764,610
Expired during the period (7,376,065) (3,061,498)
Forfeited during the period (25,862) (1,321,594)
Outstanding at end of period 17,424,658 21,101,421
Outstanding at end of period due to Group employees 10,072,398 8,681,817
Outstanding at end of period due to Spirit employees 7,352,260 12,419,604
Deferred Share Bonus Plan  
18 August 
2012
No.
20 August 
2011
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period – 84,537
Removed during the period – (57,774)
Expired during the period – (26,206)
Forfeited during the period – (557)
Outstanding at end of period – –
Share Bonus Plan  
18 August 
2012
No.
20 August 
2011
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period – 104,144
Granted during the period 1,473,951 –
Expired during the period – (5,080)
Released during the period – (99,064)
Outstanding at end of period 1,473,951 –
Share Incentive Plan  
18 August 
2012
No.
20 August
 2011
No.
Outstanding at beginning of period 1,564,542 1,303,145
Granted during the period 1,097,872 438,026
Forfeited during the period (60,691) (134,900)
Released during the period (23,052) (41,729)
Outstanding at end of period 2,578,671 1,564,542
Outstanding options
Options outstanding at 18 August 2012 comprise the following:
Discretionary Share Plan    
Exercise date
Number of
 share options
Exercise price
 pence per share
5 December 2005 to 5 December 2012 11,428 1.94
2 March 2007 to 1 March 2014 4,016 5.19
17 November 2007 to 17 November 2014 12,023 5.51
16 November 2008 to 16 November 2015 7,625 7.67
No options were exercised during the current period. The options outstanding at 18 August 2012 had a weighted average 
remaining contractual life of 1.7 years (August 2011: 0.9 years). 
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based plans was £1.1m (52 weeks ended 20 August 2011: £3.0m)  
all of which related to equity settled share based payment transactions.  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
79
Financial statements
29. Net debt
(a) Analysis of net debt
18 August
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Secured loan notes (2,390.3) (2,460.1)
Cash-backed borrowings (315.0) –
Cash and cash equivalents 263.9 196.5
Restricted cash 315.0 –
Nominal value of net debt (2,126.4) (2,263.6)
Capitalised debt issue costs 6.9 8.8
Fair value adjustments on acquisition of secured loan notes (48.1) (54.0)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (331.5) (271.6)
Finance lease obligations (3.4) (4.7)
Net debt (2,502.5) (2,585.1)
Balance sheet:
Borrowings (2,434.9) (2,510.0)
Cash-backed borrowings (315.0) –
Derivative financial instruments (331.5) (271.6)
Cash and cash equivalents 263.9 196.5
Restricted cash 315.0 –
Net debt (2,502.5) (2,585.1)
(b) Analysis of changes in net debt
At 
21 August 
2010
£m
Cash
 flow
£m
Non-cash
 movements
£m
Demerger 
of Spirit
£m
At 
20 August
 2011
£m
Cash
flow
£m
 Non-cash
 movements
£m
At 
18 August
 2012
£m
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand 316.5 (5.2) – (114.8) 196.5 67.4 – 263.9
Restricted cash – – – – – 315.0 – 315.0
316.5 (5.2) – (114.8) 196.5 382.4 – 578.9
Debt 
Borrowings (3,575.2) 118.0 51.6 895.6 (2,510.0) 69.1 6.0 (2,434.9)
Cash-backed borrowings – – – – – (315.0) – (315.0)
Derivative financial instruments (407.1) 17.8 (5.8) 123.5 (271.6) 5.1 (65.0) (331.5)
(3,982.3) 135.8 45.8 1,019.1 (2,781.6) (240.8) (59.0) (3,081.4)
Net debt per balance sheet (3,665.8) 130.6 45.8 904.3 (2,585.1) 141.6 (59.0) (2,502.5)
Net debt incorporates the Group’s borrowings, cash-backed borrowings, derivative financial instruments and obligations  
under finance leases, less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash.
Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of deferred issue costs and premium on loan notes and fair value movement  
in derivative financial instruments and profit on the purchase of securitised debt.  Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
80
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
29. Net debt continued
(c) Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the period 67.4 (5.2)
Increase in restricted cash 315.0 –
Cash outflow from change in debt financing 72.9 133.8
Increase in cash-backed borrowings (315.0) –
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 140.3 128.6
Non-cash movements in net debt (59.0) 46.7
Change in net debt resulting from non-cash flows (59.0) 46.7
Obligations under finance leases 1.3 1.1
Demerger of Spirit business – 904.3
Movement in net debt 82.6 1,080.7
Net debt at beginning of period (2,585.1) (3,665.8)
Net debt at end of period (2,502.5) (2,585.1)
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
During the period, the Group operated one funded defined benefit pension scheme; the Pubmaster Pension Scheme. During the 
previous period, the Group operated an additional two funded defined benefit pension schemes; the Punch Pub Company Pension 
Scheme (PPCPS) and the Punch Pub Company Retail Pension Scheme (PPCRPS). These two schemes were derecognised on the 
demerger of the Spirit business as the schemes were wholly associated with that business. The pension plans have not invested  
in any of the Group’s own financial instruments, nor in properties or other assets used by the Group.
The tables below illustrate the impact of defined benefit schemes on the income statement and the balance sheet and relate to  
all three schemes which were operated during the previous year, up to the point of the demerger in the prior period and then  
only to the Pubmaster Pension Scheme thereafter.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
Analysis of amounts charged to operating costs from continuing operations:
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012 
£m 
 52 weeks to 
20 August
 2011
£m
Current service cost (0.1) (0.1)
Analysis of amounts credited to other finance income:
52 weeks to 
18 August
 2012 
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Expected return on assets 2.9 22.9
Interest on scheme liabilities (2.8) (19.8)
Net credit 0.1 3.1
Analysis of amounts recognised in the SOCI in the period:
 52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August 
2011
£m
Actual return on assets 5.8 40.8
Expected return on assets (2.9) (22.9)
Actuarial (loss) / gain on liabilities (0.5) 3.5
Expected actuarial gains recognised in the SOCI 2.4 21.4
Restriction on surplus recognised – (25.2)
Actuarial gains / (losses) recognised in the SOCI 2.4 (3.8) Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
81
Financial statements
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
Cumulative amounts recognised in the SOCI:
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
At beginning of period (4.7) (0.9)
Net actuarial gains / (losses) in the period 2.4 (3.8)
At end of period (2.3) (4.7)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities (55.6) (54.4)
Fair value of scheme assets 52.9 46.5
Net retirement benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet (2.7) (7.9)
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows:
52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Present value of scheme liabilities at beginning of year 54.4 418.6
Current service cost 0.1 0.1
Interest cost 2.8 19.8
Actuarial loss / (gain) 0.5 (3.5)
Benefits paid (2.2) (12.8)
Demerger of Spirit business – (367.8)
Present value of scheme liabilities at end of year 55.6 54.4
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:
 52 weeks to
 18 August
 2012
£m
52 weeks to
 20 August
 2011
£m
Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 46.5 395.6
Expected return on scheme assets 2.9 22.9
Actuarial gains 2.9 17.9
Contributions paid by employer 2.8 10.8
Benefits paid (2.2) (12.8)
Demerger of Spirit business – (387.9)
Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 52.9 46.5
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the balance sheet date and the expected return on scheme assets is derived  
as a weighted average of the expected return on each asset class, recognising the proportions of the assets invested in each.  
The expected return on each asset class is determined after taking external expert advice and by reference to relevant equity  
and bond indices.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows:
18 August 
2012
20 August 
2011
Equities 25.7% 54.6%
Bonds 28.1% 41.7%
Diversified growth funds 42.2% –
Other 4.0% 3.7% Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
82
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The history of experience adjustments on the schemes for the current and previous financial years is as follows:
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
21 August 
2010
£m
22 August 
2009
£m
18 August
 2008
£m
Present value of retirement benefit liabilities (55.6) (54.4) (418.6) (416.6) (342.3)
Fair value of plan assets 52.9 46.5 395.6 357.1 376.5
Net (liability) / asset in the scheme 2.7 (7.9) (23.0) (59.5) 34.2
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (0.5) 0.8 0.6 (4.5) 24.3
Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.9% 1.5% 0.1% 1.1% 7.1%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets 2.9 (1.5) 25.6 (33.8) (30.0)
Percentage of scheme assets 5.5% 3.2% 6.5% 9.5% 8.0%
The expected contributions to defined benefit schemes for the next financial year, beginning 19 August 2012, are £1.7m.
Scheme Funding
Pubmaster Pension Scheme
The Pubmaster Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated in the UK. The values of the scheme’s liabilities have been 
determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of an actuarial valuation as at 6 April 2010, updated to 18 August 2012, the 
balance sheet date. The mortality assumptions at the year end are based on standard mortality tables that allow for future mortality 
improvements. The assumptions are that the life expectancy of a member who retires at the age of 65 is as follows:
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Male currently aged 50 23.0 years 22.9 years
Male currently aged 65 21.3 years 21.2 years
Female currently aged 50 25.3 years 25.1 years
Female currently aged 65 23.5 years 23.3 years
The assumptions used in determining the valuations are as follows:
18 August
 2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Rate of increase of salaries 4.00% 4.90%
Rate of increase in pensions 2.45% 3.00%
Discount rate 4.60% 5.40%
Inflation assumption (RPI) 2.75% 3.65%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.00% 2.90%
The assets in the scheme and the expected rate of return were:
Long term 
rate of 
return 
expected at 
18 August 
2012
Value at 
18 August
 2012
£m
Long term
rate of 
return 
expected at 
20 August 
2011
Value at 
20 August
 2011
£m
Equities 7.00% 13.6 7.50% 25.4
Bonds 3.80% 14.9 4.50% 19.4
Diversified growth funds 6.00% 22.3 – –
Insured pensions 4.60% 1.4 5.40% 1.5
Cash 2.50% 0.7 4.00% 0.2
Total market value of assets 52.9 46.5
Present value of scheme liabilities (55.6) (54.4)
Net pension liability before deferred tax (2.7) (7.9)
Deferred tax asset 0.6 2.0
Net pension liability (2.1) (5.9) Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
83
Financial statements
30. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits continued
The pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows:
 52 weeks to
 18 August 
2012 
£m 
 52 weeks to 
20 August
 2011
£m
Defined contribution schemes 1.2 1.5
Pension risk
The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to new members. The scheme is subject to risk regarding 
the relative amount of the scheme’s assets, which are affected by the value of investments and the returns generated by such 
investments, compared to the scheme’s liabilities, which are affected by changes in the life expectancy, actual and expected price 
inflation, changes in bond yields and future salary increases. The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities 
may vary significantly in the short term, potentially resulting in an increased deficit being recognised on the Group’s balance sheet. 
Following the demerger of the Spirit business, the Group has agreed to deficit reduction payments of £1.7m for the year ending  
17 August 2013, and £1m per annum to April 2018. In the current period, the Group has made payments to the scheme  
totalling £2.8m.
31. Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments
Group
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
2011
£m
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
Within one year 8.4 8.5
Between one and five years 31.1 31.8
After five years 153.7 160.1
193.2 200.4
The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases when discounted to present value are £84.6m  
(August 2011: £87.0m).
The Group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties under non-cancellable operating lease 
agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The Group also leases vehicles under 
non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are £68.4m (August 2011: £64.1m).
The Group is a lessor of licensed properties to retailers. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. 
The total non-cancellable future minimum lease payments expected to be received are:
Land and
 buildings 
18 August
 2012
£m
Land and
 buildings 
20 August 
2011
£m
Within one year 114.9 127.7
Between one and five years 339.2 379.2
After five years 362.7 397.1
816.8 904.0
The Company has no operating lease commitments at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: £nil). Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
84
Notes to the financial statements continued
for the 52 weeks ended 18 August 2012
32. Capital and other financial commitments
Group
Capital commitments for property, plant and equipment
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August
 2011
£m
Contracted but not provided 13.3 6.6
The Company has no capital commitments at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: £nil).
33. Related party transactions
Group
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Group in the current period comprise members of the Punch Taverns plc Board of Directors.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows:
 52 weeks
18 August 
2012 
£m
 52 weeks 
20 August 
2011
£m
Short term employee benefits 1.4 3.3
Post-employment employee benefits 0.2 0.3
Share based payments – –
1.6 3.6
There are no other long-term benefits or termination benefits payable to key management personnel in the current or prior period.
Transactions with joint ventures
Punch Taverns (Finco) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, holds 50% of the entire issued share capital of  
Matthew Clark (Holdings) Limited, the holding company of the Matthew Clark group of companies. The Group’s investment in  
this joint venture at 18 August 2012 is £44.5m (August 2011: £43.1m). The Group had transactions of £11.1m with Matthew Clark 
during the 52 weeks to 18 August 2012 (52 weeks to 20 August 2011: £14.5m) and there was £1.4m owing to Matthew Clark  
at 18 August 2012 (August 2011: £2.0m).
Year end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August 
2011
£m
Amounts owed to joint ventures (1.4) (2.0)
Transactions with the Spirit business
Since the beginning of the current period, the Spirit business has ceased to be a related party. At 20 August 2011, amounts owed 
by the Spirit business were £6.4m and amounts owing to the Spirit business were £0.4m. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
85
Financial statements
33. Related party transactions continued
Company
Transactions with key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Company comprise members of the Punch Taverns plc Board of Directors. For part  
of the period the Directors received their remuneration from the Company. For part of the period and for the previous period  
their emoluments were borne by other Group companies. The Company did not have any transactions, with the exception of 
transactions related to share-based payments, with the Directors during the financial period (August 2011: £nil). Details of these 
transactions are provided in the Report on Directors’ remuneration.
Transactions with subsidiary undertakings
The Company enters into loans with its subsidiary undertakings at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis. 
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances. 
 52 weeks
18 August 
2012 
£m
 52 weeks 
20 August
 2011
£m
Loans and advances 
Increase in loan notes owed by subsidiary undertakings 142.6 123.8
Decrease in loans owed by subsidiary undertakings – (419.2)
Decrease in other loans and advances owed to subsidiary undertakings (2.5) (106.2)
The loans are repayable on demand but the Company will not request repayment for at least 12 months.
Year end balances arising from transactions with subsidiary undertakings  
18 August 
2012
£m
20 August 
2011
0£m
Receivables 1,099.0 975.4
Payables (1,617.0) (1,624.5)
The amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings include £1,089.5m (August 2011: £946.9m) of loan notes, all of which are interest 
bearing. The loan notes accrue interest at fixed rates ranging between 12% and 15%, which is capitalised quarterly in arrears.  
In addition the Company has £560.9m (August 2011: £560.9m) of loans and £1,056.1m (August 2011: £1,063.6m) of other 
balances owed to subsidiary undertakings that are non-interest bearing. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
86
Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Punch Taverns plc
We have audited the financial statements of Punch Taverns plc for the 52 week period ended 18 August 2012 which comprise the 
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company balance 
sheets, the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and 
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report,  
or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit,  
and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs  
as at 18 August 2012 and of the group’s and parent company’s profit for the period then ended; 
•	 the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Emphasis of matter – uncertain outcome of restructuring of securitisation facilities
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures 
made in note 1 to the financial statements concerning the uncertain outcome of the intended restructuring of the terms of two 
securitisation facilities that are each a significant proportion of the group’s operations. The ultimate outcome of the matter cannot 
presently be determined and failure to achieve a successful renegotiation could result in a part of the group ceasing to be a going 
concern which in turn would result in a significant reduction in the group’s operations. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006;
•	 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the financial statements; and 
•	 information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 21 to 26 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the  
financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or 
•	 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
•	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going concern; 
•	 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 21 to 26 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
G A Watts (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants 
One Snowhill, Snow Hill Queensway, Birmingham, B4 6GH
23 October 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Punch Taverns plc
87
Financial statements
Financial glossary
Beta model
A model for pricing share options which applies the same 
principles as the binomial model but takes into account the 
relationship of the share price to a portfolio of a comparator 
group companies’ shares.
Binomial model
A model for pricing share options which applies the  
same principles as decision-tree analysis by considering  
the possibilities that prices may increase or decrease by  
a certain percentage.
Black-Scholes model
A model for pricing share options using the share price,  
the time to expiration of the option, the risk-free interest  
rate and the expected standard deviation of the share return.
Cash flow hedges
A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code
The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code is a guide to a 
number of key components of effective board practice. It is 
based on the underlying principles of all good governance: 
accountability, transparency, probity and focus on the 
sustainable success of an entity over the longer term.
Corporate governance
Corporate governance describes the system by which an 
organisation is directed and controlled.
Debenture notes
A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees  
to repay at a specified future date and which bears interest  
(either fixed or variable) until maturity.
Debt Service Cover Ratio (DSCR) covenant
The DSCR covenant calculates the ratio of EBITDA over debt 
service (being interest and capital amortisation).
Derivative financial instruments
Financial instruments whose value changes in response to 
changes in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, 
commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable,  
and are settled at a future date.
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing 
for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of 
the weighted average number of options outstanding during 
the period and shares from the assumed conversion of 
convertible bonds.
Earnings per share (EPS)
Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses the 
earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during  
the period.
EBITDA
EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance 
costs, movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK  
income tax, depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale  
of non-current assets.
Effective interest rate method
A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset 
or financial liability and of allocating the interest income or 
expense over the relevant period.
Experience gains / losses
Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme 
that arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial 
assumptions made for the previous valuation.
Fair value
The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities 
settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s 
length transaction.
Finance lease 
A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments 
throughout the expected lifetime of the asset. The lessee  
shows an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance 
sheet. Finance lease payments are accounted for as a reduction 
in the liability.
Goodwill
Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company  
over the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date  
of acquisition.
IAS
International Accounting Standards.
IASB
International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRIC
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS 
International Financial Reporting Standards. Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
88
Financial glossary continued
Indexation allowance
Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital 
gains that takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI). Indexation allowance can only reduce an un-indexed 
gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
Interest cover
A performance measure that shows the number of times 
EBITDA covers the net finance income and finance cost.
Interest rate swap
A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure to 
changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest 
rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment to 
receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed 
interest rate.
LIBOR
London Inter Bank Offered Rate. The interest rate quoted 
between banks, which is a recognised basis for calculating  
a floating interest rate.
Monte Carlo valuation method
A model for pricing share options that generates many random 
possible price paths, calculates assumed exercise values,  
then averages and discounts to give the value of the option.
Net debt
Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments and 
finance leases net of other interest-bearing deposits and cash 
and cash equivalents.
Nominal value of net debt
The value of a security stated by the issuer; unrelated to market 
value. For bonds, it is the amount paid to the holder at maturity. 
Non-underlying items
Items which management consider will distort comparability, 
either due to their significant non-recurring nature or  
because of specific accounting treatments. These are  
separately identified in order to provide a trend measure  
of underlying performance.
Operating lease
A method of renting assets over a period that is less than the 
expected life of the asset. The lessee does not show an asset  
or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are 
accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
Operating result
Profit after deducting all operating expenses including 
depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge
An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of 
the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
PBT 
Profit before tax.
Projected unit credit method
The accounting method used to calculate provisions for 
pensions. It includes not only the pensions and vested interests 
accrued at the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases 
in salaries and pensions.
Securitisation
The process of raising finance by creating a financial  
instrument secured by pooling other financial assets to back  
the instrument.
Segmental reporting
Information regarding the financial position and results  
of operations in different business areas.
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific  
period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase  
additional shares.
UK GAAP
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Working capital
Short-term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day 
operations. It is calculated as current assets less  
current liabilities. Company information
Registered office
Jubilee House
Second Avenue
Burton upon Trent
DE14 2WF
+44 (0)1283 501600
Company number
3752645
Advisers
Auditors 
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B4 6GH
+44 (0)121 232 3000
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
One Snowhill
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham
B3 2WN
+44 (0)121 480 5562
Solicitors
Slaughter and May
One Bunhill Row
London
EC1Y 8YY
+44 (0)20 7600 1200
Broker & financial adviser
Goldman Sachs International
Peterborough Court
133 Fleet Street
London
EC4A 2BB
+44 (0)20 7774 1000
Financial adviser
The Blackstone Group International Partners LLP
40 Berkeley Square
London
W1J 5AL
+44 (0)20 7451 4000
Registrar
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 7NH
+44 (0)870 702 0003 
Financial calendar
Q1 Interim Management Statement December 2012
Annual General Meeting December 2012
Half year end 2 March 2013 
Interim results announcement April 2013
Q3 Interim Management Statement June 2013
Year end 17 August 2013
Preliminary results announcement October 2013
Directors of the Company
Stephen Billingham Chairman 
Roger Whiteside Chief Executive Officer 
Steve Dando Finance Director
Angus Porter Senior Independent Director
John Allkins Independent Non-executive Director
Ian Dyson Non-executive Director
Ian Fraser Independent Non-executive Director 
Designed and produced by The College  www.the-college.com
This report is printed using papers which are FSC Mixed Credit certified.
 
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it,  
please pass it on to interested readers, return it to Punch Taverns or  
dispose of it in your recycled paper waste. Thank you. Punch Taverns plc
Jubilee House
Second Avenue
Burton upon Trent
Staffordshire
DE14 2WF
www.punchtaverns.com
Tel: +44 (0)1283 501600
Fax: +44 (0)1283 501601
