 Randgold Resources creates value
for all its stakeholders by developing
and operating profitable gold mines.
Flap 10 year overview 1997-2007
05 Corporate profile and key numbers
06 Highlights of the year
08 Chairman’s statement
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
12 Directors
14 Management
CEO’S REVIEW
18 Chief executive’s review
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
22 Financial review
OPERATIONS
26 Loulo Mine
35 Morila Mine
PROJECT
42 Tongon project
RESERVES AND RESOURCES
49 Annual resource and reserve
declaration
50 Table of mineral rights
50 Resource triangle
EXPLORATION REVIEW
52 Exploration review
NEW BUSINESS
64 New business
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
66 Social responsibility
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
68 Corporate governance report
73 Remuneration committee report
78 Directors’ report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 Statement of directors’
responsibilities
81 Report of the independent auditors
82 Financial statements
110 Group structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
112 Analysis of shareholding
114 Directory
115 Operations
116 Notice of annual general meeting
120 Shareholders’ diary
121 Proxy form
122 Notes to the proxy
Randgold Resources    Annual Report 2007     The power of people and partnerships
www.randgoldresources.com Randgold Resources creates value
for all its stakeholders by developing
and operating profitable gold mines.
Flap 10 year overview 1997-2007
05 Corporate profile and key numbers
06 Highlights of the year
08 Chairman’s statement
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
12 Directors
14 Management
CEO’S REVIEW
18 Chief executive’s review
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
22 Financial review
OPERATIONS
26 Loulo Mine
35 Morila Mine
PROJECT
42 Tongon project
RESERVES AND RESOURCES
49 Annual resource and reserve
declaration
50 Table of mineral rights
50 Resource triangle
EXPLORATION REVIEW
52 Exploration review
NEW BUSINESS
64 New business
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
66 Social responsibility
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
68 Corporate governance report
73 Remuneration committee report
78 Directors’ report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 Statement of directors’
responsibilities
81 Report of the independent auditors
82 Financial statements
110 Group structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
112 Analysis of shareholding
114 Directory
115 Operations
116 Notice of annual general meeting
120 Shareholders’ diary
121 Proxy form
122 Notes to the proxy
Randgold Resources    Annual Report 2007     The power of people and partnerships
www.randgoldresources.com 10 year overview 1997-2007
Morila project gets
go-ahead
40% of Morila sold for US$132m
plus 50% of the debt
Morila pours first gold
IPO and listing on
London Stock Exchange
Listing on Nasdaq
Randgold
Resources
in FTSE 250
2 for 1 share split
improves tradeability
Loulo development
approved
Shareholders
get pay-out
of US$81m
Morila produces
+1Moz
Loulo
commissioned
Market cap reaches
US$1 billion
97
Rescoped study supports
enlarged Tongon project
07
Dividend increased
by 20%
Dividend payments
initiated
06 05
Global share offer
raises US$240m
04
Market cap tops
US$3.0 billion
Randgold Resources share price (LSE:RRS)
Gold price
Y alea underground
development starts
03 02 01 00 99 98
ADR split
0
100
200
300
400
Index
50
150
250
350
450
500
Designed and produced by du Plessis Associates 10 year overview 1997-2007
Morila project gets
go-ahead
40% of Morila sold for US$132m
plus 50% of the debt
Morila pours first gold
IPO and listing on
London Stock Exchange
Listing on Nasdaq
Randgold
Resources
in FTSE 250
2 for 1 share split
improves tradeability
Loulo development
approved
Shareholders
get pay-out
of US$81m
Morila produces
+1Moz
Loulo
commissioned
Market cap reaches
US$1 billion
97
Rescoped study supports
enlarged Tongon project
07
Dividend increased
by 20%
Dividend payments
initiated
06 05
Global share offer
raises US$240m
04
Market cap tops
US$3.0 billion
Randgold Resources share price (LSE:RRS)
Gold price
Y alea underground
development starts
03 02 01 00 99 98
ADR split
0
100
200
300
400
Index
50
150
250
350
450
500
Designed and produced by du Plessis Associates Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   03
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2007
London Stock Exchange: RRS
Nasdaq: GOLD
www.randgoldresources.com
The theme of this year’s annual
report is “The Power of People
and Partnerships”.  It pays tribute
to the critically important role
Randgold Resources’ employees
play in its continued success
and it also acknowledges the
value of the productive and
mutually beneficial relationships
the company has forged with
stakeholders and business
partners. 0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Growth in reserves and resources Moz
Tonnes Grade Gold Gold
as at 31 Dec 2007 (Mt) (g/t) (Moz) (attrib Moz)
MINERAL RESOURCES
Total measured and indicated 128.86 3.46 14.32 10.70
Total inferred 39.72 2.81 3.58 2.80
ORE RESERVES
Total proved and probable 99.36 3.31 10.59 7.78
04   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Consistent investment in exploration
generates sustained growth in reserves,
enabling Randgold Resources to increase
its production at a time when the
global industry’ s output is in decline.
000oz
800
0
Forecast attributable production
100
200
300
400
500
700
600
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Loulo
Morila
Tongon
Attributable resources
Attributable reserves Randgold Resources is a gold mining and
exploration business incorporated in the
Channel Islands in 1995 and listed on the
London Stock Exchange (trading symbol
RRS) in 1997 and on Nasdaq (trading symbol
GOLD) in 2002.  Its focus is on the creation
of value for all its stakeholders by discovering
world-class gold deposits and converting
them into profitable mines.
Major discoveries to date include the
7.5 million ounce Morila deposit in southern
Mali, the 7 million plus ounce Yalea deposit
at Loulo in western Mali and the 4 million
plus ounce Tongon deposit in the Côte
d’Ivoire.
Randgold Resources financed and
developed the Morila mine, which was
commissioned in October 2000 and since
then has produced approximately 4.75 million
ounces of gold as well as distributing more
than US$1.2 billion to its stakeholders.
It also financed and developed the Loulo
project, which went into production in
November 2005 with two open-pit mines.
T wo underground mines are being developed
on the site and the first of these, at Yalea,
will start contributing to production in
2008, lifting Loulo’s current annual output
of 250 000 ounces to more than
400 000 ounces by 2010.
The company recently decided to proceed
with the development of a mine at its Tongon
project.  First gold production is scheduled
for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Randgold Resources has an extensive
portfolio of organic growth prospects,
constantly replenished by its wide-ranging
exploration programmes in the major gold
regions of Mali, Senegal, Burkina Faso,
Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Tanzania.
Corporate profile
Key numbers
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
Group
Gold sales
#
289 841 262 717
Total cash costs* 158 318 132 540
Profit from mining activity* 131 523 130 177
Profit before income tax 66 901 73 973
Net profit 45 628 50 876
Net profit attributable to equity shareholders 42 041 47 564
Net cash generated from operations 62 233 70 410
Cash and financial assets 343 133 143 356
Attributable production (oz)
§
444 573 448 242
Group total cash costs per ounce (US$)*
§
356 296
Group cash operating costs per ounce (US$)*
§
315 258
#
Gold sales does not include the non-cash
profit/(loss) on the roll forward of hedges.
* Refer to explanation of non-GAAP measures
provided in note 24 on pages 107 and 108.
§
Randgold Resources consolidates 100% of
Loulo and 40% of Morila.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   05 06   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Highlights of the year
06
JANUARY / FEBRUARY / MARCH
APRIL / MAY / JUNE
High grades
intercepted in Gara
extension drilling.
Attributable reserves
up 16% year on year.
Loulo achieves
higher throughput
and improved costs,
increases flexibility.
Partnership formed
with Malian jewellery
industry.
LSE
TRADING SYMBOL
RRS
Loulo achieves
record gold
production.
Bambadji JV
extends Loulo foot-
print into Senegal.
Continued good drill
results enhance
Tongon project.
New corporate
facility reduces
funding costs,
increases flexibility.
Q1 Q2 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   07
JULY / AUGUST / SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER / NOVEMBER / DECEMBER
NASDAQ
TRADING SYMBOL
GOLD
Rescoped pre-
feasibility study
supports larger
Tongon project.
Production, profit
up, costs contained.
Tongon resources
increase 41% to
4.4 million ounces.
Brownfield potential
highlighted at Loulo
and Tongon.
Strong performance
by Loulo boosts
group production.
Tongon mine
development gets
go-ahead.
US$240 million
placement secures
Tongon funding.
Massawa in Senegal
grows into
significant target.
Q3 Q4 08   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
In the eight years since the
start of the new millennium,
the price of gold has gone
up by more than 200%, with
a surge of 37% last year
alone. Over the same period,
the FTSE-100, the London
Stock Exchange’s main
index, has lost about 15%
of its value.
When gold reached a new high of US$894 per ounce
on 11 January 2008, the Financial Times editorialised
that the metal - largely written off a decade earlier as
a barbarous relic with no place in a world of electronic
money - had re-established itself as the main global
currency after a seven-year bull run that shows no
sign of slowing down.  Clearly, a large number of
people, sophisticated investors as well as ordinary
savers, have been abandoning conventional assets
for the comfort of gold, a store of value for more than
5 000 years.
Some argue that the soaring gold price is being driven
by temporary anxiety over political and financial turmoil:
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the prospect of a nuclear
Iran, a newly assertive Russia and the sub-prime
banking crisis.  There may well be an element of
panic in the rush to gold, but a stronger and more
enduring factor is the investors’ fear of the long term
consequences of uncertain monetary policies and
in particular of the speed at which the governments
are printing money.  By contrast, there is a finite
supply of gold, and that keeps it an honest, stable
store of value.
All the world’s major economies have experienced
a rapid money supply growth of 10% or more per
year in recent years.  This is a compelling reason for
prudent long term investors to turn to gold as a hedge
against rising global inflation and persistent dollar
weakness.  Increasing investor demand is graphically
illustrated by the growth in gold exchange traded
funds (ETFs) - 34% up last year and now, with
865 tonnes of the metal, the world’s seventh largest
holder of physical bullion.  And it is not just investment
demand that is rising; the gold price is also supported
by strong jewellery buying by the growing middle
class in countries such as India and China.  Gold
jewellery sales in India - already the world’s largest
gold consumer, accounting for more than 20% of
global demand - jumped by almost 40% in the first
nine months of last year.
While the demand keeps going up, the supply is
diminishing.  Gold mine production fell 7%, from
2 621 tonnes to 2 450 tonnes, between 2001 and
2007 and is likely to continue diminishing, constrained
by both the lack of viable new projects and rising
production costs.
Chairman’s statement
08
1 The Loulo underground
extraction strategy has been
focused on accessing the
orebodies in a safe and
considered manner. The sustained bull run has stampeded
the mining industry and its followers into
a frantic scramble to cash in while the
good times last.  For some of them it will
be a case of too little or too late: there are
few good projects around and those will
typically take five to ten years from
discovery to production.  Others have no
real interest in digging for gold and are
mining the markets instead.
Randgold Resources, by contrast,
believed in gold when it was not
fashionable to do so.  In the mid-Nineties,
when the price languished below US$300
per ounce and most mining companies
withdrew into survival mode, Randgold
Resources not only continued to run
extensive exploration programmes but made
bold development decisions and put its
balance sheet at risk to fund them.  It did so
because management was focused on
building a long term business rather than
merely getting through the next quarter.
That clarity of vision and strength of strategic
purpose produced a company that has
grown from a market capitalisation of
US$147 million to over US$3.5 billion in the
short space of ten years; that has been able
to bring production on line just as the gold
price started taking off; and that has the
capability to expand its resources and output
in years to come.
From the start, Randgold Resources has
been a strategically driven business:
constantly analysing its environment, devising
scenarios and developing or adjusting plans
for success in a changing world.  Two years
ago, its management decided to align its
business strategy with a scenario which
predicted a high gold price coupled to rising
production costs.  To meet this challenge,
they stepped up the search for resource
ounces and strengthened the company’s
cost controls.  New business initiatives were
intensified, the development of the Tongon
project was accelerated, procurement
policies were tightened and overhead
expenses pruned.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   09
1 Philippe Liétard
Chairman
10   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
These timely measures have equipped the
company uniquely well to take full advantage
of the opportunities and to manage the
difficulties presented by exacting operating
conditions.
In line with its emphasis on long term
sustainability rather than short term
advantage, Randgold Resources has since
its inception invested substantially and
consistently not only in its physical assets
but also in the development of its partnerships
and its people.
That is why the theme of this year’s annual
report is “The Power of People and
Partnerships”.  It pays tribute to the productive
and mutually beneficial relationships
Randgold Resources has forged with its
host countries.  In Mali alone, the
company has, through operations it has
developed, invested and reinvested more
than US$1 billion, paid in excess of
US$500 million directly to the government
in dividends, royalties and taxes, equipped
more than 3 000 people with skills and
careers and made a substantial contribution
to infrastructural development and community
upliftment.
As an African-focused business, Randgold
Resources is keenly aware that for Africa to
prosper from its mineral wealth, it needs to
embark without delay on a process designed
to use the mining industry as the foundation
for building its economies.  To succeed in
this, the leaders of government and industry
will have to cooperate and demonstrate the
vision, courage and perseverance of true
pioneers.
Mining companies should accept that when
they operate in Africa, they do not only have
an obligation to deliver returns to investors;
they also have a social responsibility to help
the people of that continent to realise their
hopes of a better life.  Among other things,
this means that they must plan for and
commit to the long term.  Instead of creating
exaggerated expectations around projects
that are marginal at best, they should
concentrate on the development of
realistic business models and viable
feasibility studies.  They should reinvest for
sustainability and deal honestly with their
host governments not only as regulators but
also as partners.
Governments for their part should maintain
a fiscal and legislative regime that is
conducive to mining development, make a
tangible contribution to infrastructural creation
and, not least, ensure that the substantial
revenues they earn from the mining industry
are shared equitably with their people.
As detailed elsewhere in this report, the
company remains committed to the
responsible utilisation of natural resources
and the protection of the environment, and
seeks wherever possible to minimise the
negative and maximise the positive impacts
of its activities.  It has formal programmes in
place to achieve these aims, and these
comply with the standards of the World Bank
as well as those of its host countries.  All
new projects include a comprehensive
environmental and social impact assessment.
At Tongon in Côte d’Ivoire, for example, an
assessment of this kind on the proposed
new mine is currently being used as the
basis for an extensive consultative process
with the local community and the regional
authorities.
The people and partnerships theme also
acknowledges the critical importance of the
Randgold Resources team to the business’
continued success.  The highly developed
skills, passionate commitment and
enthusiastic cooperation of the men and
women in the field, at the operations and in
the corporate offices - some of whom are
featured in this report - have enabled the
company to seize opportunities and surmount
obstacles.
The past year was again a very busy one
for the company and it had its share of
challenges.  The fact that Randgold
Resources has nevertheless produced a
very creditable set of results is a tribute to
the enterprise, dedication and sheer hard
work of Mark Bristow and every member of
the team.  On behalf of the board, I thank
them for another fine effort.  On the subject
of the teams, Graham Shuttleworth replaced
Roger Williams as chief financial officer in
the course of the year and the new business
and exploration teams were reorganised.
New and additional skills were recruited at
various levels in the capital projects,
exploration, operation, finance and
administration units.  Overall, these teams
now represent an optimum balance of youth
and experience, giving the company a very
sound and constantly reinvigorated
management and skills base.
I wish to record our appreciation to the
governments and people of the countries in
which the company operates; they are not
only our hosts but our highly valued partners.
I thank our shareholders for their continued
support, and our partners, suppliers, advisors
and other business associates for the
contribution they made to the company’s
progress.  I would also like to express my
gratitude to my colleagues on the board for
their sage counsel.
In addition to the normal business which is
to be transacted at the company’s annual
general meeting on 28 April 2008, your
board is seeking shareholder approval for
an increase in the authorised share capital
and of the Randgold Resources Limited
Restricted Share Scheme.  Details can be
found in the notice to shareholders. Rod Quick
Group general manager, project development
and evaluation
Joined Randgold Resources as an exploration
geologist on greenfields programmes in Mali
and Senegal in 1996.  As country geologist for
Côte d’Ivoire, he oversaw the prefeasibility
study on Tongon from 2001 to 2003, then
worked as resource evaluation geologist on
Loulo and Morila, becoming mineral resource
manager at Loulo in 2005 and taking up his
current position - evaluating all new projects -
in 2007.
“I’ve spent the past 10 years helping to find
and develop major gold deposits, with the
expansion and delineation of the Tongon
orebody and the expansion of the Loulo
resource as stand-out experiences.  The
opportunity of making a significant contribution
to a winning team is what gets me out of bed
in the morning.”
Boar Board and management d and management Board and management Philippe Liétard
Chairman
~
Managing director of the Global Natural
Resources Fund from 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he was director of the
Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the
International Finance Corporation.  His
experience in corporate and project finance
with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends
over 30 years, most of them in the minerals
business and in Africa.  Now an independent
consultant and a promoter of mining and
energy investments.  Appointed a director
in February 1998 and chairman in November
2004.
D Mark Bristow
Chief executive officer
Mark is a geologist with more than 25 years’
experience in the mining industry and holds
a PhD in Geology from Natal University. In
August 1995, he was appointed a director
and subsequently chief executive of
Randgold Resources where he has been
instrumental in developing the company into
a gold-focused mining and exploration
business with a market cap of more than
US$3.5 billion and a strong investor following.
He has also played a significant role in
encouraging the emergence of the mining
sector in the West African sub region where
Randgold Resources has found and
developed world class assets and forged
productive partnerships.  He is currently a
non-executive director of Rockwell
Resources International and previously held
board positions at African Platinum, Harmony
Gold Mining Company, Durban Roodepoort
Deep and Randgold & Exploration.
Graham Shuttleworth
Financial director
Graham joined Randgold Resources as
chief financial officer and financial director
on 1 July 2007 but has been associated
with the company since its inception, initially
as part of its management team, involved in
listing the company on the LSE in 1997,
and subsequently as an advisor.  A chartered
accountant, he was a managing director
and the New York-based head of metals
and mining for the Americas in the global
investment banking division of HSBC before
taking up his new position at Randgold
Resources.  At HSBC he led or was involved
in a wide range of major mining industry
transactions, including Randgold Resources’
Nasdaq listing, its bid for Ashanti Goldfields
and its 2005 US$110 million equity offering.
12   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Directors
12 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   13
Bernard H Asher
Senior independent non-executive*
+ø
From 1986 to 1998, he was an executive
director of HSBC Holdings plc and chairman
of the HSBC Holdings’ subsidiary, HSBC
Investment Bank plc.  Was chairman of
Lonrho Africa plc, vice chairman of the Court
of Governors of the London School of
Economics and of the Legal & General Group
plc and a director of Morgan Sindall plc.
He is chairman of Lion Trust Asset
Management and senior independent
director of Morgan Sindall.  Was appointed
director of Randgold Resources in 1997 and
senior independent director in 2003.
Norborne P Cole, Jr
Independent non-executive
+ø
Norb Cole started working for the Coca-
Cola Company as a field representative in
the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily
through the organisation, becoming chief
executive of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia
in 1994, a position he held until 1998.  Under
his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil was built
into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in
the world.  Now based in San Antonio, T exas,
he serves on the boards of a number of US
companies.
Robert I Israel
Independent non-executive
§
Until April 2000, a managing director of
Schroder & Co Inc of New York and head
of its energy department.  Is now partner at
Compass Advisers, LLP .  His experience in
corporate finance, especially the natural
resources sector, extends over 27 years.
Was appointed a director in 1997.
Aubrey L Paverd
Independent non-executive**
Dr Aubrey Paverd was appointed to the
board in 1995.  He holds an MSc degree
from Rhodes University, South Africa and
a PhD from James Cook University,
Queensland, Australia and brings more than
40 years of international geological
experience to the board.  Served as vice
president of exploration for Newmont in USA
and from 1994 to 1999, was the group
executive (exploration) at North Limited in
Australia.  Is now an independent consultant
and a non-executive director of Compania
de Minas Buenaventura.
Karl Voltaire
Independent non-executive**
Dr Karl Voltaire is a graduate in mineral
resources engineering from the Ecole des
Mines in Paris and holds an MBA and a PhD
in Economics and Finance from the University
of Chicago.  He started his career as a
mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently
spent 23 years in the World Bank Group in
Washington DC, the bulk of it at the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) where
his last position was that of director of global
financial markets.  Subsequently, was director
of the Office of the President at the African
Development Bank.  Since early 2005, has
been CEO of the Nelson Mandela Institution.
* Chairman of the audit committee
** Member of the audit committee
§
Chairman of the remuneration committee
+
Member of the remuneration committee
~
Chairman of the governance and nomination committee
ø
Member of the governance and nomination committee
From left to right: Philippe Liétard, D Mark Bristow,
Graham Shuttleworth, Bernard H Asher,
Robert I Israel, Norborne P Cole Jr, Aubrey L Paverd
and Karl Voltaire. 14   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Management
14
Bill Houston
Human resources executive
Has a masters degree in human resources management and
26 years’ experience in human resources and organisational
development.  Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and
development manager, and headed the group human resources
function from 1996.  He is a director of Morila SA and Seven
Bridges Trading.
David Haddon
General counsel and
secretary
Qualified as an attorney in
1984. He has overseen the
administrative obligations of
Randgold Resources since
its incorporation and
assumed secretarial
responsibility when
it listed on the London Stock
Exchange in July 1997.  He
is a director of Seven Bridges
Trading and other group
subsidiaries.
Paul Harbidge
Group exploration manager
Geologist with over 15 years’
experience, mainly in West
Africa, having previously
worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo
American and Ashanti.
Joined Randgold Resources
in 2000 and was appointed
group exploration manager
in 2004.
Tania De Welzim
Group financial controller
Tania is a chartered accountant with ten years’ experience in
finance including eight years in the mining industry .  Is responsible
for financial reporting in the group as well as internal control
procedures.
Luiz Correia
Operations manager
A metallurgist with 21 years’ experience in the gold mining
industry, he has a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.  He
joined Randgold Resources in 2005 and in 2006 was appointed
operations manager responsible for the mining, planning,
processing, maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
Amadou Konta
General manager - Loulo
Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several management
and project management qualifications.  Was appointed mine
foreman and superintendent at Syama mine by BHP and served
as mining manager from 1997.  In 2001, was promoted to
construction manager for Randgold Resources in Mali and to
Loulo general manager in 2004. Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   15
Rod Quick
Group general manager -
project development and
evaluation
A geologist with 14 years’
experience in the gold mining
industry, he joined Randgold
Resources in 1996.  Rod has
been involved in the
exploration, evaluation and
production phases of the
Morila, Loulo and Tongon
deposits and was appointed
Somilo resource manager in
2005.  He is now responsible
for all project development
and evaluation.
Adrian Reynolds
Group general manager - technical
Has 26 years’ experience in the mining industry and was part
of the team that developed the original Randgold Resources’
strategy.  His key responsibilities are technical oversight of the
company’ s operations including compilation of feasibility studies,
audits, compliance and evaluation opportunities.  He is a director
of Morila SA and Somilo SA.
Chris Prinsloo
Group financial and commercial manager
Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 35 years’ experience in the mining industry including
finance, capital projects, administration and supply chain management.  Appointed as commercial
manager for the Randgold Group in 1993, financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and group
financial and commercial manager in 2002, responsible for group accounting, supply chain
management plus the risk management and insurance portfolio.  Currently serves on the boards
of Morila SA, Somilo SA and Kankou Moussa SARL.
Victor Matfield
Group corporate finance manager
A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance
manager in 2001.  Prior to that, served as financial manager
of the Syama mine and as financial manager of the Morila
project.  He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
Mahamadou Samaké
General manager - Mali
A professor of company law at the University of Mali,
Mahamadou was instrumental in writing the Malian labour
legislation.  He is the resident executive manager in Mali and
is responsible for government liaison and legal counsel for the
Francophone region. 16   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Lois Wark
Group corporate
communications and
cartography manager
A member of the Randgold
Resources team since its
inception, Lois’
responsibilities include the
coordination of the group’s
communication and investor
relations programme, the
production of materials and
presentations to the market,
as well as the management
and integration of data
captured in GIS, databases
and various other software
packages.  Lois is also
responsible for the
management of Seven
Bridges, the group’s South
African subsidiary.
Samba Toure
General manager - Morila
Has a masters degree in chemical engineering and geochemistry and was part of the team that
set up Mali’s first research laboratory for the mining and petroleum industries in 1985.  As country
manager for BHP Minerals, oversaw that company’s exploration programmes in West Africa.
Joined Morila in 2000 and was promoted to operations manager in 2004 and to general manager
in 2007.
N’golo Sanogo
Financial controller - Mali
Has a masters degree in economics from the National School of Administration of Bamako as
well as several management, accounting and financial qualifications.  Qualified as an auditor in
1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995.  Appointed material manager in 1998 and management
accountant in 2001 at the Syama mine.  Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004 was appointed
Randgold Resources Mali financial controller.
John Steele
Group general manager - capital projects
Gained extensive metallurgical and management experience
in 17 years with Rand Mines and Randgold & Exploration.
Upon acquisition of Syama in 1996, was appointed a director
of the Malian company, Somisy SA, and general manager of
the mine.  In 1998, assumed position of group general manager
capital projects, overseeing construction of the Morila and
Loulo mines. Tahirou Ballo
Mining manager surface operations, Loulo
Malian mining economist/engineer Tahirou was educated at the Mining
Institute of Leningrad and started his career with a Russian exploration
company in his home country.  Started with Randgold Resources as a drill
and blast supervisor at Syama in 1997, was appointed mining production
superintendent at Loulo in 2006 and is now the mining manager of surface
operations there.
“I get a lot of motivation from the other members of the team and in turn
I work hard to ensure good communication between us and to help build
the team spirit.  That way we all stay focused on delivering value to the
stakeholders.”
Onno ten Brinke
Chief mine planning engineer
Mining engineer Onno was educated at the University of Technology in
Delft and at the Royal School of Mines in London.  Joined Randgold
Resources as chief mine planning engineer in 2004 and in 2007 was also
made responsible for the survey team at Loulo.
“My main aim is to produce mine plans that allow for short term flexibility,
are practical and integrate the group’s strategic plan - and then to ensure
that they are communicated effectively to the teams.”
CEO’ CEO’s r s review eview CEO’s review Our production for the year was in line with that of
2006 and we have told investors that 2008 will also
be a relatively flat year in output terms but that
production is scheduled to step up in 2009 and
2010, reaching the targeted 600 000 ounces in
2011.
We can report full achievement or satisfactory progress
on each of these fronts in spite of some difficulties
we met along the way.
Another strong performance from Loulo almost made
up for a shortfall at Morila and brought us to within
a whisker of our forecast production.  The underground
development battled through some very poor ground
but then picked up speed and is now within reach
of the first ore.  We have assumed operational
responsibility for the joint venture at Morila.  We
advanced the Tongon project to a point where the
board has decided to proceed with the project’s
development.  With Tongon now clearly designated
as our third new mine, the recently discovered
Massawa in Senegal has moved to the front of the
advanced prospect line in a new country.
A number of items impacted on our financial results:
the lower-than-expected contribution from Morila; a
US$3.2 million tax adjustment there; the cost of
stepping up production at Loulo; and an increase of
US$7.1 million in exploration and corporate
expenditure, mainly related to Tongon.  Had it not
been for these factors, net profit would have exceeded
the previous year’s US$50.9 million.  As it was, the
profit was still a healthy US$45.6 million.
Given the circumstances, this was a good
performance and, considering the company’s
profitable outlook and generally robust financial
condition, the board decided to increase the dividend
by 20%.
MAKING THE MOST OF MORILA
Morila had a difficult year and its original forecast
of 500 000 ounces was reduced to 475 000 ounces
after a first half in which lower grades and recoveries
had impacted heavily on production.  Management
believed that a stronger second half would enable
it to meet the revised target but in the event
problems relating to planning, grade control and plant
For Randgold Resources the
past year was one of
building, with the Loulo
underground development
and the T ongon feasibility
study as the key priorities.
Also on management’s radar
were cost management, the
hunt for profitable new
growth opportunities and
the need to address the
situation at Morila.
Chief executive’s review
18
18   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 lock-up persisted and production came in
at just under 450 000 ounces.
Since the year-end it has been announced
that AngloGold Ashanti is considering the
disposal of its 40% stake in the mine.
It was agreed that in these circumstances
it would be in the best interests of all
stakeholders if Randgold Resources took
over the operatorship of the mine, which we
have done with effect from 15 February
2008.
As a first step our due diligence team is
thoroughly evaluating all aspects of the
operation in conjunction with its management.
Once we have a complete understanding
of all the issues we shall be in a position to
formulate and implement a plan designed
to ensure that Morila optimises the remaining
resources for the rest of its life.  We shall
also continue to pursue the thus-far elusive
opportunity to extend the mineralisation at
Morila and the existing exploration dataset
and strategy will be reviewed as part of the
due diligence.
It is worth noting that despite the
disappointment of the past year, Morila
remains a substantial generator of cash and
profit, debt-free, unhedged and completely
exposed to the gold price.  As such it is still
a very important contributor to the coffers of
Randgold Resources and should be so for
several years to come.
LOULO CONTINUES TO STAR
Loulo also had its share of operational
challenges in the shape of feed and ore mix
problems caused by erratic contractor
performance and a roll crusher failure
exacerbated by excessive rains from July
into September.  The need to catch up on
lost output impacted significantly on Loulo’s
costs but thanks to another great effort from
the team, the mine ended the year with
production 10% ahead of forecast and year-
on-year profit from mining up by the same
margin.
The Yalea underground development at Loulo
ran into problems in the form of some very
poor ground which slowed the advance
down to a crawl from June.  By the end of
the year it was back in competent ground
and the pace accelerated briskly, achieving
a record advance of 260 metres in January.
It is now on a critical path to the development
ore, which we expect to intersect by the end
of the first quarter.  The first mining faces
should be established by mid-year.  The
Loulo team’s undaunted attitude and
innovative spirit are demonstrated by the
solution they came up with for the difficulties
they had encountered in establishing backfill
and ventilation access to the northern part
of the Yalea orebody.  This was originally
conceived as a raisebore shaft but with the
necessary equipment almost impossible to
obtain at present, it was redesigned as a
third decline from the P125 pit.  This not
only provides the required access but creates
additional points of entry to the mine as well
as assessing additional ore not included in
the original mining schedule.
TONGON STARTS TAKING SHAPE
The Tongon team has also been making
excellent progress and, subject to an
agreement on a mining convention with the
government of Côte d’Ivoire, we are initiating
site establishment this year with the aim of
starting construction in earnest at year-end
to be able to produce first gold in the second
half of 2010.
The first draft of the mining convention has
already been tabled for discussion.  We have
also initiated social and environmental impact
studies which have formed the basis for a
public consultative process with the local
villages and regional structures.  Most of the
mine-site layout has been settled and when
the next phase of detailed flowsheet and
process design has been completed, the
tendering process will start.
In the meantime, the political process in
Côte d’Ivoire also continues to make good
progress.  We are great believers in the
future of this country, which is not only highly
prospective but still relatively unexplored,
and also possesses that rarity in Africa:
a sophisticated economy supported by a
functional infrastructure.
Funding for the development of Tongon,
as well as for other organic and corporate
growth opportunities, has been secured
through a successful US$240 million equity
placing in November.  It is a tribute to the
company’s excellent investor relations, strong
shareholder communications and the inherent
attraction of Tongon and other growth
prospects that all our key shareholders
participated in the placing.  In addition,
although the transaction was executed in
just 24 hours, the company was able to
attract both new institutional shareholders
and a substantial retail response, all at a
discount of just 3% on the previous day’s
close.
THE NEXT BIG THING
Exploration continues to be the engine that
drives Randgold Resources’ growth and our
teams in the field have also had a busy year
which has produced some very gratifying
results in the way of projects graduating
to advanced drill status.  The further
expansion of our resource base is detailed
in the updated reserve and resource
declaration elsewhere in this report.
Outstanding features of the year are the
definition of a substantial mineralised structure
demonstrated by high grade diamond drillhole
and RAB results from Massawa in Senegal,
the extended mineralisation at the Loulo
satellite Faraba, the airborne geophysical
survey over our consolidated holdings in the
Loulo/Senegal region, the shift in exploration
focus in Côte d’Ivoire from Tongon to other
targets in the Nielle permit as well as our five
other permits in that country, including the
Tiasso target in the Boundiali permit.  Other
outstanding features were the potential for
adding resources at Kiaka in Burkina Faso
and finally the greenfields exploration in
Ghana and Tanzania which feeds the base
of our resource triangle.  Full details of these
and other prospects are given in the review
of operations.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   19 Mark Bristow
Chief executive
Massawa, which we discovered last year,
along with Tiasso in Côte d’Ivoire, are rapidly
emerging as the frontrunners among the
advanced prospects.  Results from the
recently completed 2 500 metre infill RAB
drilling programme at Massawa are at least
as good as those produced by Yalea and
Tongon at a similar stage.  In fact, all the
ingredients which typically indicate a major
deposit are in place: high grades, structure,
alteration and variations in rock types.
We have always believed in the prospectivity
of the Kedougou-Kenieba inlier which hosts
Massawa and we persevered with our
exploration there even though the early results
were not that promising.  The fact that our
continuing work has now delivered a very
exciting target reconfirms that exploration
success requires not only skill but also
tenacity.  The next step is a +7 000 metre
diamond drilling programme which should
give us a very clear understanding of the
mineralisation.  A reconnaisance and
delineation drilling programme on the Tiasso
target in the Boundiali permit, 100 kilometres
west of Tongon, is also scheduled for the
second quarter of 2008.
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2008 AND BEYOND
Randgold Resources is facing the future with
a considerable measure of confidence based
on an impressive array of assets.  These
include:
a pure gold strategy and a record of
value creation that, judging by our share
price performance, strike a responsive
chord in the market;
the capacity to grow production from
organic sources in a high gold price
environment and at a time when industry
output is declining;
a robust balance sheet more than
capable of funding our growth projects
as well as possible corporate
transactions;
Loulo’s expansion into a four-mines-in-
one-complex and the potential for more
discoveries in the region;
Tongon headed for production in 2010
and a full pipeline of quality projects
behind that; and, by no means least,
a versatile, expert team, thoroughly
tested in every aspect of our business.
Our production profile illustrated on page 4
of this report shows how we plan to gear
up our output, with Loulo targeting a total
production in excess of 400 000 ounces in
2010 and group attributable production
reaching 600 000 ounces in 2011.
Clearly we’re going to have to work very hard
to contain the impact of costs, which we
estimate will rise by between 10% and 15%
in 2008, subject of course to the oil price.
Even so, we are soundly positioned to do
well under all realistically foreseeable
scenarios.  And our strategy remains
unchanged:  we continue to build our
business through discovery and
development, while also hunting those rare
external opportunities of real quality, with the
objective of creating long term value.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS AND
APPRECIATION
No review of the past year can be complete
without due recognition of the many people
who worked hard to advance the company’s
progress.  I would like to thank our board,
the many shareholders and investors who
made time to see me during the year, our
business partners in the various areas where
we operate, our stakeholders, notably the
governments and people of our host
countries, and our advisors.  A very special
word of thanks is reserved for the people of
Randgold Resources:  my colleagues in
management and all our employees, each
of whom has in one way or another
contributed to our success.
20   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Thinus Strydom
Mine manager, Loulo underground projects
After a 14-year career in gold and coal mining in
South Africa, Ethiopia and Fiji, Thinus joined
Randgold Resources in 2005 to head the
development of the Yalea and Gara projects at
Loulo - the company’s first underground mines
and the first of their kind in Mali.
“The Randgold team consists of highly skilled
individuals, each an expert in his or her specific
field.  Together they constitute a considerable
intellectual base within which each is able to
support the other:  for instance, though my
responsibility is the planning and development
of the underground operation, I was able to assist
the engineering department with technical advice
when they were commissioning the primary
crusher.”
Review of operations Review of operations Review of operations 22   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Total revenue for the group of
US$282.8 million increased by 9% on the
previous year on the back of a higher average
gold price received of US$652 per ounce.
Attributable production of 444 573 ounces
was slightly lower than the previous year’s
448 242 ounces.  Net profit for the year was
US$45.6 million, a decrease of 10%
compared to the previous year.  This was
as a result of higher mining costs at both
operations, due to the impact of higher diesel
prices, the effect of the weak US dollar on
the euro-based component of the operational
costs, increased royalties payable resulting
from the higher average gold price received
and general cost increases in other
commodities and consumables.  Profit would
also have been significantly higher had it not
been for a tax adjustment of US$3.2 million
at Morila, mainly related to payroll and
withholding taxes, included in other
expenses, and increased exploration and
corporate expenditure of US$35.9 million
(2006: US$28.8 million), mainly as a
result of the increased expenditure on the
Tongon project.  The board determined on
31 January 2008 to proceed with the
development of this project and going
forward, future expenditure on the
development of the mine will be capitalised
and expensed over the life of the mine.
Earnings per share of 60 cents was down
on the 70 cents of 2006, in line with the
reduced net profit.
Cash operating costs for the group were
US$315 per ounce, up from US$258 per
ounce in 2006.  After royalties, total cash
costs for the group were US$356 per ounce
for the year compared to US$296 per ounce
in 2006.  This compares to an estimated
industry average for 2007 of approximately
US$390 per ounce.  Diesel constituted
approximately 30% of production costs in
the year, hence its significant impact on cost
pressures.  Unit cost at Morila showed a
14% increase to US$31 per tonne milled,
reflecting general cost pressures.  At Loulo,
unit costs were up 22% to just over US$33
per tonne milled, reflecting an increase in
the proportion of harder sulphide ore being
processed together with the other cost
pressures.
The lower grade processed at Morila also
affected the cost per ounce.  Grades at
Morila decreased from 4.2g/t in 2006 to
3.7g/t, while Loulo’s grade remained relatively
consistent at 3.3g/t (2006: 3.2g/t), as per
the respective life of mine plans.
As noted, expenditure on exploration and
corporate costs increased by US$7.1 million,
a large part of which related to the completion
of the Tongon feasibility study, and continued
to be an important area of investment for
the company.  Extensive drilling programmes
were undertaken in all countries in which the
company operates except for Ghana.
1 By July 2007, more than
20 000 metres of drilling had
been completed at the
Tongon project.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The results for the year reflect another
strong performance and consequently
the board has increased the annual
dividend by 20%.
REVIEW OF
OPERATIONS Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   23
1 Morila’s five year Mali corporate profit tax
holiday ended in November 2005 and the
accounts include a charge of US$21.3 million
for the tax payable compared to
US$23.3 million the previous year.  Loulo
continues to benefit from exoneration from
corporate profit tax for five years from the
date of first commercial production which
was 8 November 2005.
The company’s cash position is very healthy
with US$343 million of cash and financial
assets (2006: US$143 million) on the
balance sheet and borrowings of
US$9.5 million (2006: US$53 million).  Net
cash has improved from last year despite
the significant expenditure on capital
expenditure and exploration and corporate
costs:  US$47.9 million was spent on capital
projects, mainly on the Loulo underground
project, including the development of the
twin declines and acquisition of the
underground fleet.  The company completed
an equity placing in December 2007, which
raised US$231.7 million, net of expenses,
for the development of the Tongon project
and other organic and corporate growth
opportunities.  During the year, the company
converted its Loulo project finance facility
into a corporate facility, to increase its flexibility
and reduce the associated financing costs.
Following the completion of the equity
placing, the company repaid the remaining
amounts outstanding under the corporate
facility (US$40.8 million).  The full
US$60 million facility remains available for
drawdown should there be a need for future
funding.
Subsequent to the September quarter end,
the company transferred US$49 million from
cash and cash equivalents to available-for-
sale financial assets.  This related to its
portfolio of AAA rated short term asset
backed securities and other corporate debt
instruments.  The trading market for these
instruments had become substantially illiquid
as a result of the unusual conditions in the
credit markets.  We are monitoring the
situation closely including the credit ratings
set by the rating agencies and the maturity
of the underlying collateral.  We continue to
receive interest payable on these securities
and all the securities remain AAA rated and
based on these factors have not been
impaired in the balance sheet.
Property, plant and equipment increased
significantly year on year, mainly due to
investments made on the underground
development at Loulo, as previously
mentioned.  Long term receivables increased
by US$9.1 million over the year due to an
increase in the TVA balance at Morila.  The
non-current receivables of US$22.8 million
are those parts of the receivables from
MDM Ferroman (Pty) Limited (in liquidation)
(“MDM”) and the Malian government which,
while legally payable immediately, are
expected to be paid after more than
12 months.  The company continues to
believe it will receive the amounts accrued
as owing to it by MDM (US$12.1 million),
the original contractor at Loulo, and this
matter is no longer the subject of an
emphasis of matter in the audit report.
Short term receivables increased as a result
of an increase in trade debtors due to the
timing of gold shipments at year end at both
mines.  The increase in inventories and ore
stockpiles is due to the additional demand
for supplies and insurance spares at Loulo
with the development of the underground
mine and improved production, as well as
an increase in the stockpiles at Morila in line
with the life of mine plan.  As previously
indicated, mining at Morila will stop during
2009, after which the lower grade stockpiles
will be processed until 2013.  During this
time, cash costs as defined are expected
to rise.  However, cash flow from the
operation is still anticipated to be strong as
a large portion of these costs have already
been incurred.  The financial instruments
liability also increased during the year,
following the increase in the gold price and
reflects the marked-to-market valuation of
the hedged ounces at the year end spot
price of US$836 per ounce.
During the year the company delivered
90 836 gold ounces into its hedge positions
which reduced the financial instruments
liability, given the higher gold price, and the
remaining 207 240 ounces are scheduled
to be delivered until 2010.  The forward
contracts all relate to Loulo, with Morila’s
production being completely exposed to
spot gold prices.  The remaining portion of
the hedge book represents approximately
13% of the group’s attributable production
for the period.
24   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Life of mine scheduling at Morila anticipates
production for 2008 to be approximately
465 000 ounces (186 000 attributable
ounces).  Loulo’s 2008 production is
scheduled to be approximately 265 000
ounces.  Total cash costs for the group
are estimated to increase year on year
between 10% and 15% depending on the
diesel price, euro/dollar exchange rate and
the gold price, which impacts on Mali
government royalties paid.  Randgold
Resources will also continue to invest
extensively in its prospective exploration
portfolio.
Development at the Yalea underground mine
at Loulo is now well underway with first
stoping ore expected to be mined by mid
year; US$45.6 million having been spent on
this capital programme during the year.
The capital expenditure for this year is
estimated at US$23 million, after which the
Yalea underground will be fully operational.
The Gara underground development is
planned to start in 2009 with first ore fed to
the plant in 2010, with a capital estimate of
US$39 million over the two years.  In
November 2007, the company released the
results of its updated feasibility study on the
Tongon project, which anticipates total capital
expenditure of US$267 million over the life
of the project, the bulk of which will be spent
in 2009 and 2010.  Tongon is expected to
come into production towards the end of
2010.
In view of the strong cash flows from
operations and the company’s strong
balance sheet, the board decided to declare
an annual dividend of 12 cents per share,
totalling a payout of US$9.1 million.  This is
an increase of 20% on the prior year’s maiden
dividend and is a reflection of the profitable
evolution of the business.  Shareholders
have also enjoyed substantial capital returns
in the year with the share price rising 58%
from US$23.46 to US$37.13 at year end.
Over the past five years the share price has
increased by 450%.
Graham Shuttleworth
Financial director Abdoulaye Kone
Plant superintendent, Morila
Abdoulaye worked as a labourer on the
construction of the Syama mine in 1989/90 and
became elution operator when the mine,
subsequently acquired by Randgold Resources,
went into production.  He was promoted to
general foreman and then to oxide plant
superintendent, before moving to Morila as
CIL and elution foreman in 2000.  He was
promoted to his present position in 2004.
“It’s my job to keep the team focused on results:
meeting challenging production and cost targets
without compromising safety.  Leadership is
not just about keeping up the pressure - it’s
also about giving people a vision.”
Operations Operations Operations 26   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
The mine is located within the Kedougou-
Kenieba inlier of Birimian rocks, which
hosts several principal gold deposits in Mali,
notably Gara, Yalea, Sadiola, Ségala and
Tabakoto as well as Sabodala, across the
border in Senegal.  Loulo is located
approximately 96 kilometres south of Sadiola
and 25 kilometres to the west of Ségala
and Tabakoto.
The Gara orebody, previously known as
Loulo 0, was discovered by Syndicat Or (a
joint venture between BRGM and DNGM)
in 1981.  In June 1992, BHP acquired the
shares of BRGM (in Syndicat Or).  BHP
Minerals Mali Inc was acquired by Randgold
Resources in October 1996.  At that time
the project’s gold resources were estimated
by BHP at 1.25 million ounces.  Randgold
Resources then initiated an intensive
exploration programme which resulted in the
discovery of the Yalea deposit.  After the
acceptance of a feasibility study in 1999,
Randgold Resources earned additional
shares to increase its participation in the
project to 51%.  Shortly thereafter, Randgold
Resources acquired the 29% share of
Normandy La Source in Somilo, the company
which owns Loulo, thus increasing its share
to 80%, with the government of Mali holding
the remaining 20%.
LOULO MINE
Loulo is situated in western Mali, bordering
Senegal and adjacent to the Falémé River.
 It is located 350 kilometres west of Bamako
and 220 kilometres south of Kayes.
OPERATIONS
LOULO MINE LAYOUT
2 000m
Yalea Pit
Yalea
Underground
Boxcut
P125 Pit
P129 Pit
Tailings Dam
Accommodation
Plant
Offices
ROM Pad
and
Stockpiles
Waste Rock
Dump
Falémé River
Airstrip
Gara Pit
Loulo
Gold Mine
MALI
BURKINA FASO
GHANA
CÔTE
D’IVOIRE
SENEGAL
GUINEA
LIBERIA
SIERRA
LEONE
Morila
Gold Mine
Tongon Development
Project
600km
Satemkon
Fanoma
Apouasso
Dignago
Dabakala
Nielle
Danfora
Bole NE
Bagoe East
Morila
Bagoe West
Sinnboo
Boundiali
Mankono
Syeba
Kanoumering
Dalema
Bambadji
Tomboronkoto
Miko
Kounemba
Loulo
Bena
Nahali
Nakomgo
Lourgogo
Yibogo
Kiaka
Safoula
Tiakane
Bourou
Basgana
Gogo
Tanema
1
Randgold Resources
exploration permits
WEST AFRICA: LOCALITY OF OPERATIONS Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   27
1 Four mines in one: The Loulo
mine currently consists of
the Yalea and Gara open
pits and the Yalea decline,
the first section of the
underground development.
The Gara underground
development will start in
2009.
2 In 2007 Loulo produced
264 647 ounces of gold
at a total cash cost of
US$372 per ounce.
2
Total mined (million tonnes) 21 18.4
Ore mined (million tonnes) 2.4 2.6
Mined grade (g/t) 3.3 3.4
Ore milled (million tonnes) 2.7 2.6
Head grade (g/t) 3.3 3.2
Recovery (%) 93.2 94
Ounces produced (oz) 264 647 241 575
Average gold price received (US$/oz)* 612 556
Cash operating cost (US$/oz)* 337 294
Total cash cost (US$/oz)* 372 328
Profit from mining activity (US$ million)* 63.6 57.5
Gold sales (US$ million)* 162.2 136.8
Net profit (US$ million)* 30.8 25.3
* Refer to explanation of non GAAP measures provided in note 24 on pages 107 and 108.
LOULO: SUMMARY OF RESULTS
12 months ending 31 December 2007 2006 28   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
This was partly offset by a higher received
gold price.
MINE FACILITIES
The Loulo mine currently consists of two
main open pits (Yalea and Gara), two smaller
satellite pits and the Yalea decline, which is
the first section of an underground project.
The second underground mine will start at
Gara in 2009.
The plant is designed to process an average
2.5 million tonnes per year using the following
circuits:
Crushing - a three-stage crushing circuit
for the hard rock sulphide ores and a
single-stage roll-toothed crusher for the
soft weathered oxide ores.
Milling - the milling circuit comprises two
parallel single stage ball mills in closed
circuit with a dedicated cluster of hydro-
cyclones.
Gravity - two XD48 Knelson centrifugal
primary concentrators followed by a
shaking table for re-dressing of primary
concentrates.
CIL recovery process.
Zadra elution process and gold recovery.
MINERAL RESOURCES
Total resources increased to 11.94 million
ounces, an increase of 5%, after adjustment
for depletion incurred through mining.  This
was mainly due to the increase in the Gara
underground resource to 3 million ounces,
following a successful drill campaign
which delineated additional ounces along
the southwest trend at depth.  A total
of 2.43 million tonnes at 3.33g/t for
262 262 ounces was mined from the
three pits:  Yalea, Gara and P125.
Reconciliations between ore delivered by
the mine and gold produced again correlated
well with only a 3% variance in ounces.
At the end of December 2007, total material
on stockpile was reduced to 417 878 tonnes
at 1.83g/t for 24 651 ounces.
Resource drilling concentrated on the
underground extension of the Gara deposit.
In addition, during 2007 drilling focused on
improving geological models and underlying
mineralisation at Faraba, P64, Baboto and
Loulo 3.
Randgold Resources re-established its
exploration programme in 2003 and a revision
of the feasibility study was undertaken.
That year, the board of Randgold Resources
approved the development of the mine, once
the project met its investment criteria.  Loulo
mine was officially opened on 12 November
2005.
In 2007 Loulo produced 264 647 ounces
of gold at a total cash cost of US$372 per
ounce.  The increase in cash costs,
compared to 2006, is attributable to an
increase in fuel and other consumable prices
as well as an increase in logistic costs.
3
LOULO: ACTUAL AND FORECAST PRODUCTION
2006 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010
Production
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Ounces (000)
Actual
production
Forecast
production
2011 2012
2006 2005
US$100m
US$50m
2007
Total profits
US$150m
Total Loulo mine profits (accumulative profit to date)
(to 31 Dec 2007) Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   29
3 The Loulo plant is designed
to process an average of
2.5 million tonnes per year.
LOULO: MINERAL RESOURCES
Stockpiles Measured 0.42 0.67 1.83 2.44 0.02 0.05
Gara Measured 7.62 8.15 3.77 3.86 0.92 1.01
Indicated 17.75 15.86 4.29 4.10 2.45 2.09
Inferred 3.38 1.32 3.39 3.25 0.37 0.14
Yalea (incl P125) Measured 7.26 6.15 3.99 4.07 0.93 0.80
Indicated 29.18 29.37 5.38 5.44 5.05 5.13
Inferred 9.58 8.76 3.68 3.84 1.13 1.08
Satellites Indicated 1.72 1.57 2.41 2.46 0.13 0.13
(P129, Gara West,
Loulo 3, Baboto,
Faraba) Inferred 12.94 12.69 2.24 2.24 0.93 0.92
TOTAL MEASURED
AND INDICATED 63.95 61.77 4.62 4.64 9.51 9.22 7.61
TOTAL INFERRED 25.90 22.77 2.92 2.91 2.43 2.13 1.95
at 31 December Tonnes Tonnes Grade Grade Gold Gold Attributable
(Mt) (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) gold (80%)
Category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (Moz)
LOULO: ORE RESERVES
Stockpiles Proved 0.42 0.67 1.83 2.44 0.02 0.05
Yalea open pit
(incl P125) Proved 2.96 4.42 3.94 4.05 0.37 0.58
Probable 0.03 0.69 2.04 5.66 0.002 0.13
Sub total 2.99 5.11 3.92 4.27 0.38 0.70
Gara open pit Proved 5.57 6.12 3.16 3.19 0.57 0.63
Probable 0.13 0.74 3.79 3.11 0.02 0.07
Sub total 5.70 6.87 3.18 3.18 0.58 0.70
Gara West
open pit Probable 1.07 0.56 2.03 2.10 0.07 0.04
P129 open pit Probable 0.15 0.15 2.70 2.70 0.01 0.01
TOTAL SURFACE
SOURCES 10.33 13.37 3.21 3.51 1.07 1.52
Yalea underground Probable 27.01 22.64 4.82 4.99 4.19 3.63
Gara underground Probable 17.08 13.14 3.91 3.91 2.14 1.65
TOTAL
UNDERGROUND 44.08 35.78 4.47 4.59 6.33 5.28
TOTAL PROVED 8.95 11.21 3.36 3.47 0.97 1.26 0.77
TOTAL PROBABLE 45.47 37.93 4.40 4.54 6.43 5.54 5.15
TOTAL MINE 54.42 49.14 4.23 4.30 7.40 6.80 5.92
P125 pit was mined out during 2007.
Pit optimisations carried out at a gold price of US$550 per ounce.
Dilution and ore loss is incorporated into calculation of reserves.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 49.
at 31 December Tonnes Tonnes Grade Grade Gold Gold Attributable
(Mt) (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) gold (80%)
Category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (Moz) LOULO EXPLORATION
Loulo exploration is reported in the group
exploration review on page 52.
ORE RESERVES
After adjusting for mining depletion in 2007,
the overall reserve increased by 0.6 million
ounces to 7.4 million ounces. This was
mostly due to the increase in reserves at the
Gara underground mine.  For more detail
refer to the table on the previous page.
During 2007, the interface between open
pit and underground operations was re-
evaluated based on updated costs and
projected gold price.  In particular, the
potential to mine deep ore from the southern
part of the Yalea pit was re-evaluated.  In
the 2006 declaration, this ore was classified
as ‘Yalea Deep Pit’.  Since then, a redesign
has been completed where it is planned that
this ore will be mined from underground
using the ramp-in-stope method.  This has
caused the overall grade of the underground
reserve to drop from 4.99g/t to 4.82g/t as
a result of the incorporation of extra dilution
into the reserve modelling.
For the 2007 annual reserves, a gold
price of US$550 per ounce was used as
the basis for pit optimisation.  The actual
cost profile for Loulo was implemented in
this study.
The indication that the southern part of the
Gara orebody could have high grade
mineralisation has been confirmed with further
drilling, bringing additional reserves to the
Gara underground operation.
30   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Ore mined (million tonnes) 2.43 2.55
Ore grade (g/t) 3.32 3.35
Waste mined (million tonnes) 18.55 15.82
Strip ratio 7.6:1 6.2:1
Total mined (million tonnes) 20.98 18.36
LOULO: MINING RESULTS
12 months ending 31 December 2007 2006
4 At Loulo ore was mined from
the Gara, Yalea and P125
pits during the year.
MINING
Mining operations at Loulo are carried out
under contract by BCM Mali SA, a subsidiary
of BCM International Limited.  BCM operates
a fleet of two Liebherr 994B excavators and
some 20 Caterpillar 777D trucks, assisted
by two 125 tonne excavators and various
ancillary equipment.  BCM is also responsible
for the drill and blast operations and operates
five L7 and two L8 Atlas Copco rigs.  MAXAM
Mali SARL, a subsidiary of MAXAM
International, supplies the bulk explosive and
accessories for blasting.  Mining occurred
in the Gara, Yalea and P125 pits during
the year.  The average production volume
for the mining fleet during 2007 was
750 000bcm per month.  Fleet availability
was impacted by breakdowns on the
Liebherr 994B excavators.
UNDERGROUND MINE DESIGN
The Loulo underground project is still relatively
new and will be further enhanced and
optimised in 2008.  The underground
extraction strategy has been focused on
accessing the orebodies in a safe and
considered manner, bearing in mind
production rates, grades and development
requirements.
Production is initially focused on the Yalea
orebody, where a high grade bonanza zone
of 1.5 million ounces at 10.50g/t exists
between 350 and 500 metres below surface.
The Gara mine, with its more consistent,
albeit slightly lower grade orebody, will be
brought on line later in 2009 to provide a
steady feed to the plant. Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   31
4 YALEA UNDERGROUND MINE
A re-optimisation of the Yalea underground
design was undertaken during the year in
an attempt to smooth out design
inefficiencies.  The main changes included
moving the first switchback position further
down to a point on the other side of the
“purple patch”.  This means a long straight
run directly towards the high grade.  The
conveyor changeover points were optimised
to increase capacity.  Changes to the stoping
design were made to reduce stope length
from 60 to 20 metre lengths, improving the
selectivity and grade control.
YALEA SOUTH EXTENSION
The soft ore below the revised Yalea pit
could be economically mined from open cut
but would incur a high strip ratio, as indicated
in the 2006 annual report.  Because of this,
an underground design was created that
utilises the ramp-in-stope method to mine
this mineralisation more economically.  This
leads to an increase in underground reserves,
but a decrease in open cut reserves.  The
reserve table on page 29 tracks the changes
in reserve allocation.
GARA UNDERGROUND MINE
Additional holes were drilled at Gara during
the fourth quarter of 2007 and a redesign
completed to incorporate the additional
resources into the plan.  This is based on
the Yalea design and will include the
improvements made to the current Yalea
design with regards to ventilation passes,
rock passes, decline layout and stoping
geometry.
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
At the end of the fourth quarter of 2007 the
twin declines at Yalea underground mine
were advanced for a distance of 520 metres
from surface and a vertical depth of
100 metres below surface.  A total of
1 030 metres of development was
completed at this stage.  The advance of
the declines was hampered by an
intersection of poor ground conditions.
However, both declines are now through the
worst of these conditions and normal
development continued at the end of the
fourth quarter.
The first development ore is expected to be
delivered towards the end of the first quarter,
with first stoping ore scheduled for midyear.
It is expected that the section will build up
to full production of 90 000 tonnes per month
from 2009.
Gara underground mine is scheduled to start
development in January 2009.  The orders
for the underground heavy vehicle fleet have
been placed and the first units are expected
on site towards the end of 2008.  Gara is
expected to deliver first ore towards the end
of 2009 and build up to full production in
2014.
PROCESSING PRODUCTION
Steady production has been achieved
throughout the year.  The second quarter
saw a record gold production of 70 660
ounces.  End of the year final production
key performance indicators were above plan
in both mill throughput and gold recovery.
The challenges associated with the third
quarter wet season, although anticipated,
could have been better addressed.
Measures were, however, put in place to
ensure a continued supply and feed of quality
ore from the pit and into the process plant
respectively.  In the latter half of the year, the
underperformance of the mining contractor’s
digger fleet necessitated ore being mined
predominantly from Gara pit.  This had an
adverse effect on downstream crusher/mill
throughputs and frequency of wear
component change-out.  The last quarter
saw monthly mill throughputs back to the
220 000 tonnes planned as the total process
plant, inclusive of the crusher plant, achieved
steady state again.
A total of 2.65 million tonnes of ore was
milled at a reconciled head grade of
3.30g/t and 264 647 gold ounces were
produced and shipped.  Of this,
14 367 ounces were sold for the first time
to a local Malian company, Kankou Moussa
SARL, as part of a Randgold Resources’
initiative to allow Malian nationals access to
Malian gold.  The overall gold recovery was
93.14% (5.13% gravity and 88.01% CIL).
32   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
YALEA: UNDERGROUND DEVELOPMENT
750m below surface
Yalea South
Extension
Yalea Pit P125 Pit Yalea Boxcut
Yalea Underground
Development
1 000m 5
The overall annual mill availability and hard
rock crusher throughput was 91.56% and
2 773 470 tonnes respectively.
TAILINGS STORAGE
The partnership between the tailings storage
facility operator, Fraser Alexander Tailings,
mine residue and environmental engineering
consultant Epoch Resources and Loulo mine
worked well through 2007 although
challenges had to be overcome with the civil
contractor.  The main starter wall was raised
to the 151.5 metre level in the year by
mechanical means and will be raised further
by cycloning and dry-walling, a method for
which trials are looking encouraging.
CAPITAL PROJECTS AND
CONSTRUCTION REPORT
A number of projects were completed in
2007.  The most significant were:
CIL circuit expansion tanks 7 to 10.
CIL leach tanks 1 and 2 - oxygen pump
relocated to CIL 2.
Stockpile feeds conveyors and ‘A’ frame
installation completed.
Tailing dam wall raised to 151.5 metre
level.
New flocculent plant for the thickener
project.
Wash bay, lube bay and garage.
Underground boiler shop.
Fuel farm overhead diesel storage
tanks.
There are a number of projects currently
under construction.  The most significant
are:
Underground vehicle and conveyor
concrete tunnels at Yalea.
Thickener and clarifier civil and
mechanical installation work at the plant.
Cold Caro’s acid cyanide destruction
system, construction and installation
scheduled for completion by the third
quarter of 2008.
Reactor, hydrogen peroxide and
sulphuric acid reagent storage tanks -
fabrication and installation.
Power plant expansion and
commissioning.
ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
Monthly monitoring programmes continued
through the year incorporating dust fallout
levels, physiochemical, cyanide, oil, grease
and bacteriological levels of surface and
groundwater across the mine site and TSF
facilities as well as surrounding water courses.
No contamination of the outside environment
was identified.
An annual environmental audit was
conducted by independent consultants and
no critical issues identified.  The environmental
management programme was revised taking
into consideration the extended mine life.
Post construction rehabilitation continued
with unused borrow pits, construction lay
down sites and roads being rehabilitated as
part of the planned ongoing rehabilitation
programme.
5 During the year the CIL
Circuit expansion tanks
7 to 10 were completed.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   33 Two improved maize varieties were
tested on 35 farms during 2007.  The
average yield was 1 800 kilograms per
hectare against a baseline average of
400-800 kilograms per hectare for the
region.
Two improved pluvial rice varieties were
introduced on seven women’s
association farms.
Two biodiesel Jatropha tree test fields
were planted at Loulo and Djidjaan
Kenieba villages.
HUMAN RESOURCES
MANPOWER
The mine’s manpower complement
increased by 871 to 1 881 during 2007 due
to the underground project gaining
momentum.
TRAINING
A strategic planning and team effectiveness
workshop was held in the first quarter of
2007.  This was attended by the chief
executive, the general manager and all his
departmental managers and superintendents.
In addition, a workshop was held on site in
December by Dr Arnold Mol, to enhance
the management skills of 28 supervisory
staff.
Two on-site training courses on social
partnership, occupational safety, Malian
labour law and management, were organised
in April and July 2007.  These were attended
by Loulo mine’s staff representatives and
the senior staff of Randgold Resources.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Industrial relations were positive overall
throughout the year.  However, there is still
considerable capacity and relationship
building work to be done by management
with the union committee.  This committee,
consisting of 10 members, was elected in
January 2007.  Regular meetings were held
between the union committee and
management throughout the year.  The
negotiation of a mine level agreement, based
on a draft tabled by management, was
initiated with the aim of clarifying the industry
elective agreement.  This major negotiation
process, as expected, engendered some
conflict, resulting in a strike notice being
given to management by the union.  The
strike notice was suspended when
management explained that the union
demands regarding the job grade,
remuneration and transport issues would
form part of the mine level agreement
discussion.
The innovative transport allowance
scheme of a hire purchase arrangement
to support the self purchase of motorbikes
by the employees has been successful.
The first batch of 160 motorbikes has been
delivered to the mine and allocated to
employees.  A second batch has been
ordered.
As part of this programme a total of 27 766
square metres has been rehabilitated
including the planting of 1 212 indigenous
trees and various indigenous grasses.
On site recycling of waste continued with
proceeds being channelled back into the
community.
Major advances have been made with malaria
prevention through indoor spraying
programmes in all houses, offices and
surrounding villages.  This has resulted in a
decrease of 33% in malaria consultations
year on year.
Monthly community liaison meetings
continued during the year between
representatives of the mine and the
surrounding villages.  It is Randgold
Resources’ policy to address the basic
health, education and potable water
requirements of the surrounding community.
Loulo undertook the following community
projects during 2007:
EDUCATION
Built Loulo village school which was
handed over to the Loulo village on
1 November 2007.
Commenced the construction of the
Baboto school.
Commenced the construction of a
secondary school at Djidjaan Kenieba
which is being funded by one of the
local suppliers, adjacent to the primary
school built in 2006.
Delivered school furniture to surrounding
village schools.
HEALTH
Construction of a local village clinic.
Provided community evacuation and
medical consultation to the surrounding
villages.
Sponsored an anti-polio immunisation
programme that involved approximately
800 pregnant women and children in
the surrounding region.
AGRICULTURE
Continued to assist farmers and women
associations to improve agriculture in
the area.
Mine labour 389 327
Capital projects 446 499
Mine contractors 1 046 184
TOTAL 1 881 1 010
LOULO: MANPOWER
At 31 December 2007 2006
34   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   35
MORILA MINE
Randgold Resources’ major gold producing
asset since October 2000 has been the
Morila Gold mine.  Morila was discovered
by the company in 1996 and is owned by a
Malian company, Morila SA which in turn
is owned 80% by Morila Limited and 20%
by the State of Mali.
OPERATIONS
Morila Limited is jointly owned by Randgold
Resources and AngloGold Ashanti.  The
mine is controlled by a 50:50 joint venture
management committee with responsibility
for day to day operations being transferred
from AngloGold Ashanti to Randgold
Resources with effect from 15 February
2008.
From the start of production in October 2000
to December 2007, Morila has produced
approximately 4.75 million ounces of gold
at a total cash cost of US$161 per ounce
and Morila SA has distributed to its
stakeholders an amount in excess of
US$1.2 billion.
Morila had a difficult 2007, failing to meet
its annual targeted production of 500 000
ounces.  The total ounces produced was
449 817 ounces at a total cash cost of
US$332 per ounce.
Operational challenges resulted in lower
than expected grades, a poor mining
performance in the first half of the year
and erratic recoveries from the plant at
times.
Costs remained under pressure due to
continued world-wide inflation in the key
inputs of fuel, steel and transport.
MORILA: PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF RETURNS
Dividend and tax distribution Morila mine production
Ounces produced (000)
0
200
400
600
800
1 000
1 200
Dividends:
Government
of Mali
Royalties
Corporate tax
Dividends:
investing
companies
2001 2000 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 36   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
A summary of the salient production and
financial statistics as well as a comparison
with the previous year’s results is shown
below.
MINERAL RESOURCES
The mineral resource base estimated for the
mine using the results from infill drilling
programmes as well as resource extension
drilling, depleted to the end of 2007, is
shown on the facing page.
Despite a higher gold price for modelling
and therefore a lower cut-off grade, resources
have dropped significantly for two reasons.
Firstly, it was apparent that the pit design
was now fixed as a result of the major
pushback that would be required if a bigger
pit was to be designed.  Previously it had
been assumed that the fringe areas to the
pit were potentially mineable by underground
methods.
Recent underground scoping studies have
however indicated that the resource available
at present is too small to warrant such
underground development at current gold
prices and costs.  These fringe resources
have therefore been omitted from the mineral
resource base.
The second major cause of the drop in
resources was the inability to accurately
model the in-situ grade of the fringe areas
of the orebody.  Consequently grade control
drilling has in general returned lower grades
than predicted by the resource model.
As a result the resource modelling going
forward has been carried out on a more
conservative basis.
ORE RESERVES
Based on the current orebody model the
ore reserve was estimated for Morila,
depleted for mining, to 31 December 2007
and is shown on the next page.
It is currently estimated that mining activities
will cease during 2009 with processing of
stockpiles continuing until 2013.
1
Total mined (million tonnes) 23.9 21.5
Ore mined (million tonnes) 5.0 5.2
Mined grade (g/t) 3.48 3.21
Ore milled (million tonnes) 4.2 4.1
Head grade (g/t) 3.7 4.2
Recovery (%) 91.6 91.9
Ounces produced (oz) 449 815 516 667
Average gold price received (US$/oz) 710 609
Cash operating cost (excluding royalty) (US$/oz)* 282 215
Total cash cost (US$/oz)* 332 258
Profit from mining activity (US$ million)* 169.8 181.6
Attributable (40% proportionately consolidated)
Gold sales (US$ million)* 127.7 126
Ounces produced (oz) 179 926 206 667
Profit from mining activity (US$ million)* 67 925 72 643
* Refer to explanation of non-GAAP measures in note 24 on pages 107 and 108.
MORILA: PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS
12 months ending 31 December 2007 2006
1 From the start of production
in October 2000, Morila
has produced approximately
4.75 million ounces of
gold at a total cash cost of
US$161 per ounce.
2 A partnership agreement with
the mining contractors has
returned successes
particularly in productivity
improvements. 2
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   37
MORILA: MINERAL RESOURCES
Morila Measured 18.95 20.54 1.90 2.27 1.16 1.50
Indicated 4.00 9.50 3.57 3.34 0.46 1.02
TOTAL
Measured and indicated 22.95 30.04 2.19 2.61 1.62 2.52 0.65
Inferred 0.83 3.09 3.05 3.31 0.08 0.33 0.03
Cut-off grade for resources = 1g/t.
Resources are reported within the US$525 per ounce design pit.
Stockpiled ore included.
at 31 December Tonnes Tonnes Grade Grade Gold Gold Attributable
(Mt) (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) gold (40%)
Category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (Moz)
MORILA: ORE RESERVES
Morila Proved 13.11 15.36 2.21 2.50 0.93 1.23
Probable 9.95 11.35 2.01 2.47 0.64 0.90
TOTAL
Proved and probable 23.06 26.71 2.13 2.49 1.58 2.13 0.63
Reserves reported are economic at a gold price of US$525 per ounce.
Dilution of 10% and ore loss of 5% are incorporated into the calculation of reserves.
Cut-off grade of 1.0g/t.
Stockpiled ore included.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 49.
at 31 December Tonnes Tonnes Grade Grade Gold Gold Attributable
(Mt) (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) gold (40%)
Category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (Moz) progress has been made in constructing
a genetic model to help generate a three
dimensional exploration model in order
to vector further exploration.
Research indicated that the Morila
mineralisation might be related to intrusive
activity during the end phases of the Eburnian
orogeny (about 2 090 million years ago).
Research has also suggested a possible
mafic protolith to at least some of the
mineralised zones.  Ongoing research results
have highlighted the role of hydraulic breccias
in possibly focusing ore fluids as well as
potential chemical traps for fluids.
CLOSURE
The mine is currently forecast to cease
operations in 2013 but mining activities
will end in the first half of 2009.  In line
with the commitment to explore options
that might ensure the economic sustainability
of the mine infrastructure, a study to
investigate the viability of developing a
relatively large scale agri-business in the area
has commenced.  This business could use
some of the facilities and infrastructure that
would be redundant when the mine closes
as well as employ some of the staff that
would be retrenched.
HUMAN RESOURCES
MANPOWER
Manning levels related to permanent and
temporary Morila and contractor employees
on the mine are listed on the table alongside.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
During 2007 there was a heavy emphasis
at Morila on the implementation of OHSAS
18001, following a double fatality in February,
and the requisite training of the workforce to
ensure effective implementation.  This training
included the conducting of continuous safety
audits, induction training, cyanide handling,
hazardous chemical handling and the
identification of hazards and first aid courses.
The four Malian undergraduates sponsored
by Morila SA and studying on Malian mining
industry bursaries at the University of Pretoria
in South Africa (two electrical, one geology
and one mining student) are doing well and
have passed with distinction to progress to
their final year of study.
38   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
ORE PROCESSING
Milled throughput for the year was satisfactory
and the plant expansion to 350 000 tonnes
per month can be judged a success.
However, at times the plant performance
and recovery were erratic, mainly because
of problems caused by operational oversight
and maintenance related losses, both of
which need to be addressed to ensure future
targets are achieved.
EXPLORATION
Morila continued to focus its exploration
activities on extending the existing orebody
and discovering new deposits which can be
processed using the Morila plant.
Drilling concentrated on extensions to the
known orebody, chiefly in the south (Tonalite
extension) and in the west (Morila Shear
Zone west extension) as well as in the eastern
margin.
The 40 000 metre regional exploration
programme of the 200 square kilometre
mine lease area was completed in the early
part of the year.  Results from the programme
have been compiled and while these have
not yet defined another “Morila”, they have
indicated a low grade anomalous footprint
around the deposit.  During the year the
team continued integrating the geological,
structural and mineralogical components
of the deposit.  Using structural and
metallogenic consultants, considerable
Remaining reserves were slightly lower than
last year after depletion has been taken into
account as a result of changes in the orebody
model.  This decrease has been balanced
by an increase in tonnes as a result of lower
cut-off grades due to the higher gold price
assumptions.
MINING
Mining operations were carried out under
contract by Somadex, a subsidiary of
DTP Terrassement, the mining arm of the
French construction company Bouygues.
A partnership agreement which incorporates
the principle of sharing the potential savings
achieved by the contractor, using agreed
productivity assumptions and allowing for
an agreed return, has returned successes
particularly in productivity improvements.
Production was poor in the early part of
the year as a result of low availability of
equipment due to inadequate maintenance
of the fleet.  Somadex recognised the
problem and brought in additional
maintenance resources.  A comprehensive
plan of action in terms of the contract for
work in arrears was supplemented by an
additional list of actions required from
Somadex.  The plan of action was in the
form of a “contractual instruction to act” and
was closely supported and audited by Morila.
Additional mining equipment was also
mobilised and by the end of the year much
of the backlog had been caught up.
National permanent 462 468 456
Temporary (and trainees) 126 (24) 63 -
Expatriate 35                40 33
TOTAL 623              571 489
MORILA: CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES
National permanent 813              972 995
Temporary (and trainees)  258 (19) --
Expatriate 43                44 40
TOTAL 1 114              1 016 1 035
TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1 737             1 587          1 524
MORILA: EMPLOYEES
Dec 2007       Dec 2006  Dec 2005 3
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
The industrial relations climate during 2007
at Morila was complicated by calls for national
strikes by the two union confederations in
the country and by conflict between the
union committee and the personnel
delegates.  Although the mine managed to
avoid its employees supporting national strike
action, the inter-union dispute among
employees led to the UNTM and SECNAMI
representatives on the mine being replaced
by CSTM-aligned employees, following
elections on the mine that were supervised
by the regional labour inspector.  The conflict
and competition for employees’ votes
resulted in the two factions making competing
demands to management to obtain
popularity.  Management succeeded in
remaining neutral and has handled the
situation in a patient and democratic manner
with assistance from the regional labour
inspector.
Despite the above factors, Morila had an
industrial action free 2007 for the second
year in a row, as did the contractors on site.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Community development initiatives,
combining the tripartite partnership
operational plan and projects agreed upon
with the community development committee
included the:
Financing and installation of a community
radio station.
Building and equipping of three
classrooms in Nérila, Sanso village.
3 Morila had an industrial
action free 2007, for the
second year in a row.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   39
Rehabilitation of three classrooms in
Sanso.
Financing of school fencing in Sinsin.
Reforestation of a total of five hectares
in five villages in the Sanso commune.
Financing and organisation of
educational training in co-operation with
NGOs and aid agencies to train
headmasters of schools in the Sanso
commune.
Introduction of new HIV-AIDS
interventions in Morila from Population
Services International (PSI) and World
Education NGOs operating in Mali.
Agricultural projects set up by the mine in
co-operation with the local communities
did well during the year and, following
harvesting, profits were distributed after
reinvestment in seeds and equipment had
been agreed between participants.
The tripartite alliance between USAID-
Commune de Sanso-Morila SA continued
its work during the year which included
the following:
Democratic governance
Health
Education
Communication
Environment
Economic growth
The financial contributions made by the
members in 2007 were:
USAID US$100 000
Commune Sanso US$100 000
Morila US$150 000 40   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Health US$
Malaria and HIV prevention 5 970
Education
Radio equipment for the Sanso commune 41 335
Construction of 3 classrooms 30 584
Rehabilitation of 3 classrooms for school-A 9 548
Sinsin villages school fencing 26 759
Equipment for the 3 new classrooms at Sanso 7 573
Cost of project study by external consultant
(BEACF-sarl) code ANICT 3 344
Agriculture
2 tractors for the co-operative of Morila and Fingola
(consultant report) 2 788
Maize seed 584
Rice seed 4 355
Community environmental activities 8 201
Maize herbicide 3 703
Rice herbicide 1 211
Maize fertiliser 21 177
Rice fertiliser 1 618
Fingola and Morila rice field ploughing and
technician supervision 3 071
Sanso water pond 6 018
General community development projects
Community cereal bank 30 000
Art, culture and heritage
Computer and accessories donation to Governor
of Sikasso 2 863
Sport equipment donation to Stade Malien of
Sikasso 3 429
Solidarity donation to community elderly 2 085
Sponsorship of the regional basket ball league 2 174
 
TOTAL 218 390
MORILA: OTHER INVESTMENT SPENDING
12 months ending 31 December 2007 Ken King
Exploration geologist
Started with the company in 2005 on greenfields
exploration in Mali South, then moved to Morila
to advise on the continuing brownfields
exploration programme.  Currently at Tongon,
assisting with resource drilling, geological and
structural interpretation, and regional target
exploration.
“I try to share my knowledge and experience
with the more junior members of the team and
give them as much responsibility as they can
handle.  This gives them a greater sense of
purpose - and helps to keep me on my toes.”
Pr Project oject Project 42   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
A 30 000 metre drilling programme designed
to advance the project to a final feasibility
study started at Tongon in the first quarter
of the year.  By the onset of the wet season
in July, more than 20 000 metres of drilling
had been completed and it was decided to
revise the scope of the project.  The focus
of the revision was to examine the possibility
of increasing the design capacity of the plant.
A feasibility Type 3 study was completed
based on updated orebody models and
project information as at September 2007
and on the back of this, in January 2008,
the board approved the development of the
mine.
GEOLOGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES
The Tongon deposits locate within the
Lower Proterozoic Senoufo Belt which is a
200 kilometre long, volcano-sedimentary
belt of greenschist grade metamorphism
bounded on either side by variably tectonised
granitoid gneiss terranes.
TONGON PROJECT
The T ongon project is located in northern
Côte d’Ivoire, 628 kilometres north of
Abidjan within the Nielle permit.
Improvement of the political situation in the
country and completion of the feasibility
T ype 3 study , led the board in January 2008
to approve the development of the mine.
PROJECT
300km
Nielle Permit:
Tongon
Development
Project
Randgold Resources exploration permits
CÔTE D’IVOIRE: LOCALITY OF TONGON PROJECT Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   43
1 At Tongon, 20 000 metres
of drilling in the six months
to July 2007 produced such
good exploration results that
it was decided to revise the
scope of the project.
1
The mineralisation at Tongon consists of
two zones, the northern and the southern.
The main mineralisation in the northern zone
locates between two carbonaceous shale
units which act as the hangingwall and
footwall structures and have taken up the
highest strain of shearing.  The mineralised
zone varies in thickness from 3 to 35 metres
and averages 25 metres in zones of dilation.
The mineralisation is associated with
increased silicification, sulphidation and fine
brecciation.
The southern zone comprises multiple
mineralised zones which appear lensoid
in shape resulting in their strike and depth
continuity being variable.  They are hosted
within shear bounded, northwest dipping,
brecciated volcaniclastic zones.  The silicate
alteration is complicated with biotite, silica,
sericite, tremolite, diopside and calcite being
observed in thin section.
Detailed petrographic examination of samples
representative of the two zones indicates
that gold is preferentially associated with
silicates with a small secondary association
with arsenopyrite confirming the current
metallurgical test results that show relatively
easy gold recovery by CIL.
The 20 000 metres of drilling completed by
July 2007 allowed for the declaration of the
following mineral resource (see table
alongside).
Southern zone
Open pittable
Indicated 19.44 2.42 1.51
Inferred 23.33 2.24 1.68
Northern zone
Open pittable
Indicated 10.39 2.40 0.80
Inferred 0.34 3.14 0.03
Potential
underground
Inferred 3.98 2.88 0.37
TOTAL INDICATED 29.83 2.41 2.31 1.77
TOTAL INFERRED 27.65 2.34 2.08 1.59
Open pit resources are those resources falling within a US$800 per ounce pit shell.
Potential underground resources for the northern zone are those resources above a 2g/t pay limit occurring
below the US$800 per ounce pit shell.
In pit reserves and mineable resources were calculated using a gold price of US$525 per ounce and used
in the feasibility Type 3 study.
TONGON FEASIBILITY: MINERAL RESOURCES
at 31 October 2007 Attributable
Tonnes Grade Ounces gold (76.5%)
Category (Mt) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) for the southern zone to be mined first.  The
strip ratio for the southern zone is 3.4:1 and
for the northern zone 6.5:1, giving a
combined ratio of 3.8:1.
The remaining 10 000 metres of the original
30 000 metre drill programme concentrated
on infill drilling within the pit resulting in the
upgrading of a significant portion of the
inferred resources to indicated status.  This
drilling is complete and has successfully
confirmed our confidence in the geological
continuity.  Results are being incorporated
into a revised reserve estimate which will be
confirmed in April 2008.
METALLURGY AND PLANT DESIGN
The increase in resources and the
conversion to indicated resources
(previous total resource of 35.96 million
tonnes at 2.69g/t for 3.11 million ounces)
have led to a review of the potential scale
of operations.  A plant throughput of
300 000 tonnes per month has now been
designed, as opposed to the previous design
of 200 000 tonnes per month.  Life of mine
is currently estimated at 10.5 years.
Additional metallurgical testwork has
been completed on a range of ore materials
from the Tongon orebodies with a view to
sampling variability both at depth and along
strike.  Straight cyanidation of fresh material
allows gold recoveries of 70% to 80% while
the introduction of a gravity step enables
recoveries to be increased to 80% to 85%.
Flash flotation will be used to increase
recoveries beyond 85%.
SENET, an engineering and project
management company with considerable
experience of gold projects in West Africa,
has been commissioned to undertake the
feasibility study design and engineering in
cooperation with our capital projects team.
Plant design currently incorporates a
combination of crushing and grinding circuits,
comprising primary, secondary and tertiary
crushing and SAG and ball mills.  Gravity
and flash flotation will also be employed.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT
STUDY
External consultants Digby Wells &
Associates compiled a scoping level
environmental and social impact assessment
of the proposed Tongon mine site.  No
impacts which could present a fatal flaw to
were set at 10% and 3% respectively and
for the southern zone at 15% and 2%.
The original inferred resources falling within
the present pit design have been substantially
converted to the indicated category but not
yet declared as reserves and are reported
as a potential mineable resource.
Total mineable material is therefore estimated
at 38.72 million tonnes at a grade of
2.24g/t for total gold of 2.79 million ounces
(see tables below). Scheduling has been
carried out using a multi-source optimisation
which has indicated an economic advantage
MINING
Mining of the Tongon orebodies is planned
to be mined by orthodox open pit methods
employing a mining contractor to carry out
all the mining activities except for mine
planning and management.  The company
will be responsible for purchasing the mining
equipment.
Pit optimisation studies have been
undertaken using Whittle 4X with a range
of gold price and cost parameters.  Design
of the pits has been carried out on pits
optimised at US$525 per ounce gold price.
Dilution and gold loss for the northern zone
44   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
2km
Southern Zone
Northern Zone
TONGON: NORTH AND SOUTH OREBODY MODELS
Tongon resource block models with
US$525 scoping pit designs
0.5 - 1.0g/t
1.0 - 2.0g/t
2.0 - 3.0g/t
3.0 - 4.0g/t
> 4.0g/t
Northern Zone
2 200m
Southern Zone
2 100m
Southern zone
Probable 16.04 2.29 1.18
Northern zone
Probable 5.85 2.29 0.43
TOTAL PROBABLE 21.88 2.29 1.61 1.23
TONGON FEASIBILITY: ORE RESERVES
at 31 October 2007 Attributable
Tonnes Grade Ounces gold (76.5%)
Category (Mt) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz)
Southern zone 16.83 2.17 1.17 0.90
TONGON FEASIBILITY: POTENTIALLY MINEABLE RESOURCE
at 31 October 2007 Attributable
Tonnes Grade Ounces gold (76.5%)
(Mt) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) the successful execution of the project were
identified but as is common with mining
projects in West Africa a number of potentially
significant impacts that will have to be
mitigated during the project life were identified.
An environmental management plan (EMP)
to ensure these impacts are systematically
and correctly managed is being developed
and will be adhered to.
HUMAN RESOURCE AND SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
Policies and procedures based on the
company’s experience in other projects in
Africa are being formulated.  These will
include the pre-construction phase, the
construction phase and the operational
phase.  Community liaison will form an
important aspect throughout each of the
phases.
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A feasibility Type 3 study based on
1.61 million ounces of reserves and
1.17 million ounces of potentially mineable
resources has been carried out.
Parameters are summarised below:
A flat gold price of US$600 per ounce
was used for modelling purposes.
Total ore mined of 38.72 million tonnes
at a strip ratio of 3.8:1 to give total tonnes
mined of 182 million tonnes.
Mining costs average US$2.00 per
tonne over the life of mine.
Mill throughput of 300 000 tonnes per
month.
2
2 Community liaison forms
an important part of the
company’s social
responsibility programme.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   45
Plant costs average US$10.27 per
tonne.
G&A cost is US$2.50 per tonne over
life of mine.
Capital cost is US$267 million including
ongoing capital, mining fleet and closure
costs.
Cash cost (including 3% state royalty) ranges
from US$259 per ounce to US$394 per
ounce and averages US$359 per ounce
over the life of mine.  No optimisation has
yet been carried out and the financial
assessment will be further refined as
additional information becomes available
from ongoing infill drilling and other test work.
Apart from the indirect benefits of the
development of the project, such as the
creation of infrastructure, employment of the
country’s citizens, transfer of expertise and
a growth in Ivorian small and medium
enterprises, it has been estimated that the
State’s share of the economic rent from the
project, at a gold price of US$600 per ounce
and under the financial regime as modelled,
will amount to 51% of the total, being made
up of dividends, royalties, income tax and
other taxes and duties.
An economic assessment based on the
exploitation of both reserves and potentially
mineable material, shows that an operation
designed for a throughput of 300 000 tonnes
per month would yield an internal rate of
return of 21% at a US$600 per ounce gold
price. By the end of the year the 30 000 metre
drilling programme had been completed,
plant design had been further advanced and
the preliminary mine infrastructure had been
laid out.  As the project met Randgold
Resources’ hurdle rates, on 31 January
2008 the board approved the development
of the Tongon mine.
Upgrading of basic site infrastructure and
detailed designs is being progressed along
with the initial detailed infill drilling programme.
Subject to the final conclusion of a mining
convention with the government of Côte
46   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Southern zone
Indicated 32.18 2.34 2.42
Inferred 7.48 2.45 0.59
Northern zone
Open pittable
Indicated 9.78 2.46 0.77
Inferred 0.49 3.34 0.05
Potential
underground
Inferred 5.02 2.65 0.43
TOTAL INDICATED 41.96 2.37 3.20 2.45
TOTAL INFERRED 12.99 2.56 1.07 0.82
Open pit resources are those resources falling within a US$800 per ounce pit shell.
Potential underground resources for the northern zone are those resources above a 2g/t pay limit occurring
below the US$800 per ounce pit shell.
TONGON: MINERAL RESOURCES
at 31 December 2007 Attributable
Tonnes Grade Ounces gold (76.5%)
Category (Mt) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz)
d’Ivoire, construction start-up is planned
towards the end of the year with first gold
production scheduled for the fourth quarter
of 2010.
MINERAL RESOURCES
Incorporation of all drilling completed in 2007
has allowed for an updated resource
estimation which tracks an increase in the
indicated resources.  This will translate into
the conversion of the potential mineable
resources into reserves and an updated
statement will be published with the 2008
first quarter results. Mouhamed David Mbaye
Country manager, Senegal
Joined Randgold Resources in 1995, soon after
graduating as a geologist from the University
of Dakar.  Has worked in gold exploration in
Mali, Senegal and Gabon.  Now manages the
company’s six exploration permits within the
Kedougou Kenieba Inlier.
“We persevered in Senegal even though the
first results were not that encouraging because
our strategic perspective is a long term one.
Now our patience has paid off in the form of
Massawa, a target which has all the makings of
a big gold discovery.”
Reserves and r Reserves and resources esources Reserves and resources 48   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
1 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   49
ANNUAL
RESOURCE
AND RESERVE
DECLARATION
MEASURED, INDICATED AND
INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCES
Loulo 80%
Measured 15.29 14.98 3.82 3.88 1.88 1.87 1.50
Indicated 48.66 46.79 4.88 4.88 7.63 7.35 6.10
Sub total Measured
and indicated 63.95 61.77 4.62 4.64 9.51 9.22 7.61
Inferred 25.90 22.77 2.92 2.91 2.43 2.13 1.95
Morila 40%
Measured 18.95 20.54 1.90 2.27 1.16 1.50 0.46
Indicated 4.00 9.50 3.57 3.34 0.46 1.02 0.18
Sub total Measured
and indicated 22.95 30.04 2.19 2.61 1.62 2.52 0.65
Inferred 0.83 3.09 3.05 3.31 0.08 0.33 0.03
Tongon 76.5%
Measured
Indicated 41.96 2.37 3.20 2.45
Sub total Measured
and indicated 41.96 2.37 3.20 2.45
Inferred 12.99 35.96 2.56 2.69 1.07 3.11 0.82
TOTAL RESOURCES
Measured and
indicated 128.86 91.81 3.46 3.98 14.32 11.74 10.70
Inferred 39.72 61.81 2.81 2.80 3.58 5.57 2.80
PROVED AND
PROBABLE RESERVES
Loulo 80%
Proved 8.95 11.21 3.36 3.47 0.97 1.26 0.77
Probable 45.47 37.93 4.40 4.54 6.43 5.54 5.15
Sub total Proved
and probable 54.42 49.14 4.23 4.30 7.40 6.80 5.92
Morila 40%
Proved 13.11 15.36 2.21 2.50 0.93 1.23 0.37
Probable 9.95 11.35 2.01 2.47 0.64 0.90 0.26
Sub total Proved
and probable 23.06 26.71 2.13 2.49 1.58 2.13 0.63
Tongon 76.5%
Proved
Probable 21.88 2.29 1.61 1.23
Sub total Proved
and probable 21.88 2.29 1.61 1.23
TOTAL RESERVES
Proved and probable 99.36 75.85 3.31 3.66 10.59 8.93 7.78
Randgold Resources reports its Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves in accordance with the JORC code.  The reporting of Ore Reserves is also in accordance
with Industry Guide 7.
Pit optimisation is carried out at a gold price of US$550 per ounce; underground reserves are also based on a gold price of US$550 per ounce, except for Morila
and Tongon which were run at US$525 per ounce.  Dilution and ore loss are incorporated into the calculation of reserves.   
Cautionary note to US investors:  The United States Securities and Exchange Commission ( the “SEC” ) permits mining companies, in their filings with the SEC, to
disclose only those mineral deposits that a company can economically and legally extract or produce. Randgold Resources uses certain terms in this annual report,
such as “resources” that the SEC guidelines strictly prohibit the company from including in its filings with the SEC.
Addition of individual line items may not sum to subtotals because of rounding off to two decimal places.
See glossary of terms on website at www.randgoldresources.com.
at 31 December Tonnes Tonnes Grade Grade Gold Gold Attributable
(Mt) (Mt) (g/t) (g/t) (Moz) (Moz) gold
Category 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 (Moz) 50   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
MALI   
Loulo EP 372 144 80.0
Morila EEP 132 51 80.0
Morila EP 200 77 40.0
Bena EEP 13 5 80.0
Sinnboo AE 282 109 80.0
Syeba AE 81 31 80.0
Bagoe-est EEP 183 71 *
Bagoe-ouest EEP 176 68 *
CÔTE D’IVOIRE   
Nielle EEP 671 259 76.5
Boundiali EEP 1 314 507 76.5
Dabakala EEP 191 74 76.5
Dignago EEP 1 000 386 100.0
Apouasso EEP 1 000 386 100.0
Mankono RP 704 272 76.5
T able of mineral rights
at 31 December 2007
SENEGAL   
Kanoumering EEP 405 156 90.0
Kounemba EEP 408 158 90.0
Miko EEP 95 37 90.0
Dalema EEP 413 159 90.0
Tomboronkoto EEP 403 156 90.0
Bambadji EEP 401 155 *
TANZANIA   
Nyabigena South PL 18 7 100.0
Nyabigena South PL 18 7 100.0
Kajimbura South PL 23 9 100.0
Kajimbura North PL 23 9 100.0
Simba Sirori South PL 26 10 100.0
Nyamakubi PL 21 8 100.0
Nyamakubi South re-appl PL 21 8 100.0
Kiabakari East PL 62 24 100.0
Miyabi JV Licences PL 504 195 *
Mtamba PL 62 24 100.0
Buhemba South PL 145 56 100.0
BURKINA FASO   
Danfora EEP 45 17 90.0
Kiaka EEP 244 94 90.0
Basgana EEP 250 97 90.0
Bourou EEP 122 47 90.0
Tanema EEP 247 95 90.0
Kaibo EEP 250 97 90.0
Yibogo EEP 247 95 90.0
Nakomgo EEP 235 91 90.0
Gogo EEP 250 97 90.0
Safoula EEP 249 96 90.0
Tiakane EEP 196 76 90.0
GHANA   
Bole NE RL 866 334 90.0
Famona RL 19 7 90.0
Satemkon RL 37 14 *
TOTAL AREA 12 623 4 874
Area
Area (sq Equity
Country Type (km
2
) miles) (%)
Area
Area (sq Equity
Country Type (km
2
) miles) (%)
RESOURCE TRIANGLE
Regional
exploration
9 26 15 7 57
Follow-up
targets
814 9162
Identified
targets
95 963
7
Reserve
definition
21
Measured and
indicated
resources
4
1
Inferred
resources
8 61
Advanced
targets
Total = 171
LOULO MINE, Mali
MORILA MINE, Mali
LOULO U/G DEVELOPMENT, Mali
TONGON
DEVELOPMENT,
Côte d’Ivoire
MASSAWA
TARGET,
Senegal
EP Exploitation permit
EEP Exclusive exploration permit
AE Reconnaissance licence
RL Reconnaissance licence
PL Prospecting licence
RP Reconnaissance permit
* Joint venture in which the company
is currently earning an interest
KIAKA
TARGET,
Burkina
Faso
Senegal
Côte d’Ivoire
Mali
Tanzania
Burkina Faso
Ghana Sarah Herbert
Exploration geologist
Born in Zimbabwe and educated at Rhodes
University in South Africa, Sarah joined Randgold
Resources in 2005.  Is involved in the exploration
programmes on the Loulo permit and in
particular at the Faraba target; has also worked
on regional reconnaissance in Senegal.
“As a younger member of the Randgold team
I’m able to tap into its wealth of experience
and I enjoy the spirit of commitment and the
sense of working together towards a common
goal.  My personal ambition?  To discover a
multi-million ounce deposit!”
Exploration r Exploration review eview Exploration review 52   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
In 2007, exploration activities concentrated
on the extension of known orebodies and
the discovery of new orebodies at producing
mines and exploration sites.
EXPLORATION
REVIEW
We have a portfolio of projects within some of the most prospective gold belts of both
West and East Africa and have operations in six African countries, with 171 targets on
12 623 square kilometres of groundholding, supported by a team of 70 geologists.
HIGHLIGHTS
At Loulo, we continue to build the resource base, which is now at 11.94 million ounces.
As well as the resource conversion work, exploration is focused on the next discovery
by systematically evaluating targets within the lease area. Of these, Faraba and Baboto
are showing the most promise.
A 1 400 square kilometres land package has been consolidated in the Loulo district,
straddling the highly prospective Senegal-Mali shear zone.  A helicopter borne VTEM
electromagnetic survey has been flown over this entire land package to help with geological
and structural interpretation and target prioritisation.
At Morila, research concluded that a specific lithological horizon hosts the ore deposit;
this is a mafic volcanic unit which marks a change in sedimentation from fine to coarse.
The extrapolation of this unit is the focus of follow-up work.
In south Mali, generative work continues to prioritise areas of interest.  This has led to a
joint venture agreement being signed with a Canadian junior over two prospective permits
in the Morila region.  Randgold Resources also continues to work on early stage exploration
projects in its search for new deposits.
In the Côte d’Ivoire, at Tongon, we completed more than 30 000 metres of diamond
drilling and increased the resource base by 41% to 4.39 million ounces.  In addition to
the feasibility drilling, a review of 19 targets within the Nielle permit has been completed
which highlighted 12 targets for follow-up work.
In Senegal, encouraging RAB drill results have been returned along 2.8 kilometres of strike
at Massawa, which is now a high priority target for diamond drilling. This together with
the targets of Sofia, Bakan corridor and Bambadji, will be the focus of work in 2008.
In Burkina Faso, a review of all the geological and structural data indicates that a northeast
plunging anticline hosts the Kiaka main zone.  The last diamond hole drilled to the north
returned 166 metres at 1.26g/t indicating the system is open.  A syncline hosts a narrow
zone of hangingwall mineralisation, which has not been fully tested.  An additional
programme of diamond drilling is being planned to test these two targets.  Elsewhere in
the permit portfolio the team are developing targets for drilling in the 2008 field season.
In Ghana, early stage exploration activities on the Bole permit have highlighted a
14 kilometre long gold in soil anomaly associated with a large regional fold closure,
adjacent to a granite greenstone belt contact and major regional shear.
In Tanzania, generative work is the driver to build a new portfolio of projects, while work
continues on the Miyabi project, a joint venture with African Eagle, who previously identified
520 000 ounces at 1.3g/t.
In summary, we have a prospective portfolio of exploration projects in both West and East
Africa. This reflects our strategic focus on organic growth through exploration success.
1 A team of 70 geologists
examine our prospective
portfolio of exploration
projects in some of the most
prospective gold belts of
West and East Africa. TANZANIA
500km
EAST AFRICA
Loulo
Gold Mine
MALI
BURKINA FASO
GHANA
CÔTE
D’IVOIRE
SENEGAL
GUINEA
LIBERIA
SIERRA
LEONE
Morila
Gold Mine
Tongon
Development
Project
600km
Satemkon
Fanoma
Apouasso
Dignago
Dabakala
Nielle
Danfora
Bole NE
Bagoe  East
Morila
Bagoe West
Sinnboo
Boundiali
Mankono
Syeba
Kanoumering
Dalema
Bambadji
Tomboronkoto
Miko
Kounemba
Loulo
Bena
Nahali
Nakomgo
Lourgogo
Yibogo
Kiaka
Safoula
Tiakane
Bourou
Basgana
Gogo
Tanema
WEST AFRICA
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   53
1
LOCALITY OF EXPLORATION PROJECTS
AFRICA
MALI
TANZANIA
BURKINA
FASO
GHANA
CÔTE
D’IVOIRE
SENEGAL Morila Morila
Loulo Loulo
Tongon Tongon Tongon
Loulo
Morila
Randgold Resources
exploration permits
Kiabakari East
Buhemba South
Nyabigena South
Simba Sirori South
Kajimbura
Lake Victoria
Nyamakubi
Miyabi  JV
Mtambo the known targets of Baboto South, Central
and North.  At Baboto South, previous
RC drilling defined mineralisation over a
1.3 kilometre strike length with an average
width of 15.63 metres and grade of 1.82g/t,
to vertical depths of 95 metres.  T wo diamond
drill holes tested the continuation of the
mineralised structure to vertical depths of
250 metres and returned the following results:
BDH020 - 9.20 metres at 5.28g/t and
BDH021 - 1.20 metres at 4.00g/t.  A ground
Induced Polarisation (IP) geophysical survey
has been completed, covering the entire
5 kilometre Baboto target area.  The results
define separate, sub-parallel structures
hosting the Baboto South, Central and North
targets.  At Baboto Central, RAB drilling
returned encouraging results with hole
BARAB58 intersecting 30 metres at 2.15g/t
and BARAB59 - 21 metres at 2.93g/t.
This together with previous results defines
500 metres of continuous mineralisation for
follow-up testing.
At Loulo 3, a newly identified north-south
structure places previous results in better
context and highlights a narrow but high
grade target.  Previous drilling, over a
500 metre strike length, is limited to one
diamond hole, an RC hole and a number of
RAB drill holes:  diamond hole L3DH26 -
6 metres at 8.66g/t from 53 metres;
RC hole L3RC01 - 13 metres at 11.87g/t;
and RAB holes RAB687 - 27 metres at
5.98g/t; RAB692 -8 metres at 11.64g/t;
RAB684 - 12 metres at 3.65g/t.  The latest
drilling returned the following intersections:
L3DH27 - 6.80 metres at 0.72g/t; L3DH28
- 14.70 metres at 5.95g/t, including
0.8 metres at 88.10g/t; L3DH29 - 3 metres
at 10.82g/t.  All the data are currently being
integrated and modelled, and an economic
study is in progress.
Elsewhere in the Loulo permit, at Yalea South,
conceptual diamond drilling intersected
mineralisation:  YSDH06 returned 5 metres
at 4.86g/t associated with fractured
quartzites.
Mali
LOULO
In addition to the resource conversion work
at the Yalea and Gara orebodies, exploration
has concentrated on evaluating targets within
the 372 square kilometre permit area.
At the Gara deposit, deep drilling tested the
continuation of high grade gold mineralisation
associated with the plunge of the folded
quartz tourmaline unit.  This drilling has
outlined additional underground resources.
The orebody has now been confirmed to
vertical depths of almost 700 metres below
the surface and is still open.
Faraba is part of a 10 kilometre anomalous
structural corridor which also includes P64.
Drilling has so far confirmed the bedrock
footprint of mineralisation to 3 kilometres and
an inferred resource of 567 000 ounces at
2.60g/t has been defined for a 350 metre
strike length at the main zone.  In addition,
1.5 kilometres to the north a zone of
mineralisation has been outlined over
600 metres long with an average width of
12 metres and an average grade of 2.2g/t.
Drilling in the gap area between the main
and north zones has returned multiple
mineralised intercepts, the best of which
includes: FADH015 - 13.32 metres at 3.96g/t
and 10.55 metres at 8.68g/t; FADH019 -
4.28 metres at 8.67g/t; and FADH026 -
13.10 metres at 3.08g/t and 4.55 metres
at 9.11g/t.  This drilling has confirmed the
geological model with drill holes intersecting
an approximately 100 metre (true width) zone
of strong shearing, alteration and gold
mineralisation.  Drill hole FADH018 drilled at
Bandankoto, some 1.5 kilometres south of
the main zone, on the same structure,
returned, among other intercepts:
24.12 metres at 2.16g/t.  Work in 2008
will concentrate on connecting these zones,
which are still separated due to the size of
the structure.
Further afield, but still within the Faraba area,
a regional RAB drilling programme has
targeted surface anomalism and conceptual
targets associated with prospective structures
along the Faraba-P64 shear corridor.  This
programme has so far returned anomalous
intersections at nine different targets.
The Baboto structure is part of a more than
5 kilometre mineralised structure which hosts
54   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
2 Southern Mali is a highly
prospective terrain as
indicated by the Morila and
Syama deposits.
LOULO DISTRICT: EVALUATING TARGETS WITHIN THE 372KM
2
 PERMIT AREA
Yalea and Gara
orebodies
Priority targets
MALI
SENEGAL
Loulo
DALEMA DALEMA
BAMBADJI
LOULO LOULO
P129
Loulo 3
Faraba
Gara South
Gara mine
Yalea mine
Baboto
5km
BENA BENA
DALEMA
BAMBADJI
LOULO
BENA datasets and models to prioritise targets for
follow-up investigation.
MORILA EXPLOITATION LEASE
At Morila, further research has confirmed
that mineralisation is the result of a multistage
intrusion related gold system and a specific
mafic volcanic lithological horizon hosts the
orebody, marking a change from fine to
coarse sedimentation.  This unit has been
extrapolated away from the mine and a four
hole, 2 441 metre diamond drilling
programme (MEX1-4), was completed as
an initial follow-up focusing on the northern
2
REGIONAL WORK
Our Kedougou-Kenieba Inlier initiative,
established in 2007 to consolidate the most
prospective ground in the Loulo district, has
been very successful.  We signed a joint
venture with IAMGOLD on their 343 square
kilometres Bambadji permit, adjacent to
Loulo.  Randgold Resources has the option
to earn a 51% stake in the project by funding
and completing a prefeasibility study.
Following the prefeasibility study, IAMGOLD
can retain a 49% stake in the project by co-
funding a full feasibility study or dilute to a
35% stake.  The Bambadji permit straddles
the Senegal-Malian shear zone and
generative work reveals a coincident 25 by
5 kilometre gold in soil anomaly, containing
34 targets which have seen very little follow-
up drilling.  In addition we acquired the
413 square kilometres Dalama permit from
the Senegal government and we have signed
a joint venture agreement with CLIB, a local
Malian company, on two permits directly
north of Loulo.  These permits, together with
the Loulo and Selou permits, have
consolidated a 1 400 square kilometres
ground holding.
Following this ground consolidation in the
Loulo district we have completed flying a
VTEM airborne electromagnetic (AEM) survey
over the area.  The strategy behind this
survey is that the AEM will provide a more
detailed geological and structural framework
of the area, especially in areas of low
magnetic response and surface regolith
cover.  This will enable us to integrate our
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   55
and eastern margins of the orebody. Results
for the two northern holes (MEX1-2) confirm
the termination of the orebody, while MEX 3
intersected a broad zone of low grade
gold mineralisation along the eastern pit-
margin (45 metres at 0.45g/t, including
8 metres at 1.27g/t from 565 metres)
associated with a moderate to steeply dipping
structure, which is in sharp contrast to
the general flat lying nature of the orebody.
The potential for this structure to flatten,
creating zones of dilation, is considered
to be a high priority target for follow-up
work.
KENIEBA INLIER: CONSOLIDATING THE MOST PROSPECTIVE GROUND
Senegal and Mali West permits
SENEGAL
MALI
GUINEA
100km
Randgold Resources permits
Gold mines
Loulo
Bena
Tomboronkoto
Bambadji
JV
Miko
Kounemba
Kanoumering
Kedougou
Saraya
Dalema
To
Dakar
Proposed
Railway Line
Yatela
Sadiola
Gara
Yalea
Sabodala 3
56   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
MALI SOUTH: THE SEARCH CONTINUES FOR NEW DEPOSITS
50km
Yanfolila Shear
Yanfolila Belt
Banifing Shear
Bougouni Belt
Morila Mine
Syama Mine
Syama Shear
Bougouni Terrane
MORILA
Bagoe West
Bagoe East
Kalana Mine
Syeba
Sinnboo
Senegal
In Senegal, we have an increased portfolio
of six permits covering 2 125 square
kilometres over the prospective Sabodala
volcano-sedimentary belt and the Senegal-
Malian shear zone.
On the Kounemba permit, the Massawa
target was first identified in 2007 and locates
on the Main Transcurrent Shear Zone (MTZ).
It was initially characterised by a 3.5 kilometre
long by 100 to 400 metre wide plus 50ppb
gold in soil anomaly.  Surface mineralisation
is associated with gossanous shears and
quartz stockworks hosted by volcanics
and sediments.
Initial RAB drilling along 400 metre spaced
lines confirmed bedrock mineralisation
over 2.8 kilometres including the following
positive results: MWRAB13 - 27 metres at
1.12g/t; MWRAB14 - 6 metres at 5.42g/t;
MWRAB15 - 3 metres at 8.89g/t;
MWRAB24 - 12 metres at 1.12g/t;
MWRAB28 - 30 metres at 4.60g/t;
MWRAB29 - 9 metres at 1.56g/t;
MWRAB61 - 12 metres at 1.04g/t; and
MWRAB62 - 36 metres at 1.12g/t.  This
in turn has been confirmed by 7 diamond
holes for 1 645 metres drilled on 400 metre
spaced lines.
SOUTHERN MALI
The Southern Mali region is a highly
prospective terrain as indicated by the
discoveries of the Morila and Syama
deposits.  However, the entire region is
heavily lateritised and rock outcrop is very
limited.  The most obvious regional soil
geochemical anomalies have been
investigated and no recent discoveries have
been made in the region.  We continue with
generative programmes and the development
of conceptual ideas and as part of the
regional programme Randgold Resources
teams have prioritised areas of interest and
carried out a number of due diligence
reviews.  This programme has led to a joint
venture agreement with Canadian junior
African Gold Group over two prospective
permits in the Morila region.  Teams are
already on the ground.  Randgold Resources
has also continued to work on early stage
exploration projects to identify targets for
possible drill testing.  This has resulted in
the turnover of a number of permits in the
search for new deposits.
Randgold Resources permits 3 Massawa in Senegal has been
categorised as a significant
new drill target after initial
diamond and RAB drilling
returned high grade results
and confirmed mineralisation
over 2.8 kilometres.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   57
MWDDH001 67.02 82.45 15.43 1.59
118.55 122.90 4.35 6.71
132.93 138.50 5.57 8.80
MWDDH002 108.20 112.20 4.00 1.47
135.94 148.10 12.16 2.90
MWDDH003 78.00 87.30 9.30 3.80
94.04 100.00 5.96 5.47
131.80 140.50 8.70 2.60
MWDDH004 140.62 143.70 3.08 1.60
MWDDH005 102.00 105.40 3.40 2.70
137.00 146.52 9.52 6.90 2.07m @ 28.40g/t
MWDDH006 104.50 115.09 10.59 1.68
132.45 148.58 16.13 4.10
176.50 178.50 2.00 2.45
240.05 262.00 21.95 1.74 7.45m @ 3.31g/t
MWDDH007 156.00 183.32 27.32 5.80 1.00m @ 95.50g/t;
1.10m @ 32.30g/t
217.20 237.00 19.80 1.15
306.00 308.00 2.00 3.59
MASSAWA: DIAMOND DRILL RESULTS
at 31 December 2007 From To Width Grade
Hole ID (m) (m) (m) (g/t) Including
Diamond and RAB
drilling confirms
mineralisation over
2.8km at the
Massawa target.
SENEGAL: LOCATION OF MASSAWA TARGET ON THE KOUNEMBA PERMIT
DDH002 12.16m @ 2.90g/t
incl 7m @ 3.88 g/t
RAB089: 12m @ 1.41g/t
RAB090: 9m @ 2.10g/t
RAB091: 6m @ 0.79g/t
RAB092: 6m @ 0.55g/t
DDH003 9.30m @ 3.78g/t
5.96m @ 5.47g/t
8.70m @ 2.60g/t
RAB076: 12m @ 0.40g/t
RAB078: 18m @ 2.26g/t
incl 6m @ 6.17g/t
RAB082: 3m @ 0.71 g/t
DDH004 3.08m @ 1.60g/t
incl 1m @ 3.97g/t
RAB070: 4m @ 4.74g/t
RAB071: 6m @ 0.45g/t
DDH005 3.40m @ 2.70g/t
incl 1.32m @ 5.53g/t
9.52m @ 6.90g/t
incl 2.07m @ 28.4g/t
0.90m @ 7.89g/t
RAB061: 12m @ 1.04g/t
RAB062: 36m @ 1.12g/t
RAB147: 6m @ 1.45g/t
RAB149: 3m @ 1.06g/t
RAB151: 9m @ 0.57g/t
RAB152: 9m @ 0.58g/t
DDH006 1m @ 11.80g/t
10.59m @ 1.70g/t
incl 2.09m @ 5.70g/t
16.13m @ 4.10g/t
2m @ 2.45g/t
21.95m @ 1.60g/t
incl 7.45m @ 3.31g/t
RAB011: 9m @ 1.68g/t
RAB012: 3m @ 5.91g/t
RAB013: 27m @ 1.26g/t
RAB014: 3m @ 10.30g/t
RAB015: 3m @ 8.89g/t
500m
DDH001 15.43m @ 1.60g/t
incl 2.63m @ 5.20g/t
4.35m @ 6.70g/t
5.57m @ 8.76g/t
RAB023: 9m @ 2.59g/t
RAB024: 12m @ 0.84g/t
RAB025: 3m @ 3.88g/t
RAB027: 3m @ 4.84g/t
RAB028: 9m @ 14.36g/t
RAB029: 9m @ 1.56g/t
Gold targets
Miko
Tomboronkoto
Kounemba
RAB155: 24m @ 0.71g/t incl 3m @ 4.27g/t
RAB156: 27m @ 3.03g/t incl 6m @ 9.81g/t
RAB157: 15m @ 1.70g/t
RAB158: 24m @ 0.33g/t
MASSAWA TARGET
20km
Kanoumering
Geologically the boreholes intersected
a sequence of interbedded sediments
and volcanics, which have been intruded
by felsic dykes, gabbros and granitic
bodies.  The rock units have been
affected by northeast shearing,
associated with the MTZ which in turn
has been reactivated dextrally by north-
south belt discordant structures, resulting
in dilation and mineralisation.
Mineralisation locates in various lithologies
but is structurally controlled with a
prominent hangingwall and footwall
structure, often graphitic.  There are
varying degrees to the intensity of
alteration (silica-carbonate-sericite-pyrite-
arsenopyrite) and locally brecciation and
brittle fracturing are associated with the
gold mineralisation.  The results from this
first phase of drilling are presented in the
table below.
RAB140: 6m @ 0.48g/t
RAB142: 15m @ 0.36g/t
RAB143: 3m @ 0.91g/t
RAB132: 15m @ 2.65g/t
RAB134: 12m @ 0.90g/t
RAB125: 21m @ 0.93g/t
incl 15m @ 1.20g/t
RAB116: 30m @ 0.21g/t
RAB117: 39m @ 0.45g/t
RAB118: 15m @ 0.38g/t
RAB106: 39m @ 10.6g/t
incl 3m @ 36.4g/t
9m @ 30.95g/t
RAB107: 38m @ 0.20g/t
RAB109: 30m @ 11.01g/t
incl 3m @ 44.6g/t
3m @ 26.9g/t
3m @ 33.3g/t
RAB111: 20m @ 4.09g/t
incl 6m @ 7.65g/t
3m @ 9.95g/t
RAB100: 12m @ 1.45g/t
RAB101: 12m @ 2.90g/t
incl 3m @10.80g/t
RAB102: 24m @ 8.58g/t
incl 3m @ 58.7g/t
DDH007 27.82m @ 5.81g/t
incl 1m @ 95.5g/t
19.8m @ 1.15g/t
2m @ 3.59g/t
RAB043: 6m @ 1.01g/t
RAB051: 4m @ 2.90g/t 58   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
4 In a search for advanced
targets and deposits, the
team has been turning
ground over in Ghana, where
Randgold Resources has
three permits covering
922km
2
.
At the Kiaka target a geological
estimate of 2 million ounces
has been calculated.
BURKINA FASO: EXPLORATION PERMITS
20km
Tanema
Kaibo
Gogo
Basgana
Safoula
Nakomgo
Kiaka
Bourou
Kiaka Deposit - Long Section
Met. recovery
< 80%
80 -  95%
95 -  98%
NE SW
1.25km strike
Orebody model
Gold count sample
KDH06: 96m @ 0.29g/t
KDH10: 68m @ 0.3g/t
KDH18: 40m @ 0.2g/t
KDH07: 79m @ 0.4g/t
KDH11: 68m @ 0.8g/t
KDH12: 154m @ 0.8g/t KDH13: 166m @ 0.45g/t KDH05: 208m @ 1.46g/t
KDH14: 198m @ 1.53g/t
KDH04: 154m @ 0.85g/t
KDH16: 171m @ 0.9g/t
KDH17: 166m @ 1.26g/t
Yibogo
KDH03: 149m @ 1.28g/t
KDH15: 186m @ 0.8g/t
Kampala
Tiakane
An additional 2 436 metres of infill RAB
drilling, closing the line spacing to
200 metres, has been completed and
returned high grade results from 3 metre
composite samples, including:  MWRAB102
- 24 metres at 8.58g/t, including 3 metres
at 58.70g/t; MWRAB106 - 39 metres at
10.60g/t including 3 metres at 36.40g/t
and 9 metres at 30.95g/t; MWRAB109 -
30 metres at 11.01g/t, including 3 metres
at 44.60g/t, 3 metres at 26.90g/t and
3 metres at 33.30g/t; MWRAB111 -
20 metres at 4.09g/t; MWRAB132 -
15 metres at 2.60g/t; and MWRAB156 -
27 metres at 3.03g/t.  Mineralisation is open
along strike to the northeast and southwest.
A 7 000 metre diamond drilling programme
has been commissioned to delineate the
mineralised zone and commence an
evaluation of this exciting target.  Concurrent
with this drilling, additional soil sampling has
extended the anomaly by a further 3.4 to
6.2 kilometres and RAB drilling is ongoing.
Delaya is defined by a 6 kilometre by
100 metre plus 20ppb gold anomaly.
Bedrock mineralisation was previously
delineated over a 700 metre strike extent by
trenching results which include:  DLT003 -
11.15 metres at 9.60g/t; DLT004 - 4 metres
at 1.60g/t; DLT005 - 4.5 metres at 7.54g/t;
DLT006 - 7.45 metres at 1.98g/t and
6.2 metres at 7.59g/t; DLT008 - 18 metres
at 0.68g/t; and DL T009 - 2 metres at 5.69g/t.
This was confirmed by an initial five-hole
1 000 metre diamond core programme
which returned results: DLD001 -
9.83 metres at 1.80g/t (from 77 metres);
DLD002 - 12.44 metres at 5.07g/t (from
177 metres) including 7.00 metres at 8.19g/t;
DLD003 - 3.00 metres at 1.80g/t; and
DLD004 - 3.8 metres at 4.80g/t.
Mineralisation is hosted within a package of
schists, strongly sheared and altered by
silica-sericite-iron and sulphides present are
disseminated pyrite and arsenopyrite.
Additional RAB drilling returned positive
results; firstly on a line 200 metres north of
diamond drill hole DLD002:  DLRB005
returned 6 metres at 2.49g/t; DLRB006 -
6 metres at 1.98g/t; and DLRB010 -
3 metres at 3.00g/t.  The second line was
drilled approximately 2 kilometres to the
south of the known mineralisation testing a
plus 250ppb gold in soil anomaly.  RAB hole
DLRB030:  returned 21 metres at 4.87g/t.
Further RAB drilling is planned to define
borehole locations for the next round of
diamond drilling in 2008.
Sofia is part of a 7 kilometre anomalous
north-south structural corridor which also
hosts the Mikona, Majiva and Matiba targets
within ground held by Randgold Resources.
This system continues to the north for an
additional 10 kilometres and hosts the
Niakafiri deposit owned by Oromin and the
Sabodala deposit (MDL).  Further RAB drilling
has started to test this large corridor prior to
diamond drilling.
The Bakan corridor groups together a number
of anomalous gold in soil targets (Bakan,
Tina, Tizia, Khosa, and Tiwana) along a
10 kilometre segment of the northeast
trending Kossanto structural corridor, which
is sub-parallel to the MTZ, host to the
Massawa target.  The geology of the corridor
comprises a northeast sequence of ultramafic
units, felsic and intermediate volcanics
(andesites, dacites and rhyodacites), cherts
and intrusive suites ranging from diorite to
monzonites.  Extensive lithosampling carried
out across the corridor has revealed
mineralisation to be associated with deformed
and altered felsic intrusives.  Follow-up
trenching has confirmed the following
bedrock mineralisation at:
Bakan:  BKTR002 - 38.00 metres at 2.00g/t;
BKTR005 - 4.00 metres at 2.38g/t and
4 metres at 1.80g/t; and BKTR006 -
69.70 metres at 1.89g/t.
Tina:  TNTR002 - 24.00 metres at 1.50g/t;
and TNTR003 - 20.80 metres at 1.76g/t.
Tiwana:  One line of RAB holes, testing a
3 500 metre by 200 metre plus 20ppb gold
soil anomaly, returned encouraging results
defining a 125 metre wide anomalous zone
(plus 0.30g/t) including:  TWRAB03
(18 metres at 1.40g/t) and TWRAB06
(36 metres at 0.63g/t including 6 metres
at 2.60g/t).  RAB drilling continues in order
to prioritise the location of diamond drill holes
for testing during 2008. Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   59
4
GHANA: SEARCHING FOR ADVANCED TARGETS
Randgold Resources
permits
BURKINA FASO
GHANA
80km
CÔTE
D’IVOIRE
Bole NE permit
Obuasi Mine
Akyem Mine
Damang Mine
Tarkwa Mine
Prestea Mine
Ahafo Mine
Bibiani Mine
Chirano Mine
Fanoma permit
Enyinase permit
Burkina Faso
On the Kiaka target in Burkina Faso, a
geological estimate of 2 million ounces at
approximately 1g/t has been calculated
confirming the large tonnage, low grade,
bulk mineable nature of the target.  Drilling
has confirmed the continuity of the wide,
low grade mineralisation over a strike length
of 1.25 kilometres.
There are two styles of mineralisation:
Broad low grade main zone:  the
mineralisation is associated with schists
and quartzites and fine disseminated
sulphides (pyrite).
Narrow high grade hangingwall zone:
the mineralisation is associated with
strongly altered, (silica-biotite-chlorite)
sulphide rich (5% to 22% arsenopyrite)
sediment.
Preliminary metallurgical samples, sent to
Loulo, have returned encouraging results
using a basic bottle roll method.  Recoveries
from oxide ore returned 91.09%, transitional
ore 86.94% to 95.28% and fresh rock
68.84% to 84.57%.
A review of all the geological and structural
data indicates a 10 to 20 degrees northeast
plunging anticline hosts the Kiaka main zone,
with the last diamond hole drilled to the north
returning 166 metres at 1.26g/t and a
syncline hosts hangingwall mineralisation.
An additional programme of diamond drilling
is being planned to test the down plunge
extension of mineralisation.  Elsewhere in
the permit portfolio the team are developing
targets for drilling in the next field season.
Ghana
In Ghana, we have been turning ground over
in the search for advanced targets and
deposits.  We currently have a portfolio of
three permits covering 922 square kilometres.
On the Bole NE concession at the Zamsa
target field mapping combined with logging
of trenches and the interpretation of
geological and structural data have defined
a large scale anticline fold adjacent to the
main Bole-Bolgatanga regional structure.
It is apparent that when the gold results from
the soil sampling are overlain on the fold,
anomalous values correlate clearly with
parasitic folds on the limbs of this large
regional fold along a 14 kilometre strike
length.  RAB drilling proposals are currently
being prepared as a first pass follow-up on
this large regional target. 60   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
One of the major highlights of the year was
the resumption of full scale exploration at
Tongon, the completion of the feasibility
drilling and the 41% increase in resources
to 4.39 million ounces.  We completed
181 diamond drill holes for 33 973 metres,
against a planned budget of 30 000 metres.
The Tongon project locates within the
671 square kilometres Nielle permit in the
north of the country.  It consists of two
orebodies, the northern and southern zones.
Geologically, the deposits are underlain by
a sequence of volcaniclastic rocks, ranging
from coarse grained polymictic breccias to
fine grained tuffs intercalated with
carbonaceous sedimentary units.  These
rocks represent explosive volcanic activity
in a deep water marine environment.  In turn
these lithological units have been intruded
by granodiorite and diorite intrusives and
quartz feldspar porphyry dykes.
In the northern zone the bedding and foliation
strike 250 to 260 degrees and dip 70 to
80 degrees to the north.  This has been
confirmed by surface mapping and
measurements of orientated core.  The
lithological units depict sequences which
fine down the hole and indicate the whole
package is overturned.
The main mineralisation locates between
two carbonaceous shale units which act as
the hangingwall and footwall structures and
have taken up the highest intensity of strain
during shearing.  The mineralised zone varies
in thickness from 3 to 35 metres and
averages 25 metres in zones of dilation.
It has so far been delineated over a
2.2 kilometre strike length and has been drill
tested to a vertical depth of 250 metres
below the surface.  However, at this stage
most of the drilling has been to 150 metres,
which is the approximate base of the pit.
The mineralisation is associated with
increased silicification, sulphidation and fine
brecciation.
Interpretation of the structural data suggests
that dextral re-activation of the hangingwall
and footwall shears by the north-northeast
trending southern zone structure has resulted
in dilation, subsequent hydrothermal fluid
flow and gold mineralisation.
The southern zone is more geologically
complex with multiple mineralised zones
trending in a northeast direction with variable
dips from 60 to 75 degrees to the northwest.
The ore zones appear lensoid in shape
resulting in their strike and depth continuity
being variable.  The mineralised zones have
been tested to a vertical depth of 400 metres
and along a 2 kilometre strike length.  They
are hosted within quartz and shear bounded,
northwest dipping, brecciated volcaniclastic
zones.  The silicate alteration is complicated
with biotite, silica, sericite, tremolite, diopside
and calcite being observed under thin
section.
5 A major highlight of the year
was the resumption of full
scale exploration at Tongon.
Côte d’Ivoire
Nielle Permit: 12 gold targets highlighted for
follow-up work
300km
Dabakala Dabakala
Dignago Dignago
Apouasso
Mankono
Boundiali
Nielle
Tiasso target
Tongon East
Tongon South
Targets
A portfolio of 6 permits covering 4 880km
2
5km
Randgold Resources
exploration permits
Soloni A&B
Koro N
4.4 MOZ TONGON
PROJECT
Koro
Tongon East
Tongon South
Trenches:
16m @ 8.37g/t
6m @ 2.06g/t and
2m @ 12.86g/t
and 4m @ 2.00g/t
Oleo S
Oleo N
Tiebila E
Koulivogo
Nafoun
Nafoun N
Nafoun E
Yvette
Yvette S
Tongon Far
South
Poungbe Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   61
5 and approximately 100 kilometres west of
Nielle, hosts the advanced target of Tiasso.
Early stage exploration work comprising a
soil survey, trenching and pitting, has defined
a significant drill target with a strike length of
2 kilometres.  Sub-surface mineralisation
in saprolite with a trench intersection of
25 metres at 4.39g/t highlights the
prospectivity of this target and preparations
are underway to drill test.
T anzania
In Tanzania, generative work continues to
drive the building of a new portfolio of
projects.  We are re-looking at the Southern
Lake Victoria Goldfield, the proterozoic mobile
belts and new greenstone belts within the
craton.
A joint venture agreement was signed with
African Eagle on their 504 square kilometres
Miyabi project.  Randgold Resources has
the right to earn a 51% interest in the project
by completing and funding a prefeasibility
study, and can increase this to 65% should
African Eagle not elect to participate in a full
feasibility study.
Miyabi is a shear zone hosted gold system
discovered by African Eagle, a UK-based
junior exploration company.  There are two
anomalous corridors: the first, a 7 by
2 kilometre northeast trending corridor, has
been the sole focus of African Eagle; while
the second is a much larger 20 kilometre
long northwest trending corridor which has
seen no follow-up work.
African Eagle has identified five separate
targets within the 7 by 2 kilometre northeast
corridor: Faida, Ngaya, Shambani (north and
south), Kilimani and N’dagulu.  Mineralisation
is hosted along east-northeast trending
structures, bounded by two southeast
trending faults more than 10 kilometres apart.
Mineralisation is associated with wide silicified
zones with very coarse pyrite and pyrrhotite
hosted by mafic volcanics and chemical
sediments (banded iron formation).
In March 2006, SRK completed an updated
resource estimate of 520 000 ounces at
1.3g/t, of which 71% is in the indicated
category, using data from 30 cored drill holes
and 265 RC drill holes.
A Phase 1 diamond drilling programme has
been completed with a total of 20 holes for
4 078 metres.  Drilling was completed along
two fence lines, named Shambani and
Kilimani after the two deposits over which
the drill lines crossed, and two shorter lines
targeting specific IP targets; IP070 and
Kilimani SW lines.  The strategy behind this
drilling was to get a better understanding of
the 7 by 2 kilometre Miyabi structural corridor
in terms of geology, structure, alteration and
mineralisation.  The results have not
confirmed a larger mineralised system
beyond that already defined by African Eagle.
Mineralisation is restricted to the intersection
of folded iron rich sediments and volcanics
and northeast trending shears.  This results
in short strike length and steep plunging
pods of mineralisation.  Work has now
focused on the exploration of the 20 kilometre
northwest trending corridor.
Also in Tanzania, Randgold Resources has
shifted some of its exploration emphasis to
the mobile belts surrounding the archaean
cratons.  Gold mineralisation is hosted in
highly deformed and silicified
metamorphosed rock units above a major
thrust.  The units consist of thinly bedded
impure marble (probably originated from
mixed calcareous and argillaceous
sediments, metamorphosed to garnet,
graphite and biotite lenses) and biotite
gneiss/granulite.  Early stage exploration has
started on reconnaissance permits in the
Morogoro area.
In addition to the feasibility drilling, a review
of 19 targets within the Nielle permit has
been completed, highlighting 12 for follow-
up work.  Tongon South is the highest priority.
This target is characterised by a strong
surface gold geochemical anomaly,
1 kilometre long at plus 500ppb and has
only been tested by two trenches so far:
TST002 - 16 metres at 8.37g/t and
TST004 - 6 metres at 2.06g/t, 2 metres
at 12.86g/t and 4 metres at 2.10g/t.
Additional trenching is underway to define
drill programmes for 2008.
In the Côte d’Ivoire we have a portfolio of six
permits covering 4 880 square kilometres
in both the north and south of the country.
In the south, first pass reconnaissance
exploration has been completed on the
Apouasso and Dignago permits.  On the
Apouasso permit located in the southeast
of the country close to the Ghana border, a
1 000 by 200 metre regional soil sampling
programme has returned a 10 kilometre,
plus 10ppb regional gold anomaly, including
a maximum value of 925ppb associated
with the contact between a volcano-
sedimentary belt and granite.  On the
Dignago permit located in the southwest of
the country, regional soil sampling has defined
a 5 by 2 kilometre plus10ppb regional soil
anomaly.  Reconnaissance work continues
on both permits.
The Boundiali permits (1 314 square
kilometres) located in the north of the country
62   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Lake Victoria
Randgold Resources
exploration permits
250km
TANZANIA
Buhemba South
TANZANIA: LOCATION OF PERMITS
Nyabigena South
Simba Sirori South
Miyabi JV
Mtambo
Nyamakubi
Kiabakari East
Kajimbura Kezia Aaron
Administrative manager, Tanzania
Obtained a BComm from Dar es Salaam University in 1984 and then
worked for a government-funded community development programme
in the Lake Zone Region.  Joined Randgold Resources at the joint-venture
Golden Ridge project in 1997 and has been with the company full-time
as administrative manager for T anzania since 2003.  Responsibilities include
local community liaison.
“My strong networking skills are valuable to the team and I also take a
lively interest in the exploration programmes.  I’m very much part of the
exploration drive, going on regular field trips and playing a key role when
we start up in new areas.”
New business New business New business 64   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
During 2007, organic growth opportunities
were evaluated in the six countries in which
the company is operational.  The African
‘hunting team’ launched in 2006 had an
active year, visiting five additional countries
and numerous gold projects.
We have also tested growth options through
possible M&A opportunities, carrying out
due diligence audits both desktop and on-
site within and outside Africa.  This includes
a number of full corporate due diligences.
The company remains committed to pursuing
profitable M&A opportunities, rating them
against its organic growth prospects.
The company continued to review new
business and merger and acquisition
opportunities worldwide, while retaining
its focus on organic growth within the
African continent.
NEW
BUSINESS
HUNTING THE NEXT MULTI-MILLION OUNCE DEPOSIT
Gold occurrences
+1 Moz gold deposits
Neoproterozoic
Mesoproterozoic
Paleoproterozoic
Archean
AFRICA Mamadou Sanogo
Human resources coordinator, Loulo
A teacher by training, Mamadou was a labour
broker responsible for the recruitment of all
Malian staff employed on the Morila and Loulo
construction projects before he joined Randgold
Resources at Loulo in 2005.  He introduced and
now implements the company’s HR procedures
at the mine.
“The effective implementation of enlightened
HR policies and practices, coupled with effective
communication, have created a good
relationship between the company and the
workforce as well as a stable environment at
the mine.”
Social r Social responsibility esponsibility Social responsibility 66   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Randgold Resources is
committed to the integration
of sustainable environmental
and social impact
management into its
business activities.  The
optimum utilisation of
mineral and other resources
encompasses the protection
and conservation of the
existing environment.  Within
this framework, the company
strives to assist the com-
munities most affected by its
operations to develop in a
sustainable way and to give
all its employees a high
quality of work life, including
a safe workplace.
POLICY STATEMENT
Our integrated social and environmental management
process identifies potentially significant negative and
positive impacts.  The implementation of sustainable
environmental and social responsibility strategies
aims to minimise negative impacts and maximise the
positive impacts of its activities, commensurate with
its business strategy and within national and World
Bank standards.  The strategies it uses to achieve
this include the following:
 
Encourage and reward the use of integrated
environmental management to ensure that
management decision making processes include
a sensitive and holistic consideration of
environmental issues.  To facilitate this, all projects
must include a comprehensive environmental
and social impact assessment.  Where
appropriate, specialist consultants are employed.
Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring
communities, local and national government
authorities, NGOs and aid agencies and the
public.
Respect and consult with the communities in
the areas affected by its operations so that these
communities receive fair treatment and where
possible benefit from the company’s activities.
 
Budget a percentage of profit to be used for
sustainable community development projects.
The projects are selected and prioritised in
consultation with communities and carried out
in cooperation with community members.
 
Aim to forge a pact with employees through
having respect for fundamental human rights,
including workplace rights, employee
development and the need for a healthy and
safe workplace.
Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation,
waste management and environmental protection
in the most cost effective manner.
 
Strive to optimise the consumption of energy,
water and other natural resources.
 
Through the introduction of new alternative
environmentally friendly products and processes,
as they become available, avoid the use or
release of substances which, by themselves or
through their manufacturing process, may
damage the environment.
 
Practise responsible environmental stewardship
to meet the demands of local communities, host
country government requirements and
international standards and strive for continuous
improvement of environmental performance.
For details of the implementation of the social
responsibility policy, refer to the review of operations:
Loulo pages 33 and 34
Morila pages 39 and 40
Tongon pages 44 and 45.
Social responsibility and
sustainability report
66 Dir Directors’ r ectors’ report eport
Samba Dieng
Director, Kankou Moussa
Pilot turned jeweller Samba Dieng is a director
of Kankou Moussa, a partnership between
Randgold Resources, Mali gold companies
(most significantly Loulo) and the government
of Mali.  It was established in 2007 as a bullion
bank designed to give the Malian jewellery
industry easier access to gold as well as the
opportunity to sell their products in the
international market.  The bank is named after
the legendary 14th century king under whose
rule Mali’s then capital Timbuktu became one
of  Africa’s main commercial and cultural centres.
“Kankou Moussa is more than just a business,
it is the realisation of a dream to bring Mali’s
gold back to ordinary people of the country.”
Directors’ report 68   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
This section of the annual
report provides a description
of how the company has
applied the principles set
out in section 1 of the 2003
Combined Code.
Except as noted below, the company has complied
with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code
throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
Every company should be headed by an effective
board, which is collectively responsible for the success
of the company.
The board remains committed to guiding the strategic
and entrepreneurial development of the group and
supports the principle of collective responsibility
for the success of the company.  The board has
reserved, for its sole discretion, the finalisation and
adoption of the group’s strategic plan, major fiscal
policies including treasury and hedging policies,
approval of the budget, approval of all mining
development and any merger or acquisition.
The board undertook its annual evaluation exercise
during the year to measure its own performance as
well as those of its committees and extended the
format to include the nomination and governance
committee.  During the year the board met nine times.
Where it is deemed appropriate, the chairman meets
with the non-executive directors without the presence
of the executive directors and during the year meetings
were held by the chairman and the non-executive
directors.
Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover
has been obtained by the company in respect of
legal action against the directors.
Corporate governance report
for the year ended 31 December 2007
68
Number of Total number
meetings of board
Directors Designationattended meetings
P Liétard Non-executive chairman 9 9
DM Bristow Chief executive officer 9 9
RA Williams* Former chief financial officer 2 2
GP Shuttleworth** Chief financial officer 7 7
BH Asher Senior independent director 9 9
NP Cole Jr Independent non-executive 9 9
RI Israel Independent non-executive 9 9
AL Paverd*** Independent non-executive 8 9
K Voltaire*** Independent non-executive 8 9
* Mr Williams resigned from the board with effect from 30 July 2007.
** Mr Shuttleworth was appointed to the board on 1 July 2007.
*** Drs Voltaire and Paverd were unable to attend a meeting called at short notice.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   69
There should be a clear division of
responsibilities at the head of the company
between the running of the board and the
executive responsibility for the running of the
company’s business.  No one individual
should have unfettered powers of decision.
The non-executive chairman, Mr Philippe
Liétard, is responsible for the leadership of
the board and to ensure effective
communication exists between the executive
and non-executive directors.
The CEO, Dr Mark Bristow, has been
delegated the authority to manage the day-
to-day administration of the group.  A formal
job description is in existence and this is
reviewed annually by the board and the
CEO.
The board should include a balance of
executive and non-executive directors
(and in particular independent non-executive
directors) such that no individual or small
group of individuals can dominate the board’s
decision taking.
Currently the board comprises eight
members, two executive and six non-
executive directors.  During the year, the
board saw the resignation of Mr Williams
and the appointment of Mr Shuttleworth as
chief financial officer.  The board believes
that mining is a long-gestation business and
as such justifies a longer period of service
for non-executive directors than many
industries and that reasonable periods of
service are therefore needed for the stability
of the board but that new appointments are
needed from time to time to add a fresh
perspective.
The board monitors compliance with the
independence criteria included in the Code
and save in certain instances set out below
for (a) periods of service and (b) award of
options and “restricted” shares, all non-
executive directors meet the criteria.  For
the reasons set out below the board believes
that the non-executive directors are
independent.
(a) Currently Dr Paverd and Messrs Asher
and Israel have all served as directors
for more than ten years.  The board has
considered their objectivity and
contributions and believes that these
are still independent in character and
judgement;
(b) Messrs Asher and Israel continue to
hold options in terms of the company’s
share options scheme.  These were
awarded in 1998 and the board does
not believe that this interferes with their
independence.  Each of the non-
executive directors owned shares in the
company during the year.  The non-
executive directors also received an
award of “restricted” shares in addition
to their directors’ fees.  The board
believes that this aligns their interests
with those of other shareholders without
compromising independence.
Meetings of the board’s committees were
held regularly.  Where appropriate, the
chairman and the executive directors are
invited to be in attendance.
Shareholders are referred to the
remuneration report on page 77 for
details of directors’ shareholdings.
There should be a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure for the appointment
of new directors to the board.
The members of the nomination and
governance committee during the year
appear at the bottom of this page.
In terms of the directors’ remuneration policy,
Mr Liétard receives a fee as the group
chairman and Mr Asher receives a fee as
senior independent director and therefore
no additional payment for services to the
committee.  No fee was paid to Mr Cole for
service to the nomination and governance
committee for the year.
During the year the nomination and
governance committee met on several
occasions to consider submissions relating
to possible board candidates.  In addition,
the committee commenced a review of the
company succession planning procedure
which is ongoing.  This process involves
executive and senior management within
the group.  A nomination and governance
committee charter is published on the
company’s website.
During the year the board considered and
approved the appointment of Mr Shuttleworth
as finance director and in accordance with
the articles of association, he will be subject
to re-election at the April 2008 annual general
meeting.
In addition to the appointment of directors,
the appointment and removal of the company
secretary remains a matter for consideration
by the board as a whole.
The board should be supplied in a timely
manner with information in a form and of a
quality appropriate to enable it to discharge
its duties.  All directors should receive
induction on joining the board and should
regularly update and refresh their skills and
knowledge.
The board continues to operate in a field
which is technically complex and directors
are provided with information which enables
them to fulfil their duties effectively.  Visits to
the mines, branch offices and technical
presentations provided by management are
used to further their knowledge in various
areas of specialisation.  It is the duty of the
company secretary to ensure an effective
flow of information between the board, its
P Liétard (Chairman) 27 October 2006 3 3
BH Asher 27 October 2006 3 3
NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 3 3
Number of Number of
meetings meetings
Members Appointed attended held
NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE committees and the management of the
company.
The board should undertake a formal and
rigorous annual evaluation of its own
performance and that of its committees
and individual directors.
The board’s evaluation procedure operates
through a structured self assessment system
allowing each director to rate the performance
of the board and its committees and focuses
on a number of key areas.
The individual assessments are then scored
and the results were tabled at
a January 2008 board meeting for
discussion.  The board continues to believe
that the exercise is beneficial.
A formal session of the directors also
assessed the chairman’s performance.
All directors should be submitted for re-
election at regular intervals, subject to
continued satisfactory performance.
The board should ensure planned and
progressive refreshing of the board.
In accordance with the provisions of the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and the
articles of association, directors are required
to submit themselves to re-election.  Any
newly appointed director is subject to election
by shareholders after his/her appointment.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire board is
subject to re-election every three years.
The articles of association specify neither an
age limit for directors nor any restriction about
the period of service.
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient
to attract, retain and motivate directors of
the quality required to run the company
successfully, but a company should avoid
paying more than is necessary for this
purpose.  A significant proportion of executive
directors’ remuneration should be structured
so as to link rewards to corporate and
individual performance.
This is dealt with in the report of the
remuneration committee.
There should be a formal and transparent
procedure for developing policy on executive
remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual directors.  No director
should be involved in deciding his or her
own remuneration.
This is dealt with in the report of the
remuneration committee.
The board should present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the
company’s position and prospects.
The Companies (Jersey) Law, 1991, and
the Combined Code require, and the board
acknowledges, that it is responsible for
presenting a balanced and understandable
assessment of the company’s and the
group’s position and prospects.  This extends
to the preparation and publication of the
annual report and any other release of
information, price sensitive or otherwise.
The financial statements set out in this
report have been prepared by management
under the direction of the board in
accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards and are based on
accounting policies that the board considers
appropriate, supported by reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates.
The directors are of the opinion that the
financial statements fairly present the financial
position of the company and group as at
31 December 2007, and the consolidated
results of operations and cash flows of the
group for the year then ended.  The directors
have continued to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the financial statements
because the directors are satisfied that
the group and company have adequate
financial resources available to ensure their
continued operational existence for the
foreseeable future.
The group has operated a code of ethics
since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997.
The code includes specific reference to the
company’s financial managers and the chief
executive officer.  A copy of the code is
available on the company’s website:
www.randgoldresources.com.
The company also believes that the following
risk factors should be carefully considered
as, either individually or in a combination,
they could have a material adverse effect
on its business:
The profitability of our operations and
the cash flows generated by our
operations are affected by changes
in the market price for gold which in the
past has fluctuated widely.
Our mining operations may yield less
gold under actual production conditions
than indicated by our gold reserve
figures, which are estimates based on
a number of assumptions, including
assumptions as to mining and recovery
factors, production costs and the price
of gold.
The profitability of operations and the
cash flows generated by these
operations are significantly affected by
fluctuations in the price, cost and supply
of inputs.
Our business may be harmed if the
Government of Mali fails to repay fuel
duties owing to Morila and Loulo.
Our business may be harmed if the
Government of Mali fails to repay Value
Added Tax, or TVA, owing to Morila.
We have invested in debt instruments
for which the market has become
substantially illiquid.
We may not be able to recover certain
funds from MDM Ferroman (Pty) Limited
(in liquidation).
We may incur losses or lose
opportunities for gains as a result of our
use of derivative instruments to protect
us against low gold prices.
Our underground project at Loulo,
developing two mines at Yalea and Gara,
is subject to all of the risks associated
with underground mining.
Actual cash costs of production,
production results and economic returns
may differ significantly from those
anticipated by our feasibility studies for
new development projects, including
Tongon.
We conduct mining, development and
exploration activities in countries with
developing economies and are subject
to the risks of political and economic
instability associated with these
countries.
70   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   71
Under our joint venture agreement with
AngloGold Ashanti Limited, or AngloGold
Ashanti, we jointly manage Morila
Limited, and any disputes with
AngloGold Ashanti over the management
of Morila Limited could adversely affect
our business.
The use of mining contractors at certain
of our operations may expose it to delays
or suspensions in mining activities.
We may be required to seek funding
from third parties or enter into joint
development arrangements to finance
the development of our properties and
the timely exploration of our mineral
rights, which funding or development
arrangements may not be available on
acceptable terms, or at all.
We may not pay regular dividends to
shareholders in the future.
If we are unable to attract and retain key
personnel our business may be harmed.
Our insurance coverage may prove
inadequate to satisfy claims against us.
It may be difficult for you to affect service
of process and enforce legal judgments
against us or our affiliates.
We are subject to significant corporate
regulation as a public company and
failure to comply with all applicable
regulations could subject us to liability
or negatively affect our share price.
Full details relating to these risk factors as
well as those relating to our industry can be
found in our annual report on Form 20-F for
the year ended 31 December 2006 and the
F-3 filed on 27 November 2007, copies of
which are contained on our website.
The board should maintain a sound system
of internal control to safeguard shareholders’
investment and the company’s assets.
The group maintains a business control
framework that documents the key business
risks, together with the related operational,
financial and compliance controls.  The
business control framework is regularly
reviewed and updated by management, who
report quarterly to the board on any issues
which might affect the risks and controls.
The board acknowledges that it has
responsibility for the ongoing review and
update of the business control framework
and believes that, through the procedures
noted above and below, it has complied
with the requirements of the Code to review
the effectiveness of the group’s internal
controls at least annually.  The company
continues to adhere to the requirements of
section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
At the beginning of July 2007, the company
appointed BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as its
auditors, who will also act as auditors for
Loulo and Morila, and their findings from the
audits are communicated to the audit
committee.  AngloGold Ashanti’s internal
audit department conducts regular audits of
the Morila mine and copies of these reports
are submitted to the company’s audit
committee for consideration.  Given its size,
the group does not have a separate internal
audit department.  However, executive
management undertakes regular audits of
various parts of the Morila and the Loulo
mines and details of their reports are
submitted to the audit committee and board
for comment.  Financial and technical audits
of the company’s branch offices and major
assets are regularly conducted by group
management.  The board notes that no cost
effective system will preclude all errors and
irregularities and so the group’s system of
internal controls provides reasonable, but
not absolute assurance, against material
misstatement or loss.
The board should establish formal and
transparent arrangements for considering
how they should apply the financial reporting
and internal control principles and for
maintaining an appropriate relationship with
the company’s auditors.
The company’s audit committee has been
set up to review the company’s financial
reports, internal control principles and risk
management systems, review significant
financial reporting judgements and for dealing
with the appointment of the auditors and
monitoring their relationship with the company
and its management.
During the year, the audit committee
comprised three members all of whom were
non-executive directors.  For reasons
described earlier, the board considers that
the members of the audit committee are all
independent.
One of the members has considerable years
of experience in the financial services sector,
one has extensive experience in the mining
industry and the other has a PhD in finance.
The board believes that this level of
experience is sufficient to meet the standards
imposed by the Combined Code, even
though none of the members has recent
and relevant accounting experience.  If issues
arose which were deemed outside the areas
of expertise of the members, independent
professional advice would be sought.
During the year the committee met six times
and its members and their attendance appear
at the bottom of the following page.
In terms of the directors’ remuneration policy,
Mr Asher receives a fee as the senior
independent director and no additional
payment for services to the audit committee.
Fees paid to Dr Paverd and Dr Voltaire for
service to the audit committee for the year
were US$35 000 each.
The committee makes recommendations to
the board in relation to the appointment, re-
appointment and removal of the external
auditors as well as the remuneration and
terms of engagement of the external auditors.
The audit committee has recommended the
re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
as external auditors for the group.  The actual
re-appointment of the external auditors is
subject to the approval of shareholders at
the annual general meeting.
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers
and BDO Stoy Hayward LLP were paid
US$1 million and US$0.6 million for their
services.  Non-audit services were provided
to the company by BDO Stoy Hayward and
PricewaterhouseCoopers in the year and
specific consent was granted by the audit
committee for the audit reports in respect
of the year-end equity raising exercise.
The committee reviews and monitors the
external auditor’s independence and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit
process.  This is undertaken within the
framework of a detailed audit charter.
A copy of the audit charter is available on
the company’s website.
The committee reviews the company’s
published results, the effectiveness of its
system of internal control, legal and regulatory
compliance including the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act and the cost effectiveness of the services
provided by the external auditors.  The audit
committee has implemented a policy
regarding the provision and pre-approval
thereof of non-audit services by the external
auditors and this mandate is reviewed
annually.
The committee meets regularly and this
includes quarterly meetings which are used
to consider and approve the company’s
quarterly results.  The external auditors are
regularly invited to attend meetings to report
on their activities.  The committee also meets
with the external auditors, independent of
the executive directors or management,
where this is deemed necessary.
The Sarbanes Oxley Act required companies
to establish “whistle-blower” systems.  The
geographical spread of the group’s activities,
particularly in remote West African locations,
makes the system complex.  The first point
of contact is the company’s legal counsel
who upon receipt of such an issue being
raised would employ independent
consultants and then pass the findings onto
the senior independent director to pursue
any alleged irregularity.  Quarterly reports are
submitted to the audit committee concerning
any instances where complaints are
submitted.
The audit committee has continued to
oversee the group’s compliance with the
requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders
based on the mutual understanding of
objectives.  The board as a whole has
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory
dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The board acknowledges responsibility for
maintaining effective communication with all
shareholders.  The CEO, corporate
communications manager and the
company’s investor relations consultants
prepare a quarterly report for the board
detailing the activities and presentations
given to shareholders.  In addition, since
September 2004 the company has
employed international market intelligence
experts to provide a global shareholder
identification service which has greatly
enhanced the focus of the company’s
communication message.
Whilst in general corporate communication
with shareholders is conducted by the CEO,
the chairman, at least quarterly, participates
in an open forum with shareholders and
stakeholders.  In addition, the chairman leads
a group of senior executives to the African
Mining Indaba, one of the premier global
mining conferences attended by a substantial
number of global players in the mining and
related industries and in February 2008 the
majority of the board was in attendance.
Besides attendance at various industry
conferences, a minimum of two roadshows
during the year are undertaken to enable
company representatives to interact directly
with shareholders and interested parties.
The board continues to use the internet for
publication of announcements and to file
these on its website to assist with
communication with shareholders.  In addition
the board encourages shareholders to
access the annual report from the website
rather than having it sent by post in printed
form.
The board should use the AGM to
communicate with investors and to
encourage their participation.
The board believes that the annual general
meeting is an appropriate forum for contact
with shareholders and encourages their
attendance and participation.  In order to
reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the
annual general meeting, it is an unwritten
policy that all resolutions should be
considered by way of a ballot poll and the
number of proxies received disclosed to
members in attendance.  At each annual
general meeting all sub-committee chairmen
as well as other non-executive directors are
present to address any queries raised by
shareholders.
Institutional shareholders should enter into
dialogue with companies based upon the
mutual understanding of objectives.
It has been the policy of the company that
twice a year lengthy roadshows are
conducted by the CEO and CFO where
meetings are held with most of the
company’s major institutional shareholders
to brief them on the activities of the company.
In addition after the publication of each set
of quarterly results, the CEO follows up with
meetings with many of the institutional
shareholders.  These roadshows are in
addition to the company’s attendance at
several key international gold mining
conferences around the world.  In the last
year conferences attended were held in New
York, San Francisco, Denver, London, Zurich,
Tampa, Toronto and Cape Town.
Institutional shareholders have a responsibility
to make considered use of their votes.
The company is pleased to see the
increasing trend of institutional shareholders
now exercising their rights to vote at general
meetings.  In the past three years the
percentage increase of shareholders present
and voting has increased dramatically.
72   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
BH Asher (Chairman) 15 July 1997 6 6
AL Paverd 1 May 2000 6 6
K Voltaire 1 August 2006 6 6
Number of Number of
meetings meetings
Members Appointed attended held
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   73
Remuneration committee report
73
The committee’ s objectives
are to provide senior
management, including
directors, with a competitive
package which will attract
and retain executives of the
highest calibre and
encourage and reward
superior performance.
Members Appointed
RI Israel (Chairman) 15 July 1997
BH Asher 15 July 1997
NP Cole Jr 1 August 2006
During the year, the committee met six times and
its members discussed all aspects of the remuneration
of the group.  For the year under review, and purely
as payment for his services as chairman of the
remuneration committee, Mr Israel was paid
US$40 000.  Mr Asher was paid a fee for his role as
senior independent non-executive director and was
not paid any additional fees for services to any board
committee.  Mr Cole was paid US$25 000 for his
service to the committee.  Details of all directors’ fees
are contained on page 74.
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The principal function of the remuneration committee
is to determine, on behalf of the board, the
remuneration of the chairman and non-executive
directors, the senior executive remuneration policy
and the remuneration and terms and conditions of
employment of the company’s executive directors.
Comparative industry surveys are provided to the
committee by the company’s human resources
executive to assist in formulating remuneration.
The committee believes that it should be able to meet
informally without management being in attendance
and this has occurred on several occasions during
2007 in addition to the formal meetings.  The
committee is entitled to call for independent
consultants’ advice on pertinent issues.  During the
year, the committee employed the services of
Bachelder & Dowling in the USA and Kepler
Associates from the United Kingdom to review
executive remuneration, which was done in
conjunction with reviews of various mining related
industry surveys.  The consultants provided no other
services to the company.  At certain meetings, the
members invited the chairman and chief executive
to attend.
REMUNERATION OBJECTIVES
The committee’s objectives are to provide senior
management, including directors, with a competitive
package which will attract and retain executives of
the highest calibre and encourage and reward superior
performance. The committee is cognisant that the
market demands that performance criteria be 74   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Executive directors
DM Bristow (CEO) 600 000 600 000 1 864 802 1 212 584 - 693 700 2 464 802 2 506 284
RA Williams** 218 045 320 000 621 601 404 195 - - 839 646 724 195
GP Shuttleworth 231 475 - - - 133 140 - 364  615 -
Sub total 1 049 520 920 000 2 486 403 1 616 779 133 140 693 700 3 669 063 3 230 479
Non-executive directors
P Liétard (Chairman) 135 000 135 000 - - 30 000 30 000 165 000 165 000
BH Asher 120 000 120 000 - - 30 000 30 000 150 000 150 000
J-A Cramer - 80 000 - - - 30 000 - 110 000
NP Cole Jr 70 000 42 500 - - 30 000 - 100 000 42 500
RI Israel 110 000 85 000 - - 30 000 30 000 140 000 115 000
AL Paverd 80 000 80 000 - - 30 000 30 000 110 000 110 000
K Voltaire 80 000 47 500 - - 30 000 - 110 000 47 500
Sub total 595 000 590 000 - - 180 000 180 000 775 000 740 000
TOTAL 1 664 520 1 510 000 2 486 403 1 616 779 313 140 843 700 4 444 063 3 970 479
* Other payments to Dr D M Bristow in 2006 comprise the grant of shares.  The award in 2007 of US$30 000 to each non-executive director translated into
share grants which vest over a three year period from the date of the award.
** Mr Williams has resigned as financial director with effect from 1 July 2007, and as a director with effect from 30 July 2007.
†
The bonus is calculated on the movement in the company’s share price based on a calendar year to 31 March.  The 2007 bonuses, as shown above,
reflect the amounts paid in April 2007 in respect of the movement in the share price from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, being US$18.17 to US$23.91.
At 31 December 2007, the company accrued US$2.9 million for bonus payments, in respect of 2007, based on a share price of US$37.13.  Based on a
share price on 11 March 2008, the aggregate accrued amount of the bonuses payable for the period up to that date would be the higher amount of
US$8.6 million. Bonuses in respect of the 2007 year are expected to be paid in April 2008 in terms of the provisions of the service contracts.
A copy of the company’s remuneration charter is available on the website at: www.randgoldresources.com
established which measure an individual’s
performance and that these should form a
significant proportion of a directors’
remuneration package.  The committee
agreed performance criteria with executive
directors and used these in appraising their
annual performance.
The committee believes that the correct
method of incentivising the executive
directors and motivate their performance,
but at the same time aligning them with the
interests of shareholders, is to award shares
which are only granted upon the achievement
of agreed performance criteria.  The award
of such restricted shares form part of the
current executive directors’ packages.
Neither Dr Bristow nor Mr Shuttleworth
participate in the company’s share option
scheme.  Mr Williams, the company’s
previous finance director, continued to
participate in the share option scheme,
although no new options had been
awarded to him since August 2004, but
those options which had not vested at
the date of his termination of service then
lapsed.  Other than the benefits listed
above, the company has no other long
term incentive scheme save for the new
restricted share scheme. Details of this
new scheme are provided on page 117.
A special resolution for consideration by
shareholders is contained in the notice to
shareholders on page 116 of this report.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION
The remuneration of the executive directors
comprises:
A basic salary.
An annual bonus, based on selected
performance criteria agreed by the
remuneration committee and the
individual concerned.
The award of restricted shares.
The remuneration committee was tasked by
the board to recommend an alternative to
the CEO’s existing contract, taking into
account best practices in the markets in
which the company trades, and which would
provide sufficient incentives to meet the
Bonus/service
Basic salary/fees contract
†
Other payments* Total
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$ 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
DIRECTORS’ FEES Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   75
company’s compensation objectives to retain
and motivate the CEO.  The original contract
was divided into three parts; a base salary
and an annual bonus based on the change
in share price between two points in time
multiplied by a nominal value of 300 000
shares and an equity incentive component.
The contract was a rolling three-year contract.
In order to arrive at an alternative package,
the remuneration committee felt it appropriate
to retain advisers for the purpose of evaluating
existing parameters of CEO compensation
in a select universe of comparable
companies.  Companies chosen were
primarily based on industry and size criteria.
In addition, the remuneration committee took
into consideration the historical performance
for the company, its share price performance
and the specific contributions of the CEO.
The advisers, Kepler Associates and the law
firm of Bachelder & Dowling, were charged
with analysing the markets and assisting the
remuneration committee in structuring a new
plan which would meet the objectives as
defined in the company’s remuneration
charter.  The company’s United Kingdom
counsel, Ashurst, was also consulted.
After a thorough review and detailed analysis
of the compensation plans of the universe
of comparable companies, the remuneration
committee presented a plan to the board.
The new plan is divided into three main
components - a base salary; an annual
bonus determined by achievement of
performance goals agreed between the CEO
and the remuneration committee; and a
number of shares of restricted stock whose
vesting would be based on performance
targets compared to a peer group of selected
companies.  In order to demonstrate the
board’s confidence in and support of the
CEO, it agreed to a special one time bonus
of US$2 million on execution of the new
agreement.
The objective of the remuneration committee
in changing the structure of the compensation
is primarily meant to align the interests of the
CEO and the company’s shareholders.  The
increase in salary and bonus is meant to
motivate the CEO to achieve performance
goals for the company which are relatively
independent of short term commodity price
fluctuations.  Since the primary goal of the
company is to identify and develop new gold
reserves and produce gold at the lowest
possible cost, it was deemed appropriate
to recognise performance through the
payment of a bonus against pre-agreed
targets.
The original contract comprised a three year
rolling term and was heavily weighted to
share price performance over a short period
of time and consequently did not accord
with best practice.  Accordingly it exposed
the CEO and the company to commodity
gold price volatility and short term swings in
the equity markets and ignored operational
goals and performance matrices which the
remuneration committee felt were extremely
important to assure sufficient motivation
regardless of factors outside of the CEO’s
control.
In addition to the annual salary and bonus,
computed as a multiple of the base salary,
the remuneration committee, with the advice
of its experts, also concluded that an
important component of the CEO
remuneration should be in the form of shares
of restricted stock to ensure the alignment
of interests between management and
shareholders over a longer period of time.
The aggregate amount of compensation,
including base salary, potential annual bonus
and grant of restricted stock, in the new
package, in the view of the remuneration
committee, achieves the objective of
adequately rewarding and motivating the
CEO in the short term and the longer term,
falls within peer group and industry standards
for total compensation and closely aligns
the interests of management and
shareholders to produce superior results in
the future.
The total executive directors’ remuneration
for the year ended 31 December 2007 was
US$3 669 063 (year ended 31 December
2006:  US$3 230 479).  Full details are
provided in a table on page 74 of this report.
Details of the various components comprising
executive remuneration are as follows:
Service contracts
During 2007 a service contract was
concluded with Mr Shuttleworth following
his appointment as finance director.  In
keeping with best practice, the term of the
contract is less than one year.
The new service contract with Dr Bristow
was signed on 6 February 2008.  The board
has acknowledged that periods of
employment should not exceed one year
and this is reflected in the CEO’s new
contract.
                                                              Number of options Market
          during the period price at Date
At At Exercise date of from
1 Jan 31 Dec price exercise which Expiry
2007 Granted Exercised 2007 US$ US$ exercisable date
Executive
RA Williams 83 333 - 41 667* - 8.05 23.33 06/08/06 06/08/16
* Following the resignation of Mr Williams with effect from 7 August 2007, these options have lapsed in accordance with the rules of the share option scheme.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OPTIONS 76   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Basic salary
Executive directors receive a basic salary as
determined by the committee in accordance
with the remuneration policy and subject to
agreed annual performance criteria.  Individual
service contracts (details of which are
provided above) do not provide for any
pension or retirement payments nor does
the company have any such retirement
liability.  The company does, however, provide
a deferred contribution fund into which
employees, including directors, may
contribute.
Share options
Share options are no longer awarded to
either executive or non-executive directors.
Previous awards of share options were
determined by the remuneration committee
guided by industry and international
standards.  The existing share option scheme
available for ordinary employees is not subject
to performance criteria, which were not a
standard at the time the scheme was
adopted.  The board acknowledges that any
future scheme would be performance related
and its adoption would, in accordance with
the terms of the UK Listing Rules, be subject
to approval by shareholders.  Any options
awarded are subject to an upper limit of two
per cent of the company’s issued share
capital.  No share options can be awarded
at a discount because the scheme rules
provide that the exercise price is determined
as the closing price of the shares on the
trading day preceding that on which a person
is granted the option.  It is not the policy of
the company to grant annual awards of share
options to employees.  The scheme provides
that all options may be exercised early in the
event of an acquisition of the company that
would require an offer to be made to all
shareholders.  Details of the options held by
directors are contained in a table on page
75 and 76 of this annual report.
The high and low ordinary share prices for
the company for the year under review were:
ordinary shares on the LSE (trading symbol
RRS) and Nasdaq from 1 January 2007 to
31 December 2007:
Pound sterling on LSE (trading symbol
RRS): High £19.50; Low £10.53
ADRs on Nasdaq (trading symbol
GOLD): High US$38.86; Low
US$21.04
The share price at the year end, being
31 December 2007, the last day of trading,
was £18.47 for the ordinary shares trading
on the LSE and US$37.13 for the ADRs
trading on Nasdaq.
Annual bonus
Executive directors’ service contracts provide
for the payment of an annual bonus payment
which is subject to performance criteria.  Dr
Bristow remains entitled to his full bonus in
terms of his previous contract.  In respect
of Dr Bristow’s new contract the annual
bonus is now determined by the board (after
receiving proposals from the remuneration
committee) based on the achievement of
certain performance targets which are to be
set by the remuneration committee.  The
calculation of the annual bonus for
Mr RA Williams was based on a notional
shareholding of 100 000 ordinary shares.
Mr Shuttleworth is entitled to an annual
bonus, the determination of which is firstly
subject to agreed performance criteria and
secondly on the performance of the
company’s share price over a twelve month
period based on a notional shareholding of
33 300 ordinary shares with a fixed maximum
amount of US$400 000.
Share grants
In terms of the new service agreement and
subject to shareholder approval, the CEO
is eligible for an annual award of restricted
shares of 40 000 ordinary shares.  Each
such award shall vest on the anniversary of
the grant date subject to the CEO having
met performance criteria set by the
remuneration committee.
Mr Shuttleworth, in terms of his contract and
subject to shareholder approval, is equally
entitled to an award of 36 000 restricted
shares.  This award of restricted shares shall
vest over a three year period from the date
of his appointment, being 1 July 2007 and
subject to the achievement of agreed
performance criteria.
Details of the new Restricted Share Scheme
are on page 117 of this report.
Under the terms of the previous service
contract entered into with Dr DM Bristow,
the board awarded the CEO restricted stock,
amounting to 150 000 shares.  The final
third, being 50 000 shares, accrued to the
CEO on 1 January 2007.
The company’s performance has been
measured against the HSBC Global Mining
Index.  The HSBC Global Mining Index is a
capitalisation - weighted index calculated in
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OPTIONS
                                                              Number of options Market
          during the period price at Date
At At Exercise date of from
1 Jan 31 Dec price exercise which Expiry
2007 Granted Exercised 2007 US$ US$ exercisable date
Non-executive
BH Asher 25 400 -- 25 400 1.65 - 29/01/01 28/01/11
RI Israel 25 400 -- 25 400 1.65 - 29/01/01 28/01/11 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   77
Executive
DM Bristow 657 584 657 584 732 584 Beneficial
RA Williams - - 170 000 Beneficial
GP Shuttleworth - ---
Non-executive
P Liétard 30 656 29 362 27 548 Beneficial
BH Asher 21 677 20 383 18 569 Beneficial
NP Cole Jr 1 156 447 - Beneficial
RI Israel 17 722 16 428 14 615 Beneficial
AL Paverd 43 122 41 828 40 015 Beneficial
K Voltaire 1 156 447 - Beneficial
* In terms of the US$30 000 awarded to each non-executive director on 1 January 2006, the final tranche of 585 shares were issued on 1 January 2007.
Regarding the US$30 000 awarded to each non-executive director on 1 January 2007, the second tranche of 447 shares were issued on 1 January 2008
and the remaining 447 will be issued on 1 January 2009.  In terms of the US$30 000 awarded on 1 January 2008, the first tranche of 262 shares have
been issued to the non-executive directors and the next two tranches of 262 shares respectively will be issued on 1 January 2009 and 1 January 2010
respectively.
At At At
28 Feb 31 Dec 31 Dec Beneficial/
2008* 2007 2006 non-beneficial
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
dollars (US$).  The services represent the
mining industries of 21 countries for securities
with a market capitalisation generally in
excess of US$50 million.  The services have
a base of 100 on 31 December 1985, with
the exception of two Latin American indices
which are based at 100 at 31 December
1989.  A copy of the graph is included on
page 110 of this annual report.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’
REMUNERATION
Following a review by the remuneration
committee and after submission to the board,
shareholders are being asked to approve a
revision to the non-executive directors’
remuneration.  The new remuneration will
comprise:
A general annual retainer to all non-
executive directors of US$50 000.
An annual committee assignment fee
per committee served:
audit committee US$35 000;
remuneration committee
US$25 000; and
nomination and governance 
committee US$10 000.
The chairman of a board committee to
receive an additional premium to the
committee assignment fee of
US$15 000.
The senior independent director, in
addition to the general annual retainer
but in lieu of any committee assignment
fee, to receive an additional US$85 000.
The non-executive chairman, in addition
to the general annual retainer, but in lieu
of any committee assignment fee, to
receive an additional US$170 000.
An award to each director of “restricted”
shares being 1 200 ordinary shares per
year.  The shares are to vest over a
three year period from the date of the
award, being 1 January 2009.  Vesting
would accelerate on the following
conditions:
termination other than resignation
or dismissal;
voluntary retirement after the age of
65, with a minimum of three years’
service as a director; and
change in control of the company.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’
SHAREHOLDING
A non-executive director must hold shares
at least equal in value (as at the beginning
of the year) to the general annual retainer.
New directors are granted three years in
which to acquire the required shareholding
and this period could be extended by the
unanimous approval of the disinterested
directors.  If the number of shares were to
fall below the threshold due to a fall in the
share price, no additional purchase of shares
would be required.  All the non-executive
directors hold shares equal to the value of
the general annual retainer.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OPTIONS
Previously, non-executive directors were
granted share options over the company’s
ordinary shares.  These share options were
awarded to non-executive directors at a time
when such options were not considered as
affecting a directors’ independence and with
the intention of aligning directors’ interests
with those of shareholders.  Currently only
two non-executive directors have not
exercised their share options. 78   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Directors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2007
78
involved in listing the company on the London Stock Exchange
in 1997, and subsequently as an advisor.  He is a qualified
chartered accountant and prior to joining the company he
was a managing director and the head of metals and mining
for the Americas in the global investment banking division of
HSBC Bank.
RESTRICTED SHARE SCHEME
The directors are seeking your approval for the introduction
of the Randgold Resources Limited Restricted Share Scheme
(the “Scheme”) which is a long term incentive plan under
which awards of restricted shares may be granted to executive
directors.  The reason for its introduction is so as to align the
interests of executives and shareholders in the long term
growth and development of the company.  The current intention
is that the company's chief executive officer and finance
director will be granted awards under the Scheme.  A summary
of the principal terms of the Scheme is set out in the appendix
to the notice to shareholders on page 117 of this report.  
Your directors believe that the adoption of the Scheme is in
the best interests of the company.  They therefore unanimously
recommend that you vote in favour of Resolution 7(d) as they
intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL
A special resolution will be submitted to shareholders to
increase the authorised share capital from 80 000 000 ordinary
shares to 100 000 000 ordinary shares.  In addition two
additional special resolutions will be submitted to amend the
Memorandum and Articles of Association to reflect the change
of Authorised Share Capital.
SHARE OPTION SCHEME
The directors granted options to senior employees in
accordance with the provisions of the Randgold Resources
Limited Share Option Scheme (the “scheme”).  The summary
on the bottom of this page is included in this report as required
in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
At the last annual general meeting of the company,
Messrs Philippe Liétard and Robert I Israel were re-elected
as directors and Dr Karl Voltaire and Mr Norborne P Cole Jr
were elected as non-executive directors.  In accordance with
Article 90.1 of the company’s articles of association,
Dr D Mark Bristow retires by rotation and as a retiring director
is eligible and has offered himself for re-election.  Dr Bristow
was initially appointed to the board in August 1995 and has
served as CEO since that time. He has been instrumental in
developing the company into a gold-focused mining and
exploration business with a market capitalisation of more than
US$3.5 billion and a strong investor following.
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
In terms of Article 85.1 of the articles of association, directors
appointed to the board during the year shall retire at the next
annual general meeting of the company following their
appointment.  Accordingly, Mr Graham P Shuttleworth does
so retire and as a retiring director is eligible and has offered
himself for re-election. Mr Shuttleworth joined Randgold
Resources as chief financial officer and financial director on
1 July 2007, but has been closely associated with the company
since its inception, initially as part of its management team
Average Average
Available Granted US$ price Exercised US$ price Total*
Balance at 31 Dec 05 1 869 951 2 163 714 6 950 503 10 984 168
Adjustment to balance
following increase in
share capital 96 394 96 394
Shares exercised
during the period (633 867) 633 867
Shares granted
during the period (192 000) 192 000 22.50 - -
Shares lapsed
during the period 87 000 (87 000) 10.75 - -
Balance at 31 Dec 06 1 861 345 1 634 847 7 584 370 11 080 562
Adjustment to balance
following increase in
share capital 1 106 206 ---- 1 106 206
Shares exercised
during the period - (545 667) 545 667 25.41 -
Shares granted
during the period (1 521 000) 1 521 000 22.19 - - -
Shares lapsed
during the period 73 666 (73 666) 12.08 - - -
Balance at 31 Dec 07 1 520 217 2 536 514 8 130 037 12 186 768
* This shows the total options exercised, granted and available since the inception of the scheme.
SHARE OPTION SCHEME Amadou Maiga
Financial manager, Loulo
Joined Randgold Resources as management accountant in 2004 from its
Malian auditors.  Implemented the accounting and reporting systems at
Loulo, where he was promoted to financial manager in 2007.
“Management need accurate, up-to-the minute information in order to
run an efficient and profitable operation.  It’s my job to see that they get
it.”
Financial statements Financial statements Financial statements 80   Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
and approval of the annual financial statements
80
The directors are responsible
for the maintenance of
proper accounting records
and the preparation, integrity
and fair presentation of the
financial statements of
Randgold Resources Limited
and its subsidiaries.
The financial statements, presented on pages 82 to
109, have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”)
as issued by the IASB and include amounts based
on judgements and estimates made by management.
The directors also prepared the other information
included in the annual report and are responsible for
both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial
statements.
The directors also have general responsibility for
selecting suitable accounting policies and applying
them consistently, and for taking such steps as are
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of
the group and prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.  The going concern basis has been
adopted in preparing the financial statements.  The
directors have no reason to believe that the group
and company will not be a going concern in the
foreseeable future based on forecasts and available
cash resources.  The viability of the company and
the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the
independent accounting firm, BDO Stoy Hayward
LLP , which was given unrestricted access to all
financial records and related data, including minutes
of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors
and committees of the board. The directors believe
that all representations made to the independent
auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP’s audit report is presented
on page 81.
The maintenance and integrity of the Randgold
Resources Limited website is the responsibility of the
directors.  The work carried out by the auditors does
not involve consideration of these matters and,
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for
any changes that may have occurred to the report
since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of the
financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
The financial statements were approved by the board
of directors on 25 March 2008 and are signed on
its behalf by:
P Liétard DM Bristow
Chairman Chief executive
Jersey, Channel Islands
25 March 2008 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   81
Report of the independent auditors
to the Members of Randgold Resources Limited
81
We have audited the accompanying financial
statements of Randgold Resources Limited
(the ‘company’) which comprise the standalone
balance sheet of the company and
consolidated balance sheet of the company
and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) as of
31 December 2007 and the consolidated
income statement, consolidated statement of
changes in equity and consolidated cash flow
statement for the year then ended and a
summary of significant accounting policies and
other explanatory notes.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The company’s directors are responsible for
the preparation and fair presentation of these
financial statements in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards
as issued by the IASB and with the
requirements of Companies (Jersey) Law
1991.  This responsibility includes: designing,
implementing and maintaining internal control
relevant to the preparation and fair
presentation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error; selecting and applying
appropriate accounting policies; and making
accounting estimates that are reasonable in
the circumstances.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements based on our
audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply
with ethical requirements and plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance whether the financial statements
are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to
obtain audit evidence about the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the
auditors’ judgement, including the
assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements,
whether due to fraud or error.  In making
those risk assessments, the auditors consider
is a person entitled to rely upon this report
by virtue of and for the purpose of Article
110 of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991
or has been expressly authorised to do so
by our prior written consent.  Save as above,
we do not accept responsibility for this report
to any other person or for any other purpose
and we hereby expressly disclaim any and
all such liability.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP
Chartered Accountants
London
25 March 2008
internal control relevant to the entity’s
preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the entity’s internal control.  An audit also
includes evaluating the appropriateness of
accounting policies used and the
reasonableness of accounting estimates
made by the directors, as well as evaluating
the overall presentation of the financial
statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinion.
OPINION
In our opinion, the accompanying financial
statements give a true and fair view of the
financial position of the company and the
group as of 31 December 2007, and of the
financial performance and cash flows of the
group for the year then ended in accordance
with International Financial Reporting
Standards as issued by the IASB and with
the requirements of Companies (Jersey) Law
1991.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
We also review whether the corporate
governance statement reflects the company’s
compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
and we report if it does not.  We are not,
required to consider whether the board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks
and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
Our report has been prepared for pursuant
to the requirements of Article 110 of the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for no
other purpose.  No other person is entitled
to rely on this report unless such a person 82
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007
REVENUE
Gold sales on spot 313 421 274 907
Loss on matured hedges (23 580) (12 190)
Non-cash loss on roll forward of hedges (7 036) (4 413)
Total revenue 282 805 258 304
OTHER INCOME
Other income 967 1 168
TOTAL INCOME 283 772 259 472
COSTS AND EXPENSES
Mining and processing costs 26 159 403 137 694
Transport and refining costs 1 595 711
Royalties 18 307 16 979
Exploration and corporate expenditure 27 35 920 28 805
Other expenses 5 008 3 667
TOTAL COSTS 220 233 187 856
Finance income 28 9 167 8 723
Finance costs 28 (5 805) (6 366)
Finance income - net 28 3 362 2 357
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 66 901 73 973
Income tax expense 4 (21 273) (23 097)
NET PROFIT 45 628 50 876
Attributable to:
Equity shareholders of the company 42 041 47 564
Minority shareholders 3 587 3 312
45 628 50 876
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (US$) 5 0.60 0.70
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (US$) 5 0.60 0.69
The notes on pages 86 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group
82 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 83
Consolidated and company balance sheets
as at 31 December 2007
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment 9 269 896 241 300 - -
Cost 347 422 297 839 - -
Accumulated depreciation and amortisation (77 526) (56 539) - -
Deferred taxation 11 2 163 2 993 - -
Long term ore stockpiles 8 43 190 41 614 - -
Receivables 7 22 823 13 702 - -
Investments in subsidiaries and joint venture 10 - - 6 018 6 018
Loans to subsidiary and joint venture 10 - - 208 484 150 753
TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 338 072 299 609 214 502 156 771
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories and ore stockpiles 8 57 410 34 200 - -
Receivables 7 42 104 34 999 1 217 1 024
Available-for-sale financial assets 12 48 950 - 48 950 -
Cash and cash equivalents 294 183 143 356 289 342 134 761
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 442 647 212 555 339 509 135 785
TOTAL ASSETS 780 719 512 164 554 011 292 556
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised: 80 000 000 ordinary shares of 5 US cents each, 
for both years presented
Issued:
76 140 330 ordinary shares (2006: 68 763 561) 3 809 3 440 3 809 3 440
Share premium 450 814 213 653 450 815 213 653
Accumulated profit 213 567 178 400 84 047 69 359
Other reserves (69 391) (59 430) 4 430 3 052
Shareholders’ equity 598 799 336 063 543 101 289 504
Minority interest 16 8 294 4 707 - -
TOTAL EQUITY 607 093 340 770 543 101 289 504
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Long term borrowings 15 2 773 25 666 - -
Loans from minority shareholders in subsidiaries 16 3 096 2 773 - -
Financial liabilities - forward gold sales 17 51 953 39 969 - -
Deferred taxation 11 1 451 462 - -
Provision for environmental rehabilitation 14 11 074 8 842 - -
TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 70 347 77 712 - -
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities - forward gold sales 17 33 672 27 525 - -
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 13 63 330 39 461 10 910 3 052
Taxation payable 2 630 1 878 - -
Current portion of long term borrowings 15 3 647 24 818 - -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 103 279 93 682 10 910 3 052
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 780 719 512 164 554 011 292 556
The notes on pages 86 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Company Group
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   83
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 2007 2006 84
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2007
BALANCE AT 31 DEC 2005
(as previously reported) 68 072 864 3 404 208 582 138 751 (41 000) 309 737 1 395 311 132
Change in accounting policy* - - - (7 915) - (7 915) - (7 915)
BALANCE AT 31 DEC 2005
(as restated) 68 072 864 3 404 208 582 130 836 (41 000) 301 822 1 395 303 217
Movement on cash flow hedges
Transfer to income statement - - - - 17 256 17 256 - 17 256
Fair value movement on
financial instruments - - - - (36 603) (36 603) - (36 603)
Net income recognised directly in equity - - - - (19 347) (19 347) - (19 347)
Net profit - - - 47 564 - 47 564 3 312 50 876
Total recognised income/(loss) - - - 47 564 (19 347) 28 217 3 312 31 529
Share-based payments - - - - 2 369 2 369 - 2 369
Share options exercised 633 867 34 3 619 - - 3 653 - 3 653
Shares vested
#
56 830 2 802 - (802) 2 - 2
Exercise of options previously
expensed under IFRS 2 - - 650 - (650) - - -
BALANCE AT 31 DEC 2006 68 763 561 3 440 213 653 178 400 (59 430) 336 063 4 707 340 770
Movement on cash flow hedges
Transfer to income statement - - - - 30 371 30 371 - 30 371
Fair value movement on 
financial instruments - - - - (41 712) (41 712) - (41 712)
Net income recognised directly 
in equity - - - - (11 341) (11 341) - (11 341)
Net profit - - - 42 041 - 42 041 3 587 45 628 
Total recognised income/(loss) - - - 42 041 (11 341) 30 700 3 587 34 287
Share-based payments - - - - 2 847 2 847 - 2 847
Share options exercised 545 667 28 4 353 - - 4 381 - 4 381
Shares vested
#
10 102 - 170 - (170) - - -
Exercise of options previously
expensed under IFRS 2 - - 1 297 - (1 297) - - -
Dividends relating to 2006 - - - (6 874) - (6 874) - (6 874)
Capital raising 6 821 000 341 240 099 - - 240 440 - 240 440
Costs associated with capital raising - - (8 758) - - (8 758) - (8 758)
BALANCE AT 31 DEC 2007 76 140 330 3 809 450 814 213 567 (69 391) 598 799 8 294 607 093
Other reserves include the cumulative charge recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of share option schemes (net of amounts transferred to share
capital and share premium) and the mark-to-market valuation of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges (refer note 21).
At 31 December 2007, the balance of the share-based payment reserve amounted to US$4.4 million (31 December 2006: US$3.1 million).
The balance of the hedging reserve amounted to US$73.8 million (31 December 2006: US$62.5 million).  Refer to note 21 for further details on
the hedging reserve.
# Restricted shares were issued to directors as remuneration.  Of these shares, 57 000 (2006: 56 830) have vested, while the remainder of
the shares, 7 704 (2006: 9 760) are still held by the company as treasury shares.  The transfer between ‘other reserves’ and ‘share
premium’ in respect of the shares vested represents the cost calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
* Restated due to change in accounting policy relating to stripping costs.  Refer note 6. 
The notes on pages 86 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
84 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Attributable to equity shareholders
Number of Accum-
ordinary Share Share ulated Other Minority
US$000 shares capital premium profit reserves Total interest Total 85
Statements of consolidated cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2007
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit after tax 45 628 50 876
Income tax expense 21 273 23 097
Profit before income tax 66 901 73 973
Net interest received (2 636) (1 559)
Depreciation and amortisation 20 987 22 844
Ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges 323 653
Effect of roll forward of hedges 7 036 4 413
Unwind of discount on provisions for environmental rehabilitation 554 541
Share-based payment 2 847 2 369
96 012 103 234
Effects of changes in operating working capital items
Receivables (23 289) (9 640)
Inventories and ore stockpiles (24 786) (19 428)
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 23 897 9 469
Cash generated from operations before interest and tax 71 834 83 635
Interest received 7 887 7 384
Interest paid (5 251) (5 825)
Income tax paid (12 237) (14 784)
Net cash generated from operating activities 62 233 70 410
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Additions to property, plant and equipment (47 905) (61 508)
Repayments from contractors 25 - 105
Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (48 950) -
Net cash used by investing activities (96 855) (61 403)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Ordinary shares issued 236 063 3 653
Long term loans repaid (43 740) (21 756)
Dividends paid to company’s shareholders (6 874) -
Cash generated from/(used by) financing activities 185 449 (18 103)
NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND EQUIVALENTS 150 827 (9 096)
CASH AND EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR 143 356 152 452
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 294 183 143 356
Cash at bank and in hand 11 447 10 948
Short term bank deposits 282 736 132 408
294 183 143 356
The effective interest rate on short term bank deposits was 4.56% (2006: 4.82%).  These deposits have an average maturity of 30 days.
The notes on pages 86 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   85
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
1 Nature of operations
The company and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) together with its
joint ventures carry out gold mining activities and exploration.
Currently there are two operating mines in Mali, West Africa: 
the Morila gold mine, which commenced production in October
2000, and the Loulo mine, which commenced production in
November 2005.  The group also has a portfolio of exploration
projects in West and East Africa.  The interests of the group in
its operating mines are held through Morila SA (‘Morila’) which
owns the Morila mine and Somilo SA (‘Somilo’) which owns the
Loulo mine.  Randgold Resources holds an effective 40%
interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold Ashanti Limited
on 3 July 2000 of one-half of Randgold Resources’ wholly-
owned subsidiary, Morila SA.  Management of Morila Limited,
the 80% shareholder of Morila, is effected through a joint
venture committee, with Randgold Resources and AngloGold
Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of the
committee.  During 2007 AngloGold Services Mali SA (‘Anser’),
a subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, was the operator of Morila.
On 15 February 2008 Randgold Resources assumed
responsibility for the operatorship.
Randgold Resources holds an effective 80% interest in Loulo.
The remaining 20% interest is held by the Malian government.
Randgold Resources is the operator of Loulo.
The group has various exploration programmes ranging from
substantial to early stage in Mali West, around Morila and in
Senegal, Tanzania, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana.  
A feasibility study and an extensive drilling programme have
been completed for the Tongon project in Côte d’Ivoire and the
board of the company approved on 31 January 2008 the
development of a new mine at Tongon subject to the approval
of the mining convention by the Côte d’Ivoire Minister of Mines
and Energy.
2 Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation 
of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years
presented, unless otherwise stated.  The company changed its
accounting policy on deferred stripping costs in 2006.  Refer 
to note 6.
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements of Randgold Resources
Limited and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).  The
consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of
available-for-sale financial assets, and various financial assets
and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) which are
carried at fair value.  The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates.  It also requires management to exercise
its judgement in the process of applying the company’s
accounting policies.  The areas involving a high degree of
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and
estimates are significant to the consolidated financial
statements, are disclosed in note 3.
The following standards and interpretations which have been
recently issued or revised have not been adopted early by the
group.  Their expected impact is discussed below:
IFRS 8 OPERATING SEGMENTS (effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009)
The objective of this IFRS is to require entities to disclose
information to enable users of its financial statements to
evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business
activities in which it engages and the economic
environments in which it operates.  The company will apply
IFRS 8 from 1 January 2009, but it is not expected to have
any impact on the accounts of the company or group.
IAS 23 BORROWING COSTS (revised) (effective for
accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009).
The main change from the previous version is the removal
of the option of immediately recognising as an expense
borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial
period of time to get ready for use or sale.  The company
will apply IAS 23 (revised) from 1 January 2009, but it is 
not expected to have any impact on the accounts of the
company or group, as the policy applied by the company is
in line with the revised IAS 23.
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 11 IFRS 2 SHARE-BASED
PAYMENT - GROUP AND TREASURY SHARE
TRANSACTIONS (effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 March 2007)
This interpretation addresses the classification of a share-
based payment transaction (as equity or cash-settled), 
in which equity instruments of the parent or another group
entity are transferred, in the financial statements of the entity
receiving accounts of the company or group.  The company
will apply IFRIC Interpretation 11 from 1 March 2007, but it
is not expected to have any impact on the accounts of the
company or group.
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 12 SERVICE CONCESSION
ARRANGEMENTS (effective for annual periods beginning
on or after 1 January 2008)
This interpretation provides guidance to private sector
entities on certain recognition and measurement issues that
arise in accounting for public to private service concession
arrangements.  The company will apply IFRIC 12 from 
1 January 2008, but it is not expected to have any impact
on the accounts of the company or group.
IFRIC 13 CUSTOMER LOYALTY PROGRAMMES
(for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008)
This interpretation addresses sale transactions in which 
the entities grant customers award credits that, subject to
meeting any further qualifying conditions, the customers 
can redeem in future for free discounted goods or services.
The company will apply IFRIC 13 from 1 July 2008, but it 
is not expected to have any impact on the accounts of the
company or group.
IFRIC 14 AND IAS 19 THE LIMITS ON DEFINED ASSET,
MINIMUM FUNDING REQUIREMENTS AND THEIR
INTERACTION (for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2008)
This interpretation clarifies when refunds or reductions in
future contributions should be regarded as available in
accordance with paragraph 58 of IAS 19, how a minimum
funding requirement might affect the availability of reductions
in future contributions and when a funding requirement
might give rise to a liability.  The company will apply 
IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2008, but it is not expected to
have any impact on the accounts of the company or group.
The group has adopted the following standards which is
effective for the first time this year.  The impact is discussed
below:
IFRS 7 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DISCLOSURE AND
COMPLEMENTARY AMENDMENT TO IAS 1,
PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - CAPITAL
DISCLOSURES (effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2007)
The objective of this IFRS is to require entities to provide
disclosures in their financial statements that enable users 
to evaluate the significance of financial instruments for the
entity’s financial position; and the nature and extent of risks
arising from financial instruments to which the entity is 
86 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 exposed during the period and at the reporting date, and
how the entity manages those risks.  The amendment to
IAS 1 introduces disclosures about the level of an entity’s
capital and how it manages capital.  The adoption of IFRS 7
and the amendment to IAS 1 had a significant impact on
disclosures.  The disclosures are included in notes 7, 15,
20 and 21.
The group has adopted the following standards and
interpretations which are effective for the first time this year
without any significant impact:
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 7, APPLYING THE
RESTATEMENT APPROACH UNDER IAS 29, FINANCIAL
REPORTING IN HYPERINFLATIONARY ECONOMIES
(effective for accounting periods beginning on 
or after 1 March 2006).
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 8 SCOPE OF IFRS 2 
(effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 May 2006).
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 9 REASSESSMENT OF
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES (effective for annual periods
beginning on or after 1 June 2006).
IFRIC INTERPRETATION 10 INTERIM FINANCIAL
REPORTING AND IMPAIRMENT (effective for annual
periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006).
CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial information includes the financial
statements of the company, its subsidiaries and the company’s
proportionate share in joint ventures using uniform accounting
policies for like transactions and other events in similar
circumstances.
SUBSIDIARIES
Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the power to
govern the financial and operating policies, generally
accompanying an interest of more than one half of the voting
rights.  Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on
which control is transferred to the group.  They are de-
consolidated from the date that control ceases.  The purchase
method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of
subsidiaries by the group.  The cost of an acquisition is
measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity
instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the
date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the
acquisition.  Identifiable assets acquired (including mineral
property interests) and liabilities and contingent liabilities
assumed in a business combination are measured initially at
their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent
of any minority interest.  The excess of the cost of acquisition
over the fair value of the group’s share of the identifiable net
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.  If the cost of
acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the
subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains 
on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by
the group.
JOINT VENTURES
Joint ventures are those entities in which the group holds a long
term interest and which are jointly controlled by the group and
one or more joint venture partners under a contractual
arrangement.
The group’s interest in such jointly controlled entities is
accounted for by proportionate consolidation.  Under this
method the group includes its share of the joint venture’s
individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash
flows on a line by line basis with similar items in the group’s
financial statements. Inter company accounts and transactions
are eliminated on consolidation.
The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on the sale
of assets by the group to the joint venture that is attributable to
the other joint venture partners.  The group does not recognise
its share of profits or losses from the joint venture that result
from the purchase of assets by the group from the joint venture
until it resells the assets to an independent party.  However, if a
loss on the transaction provides evidence of a reduction in the
net realisable value of current assets or an impairment loss, the 
loss is recognised immediately.  The results of joint ventures are
included from the effective dates of acquisition and up to the
effective dates of disposal.
SEGMENT REPORTING
A business segment is a group of assets and operations
engaged in performing mining or other services that are subject
to risks and returns that are different from those of other
business segments.  A geographic segment is engaged in
providing products or services within a particular economic
environment that is subject to risks and returns that are different
from those of segments operating in other economic
environments.  The group has only one business segment, that
of gold mining.  Segment analysis is based on individual mining
operations.  Corporate and exploration income and costs not
directly related to the mining operations are not allocated to
segments.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY
Items included in the financial statements of each of the
group’s entities are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the entity operates
(‘the functional currency’).  The consolidated financial
statements are presented in US dollars, which is the
company’s functional and presentation currency.
TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant
functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at
the date of the transactions.  Foreign exchange gains and
losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions
and from the translation at year end exchange rates of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
UNDEVELOPED PROPERTIES
Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not
performed sufficient exploration work to determine whether
significant mineralisation exist are carried at original
acquisition cost.  Where the directors consider that there is
little likelihood of the properties being exploited, or the value
of the exploitable rights has diminished below cost, an
impairment is recorded.
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
Long-lived assets including development costs and mine
plant facilities are initially recorded at cost.  Where relevant
the estimated cost of dismantling the asset and remediating
the site is included in the cost of property, plant and
equipment, subsequently they are measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   87 88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
Development costs and mine plant facilities relating to
existing and new mines are capitalised.  Development costs
consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred to establish
or expand productive capacity and are capitalised until
commercial levels of production are achieved, after which
the costs are amortised.
SHORT-LIVED ASSETS
Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are shown at
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION
Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as
freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw water
dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as well as mine
development costs.  Depreciation and amortisation are
charged over the life of the mine (or over the remaining
useful life of the asset, if shorter) based on estimated ore
tonnes contained in proven and probable reserves, to
reduce the cost to estimated residual values.  Proven and
probable ore reserves reflect estimated quantities of
economically recoverable reserves, which can be recovered
in the future from known mineral deposits.  Total proven and
probable reserves are used in the depreciation calculation.
The remaining useful lives for Morila and Loulo are
estimated at five and a minimum of sixteen years
respectively.  Any changes to the expected life of the mine
(or asset) are applied prospectively in calculating
depreciation and amortisation charges.  Short-lived assets
which include motor vehicles, office equipment and
computer equipment are depreciated over estimated useful
lives of between two to five years but limited to the
remaining mine life.
IMPAIRMENT
The carrying amount of the property, plant and equipment 
of the group is compared to the recoverable amount of the
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the net book value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and
the fair value less cost to sell.  In assessing the value in
use, the expected future cash flows from the assets is
determined by applying a discount rate to the anticipated
pre-tax future cash flows.  The discount rate used is derived
from the group’s weighted average cost of capital.  An
impairment is recognised in the income statement to the
extent that the carrying amount exceeds the assets’
recoverable amount.  The revised carrying amounts are
amortised in line with group accounting policies.  A
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the
recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of
the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.  
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is
limited to the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss
been recognised in prior years.  Assets are grouped at the
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash
flows (cash-generating units) for purposes of assessing
impairment.  The estimates of future discounted cash flows
are subject to risks and uncertainties including the future
gold price.  It is therefore reasonably possible that changes
could occur which may affect the recoverability of mining
assets.
STRIPPING COSTS
All stripping costs incurred during the production phase of a
mine are treated as variable production costs and as a result 
are included in the cost of inventory produced during the period
that the stripping costs are incurred.  Refer to note 6.
INVENTORIES
Include ore stockpiles, gold in process and supplies and spares
and are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.  The
cost of ore stockpiles and gold produced is determined
principally by the weighted average cost method using related
production costs.  Costs of gold inventories include all costs
incurred up until production of an ounce of gold such as milling
costs, mining costs and directly attributable mine general and
administration costs but exclude transport costs, refining costs
and royalties.  Net realisable value is determined with reference
to current market prices.  Morila uses a selective mining
process and has a few grade categories.  Full grade ore is
defined as ore above 1.4g/t and marginal ore is definded as ore
below 1.4g/t.  For Loulo, high grade ore is defined as ore above
3.5g/t and medium grade is defined as ore above 1.2g/t.  All
stockpile grades are currently being processed and all ore is
expected to be fully processed.  This does not include high
grade tailings at Morila, which are carried at zero value due to
uncertainty as to whether they will be processed through the
plant.  The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in
accordance with the life of mine processing plan that has been
optimised based on the known mineral reserves, current plant
capacity and mine design.  Stores and materials consist of
consumable stores and are valued at weighted average cost
after appropriate impairment of redundant and slow moving
items.  Consumable stock for which the group has substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership are brought on to the
balance sheet.
INTEREST/BORROWING COST
Is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account 
the principal outstanding and the effective rate over the period
to maturity.  Borrowing cost is expensed as incurred except to
the extent that it relates directly to the construction of property,
plant and equipment during the time that is required to complete
and prepare the asset for its intended use, when it is capitalised
as part of property, plant and equipment.  Borrowing cost is
capitalised as part of the cost of the asset where it is probable
that the asset will result in economic benefit and where the
borrowing cost can be measured reliably.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
These are measured as set out below.  Financial instruments
carried on the balance sheet include cash and cash
equivalents, investments in subsidiaries and joint venture,
receivables, accounts payable, borrowings and derivative
financial instruments.
INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURE
Are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment in the
financial statements of the company.  Dividends are accounted
for when the company becomes entitled to receive them.  
On the disposal of an investment, the difference between the
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or
credited to the income statement.
DERIVATIVES
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction
costs on the date a derivative contract is entered into (trade
date) and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value,
unless they meet the criteria for the ‘normal purchases normal
sales’ exemption.  On the date a derivative contract is entered
into, the group designates the derivative for accounting
purposes as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognised 
88 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 asset or liability (fair value hedge) or a hedge of a forecast
transaction (cash flow hedge).  The group does not have any
fair value hedges.  Certain derivative transactions, while
providing effective economic hedges under the group’s risk
management policies, do not qualify for hedge accounting.  The
group formally documents all relationships between hedging
instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management
objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge
transactions.  This process includes linking derivatives
designated as hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to
specific forecasted transactions.  The group formally assesses,
both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, whether
the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of
the hedged item.  Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is
highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flow of the
hedged item, and that is designated and qualifies as a cash
flow hedge, are recognised directly in equity.  The gain or loss
relating to the ineffective portion of derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting is recognised immediately in the income
statement within other expenses.  Amounts deferred in equity
are transferred to the income statement in the same periods
during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects net
profit or loss.  Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income
statement.  When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or
when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge
accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that
time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast
transaction occurs and is ultimately recognised in the income
statement.  When a forecast transaction is no longer expected
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity
is immediately transferred to the income statement.
The fair values of derivative instruments used for hedging
purposes are disclosed in note 20.  Movements on the hedging
reserve in shareholders’ equity are shown in note 20.  The full
fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current
asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item
is more than 12 months; it is classified as a current asset or
liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less
than 12 months.
RECEIVABLES
Are recognised initially at fair value.  There is a rebuttable
presumption that the transaction price is fair value unless this
could be refuted by reference to market indicators.
Subsequently, receivables are measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method, less for provision for
impairment.  A provision for impairment of trade receivables is
established when there is objective evidence that the group will
not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original
terms of receivables.  Significant financial difficulties of the
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or
financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments
are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the
asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.  The
amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at
cost.  For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and
cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call
with banks, other short term highly liquid investments with a
maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase and 
bank overdrafts.  In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are
included in borrowings in current liabilities.
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are
either designated in this category or not classified in any of the
other categories.  Available-for-sale financial assets are
designated on acquisition.  They are included in current assets
and are carried at fair value.  Where a decline in the fair value of
an available-for-sale financial asset constitutes objective
evidence of impairment, the amount of the loss is recognised in
the income statement.
REHABILITATION COSTS
The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation costs is
provided for in the financial statements and capitalised within
mining assets on initial recognition.  Rehabilitation will generally
occur on closure or after closure of a mine.  Initial recognition is
at the time of the disturbance occurring and thereafter as and
when additional disturbances take place.  The estimates are
reviewed annually to take into account the effects of inflation
and changes in estimates and are discounted using rates that
reflect the time value of money.  Annual increases in the
provision due to the unwinding of the discount are recognised in
the income statement as a finance cost.  The present value of
additional disturbances and changes in the estimate of the
rehabilitation liability are capitalised to mining assets against an
increase in the rehabilitation provision.  The rehabilitation asset is
amortised as noted previously.  Rehabilitation projects
undertaken, included in the estimates, are charged to the
provision as incurred.
Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, which
relate to liabilities arising from specific events, are expensed
when they are known, probable and may be reasonably
estimated.
PROVISIONS
Are recognised when the group has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of past events where it is
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable
estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
BORROWINGS
Are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs
incurred.  Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised
cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction
costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective
interest method.  Borrowings are classified as current liabilities
unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement
of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet
date.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
Accounts payable and other short term monetary liabilities, are
initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
CURRENT TAX
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable
income for the year calculated using rates (and laws) that have
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet
date.  It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or
recoverable in respect of previous periods.
DEFERRED TAXATION
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated
financial statements.  However, if the temporary difference arise
from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction
other than a business combination that at the time of the
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, 
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   89 90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
it is not accounted for.  Deferred tax is determined using tax
rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred
tax liability is settled.  Deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on
investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled 
by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
SHARE CAPITAL
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.  Incremental costs
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are
shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
PENSION OBLIGATIONS
The group has defined contribution plans.  A defined
contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group
pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.  The group
has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further
contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to
pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service
in the current and prior periods.  For defined contribution
plans, the group pays contributions to publicly or privately
administered provident funds on a mandatory, contractual or
voluntary basis.  The group has no further payment
obligations once the contributions have been paid.  The
contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense
when they are due.  Prepaid contributions are recognised
as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction
in the future payments is available.
TERMINATION BENEFITS
Termination benefits are payable when employment is
terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever
an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for
these benefits.  The group recognises termination benefits
when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the
employment of current employees according to a detailed
formal plan without possibility of withdrawal; or providing
termination benefits as a result of an offer made to
encourage voluntary redundancy.  Benefits falling due more
than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to
present value.
PROFIT-SHARING AND BONUS PLANS
The group recognises a liability and an expense for
bonuses.  The group recognises a provision where
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that
has created a constructive obligation.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The fair value of the employee services received in
exchange for the grant of options or shares after 
7 November 2002 is recognised as an expense.  The total
amount to be expensed rateably over the vesting period is
determined by reference to the fair value of the options or
shares determined at the grant date, excluding the impact
of any non-market vesting conditions.  Non-market vesting
conditions are included in assumptions about the number of
options that are expected to become exercisable or the
number of shares that the employee will ultimately receive.
This estimate is revised at each balance sheet date and the
difference is charged or credited to the income statement,
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received on exercise of the options net of
any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to
equity.
FINANCE LEASES
Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is
based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an
assessment of whether fulfilment of the arrangement is
dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether
the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.  Leases of
plant and equipment where the group assumes a significant
portion of risks and rewards of ownership are classified as a
finance lease.  Finance leases are capitalised at the estimated
present value of the underlying lease payments.  Each lease
payment is allocated between the liability and the finance
charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance
outstanding.  The interest portion of the finance payment is
charged to the income statement over the lease period.  The
plant and equipment acquired under the finance lease are
depreciated over the useful lives of the assets, or over the lease
term if shorter.
OPERATING LEASES
Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is
based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an
assessment of whether fulfilment of the arrangement is
dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether
the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.  Leases in
which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the
income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the
lease.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts is
recognised when the price is determinable, the product has
been delivered in accordance with the terms of the contract, the
significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred
to the customer and collection of the sales price is reasonably
assured.  These criteria are met when the gold leaves the
mines’ smelt houses.  As sales from gold contracts are subject
to customer survey adjustment, sales are initially recorded on a
provisional basis using the group’s best estimate of the
contained metal.  Subsequent adjustments are recorded in
revenue to take into account final assay and weight certificates
from the refinery, if different from the initial certificates.  The
differences between the estimated and actual contained gold
have not been significant historically.
EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION COSTS
The group expenses all exploration and evaluation expenditures
until the directors conclude that a future economic benefit is
more likely than not of being realised, ie ‘probable’.  While the
criteria for concluding that an expenditure should be capitalised
is always probable, the information that the directors use to
make that determination depends on the level of exploration.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield sites,
being those where the group does not have any mineral
deposits which are already being mined or developed, is
expensed as incurred until a final feasibility study has been
completed, after which the expenditure is capitalised within
development costs if the final feasibility study demonstrates
that future economic benefits are probable.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on brownfield sites,
being those adjacent to mineral deposits which are already
being mined or developed, is expensed as incurred until the
directors are able to demonstrate that future economic 
90 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 benefits are probable through the completion of a
prefeasibility study, after which the expenditure is capitalised
as a mine development cost.  A ‘prefeasibility study’
consists of a comprehensive study of the viability of a
mineral project that has advanced to a stage where the
mining method, in the case of underground mining, or the
pit configuration, in the case of an open pit, has been
established, and which, if an effective method of mineral
processing has been determined, includes a financial
analysis based on reasonable assumptions of technical,
engineering, operating economic factors and the evaluation
of other relevant factors.  The prefeasibility study, when
combined with existing knowledge of the mineral property
that is adjacent to mineral deposits that are already being
mined or developed, allow the directors to conclude that it
is more likely than not that the group will obtain future
economic benefit from the expenditures.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to extensions
of mineral deposits which are already being mined or
developed, including expenditure on the definition of
mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised as a
mine development cost following the completion of an
economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
This economic evaluation is distinguished from a
prefeasibility study in that some of the information that
would normally be determined in a prefeasibility study is
instead obtained from the existing mine or development.
This information when combined with existing knowledge of
the mineral property already being mined or developed
allow the directors to conclude that more likely than not the
group will obtain future economic benefit from the
expenditures.  Costs relating to property acquisitions are
also capitalised.  These costs are capitalised within
development costs.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is
recognised as a liability in the group’s financial statements in the
period in which the dividends are approved by the board of
directors and declared to shareholders.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
Is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Is presented when the inclusion of potential ordinary shares has
a dilutive effect on earnings per share.
3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Some of the accounting policies require the application of
significant judgement by management in selecting the
appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates.  
By their nature, these judgements are subject to an inherent
degree of uncertainty and are based on historical experience,
terms of existing contracts, management’s view on trends in the
gold mining industry and information from outside sources.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below:
FUTURE REHABILITATION OBLIGATIONS
The net present value of current rehabilitation estimates have
been discounted to their present value at 4% per annum 
(2006: 6%), for Morila, being an estimate of the prevailing
interest rates.  A 4% (2006: 6.5%) discount rate was used for
Loulo.  Expenditure is expected to be incurred at the end of the
respective mine lives.  For further information, including the
carrying amounts of the liabilities, refer to note 14.  A 1%
change in the discount rate on the group’s rehabilitation
estimates would result in a US$1.2 million (2006: US$1 million)
impact on the provision for environmental rehabilitation.
GOLD PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
The following gold prices were used in the mineral reserves
optimisation calculations:
2007 2006
Morila US$525 US$475
Loulo: open pit US$550 US$475
Loulo: underground US$550 US$475
Tongon US$525 US$475
An increase in the gold price used would results in an increase
in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
DETERMINATION OF ORE RESERVES
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore
reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation
may change significantly when new information becomes
available.  Changes in the forecast prices of commodities,
exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change
the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in
the reserves being restated.
UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO TRANSACTIONS WITH 
A CONTRACTOR
As explained in note 25 to the financial statements, there are
uncertainties relating to the value of the securities held in
respect of advances to a contractor and also a claim relating to
the Loulo development.  The amounts reflected in the financial
statements reflect the directors’ best estimate of the amount
that will be recovered in respect of the advances and the
outcome of the dispute relating to the cost of the development.
EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION EXPENDITURE
The group has to apply judgement in determining whether
exploration and evaluation expenditure should be capitalised or
expensed.  Management exercises this judgement based on
the results of economic evaluations, prefeasibility or feasibility
studies.  Costs are capitalised where those studies conclude
that future economic benefit is more likely than not.
INDIRECT TAXES RECEIVABLE
Given their slow-moving nature, the group has had to apply
judgement in determining when amounts will be recovered with
respect to indirect taxes owing to Morila and Loulo by the Mali
Government.  The amounts reflected in the financial statements
are the directors’ best estimate of the timing of the recovery of
these amounts.  For further information, including the carrying
amount of the assets, refer to note 7.
DEPRECIATION
There are several methods for calculating depreciation, ie the
straight line method, the production method using ounces
produced and the production method using tonnes milled.  The
directors believe that the tonnes milled method is the best
indication of plant and infrastructure usage.
DERIVATIVE VALUATION
The company uses valuations obtained from banks for the
mark-to-market estimation of the Loulo hedge book.  The banks
use the following key inputs in the valuations:
31 Dec 31 Dec
2007 2006
LIBOR rates 5.36 - 4.70% 5.32 - 5.33%
Spot gold prices US$836.50 US$635.70
Gold lease rates 0.12 - 0.26% 0.09 - 0.17%
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Refer to note 18 for the key assumptions used in determining
the value of share-based payments.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   91 92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
92 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
4 Income and mining taxes
Current taxation 19 454 22 671
Deferred taxation 11 1 819 426
21 273 23 097
The tax on the group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would 
arise using the statutory tax rate applicable to the group’s Malian operations.
Profit before tax 66 901 73 973
Tax calculated at tax rate of 35% 23 415 25 891
Reconciling items
Income taxed at 0% (3 418) (3 290)
Expenses deductible at 0% 11 201 8 426
Mali tax holiday permanent differences (10 981) (9 125)
Other permanent differences 1 056 1 195
Taxation charge 21 273 23 097
The company is not subject to income tax in Jersey.  Morila SA benefited from a five year tax holiday until 14 November 2005.  Somilo SA
also benefits from a five year tax holiday in Mali.  The tax holiday commenced on 8 November 2005.  The benefit of the tax holiday to the
group was to increase its net profit by US$11 million (2006: US$9.1 million).  Accordingly, had the group not benefited from the tax holiday
in Mali, earnings per share would have been reduced by US$0.16 and US$0.14 for the years ended 31 December 2007 and 2006
respectively.  Under Malian tax law, income tax is based on the greater of 35% of taxable income or 0.75% of gross revenue.  The Morila
and Loulo operations have no assessable capital expenditure carry forwards or assessable tax losses, as at 31 December 2007 and 2006
respectively, for deduction against future mining income.
Income Per share
(numerator) Shares amount
US$000 (denominator) US$
5 Earnings and dividends per share
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
Shares outstanding 1 January 2007 68 763 561
Weighted number of shares issued 825 422
Income available to shareholders 42 041 69 588 983 0.60
EFFECT OF DILUTIVE SECURITIES
Weighted stock options issued to employees 682 932
Diluted earnings per share 42 041 70 271 915 0.60
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
Shares outstanding 1 January 2006 68 072 864
Weighted number of shares issued 318 928
Income available to shareholders 47 564 68 391 792 0.70
EFFECT OF DILUTIVE SECURITIES
Weighted stock options issued to employees - 939 243 -
Diluted earnings per share 47 564 69 331 035 0.69
Refer to note 18 for details on share options issued to employees.
US$6.9 million (US$0.10 per share) was paid as dividends in 2007 (2006: 0).
On 31 January 2008, the board of directors approved an annual dividend of 12.0 US cents per share which will result in an aggregate
dividend payment of US$9.1 million and is expected to be paid in March 2008.
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 6 Changes in accounting policy
The company changed its accounting policy on stripping costs, under both IFRS and US GAAP, in 2006.  Previously, costs of production
stage waste stripping in excess of the expected pit life average stripping ratio were deferred and then charged to production when the
actual stripping ratio was below the expected pit life average stripping ratio.  Under the revised accounting policy, all stripping costs
incurred during the production phase of a mine are treated as variable production costs and as a result are included in the cost of the
inventory produced during the period that the stripping costs are incurred.
Under US GAAP, EITF 04-06 ‘Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during Production in the Mining Industry’ is effective for reporting
periods beginning after 15 December 2005.  The consensus does not permit the deferral of any waste stripping costs during the
production phase of a mine, but requires instead that they should be treated as variable production costs.  The directors have decided 
to adopt the same treatment under IFRS which will ensure that the accounting policies applied under IFRS and US GAAP remain in line.
With regard to the conclusions reached by the EITF, the directors believe the revised policy will mean that the financial statements provide
reliable and more relevant information about the group’s financial position and its financial performance.  In accordance with the
requirements of IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’, the change in the IFRS policy was applied
retrospectively and hence the 2005 figures were restated.
The adjustment reported in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006 arising from the change in the IFRS accounting
policy is set out below:
Group
31 Dec
US$000 2006
Decrease in deferred stripping asset 2 115
Decrease in ore stockpiles 6 324
Decrease in gold in process 36
Decrease in deferred taxation liability 740
Increase in deferred taxation asset 2 966
Decrease in opening retained earnings 7 915
Increase in net profit 3 146
Increase in basic earnings per share (cents per share) 5
Increase in fully diluted earnings per share (cents per share) 5
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 2007 2006
7 Receivables
Trade 25 405 12 545 - -
Advances to contractors 7.1 12 064 12 064 - -
Taxation debtor 7.2 19 911 20 322 - -
Prepayments 8 606 5 018 1 153 589
Other 77 1 935 64 435
66 063 51 884 1 217 1 024
Impairment provision (1 136) (3 183) - -
Total 64 927 48 701 1 217 1 024
Less: current portion (42 104) (34 999) (1 217) (1 024)
Long term portion 22 823 13 702 - -
7.1 Advances to contractors comprise advances made to a contractor at Loulo, MDM Ferroman (Pty) Ltd (in liquidation) (‘MDM’).  
MDM was the contractor responsible for construction of the Loulo mine until the main construction contract was taken back on 
30 December 2005.  Significant uncertainties exist relating to the recoverability of these advances.  More detail is given in note 25 
to the financial statements.
7.2 The taxation debtor relates to indirect taxes owing to the group by the State of Mali.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   93 Company Group
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006
94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
7 Receivables (continued)
The fair values of trade and other receivables are as follows:
Trade 25 405 12 545 - -
Advances to contractors 12 064 12 064 - -
Taxation debtor 18 775 17 139 - -
Prepayments 8 606 5 018 1 153 589
Other 77 1 935 64 435
64 927 48 701 1 217 1 024
Movements on the provision for impairment and present valuing of trade receivables are as follows:
AT 1 JANUARY 3 183 1 633
Provision for receivables impairment - 1 550
Unused amounts reversed (2 047) -
AT 31 DECEMBER 1 136 3 183
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in mining and processing costs in the income statement.
The unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The credit quality of receivables that are not past due or impaired remains very high.  The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting
date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.  The group does not hold any collateral as security.  Refer to note 19 for
further information on the concentration of credit risk.
US$9.2 million of advances to contractors and the taxation debtor falls due within 12 months, whilst the balance falls due thereafter.  All
other receivable balances are due within 30 days.
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
8 Inventories and ore stockpiles
Consumable stores 31 993 18 739
Short term portion of ore stockpiles 21 383 12 041
Gold in process 4 034 3 420
Total current asset inventories and ore stockpiles 57 410 34 200
Long term portion of ore stockpiles 43 190 41 614
Total inventories and ore stockpiles 100 600 75 814
Ore stockpiles have been split between long and short term based on current life of mine plan estimates.
94 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 9 Property, plant and equipment
Mine properties, mine development costs and mine plant facilities and equipment
Cost
At the beginning of year 297 839 236 331
Disposals - -
Additions 49 583 61 508
347 422 297 839
Accumulated depreciation and amortisation
At beginning of year 56 539 33 695
Disposals - -
Charge for the year 20 987 22 844
77 526 56 539
Net book value 269 876 241 300
LONG-LIVED ASSETS
Included in property, plant and equipment are long-lived assets which are amortised over the life of the mine and comprise the metallurgical
plant, tailings and raw water dams, power plant and mine infrastructure.  The net book value of these assets was US$254.1 million as at 
31 December 2007 (2006: US$226.4 million).
SHORT-LIVED ASSETS
Included in property, plant and equipment are short-lived assets which are amortised over their useful lives and are comprised of motor
vehicles and other equipment.  The net book value of these assets was US$7.2 million as at 31 December 2007 (2006: US$5.2 million).
UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY
Included in property, plant and equipment are undeveloped property costs of US$8.6 million (2006: US$9.7 million).
Refer to note 15 for assets collateralised and under finance lease.  No borrowing costs were capitalised as part of additions during the 
year (2006: US$0 million).  
Refer to the property, plant and equipment accounting policy note on page 87 and 88 for details of each asset category’s useful economic
life.
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006
10 Investments and loans in subsidiaries 
and joint venture
Investment in Somilo - - 5 745 5 745
Investment in Morila (joint venture) - - 271 271
Investment in Randgold Resources Mali SARL - - 2 2
Total investments 6 018 6 018
Loan - Morila (joint venture) - - 59 139
Loan - Somilo - - 201 174 145 424
Loan - Seven Bridges - - 121 (157)
Loan - Randgold Resources Mali SARL - - 7 130 5 347
Total loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures - - 208 484 150 753
- - 214 502 156 771
THE GROUP’S INTEREST IN THE MORILA JOINT 
VENTURE WAS AS FOLLOWS:
Non-current assets 84 434 81 549 - -
Current assets 42 982 35 921 - -
Total assets 127 416 117 470 - -
Non-current liabilities 8 194 9 279 - -
Current liabilities 12 714 9 805 - -
Total liabilities 20 908 19 084 - -
Group
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   95
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
11 Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 35% (2005: 35%).
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006
The movement on deferred taxation is as follows:
At the beginning of the year (2 531) (2 957)
Income statement charge 4 1 819 426
At the end of the year (712) (2 531)
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities comprise
the following:
Decelerated tax depreciation 1 451 462
DEFERRED TAXATION LIABILITY 1 451 462
Deferred stripping (2 163) (2 966)
Accelerated tax depreciation - (27)
DEFERRED TAXATION ASSET (2 163) (2 993)
NET DEFERRED TAXATION ASSET (712) (2 531)
US$0.8 million is expected to be recovered in more than 12 months (2006: US$2.1 million).
Temporary differences which are expected to be realised during the Loulo tax holiday are recognised at 0%.
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006
12 Available-for-sale financial assets
BEGINNING OF YEAR - - - -
Acquisition of asset backed securities 48 950 - 48 950 -
END OF YEAR 48 950 - 48 950 -
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in 2007 or 2006.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following:
2007 2006
Investments in US asset backed securities 48 950 -
This relates to the company’s portfolio of AAA rated short term asset-backed securities and other corporate debt instruments, previously
included in cash and cash equivalents.  The trading market for these instruments has become substantially illiquid as a result of unusual
conditions in the credit markets.  The company continues to receive interest payable on these securities and all the securities remain AAA
rated.
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006
13 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Trade payables 19 635 15 410 332 34
Payroll and other compensation 4 540 3 301 3 695 2 514
Accruals 39 021 20 598 6 755 376
Other 134 152 128 128
63 330 39 461 10 910 3 052
96 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 14 Provision for environmental rehabilitation
Opening balance 8 842 9 480 - -
Unwinding of discount 554 541 - -
Change in estimates 1 678 (1 179) - -
11 074 8 842 - -
As at 31 December 2007, US$6.6 million of the provision relates to Loulo (31 December 2006: US$4.8 million) which is based on
estimates provided by environmental consultants in connection with the Loulo feasibility study.  The remaining US$4.5 million relates to
Morila (31 December 2006: US$4 million).  The provisions for rehabilitation costs include estimates for the effect of inflation and changes 
in estimates and have been discounted to their present value at 4% (2006: 6%) per annum for Morila, being an estimate derived from the
risk free rate.  A 4% (2006: 6.5%) discount rate was used for Loulo.  Limited environmental rehabilitation regulations currently exist in 
Mali to govern the mines, so the directors have based the provisions for environmental rehabilitation on standards set by the World Bank,
which require an environmental management plan, an annual environmental report, a closure plan, an up-to-date register of plans 
of the facility, preservation of public safety on closure, carrying out rehabilitation works and ensuring sufficient funds exist for the closure
works.  However, it is reasonably possible that the group’s estimate of its ultimate rehabilitation liabilities could change as a result of
changes in regulations or cost estimates.  The group is committed to rehabilitation of its properties.  It makes use of independent
environmental consultants for advice and it also uses past experience in similar situations to ensure that the provisions for rehabilitation are
adequate.  Current Life of Mine plans envisage the expected outflow to occur at the end of the Life of Mine, which is 2013 for Morila and
2024 for Loulo.
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006 2007 2006
15 Borrowings
Morila power plant finance lease 15.1 2 702 3 828 - -
Morila oxygen plant finance lease 15.2 546 718 - -
Loulo project finance loan 15.3 - 40 800 - -
Corporate revolving credit facility 15.3 - -
Loulo CAT finance lease 15.4 3 172 5 138 - -
6 420 50 484 - -
Less: current portion (3 647) (24 818) - -
2 773 25 666 - -
All loans are secured and have variable interest rates, except for the Loulo CAT finance lease which has a fixed rate.
15.1 MORILA POWER PLANT FINANCE LEASE
The Morila power plant finance lease relates to five generators leased from Rolls-Royce for Morila.  The lease is repayable 
over ten years commencing 1 April 2001 and bears interest at a variable rate which as at 31 December 2007 was approximately 
23% (2006: 21%) per annum.  The lease is collateralised by plant and equipment, the net book value at 31 December 2007
amounted to US$3.6 million (2006: US$4.1 million).  Average annual lease payments of US$1.5 million are payable in
installments over the term of the lease.  The company has guaranteed the repayment of this lease.
15.2 MORILA OXYGEN PLANT FINANCE LEASE
The Morila oxygen plant finance lease relates to three oxygen generating units leased from Air Liquide for Morila.  The lease is
payable over 10 years commencing 1 December 2000 and bears interest at a variable rate which as at 31 December 2007 
was approximately 3.09% (2006: 3.48%) per annum.  The lease is collateralised by the production units, the net book value of
which at 31 December 2007 amounted to US$0.5 million (2006: US$0.6 million).
Company Group
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   97
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006 98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
15 Borrowings (continued)
15.3 LOULO PROJECT FINANCE LOAN
The Loulo project finance facility was replaced in early May of 2007 with a US$60 million corporate revolving credit facility 
to Randgold Resources.  The facility is with NM Rothschild, Société Générale, Fortis and Barclays.  It carries interest at rates 
of between LIBOR +1.4% and LIBOR +1.6%.  The facility was fully repaid in December 2007.  The corporate facility remains 
in place should it be required.  The maximum amounts outstanding under the facility are: prior to 1 November 2009 - 
US$60 million; up to 1 May 2010 - US$48 million; up to 1 November 2010 - US$36 million; up to 1 May 2011 - US$24 million.
15.4 LOULO CAT FINANCE LEASE
The Euro denominated Caterpillar finance facility relates to fifteen 3512B HD generator sets and ancillary equipment purchased
from JA Delmas and financed by a loan from Caterpillar Finance for Loulo.  The lease is payable quarterly over 42 months
commencing on 1 August 2005, and bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.03% (2006: 6.03%) per annum.  The company together
with Randgold Resources (Somilo) Limited jointly guaranteed the repayment of this lease.  The average lease payments of
US$0.5 million are payable in installments over the term of the lease.
The exposure of the group’s borrowings to interest rate changes at the balance sheet dates are as follows:
2007 2006
0 - 12 months 1 086 22 508
1 - 5 years 2 162 22 838
3 248 45 346
The carrying amounts and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows:
Carrying Carrying Fair Fair
amount amount value value
2007 2006 2007 2006
Corporate revolving credit facility - Loulo project finance loan - 19 500 - 19 500
Finance leases 2 773 6 166 2 773 6 166
2 773 25 666 2 773 25 666
The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.  The fair values
are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the borrowing rate.
The carrying amounts of the group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies:
2007 2006
US dollar 3 248 45 346
Euro 3 172 5 138
6 420 50 484
The group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities:
Floating rate:
Expiring within one year - -
Expiring beyond one year 60 000 -
60 000 -
Group Company
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 2007 2006
15.5 MATURITIES
The borrowings mature over the following periods:
Not later than 1 year 3 647 24 818 - -
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2 773 25 666 - -
Later than 5 years - - - -
6 420 50 484 - -
98 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
15 Borrowings (continued)
15.6 FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES - MINIMUM LEASE 
PAYMENTS
Balance of leases outstanding 8 070 12 405
Future finance charges on leases (1 650) (2 721)
Present value of finance lease liabilities 6 420 9 684
At the date of origination, there was no material fair value attributable to the guarantees issued by the company on behalf of group entities
to third parties.  Had the value been recognised, the depreciated carrying amount would have been insignificant.
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
16 Loans from minority shareholders in 
subsidiaries
SOMILO
Government of Mali - principal amount 685 614
Deferred interest 2 411 2 159
LOANS 3 096 2 773
MINORITY INTEREST IN ACCUMULATED PROFITS 8 294 4 707
The government of Mali loan to Somilo is uncollateralised and bears interest at the base rate of the Central Bank of West African States plus
2%.  The accrual of interest ceased in the last quarter of 2005 per mutual agreement between shareholders.  The loan is repayable from
cash flows of the Loulo mine after repayment of all other loans.  In the event of a liquidation of Somilo the shareholder loans and deferred
interest are not guaranteed.
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
17 Financial liabilities - forward gold sales
Forward gold sales 85 625 67 494
Less: current portion (33 672) (27 525)
Non-current portion 51 953 39 969
The financial liabilities relate to the Loulo forward gold sales all of which qualify for hedge accounting.  These derivative instruments are
further detailed in note 21.
18 Employment cost
The group contributes to several defined contribution provident funds.  The provident funds are funded on the “money accumulative basis”
with the members and company having been fixed in the constitutions of the funds.  All the group’s employees, other than those directly
employed by West African subsidiary companies, are entitled to be covered by the abovementioned retirement benefit plans.  Retirement
benefits for employees employed by West African subsidiary companies are provided by the state social security system to which the
company and employees contribute a fixed percentage of payroll costs each month.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   99 Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
18 Employment cost (continued)
Total employee benefit cost was as follows:
Short term benefits 4 187 3 235
Pension contributions 174 237
Share-based payments 2 847 2 369
Total 7 208 5 841
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The fair value of employee services received as consideration for equity instruments (equity settled) of the company is calculated using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The key assumptions used in this model for options granted during the year were as follows:
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2006
Expected life 3 years 3 years
Volatility 18.1 30.06% 48.96%
Risk free interest rate 4.34% 4.64%
Dividend yield 0% 0%
Weighted average share price on grant and valuation date 18.2 US$22.19 US$22.50
Weighted average exercise price 18.3 US$22.19 US$22.50
18.1 Volatility is based on the three year historical volatility of the company’s shares on each grant date.
18.2 Weighted average share price for the valuation is calculated taking into account the market price on all grant dates.
18.3 The weighted average exercise price is calculated taking into account the exercise price on each grant date.  Please refer to
page 78 for details provided on share options, including the number and weighted average exercise price of share options
outstanding at the beginning and end of each period, options granted, exercised and lapsed during the period.
18.4 The exercise of the options issued in 2007 is subject to a satisfactory performance level being achieved during the 12 month
period prior to the exercise date of each tranche of options.  The minimum performance level to be achieved is defined as level 3
in the company’s performance management system.  No performance criteria was attached to the options that were issued in
2006.
The table below summarises the information about the options outstanding:
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number contractual exercise price
OUTSTANDING OPTIONS of shares life (in years) (US$)
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICE (US$) 
At 31 December 2007
1.25 - 2.13 89 456 3.08 1.81
2.50 - 3.50 23 302 2.31 3.23
5.00 - 8.25 116 556 - -
8.05 - 8.05 443 300 6.59 8.05
12.78 - 16.15 172 000 7.61 14.31
22.50 - 22.50 192 000 8.92 22.50
22.19 - 22.19 1 500 000 9.64 22.19
2 536 614 8.17 17.30
At 31 December 2006
1.25 - 2.13 89 456 4.08 1.81
2.50 - 3.50 43 302 4.34 3.24
5.00 - 8.25 116 556 0.61 8.25
8.05 - 8.05 974 633 7.59 8.05
12.78 - 16.15 219 000 8.56 13.98
22.50 - 22.50 192 000 9.92 22.50
22.19 - 22.19 ---
1 634 947 7.22 10.09
100 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 Weighted
average
Number exercise
EXERCISABLE OPTIONS of shares average (US$)
18 Employment cost (continued)
The table below summarises the information about the RRSO options that are 
exercisable as at 31 December 2007 and 2006:
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICE (US$) 
At 31 December 2007
1.25 - 2.13 89 456 1.81
2.50 - 3.50 23 302 3.23
5.00 - 8.25 116 556 8.25
8.05 - 16.15 111 966 9.93
341 280 6.77
At 31 December 2006
1.25 - 2.13 89 456 1.81
2.50 - 3.50 43 302 3.24
5.00 - 8.25 116 556 8.25
8.05 - 8.05 154 633 8.05
403 947 6.21
19 Segment information
The group’s mining and exploration activities, which are included in the corporate and exploration segment, are conducted in West and East
Africa.  An analysis of the group’s business segments, excluding intergroup transactions, is set out below.  
Group’s 40% Corporate
share of Loulo and
US$000 Morila Mine Mine exploration Total
A) YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007
PROFIT AND LOSS
Gold sales on spot 127 687 185 734 - 313 421
Loss on matured hedges - (23 580) - (23 580)
Non-cash loss on roll forward of hedges - (7 036) - (7 036)
Total revenue 127 687 155 118 - 282 805
Mining and processing costs excluding depreciation (50 536) (87 880) - (138 416)
Depreciation and amortisation (5 428) (15 559) - (20 987)
Mining and processing costs (55 964) (103 439) - (159 403)
Transport and refining costs (277) (1 318) - (1 595)
Royalties (8 949) (9 358) - (18 307)
Exploration and corporate expenditure (832) (4 184) (30 904) (35 920)
Other (expenses)/income (2 688) (2 247) 894 (4 041)
Finance costs (1 357) (4 448) - (5 805)
Finance income 147 151 8 869 9 167
Profit before income tax 57 767 30 275 (21 141) 66 901
Income tax expense (20 725) (548) - (21 273)
Net profit 37 042 29 727 (21 141) 45 628
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (678) (47 227) - (47 905)
TOTAL ASSETS 132 442 308 224 340 053 780 719
TOTAL EXTERNAL LIABILITIES (26 863) (132 637) (11 030) (170 530)
DIVIDENDS (PAID)/RECEIVED (29 000) - 29 000 -
NET CASH FLOWS GENERATED BY/(UTILISED IN) 
OPERATIONS 24 109 42 025 (3 901) 62 233
NET CASH FLOWS UTILISED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (678) (47 227) (48 950) (96 855)
NET CASH (UTILISED IN)/GENERATED FROM 
FINANCING ACTIVITIES (1 297) (42 443) 229 189 185 449
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND 
CASH EQUIVALENTS 22 134 (47 645) 176 338 150 827
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   101 102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
19 Segment information (continued)
B) YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006
PROFIT AND LOSS
Gold sales on spot 125 951 148 956 - 274 907
Loss on matured hedges - (12 190) - (12 190)
Non-cash loss on roll forward of hedges - (4 413) - (4 413)
Total revenue 125 951 132 353 - 258 304
Mining and processing costs excluding depreciation (44 264) (70 586) - (114 850)
Depreciation and amortisation (6 233) (16 611) - (22 844)
Mining and processing costs (50 497) (87 197) - (137 694)
Transport and refining costs (244) (467) - (711)
Royalties (8 802) (8 177) - (16 979)
Exploration and corporate expenditure (2 643) (2 886) (23 276) (28 805)
Other (expenses)/income (68) (4 042) 2 409 (1 701)
Finance costs (1 258) (4 567) - (5 825)
Finance income 137 256 6 991 7 384
Profit before income tax 62 576 25 273 (13 876) 73 973
Income tax expense (23 025) 27 (99) (23 097)
Net profit 39 551 25 300 (13 975) 50 876
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (1 160) (60 245) (103) (61 508)
TOTAL ASSETS 117 470 258 557 136 137 512 164
TOTAL EXTERNAL LIABILITIES 19 084 146 228 3 309 168 621
DIVIDENDS (PAID)/RECEIVED (30 400) - 30 400 -
NET CASH FLOWS GENERATED BY/(UTILISED IN) 
OPERATIONS 32 900 48 482 (10 972) 70 410
NET CASH FLOWS UTILISED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (1 160) (60 140) (103) (61 403)
NET CASH (UTILISED IN)/GENERATED FROM FINANCING 
ACTIVITIES (1 130) (20 626) 3 653 (18 103)
NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH 
EQUIVALENTS 30 610 (32 284) (7 422) (9 096)
20 Financial risk management
In the normal course of its operations, the group is exposed to gold price, currency, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks.  In order to
manage these risks, the group may enter into transactions which make use of on-balance sheet derivatives.  The group does not acquire,
hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.  The group has developed a risk management process to facilitate, control and monitor these
risks.  The board has approved and monitors this risk management process, inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterpart limits,
controlling and reporting structures.
CONTROLLING RISK IN THE GROUP
The treasury committee is responsible for risk management activities within the group.  The treasury committee reviews and recommends to
the board all treasury counterparts, limits, instruments and hedge strategies.  At least two members of the treasury committee need to be
present for a decision to be made.  The treasury committee is only permitted to invest with institutions with investment ratings of AA- or
higher.  The treasurer is responsible for managing investment, gold price, currency, liquidity and credit risk.  The treasury function monitors
adherence to the treasury risk management policy and counterpart limits and provides regular reports.
The financial risk management objectives of the group are defined as follows:
Safeguarding the group core earnings stream from its major assets through the effective control and management of gold price risk,
foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Effective and efficient usage of credit facilities in both the short and long term through the adoption of reliable liquidity management
planning and procedures.
Ensuring that investment and hedging transactions are undertaken with creditworthy counterparts.
Ensuring that all contracts and agreements related to risk management activities are coordinated, consistent throughout the group and
comply where necessary with all relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
102 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
Group’s 40% Corporate
share of Loulo and
US$000 Morila Mine Mine exploration Total 20 Financial risk management (continued)
FOREIGN CURRENCY AND COMMODITY PRICE RISK
In the normal course of business, the group enters into transactions denominated in foreign currencies (primarily Euro and Communauté
Financière Africaine Franc).  As a result, the group is subject to exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  In general,
the group does not enter into derivatives to manage these currency risks.  Generally, the group does not hedge its exposure to gold price
fluctuation risk and sells at market spot prices.  Gold sales are disclosed in US dollars and do not expose the group to any currency
fluctuation risk.  However, during periods of capital expenditure or loan finance, the company may use forward contracts or options to
reduce the exposure to price movements, while maintaining significant exposure to spot prices.
These derivatives may establish a fixed price for a portion of future production while the group maintains the ability to benefit from increases
in the spot gold price for the majority of future gold production.  At year end, the volume of outstanding forward sale contracts was 207 240
ounces.
NET OPEN HEDGE POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
The group had the following net forward-pricing commitments outstanding against future production.
Summary: All open contracts in the group’s commodity hedge position as at 31 December 2007
2008 2009 2010 Total
US dollar/gold
FORWARD SALES
Ounces 80 496 84 996 41 748 207 240
Average US$/oz 429.23 434.90 500.38 445.89
The volume of production hedged and the tenor of the hedging book is continually reviewed in the light of changes in operational forecasts,
market conditions and the group’s hedging policy.
Forward sales contracts require the future delivery of gold at a specified price.
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of cash flow hedge derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.  During
the year to 31 December 2007, a loss of US$0.3 million (2006: US$0.7 million) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
INTEREST RATE AND LIQUIDITY RISK
Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short term cash investments and interest payable on financing activities (including
long term loans), giving rise to interest rate risk.  In the ordinary course of business, the group receives cash from its operations and 
is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.  The group generally enters into variable interest bearing
borrowings.  This cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested in a manner to achieve maximum returns while minimising
risks.  The group has in the past been able to actively source financing through public offerings, shareholder loans and third party
loans.  A 1% change in interest rates on the group’s net cash (cash and cash equivalents less borrowings) would result in a 
US$2.9 million (2006: US$0.9 million) impact on profit before tax.  The group typically holds financial investments with an average
maturity of 30 days to ensure adequate liquidity.  The maturity of borrowings is set out in note 15, the maturity of all other financial
liabilities is not later than one year.
CASH AND SHORT TERM LOANS ADVANCED
Floating rate
Fixed rate investment
investment Effective amount Effective
Maturity date Currency amount rate % million rate %
All less than one year US$ 343 133 4.56 - -
The other financial instruments of the group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not
subject to interest rate risk.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   103 104
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
20 Financial risk management (continued)
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
The group’s derivative financial instruments and cash balances do not give rise to a concentration of credit risk because it deals with a
variety of major financial institutions.  Its receivables and loans are regularly monitored and assessed.  Receivables are impaired when it is
probable that amounts outstanding are not recoverable as set out in the accounting policy note for receivables.  Gold bullion, the group’s
principal product, is produced in Mali.  The gold produced is sold to a reputable gold refinery.  The group is not exposed to significant
credit risk, as cash is received within a few days of the sale taking place.  Included in receivables is US$18.8 million net of a present value
provision (2006: US$18.4 million), see note 7, relating to indirect taxes owing to Morila and Loulo by the State of Mali, which are
denominated in FCFA.  Receivables also include advances to a contractor totalling US$12.1 million (2006: US$11.8 million) (see note 25).
Available-for-sale financial assets consists of a portfolio of AAA rated short term asset-backed securities and other corporate debt
instruments.  The trading market for these instruments has become substantially illiquid as a result of unusual conditions in the credit
markets.  The company continues to receive interest payable on these securities and all the securities remain AAA rated.  (Refer to note
12).
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns
for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.  In order to
maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders,
issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.  Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the
gearing ratio.  This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.  Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings
and trade and other payables, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents.  Total capital is calculated as
equity, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet, plus net debt.
2007 2006
Total borrowings 6 420 50 484
Less: cash and cash equivalents (294 183) (143 356)
Net cash (287 763) (92 872)
Total equity 607 093 340 770
Total capital 319 330 247 898
Gearing ratio 0% 0%
21 Fair value of financial instruments
The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of the group’s financial instruments outstanding at 31 December 2007
and 2006.  The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Carrying Carrying
amount Fair value amount Fair value
31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 Notes 2007 2007 2006 2006
FINANCIAL ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents 294 183 294 183 143 356 143 356
Available-for-sale financial assets 48 950 48 950 --
Receivables 56 321 56 321 43 683 43 683
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
Accounts payable 63 330 63 330 39 461 39 461
Current portion of long term borrowings 3 647 3 647 24 818 24 818
Long term borrowings 
(excluding loans from outside shareholders) 2 773 2 773 25 666 25 486
Liabilities on forward gold sales 17 85 625 85 625 67 494 67 494
Government of Mali loan 3 096 2 545 2 773 2 280
104 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 21 Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of the group’s on balance sheet forward 
gold sale contracts as at 31 December 2007 
(all treated as cash flow hedges):
MATURITY DATES
Year ended 2008 33 672 80 496 429
Year ended 2009 36 090 84 996 435
Year ended 2010 15 863 41 748 500
Total 85 625 207 240 446
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of the group’s on balance sheet forward 
gold sale contracts as at 31 December 2006 
(all treated as cash flow hedges):
MATURITY DATES
Year ended 2007 27 525 132 583 438
Year ended 2008 19 062 80 496 431
Year ended 2009 20 907 84 996 437
Total 67 494 298 075 436
These financial instruments were taken out as part of the Loulo project financing, but some of the contracts which matured in 2006 have
been rolled forward.
For ounces delivered into hedges the net cash proceeds from the sales will be limited to the forward price per the contract as per the
previous table.  However, the revenue recognised under IFRS in respect of forecast sales hedging using forward contracts rolled forward in
2007 will be adjusted to exclude the non-cash profit/loss rolled forward.  These profits/losses have already been recognised in the income
statement, at the original designated delivery date.
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
The hedge book liability as stated at present will realise as follows:
Amounts deferred in equity which will reduce/(increase) revenue in future periods:
2007 - 23 962
2008 32 749 19 062
2009 34 755 19 458
2010 6 319 -
73 823 62 482
The non-cash losses on rolled forward contracts for previously designated dates 
which have already been recognised in the income statement:
2007 - 3 078
2008 - -
2009 1 335 1 335
2010 9 544 -
10 879 4 413
The ineffective loss/(profit) portion of hedging contracts previously recognised 923 599
TOTAL FAIR VALUE 85 625 67 494
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   105
Carrying Forward Forward
amount sales sales
Hedging instruments US$000 ounces US$/oz 106
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
21 Fair value of financial instruments (continued)
MOVEMENT IN THE HEDGING RESERVE
OPENING BALANCE (62 482) (43 135)
Movement on cash flow hedges
Transfer to income statement 30 371 17 256
Fair value movement on financial instruments (41 712) (36 603)
CLOSING BALANCE (73 823) (62 482)
ESTIMATION OF FAIR VALUES
RECEIVABLES, ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, BANK OVERDRAFTS AND CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.
The carrying amounts are a reasonable estimate of the fair values because of the short maturity of such instruments.  Long term receivables
are discounted using the effective interest rate which approximates to a market related rate.  The rates used and the fair values are stated in
note 7.
LONG TERM BORROWINGS
The fair value of market-based floating rate long term debt is estimated using the expected future payments discounted at market interest
rates.
The fair value for the loans from minority shareholders is based on estimated project cash flows which have been discounted at 6.75% 
(2006: 6.75%).
GOLD PRICE CONTRACTS
The fair value of gold price forward sales contracts has been determined by reference to quoted market rates at year end balance sheet
dates.  See note 3.
The forward price of gold is sensitive to fluctuations in the gold spot price, interest rates and the gold lease rate.  The following table sets
forth a sensitivity analysis of the mark-to-market valuations of our hedges as at 31 December 2007:
IMPACT ON MARK-TO-MARKET VALUATION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES - FORWARD GOLD SALES
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGE IN GOLD PRICE AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
Loulo (100%):
Change in US$ gold price 20 10 5 2 0 (2) (5) (10) (20)
Mark-to-market (US$ million) (89.6) (87.6) (86.6) (86.0) (85.6) (85.2) (84.6) (83.6) (81.7)
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGE IN WEIGHTED AVERAGE US$ INTEREST RATE AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
Loulo (100%):
Change in rate 1.00% 0.50% 0.20% 0.00% -0.20% -0.50% -1.00%
Mark-to-market (US$ million) (87.6) (86.6) (86.0) (85.6) (85.2) (84.6) (83.6)
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGE IN GOLD LEASE RATE AT 31 DECEMBER 2007
Loulo (100%):
Change in rate 1.00% 0.50% 0.20% 0.00% -0.20% -0.50% -1.00%
Mark-to-market (US$ million) (83.9) (84.8) (85.3) (85.6) (86.0) (86.5) (87.3)
These movements will affect profits when the relevant forward contracts expire.
Group
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
22 Commitments and contingent liabilities
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE CONTRACTED FOR AT BALANCE SHEET DATE BUT 
NOT YET INCURRED IS:
Property, plant and equipment 2 013 10 450
The group’s capital commitments relating to the Morila joint venture, included above, amounts to US$0.5 million (2006: US$0.1 million).
There are no contingent liabilities for Morila.  If the group were to early terminate its mining contract at Loulo without cause, it would have to
pay a lump sum compensation depending on the maturity of the contract.  If the contract had been cancelled in 2007 then the payment
would have been US$5 million (2006: US$6.7 million).
106 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006 22 Commitments and contingent liabilities (continued)
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS
The lease relates to the oxygen plant at Loulo leased from Maligaz.
The duration of the contract is 10 years and the contract is renewable for additional periods of 
five years thereafter.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 26.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments* under operating leases are as follows:
No later than 1 year 362 323
Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 1 448 1 292
Later than 5 years 724 969
2 534 2 584
* These payments also include payments for non-lease elements in the arrangement.
23 Related party transactions
In terms of the operator agreement between Morila SA and AngloGold Ashanti Services Mali SA, a management fee, calculated as 1% 
of the total sales of Morila, is payable to AngloGold Services Mali SA quarterly in arrears.  The attributable management fees for the year
ended 31 December 2007 amounted to US$1.3 million (2006: US$1.3 million).  With effect from 15 February 2008, Randgold Resources
assumed responsibility for the operatorship of Morila SA and accordingly will receive payment of the management fees.  Purchasing and
consultancy services are also provided by AngloGold Ashanti to the mine on a reimbursable basis.  The attributable purchases and
consultancy services for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to US$2.4 million (2006: US$3.1 million).  The attributable
purchases and consultancy services balance outstanding at year end amounted to US$0.9 million (2006: 0).  Seven Bridges Trading 14
(Pty) Limited administration services to Rockwell Resources RSA (Pty) Limited.  Total fees received during the year amounted to US$0.08
million (2006: US$0.02 million).
Key management personnel compensation was as follows:
US$000 2007 2006
Short term employee benefits 6 267 4 863
Share-based payments 1 144 1 434
Total 7 411 6 297
This includes compensation for three executive directors (2006: two), six non-executive directors (2006: seven) and ten executive
management personnel (2006: nine).
Refer to directors and management’s profiles on pages 12 to 16 for detail of their roles and responsibilities.
24 Non-GAAP information
Total cash costs and cash cost per ounce are non-GAAP measures.  Total cash costs and cash cost per ounce are calculated using
guidance issued by the Gold Institute.  The Gold Institute was a non profit industry association comprised of leading gold producers,
refiners, bullion suppliers and manufacturers.  This institute has now been incorporated into the National Mining Association.  The guidance
was first issued in 1996 and revised in November 1999.  Total cash costs, as defined in the Gold Institute’s guidance,  include mine
production, transport and refinery costs, general and administrative costs, movement in production and ore stockpiles, transfers to and from
deferred stripping where relevant and royalties.  Under the company’s revised accounting policies, there are no transfers to and from
deferred stripping.
Total cash costs per ounce are calculated by dividing total cash costs, as determined using the Gold Institute guidance, by gold ounces
produced for the periods presented.  Total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods
presented.  Total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce should not be considered by investors as an alternative to operating profit or
net profit attributable to shareholders, as an alternative to other IFRS measures or an indicator of our performance.  The data does not have
a meaning prescribed by IFRS and therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to data presented by gold producers who do not
follow the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.  In particular depreciation, amortisation and share-based payments would be included in
a measure of total costs of producing gold under IFRS, but are not included in total cash costs under the guidance provided by the Gold
Institute.  Furthermore, while the Gold Institute has provided a definition for the calculation of total cash costs and total cash costs per
ounce, the calculation of these numbers may vary from company to company and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures
of other companies.  However, Randgold Resources believes that total cash costs per ounce is a useful indicator to investors and
management of a mining company’s performance as it provides an indication of a company’s profitability and efficiency, the trends in cash
costs as the company’s operations mature, and a benchmark of performance to allow for comparison against other companies.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   107
US$000 2007 2006 108
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued)
24 Non-GAAP information (continued)
Cash operating costs and cash operating cost per ounce are calculated by deducting royalties from total cash costs.  Cash operating
costs per ounce are calculated by dividing cash operating costs by gold ounces produced for the periods presented.  Gold sales and the
average price received are non GAAP measures.  Gold sales represents the sales of gold at spot and the gains/losses on hedge contracts
which have been delivered into at the designated maturity date.  It excludes gains/losses on hedge contracts which have been rolled
forward to match future sales.  This adjustment is considered appropriate because no cash is received/paid in respect of these contracts.
Average price received is calculated by dividing gold sales by gold ounces sold.  These measures do not have a meaning prescribed by
IFRS and should not be regarded as an alternative to the revenue measures presented under IFRS.  Profit from mining activity is calculated
by subtracting total cash costs from gold sales for all periods presented.
The following table reconciles gold sales, total cash costs and profit from mining activity, as non GAAP measures, to the information
provided in the income statement, determined in accordance with IFRS, for each of the years set out below:
Year Year
ended ended
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
Gold sales on spot 313 421 274 907
Loss on matured hedges (23 580) (12 190)
Gold sales
#
289 841 262 717
Mine production costs 136 312 115 217
Movement in production inventory and ore stockpiles (11 534) (13 373)
Transport and refining costs 1 595 711
Royalties 18 307 16 979
General and administration expenses 13 638 13 006
Total cash costs 158 318 132 540
Profit from mining activity 131 523 130 177
Depreciation and amortisation (20 987) (22 844)
Exploration and corporate expenditure (35 920) (28 805)
Finance income 9 167 8 723
Other income 967 1 168
Other expenses (5 008) (3 667)
Finance costs (5 805) (6 366)
Non-cash loss on roll forward of hedges (7 036) (4 413)
Profit before income tax 66 901 73 973
#
Gold sales does not include the non-cash loss on the roll forward hedges amounting to US$7.0 million: (2006: US$4.4 million).
25 Significant uncertainties relating to transactions with a contractor
The directors believe that the group is entitled to recover US$59.3 million from MDM Ferroman (Pty) Ltd (‘MDM’) (in liquidation), the
contractor which was responsible for construction of the Loulo mine (‘the project’) until the main construction contract was taken back 
on 30 December 2005.  This comprises payments totalling US$32 million which have been capitalised as part of the cost of the project,
US$15.2 million in respect of damages arising from the delayed completion of the project, and advances of US$12.1 million 
(2005: US$12.2 million) included in receivables.  Of this latter amount, US$7 million is secured by performance bonds and the remainder is
secured by various personal guarantees and other assets.  As part of the group’s efforts to recoup the monies owed, MDM was put into
liquidation on 1 February 2006.  This resulted in a South African Companies Act Section 417 investigation into the business and the
financial activities of MDM, its affiliated companies and their directors.  This investigation was concluded in June 2007 and the liquidators
are expected to release a statement of MDM’s assets and liabilities shortly.  The directors believe that the group will be able to recover in full
the US$12.1 million included in receivables.  However, this is dependent on the amounts which can be recovered from the performance
bonds, personal guarantees and other assets provided as security.  Any shortfall is expected to be recovered from any free residue
accruing to the insolvent estate.  The recovery process has commenced with summons being issued against creditors who received
payment from MDM in terms of the Insolvency and Companies Acts and against the insurance company which issued the performance
bonds.  The aggregate amount which will ultimately be recovered cannot presently be determined.  The financial statements do not reflect
any additional provision that may be required if the US$12.1 million cannot be recovered in full.  Recovery of the other US$47.2 million is
dependent on the extent to which the group’s claim is accepted by the liquidators and the amount in the free residue.
108 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007 25 Significant uncertainties relating to transactions with a contractor (continued)
The ultimate outcome of this claim cannot presently be determined.  The financial statements do not reflect any adjustment to the cost of
the Loulo development that may arise from this claim, or any additional income that may arise from the claim for damages, or any charge
that may arise from MDM’s inability to settle amounts that are determined to be payable by MDM to the group in respect of the Loulo
development.
26 Mining and processing costs and other disclosable items
Mining and processing costs comprise:
Year Year
ended ended
31 Dec 31 Dec
US$000 2007 2006
Mine production costs 136 312 115 217
Movement in production inventory and ore stockpiles (11 534) (13 373)
Depreciation and amortisation 20 987 22 844
Other mining and processing costs 13 638 13 006
159 403 137 694
Operating lease payments 362 323
Impairment of receivables (2 047) 1 550
27 Exploration and corporate expenditure
Exploration and corporate expenditure comprise:
Exploration expenditure 18 245 13 959
Corporate expenditure 17 675 14 846
35 920 28 805
28 Finance income and costs
Finance income - interest income on short term deposits 7 887 7 384
Finance income - net foreign exchange gains on financing activities 1 280 1 339
Finance income 9 167 8 723
Interest expense - borrowings (5 251) (5 825)
Unwind of discount on provisions for environmental rehabilitation (554) (541)
Finance costs (5 805) (6 366)
Finance income - net 3 362 2 357
29 Post balance sheet events
With effect from 15 February 2008, Randgold Resources assumed responsibility for the operatorship of Morila SA and accordingly will
receive payment of the management fees.  See note 23 for details.
On 31 January 2008, the board of directors approved an annual dividend of 12 US cents per share which resulted in an aggregate
dividend payment of US$9.1 million which was paid in March 2008.
The development of the Tongon mine was approved by the board of directors on 31 January 2008.
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   109 110 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
110
Group structure Dr Haladou Manirou
Medical officer, Loulo
Graduated from the University of Bamako in
2001 and joined Randgold Resources in 2004.
Manages the mine’s medical services and its
safety and health committee.  Also runs a trauma
centre at the mine and a clinic in the local village.
His pioneering work in setting up control
systems and education programmes for malaria,
HIV/Aids and STDs has markedly reduced their
local incidence.
“In striving to improve the welfare of our
workforce as well as the local community, I’ve
benefited greatly from the company’s
professional development programme, which
has enabled me to acquire advanced new skills
in health, safety and environmental
management.”
Shar Shareholders’ info eholders’ info Shareholders’ info TOP TWENTY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
112 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
112
Analysis of shareholding
as at 31 December 2007
1 – 10 000 478 79.40 683 609 0.90
10 001 – 25 000 56 9.30 877 324 1.15
25 001 – 50 000 20 3.33 766 849 1.00
50 001 – 500 000 43 7.14 7 004 909 9.20
500 001 – 1 000 000 3 0.50 1 802 930 2.37
Over 1 000 000 2 0.33 65 012 413 85.38
TOTAL 602 100.00 76 148 034 100.00
* This includes restricted shares which have not vested by 31 December 2007.
SHAREHOLDINGS OVER 5 PER CENT
Randgold Resources’ Jersey Channel Islands share register reflects only one holder, being BNY (Nominees) Limited, as holding more than 5%
of the issued ordinary share capital of Randgold Resources Limited.  It is noted that these shares are held for and on behalf of ADR holders.
The table below reflects Randgold Resources’ ten major shareholders.
On 3 December 2007, Randgold Resources was notified by FMR LLC of a major interest in shares as a result of an indirect interest of 
7 038 371 ordinary shares amounting to 10.15% of the then issued share capital.  On 25 February 2008, the company announced that 
FMR LLC (the parent holding company of Fidelity Management and Research Company) had advised that its indirect interest had further
increased to 9 271 478 ordinary shares or 12.17% of the issued share capital.
On 28 February 2008, the company announced that BlackRock Inc had advised that its indirect interest was 8 087 611 ordinary shares or
10.62% of the issued share capital.
% of total
shares
TOP TEN SHAREHOLDERS (INCLUDING RETAIL ADRS) Combined outstanding Country
BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd 7 602 177 9.98 UK
Wells Capital Management, Inc (Strong Capital) 6 737 038 8.85 USA
Fidelity Management and Research Company 6 424 867 8.44 USA
Van Eck Associates Corporation 4 219 437 5.54 USA
Mackenzie Financial Corp 3 841 900 5.05 Canada
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3 325 964 4.37 UK
JP Morgan Fleming Asset Management (UK) Limited 2 388 797 3.14 UK
Franklin Advisers, Inc 2 227 600 2.93 USA
Evergreen Investment Management Co, LLC 1 864 335 2.45 USA
JP Morgan Investment Management Inc (NY) 1 839 000 2.42 USA
Number Number %
of % of of shares
SIZE OF SHAREHOLDING (JERSEY SHARE REGISTER) shareholders shareholders shares* in issue
Source: Capital Precision Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   113
COUNTRY
United Kingdom 78 22 847 879
TOTAL UNITED KINGDOM 78 22 847 879
United States 70 40 847 337
Canada 9 6 151 388
Bahamas 1 175 900
Bermuda 1 36 000
Cayman Islands 1 27 000
TOTAL NORTH AMERICA 82 47 237 625
France 7 1 620 969
Germany 12 92 989
Switzerland 17 694 902
Luxembourg 10 690 516
Netherlands 2 114 521
Norway 1 91 397
Austria 2 66 971
Liechtenstein 3 37 242
Ireland 1 7 679
Czech Republic 1 6 000
Denmark 1 570
TOTAL EUROPE 57 3 423 756
Japan 4 652 119
Kuwait 1 360 429
Singapore 1 783
TOTAL ASIA PACIFIC/MIDDLE EAST 6 1 013 331
South Africa 3 788 443
TOTAL AFRICAN CONTINENT 3 788 443
Number of Total shares
GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS holders by country
Source: Capital Precision
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF COMBINED INSTITUTIONAL SHARES IDENTIFIED (%) 114 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
114
Directory
DIRECTORS
Philippe Liétard
#
Dr D Mark Bristow
Bernard H Asher
~
‡**
Ø
Norborne P Cole, Jr
‡Ø
Robert I Israel*
Dr Aubrey L Paverd
§
Graham P Shuttleworth
Dr Karl Voltaire
§
* Chairman of the remuneration committee
~
Chairman of the audit committee
‡
Member of the remuneration committee
§
Member of the audit committee
** Senior independent
#
Chairman of the governance and nomination committee
Ø
Member of the governance and nomination committee
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
DAVID J HADDON
La Motte Chambers, La Motte Street, St Helier
Jersey, Channel Islands
Tel: +44 1534 735 333
Fax: +44 1534 735 444
REGISTRARS
COMPUTERSHARE INVESTOR SERVICES 
(CHANNEL ISLANDS) LIMITED
PO Box 83, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier
Jersey, JE4 8PW Channel Islands
UK TRANSFER OFFICE
COMPUTERSHARE SERVICES PLC
7th Floor Jupiter House Triton Court
14 Finsbury Square London, EC2A 1BR UK
UNITED STATES DEPOSITARY
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
Shareholder Relations Department, 101 Barclay Street
New York, NY 10286 USA
AUDITORS
BDO STOY HAYWARD LLP
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC
CITIBANK NA
LEGAL COUNSEL
ASHURST (London)
FULBRIGHT & JAWORSKI LLP (New York) 
OGIER (Jersey)
BROKERS
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS
ARBUTHNOT SECURITIES
FINANCIAL ADVISER
HSBC BANK PLC
LISTING
Randgold Resources Limited was listed on the London 
Stock Exchange on 1 July 1997 (trading symbol: RRS) 
and the Nasdaq National Market on 11 July 2002 
(trading symbol: GOLD).
INVESTOR RELATIONS
To obtain additional information about the company or to 
be placed on the company’s distribution list, contact: 
Kathy du Plessis, Randgold Resources Investor Relations
La Motte Chambers, La Motte Street, St Helier
Jersey, Channel Islands
Tel/Mobile: +44 20 7557 7738
Fax: +44 1534 735 444
E-mail: randgoldresources@dpapr.com
WEBSITE
Our website is regularly updated to supply you with the 
latest information on the company.
www.randgoldresources.com Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   115
115
Operations
BURKINA FASO
RANDGOLD RESOURCES BURKINA FASO SARL
242, Rue 13.03 “Gandaogo’’
Secteur 13 Zone Du Bois 01 BP 4771
Ouagadougou 01, Burkina Faso
Tel: +226 50 36 39 36
Fax: +226 50 36 31 46
CÔTE D’IVOIRE
RANDGOLD RESOURCES CÔTE D’IVOIRE SARL
22 Rue des Hortensias L125 Boulevard Latrille Cocody
Ambassade, Abidjan
Tel: +225 22 48 23 60
Fax: +225 22 44 38 51
Korhogo office
Tel: +225 36 86 29 40
Fax: +225 36 86 29 40
Tongon
Tel: +225 08 30 87 87
GHANA
INTER AFRIQUE HOLDINGS
21 Examination Loop North Ridge, Accra, Ghana
Tel: +233 21 24 56 72
Fax: +233 21 24 56 72
MALI
RANDGOLD RESOURCES MALI SARL
Faladié
6448 Avenue de l’oua, BP E1160, Bamako, Mali
Tel: +223 220 38 58/+223 220 20 06/+223 220 16 94
Fax: +223 220 44 07/+223 220 81 87
Kankou Moussa
Tel: +223 220 35 57
Fax: +223 220 44 07
Loulo Gold Mine
Tel: +223 251 30 00/01/02/03/05/07
Fax: +223 251 30 04/06
Morila Gold Mine
Tel: +31 205 40 73/70/1/2
Fax: +31 205 40 73 73
SENEGAL
RANDGOLD RESOURCES (SENEGAL) LTD
67 Ave André Peytavin, BP 887, Dakar, Senegal
Tel: +221 33 849 17 80
Fax: +221 33 849 17 84
SOUTH AFRICA
SEVEN BRIDGES TRADING 14 (PTY) LTD
Level 0, Wilds View, Isle Of Houghton
Carse O’Gowrie Road, Houghton Estate 
Johannesburg, 2198, South Africa
PO Box 3011, Houghton, 2041, South Africa
Tel: +27 11 481 7200
Fax: +27 11 481 7246
TANZANIA
RANDGOLD RESOURCES TANZANIA (T) LTD
Plot 173, Block D Isamilo, Mwanza, Tanzania
Tel: +255 282 50 09 74
Fax: +255 282 50 20 89
UNITED KINGDOM
RANDGOLD RESOURCES (UK) LTD
1st Floor, 2 Savoy Court, Strand, WC2R 0EZ, London
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 207 557 77 30
Fax: +44 207 557 77 34 116 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
116
Notice of the annual general meeting
for the year ended 31 December 2007
ORDINARY BUSINESS OF THE COMPANY
1 To receive and adopt the company’s financial statements for the
year ended 31 December 2007 and the reports of the directors
and the auditors thereon.
2 To elect Dennis Mark Bristow (whose appointment automatically
ends on the day of the annual general meeting in accordance
with the articles of association) as a director.  Dr Bristow is the
CEO and his re-election to the board by shareholders last took
place on 25 April 2005 and is recommended by the board.
Dr Bristow was initially appointed to the board in August 1995
and has served as the CEO since that time.  He has been
instrumental in developing the company into a gold-focused
mining and exploration business with a market capitalisation of
more than US$3.5 billion and a strong investor following.  In
terms of the definitions of the Combined Code and the
Sarbanes Oxley Act, Dr Bristow is deemed an executive
director. 
3 To elect Graham Patrick Shuttleworth (whose appointment
automatically ends on the day of the annual general meeting in
accordance with the articles of association) as a director.  
Mr Shuttleworth was appointed to the board during the year 
and is recommended by the board for election.  In terms of 
the definitions of the Combined Code and the Sarbanes Oxley
Act, Mr Shuttleworth is deemed an executive director.  
Mr Shuttleworth joined Randgold Resources as chief financial
officer and financial director on 1 July 2007, but has been
closely associated with the company since its inception, initially
as part of its management team involved in listing the company
on the London Stock Exchange in 1997, and subsequently as
an advisor.  He is a qualified chartered accountant and prior to
joining the company he was a managing director and the head
of metals and mining for the Americas in the global investment
banking division of HSBC Bank.
4 To receive and adopt the report of the remuneration committee.
5 To approve fees payable to directors as follows:
(a) A general annual retainer to all non-executive directors of
US$50 000.
(b) An annual committee assignment fee per committee
served:
i. audit committee US$35 000;
ii. remuneration committee US$25 000; and
iii. nomination and governance committee US$10 000.
(c) The chairman of a board committee to receive an additional
premium to the committee assignment fee of US$15 000.
(d) The senior independent director, in addition to the general
annual retainer but in lieu of any committee assignment fee,
to receive an additional US$85 000.
(e) The non-executive chairman, in addition to the general
annual retainer, but in lieu of any committee assignment fee,
to receive an additional US$170 000.
(f) An award to each director of “restricted” shares being 
1 200 ordinary shares per year.  The shares are to vest over
a three year period from the date of the award, being 
1 January 2009.  Vesting would accelerate on the following
conditions:
i. termination other than resignation or dismissal;
ii. voluntary retirement after the age of 65, with a minimum
of three years’ service as a director; and
iii. change in control of the company.
6 To re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors of the
company.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
7 (a) SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 1:
“Resolved as a special resolution that, the memorandum of
association of the company be and it is hereby altered in
accordance with Article 38 (1)(a) of the Companies (Jersey)
Law 1991 (“the Law”) such that the authorised share capital
of the company be and it is hereby increased from 
US$4 000 000 to US$5 000 000 by the creation of an
additional 20 000 000 ordinary shares of US$0.05 ranking
pari passu with the ordinary shares of US$0.05 and having
the rights and obligations set out in the existing articles of
association of the company.”
(b) SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 2:
“Resolved as a special resolution that, subject to the
passing of special resolution number 1 to be proposed 
at the annual general meeting convened to consider this
resolution, paragraph 4 of the company’s memorandum 
of association be amended to read as follows:
“4. The capital of the company is US$5 000 000 divided
into 100 000 000 shares of US$0.05 each.”
(c) SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 3:
“Resolved as a special resolution that, subject to the
passing of special resolution number 1 and special
resolution number 2 to be proposed at the annual general
meeting convened to consider this resolution, article 4.1 of
the company’s articles of association be amended to read
as follows:
“4.1The authorised share capital of the company is 
US$5 000 000 divided into 100 000 000 ordinary
shares of US$0.05 each.”
(d) SPECIAL RESOLUTION NUMBER 4:
“That the Randgold Resources Limited Restricted Share
Scheme (the “Scheme”) as summarised in the Appendix to
the Notice to Shareholders dated 25 March 2008, a copy
of the Rules of which is produced to this Meeting and for
the purpose of identification initialled by the chairman, be
approved and the directors of the company be authorised
to do all acts and things which they may consider
necessary or desirable to bring the Scheme into effect and
to operate it and that for the purposes of Article 58(4) of the
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, (the
“Companies Law”), the adoption and operation of the
Scheme by the company is approved and sanctioned, with
the intention that the company shall not have made,
pursuant to or in connection with the Scheme, a distribution
within the meaning of Part 17 of the Companies Law.”
REASONS AND EFFECTS
The reason for special resolution number 1 is to create 20 000 000
new ordinary shares of US$0.05 each to ensure that the company
has sufficient new ordinary shares to fulfil the requirements of any
new issue of ordinary shares which might occur.  This increase
represents a 25% increase in the authorised share capital of the
company.  The effect of the special resolution is to create those 
new shares and thereby increase the authorised share capital of 
the company from US$4 000 000 to US$5 000 000.
The reason for special resolution number 2 is to reflect in the
company’s memorandum of association the new authorised share
capital pursuant to the increase thereof in terms of special resolution
Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of the company will be held in the conference room of the Atlantic Hotel, 
St. Bredale, Jersey, JE3 8HE, Channel Islands on 28 April 2008 at 08h45 for the following business: Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   117
number 1.  The effect of the special resolution is to amend
paragraph 4 of the company’s memorandum of association.
The reason for special resolution number 3 is to reflect in the
company’s articles of association the new authorised share capital
pursuant to the increase thereof in terms of special resolution
number 1.  The effect of the special resolution is to amend article
4.1 of the company’s articles of association accordingly.  
The reason for special resolution 4 is that the directors are seeking
approval for the introduction of the Scheme which is a long term
incentive plan under which awards may be granted to executive
directors.  The reason for its introduction is so as to align the
interests of executives and shareholders in the long term growth and
development of the company.  The current intention is that the
company’s chief executive officer and finance director will be
granted awards under the Scheme.
The directors believe that the adoption of the Scheme is in the best
interests of the company.  They therefore unanimously recommend
that you vote in favour of special resolution number 4 as they intend
to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
NOTES
1 The register of directors’ interests and copies of all service
contracts of the company will be available during normal
business hours at the registered office from the date of this
notice until the conclusion of the meeting.  
2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may
appoint one or more proxies to attend, vote, speak and act in
his/her stead.  A proxy need not be a member of the company.
3 For the convenience of members who are unable to attend the
meeting but wish to be represented thereat, a proxy form is
attached.  Attention is drawn to the fact that, if it is to be
effective, a completed proxy form must reach Computershare
Investor Services (Channel Islands) Limited, at least 48 hours
(Saturday, Sunday and public holidays excluded) before the time
appointed for the meeting, being 08h45 on Thursday 24 April
2008.
4 A copy of the draft Rules of the Scheme is available for
inspection at the offices of Ashurst, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold
Street, London EC2A 2HA and the company's registered office
during normal business hours from the date of this notice until
the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for
inspection at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes
prior to and during the meeting.
APPENDIX 1
Summary of the Randgold Resources Restricted Share Scheme
(“the Scheme”)
1 GENERAL
The operation of the Scheme will be supervised by the
remuneration committee of the board (the “Remuneration
Committee”).
2 ELIGIBILITY
Any employee (including a director) of the company or any
member of the group who is required to devote substantially the
whole of his working time to his employment or office shall be
eligible to participate in the Scheme.  The Remuneration
Committee may in its absolute discretion grant awards to such
eligible employees as it shall select and will take into account
the extent to which an eligible employee may be able to
contribute to the performance of the company over the vesting
period. 
The current intention is that the Scheme will be used to make
awards to the chief executive officer (the “CEO”) and the finance
director (the “FD”), both of whom would receive awards shortly 
after the annual general meeting, assuming the Scheme is
approved by shareholders.
3 AWARDS UNDER THE SCHEME
An award may take one of two forms:
(a) an “Allocation”, meaning a conditional award of a specified
number of ordinary shares in the company (“Shares”); or
(b) an “Option” to acquire a specified number of Shares at an
exercise price determined by the Remuneration Committee
which may be a nominal amount. 
An “Award” means either an Allocation or an Option.
Participants may be granted any combination of awards,
whether in a single grant or pursuant to a series of grants.
No payment is required for the grant of an award. 
Awards may normally only be granted within 42 days after the
approval of the Scheme by the company in general meeting or
within 42 days after the announcement of the company’s results
for the preceding financial year or half year.  Awards may also
be granted at any other time at which the Remuneration
Committee determines that there are exceptional circumstances
which justify the grant of an award.  No award may be granted
later than ten years after the date on which the Scheme is
approved by the company in general meeting nor at any time at
which a dealing would not be permitted under the Model Code.
Subject to the limit set out in paragraph 7 below, awards may
be satisfied by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of
existing shares, either from treasury or otherwise.
4 CONDITIONS ON VESTING OR EXERCISE
An Award may be granted subject to such performance
condition or conditions as the Remuneration Committee in its
discretion sees fit (the “Performance Condition(s)”) which must
be satisfied before an Award may be exercised or vest.
Performance will be measured over a period determined by the
Remuneration Committee (the “Performance Period”); the
intention of the Remuneration Committee is for the Performance
Period to be a period of three financial years and that in setting
the Performance Condition(s), it shall have regard to institutional
guidelines and market practice current at the time an award is
granted.
It is intended that the initial Award to the CEO shall be subject to
a one year vesting period.  The initial award for the FD shall be
subject to a vesting schedule whereby Awards vest
proportionately over the three consecutive years following the
date he commenced employment with the company.
If an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee
to determine that the Performance Condition(s) have ceased to
be appropriate, it may in its discretion vary or waive those
condition(s) provided that any new condition(s) imposed (or any
variation) are in its opinion fair, reasonable and no more difficult
to satisfy than the previous condition(s).
5 INDIVIDUAL LIMIT
No Award shall be granted to any individual if the aggregate
market value of the Shares subject to that Award together with
the aggregate market value of any Shares committed to be
issued or transferred pursuant to any other award made to him
in the same financial period of the company under the Scheme
would exceed a sum equal to twice his earnings (excluding
bonuses) or, if higher, such fixed number of shares as is
determined by the Board on or prior to the date of grant of the
Award.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that the initial
award to the CEO will be 40 000 shares, the initial award to the
FD will be 36 000 shares.
6 OVERALL DILUTION LIMIT
No award may be granted under the Scheme on any date if, as
a result, the aggregate number of Shares issued or transferred 118 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
from treasury, or committed to be issued or transferred from
treasury, pursuant to awards made under the Scheme and
pursuant to grants or appropriations made during the previous
ten years under all other employee share schemes established
by the company would exceed fifteen per cent of the issued
ordinary share capital of the company on that date; or
7 EXERCISE AND VESTING OF AWARDS
In normal circumstances, an Allocation may not vest nor an
Option become exercisable unless the Performance Condition(s)
have been satisfied at the end of the Performance Period and
provided the participant remains employed by the group and
has not given notice of intention to resign.  Having become
exercisable, an Option may be exercised for a period
determined by the Remuneration Committee but ending no later
than the day preceding the tenth anniversary of its grant.
If a participant ceases to be employed within the group before
the expiry of the Performance Period:
(a) by reason of death or disability; 
(b) by reason of:
(i) any material breach by the company of any of its
obligations under a participant’s contract of
employment;
(ii) the company requiring the participant to relocate his
primary residence to a place designated by the
company (it being acknowledged by the participant that
he is required to travel on business as needed), except
for required travel on company business;
(iii) any material reduction in the participant’s title, duties,
authority or responsibilities without his consent;
(iv) receipt by the participant of notice from the company
under his contract of employment of the company’s
intention to terminate his employment without cause; or
(v) the assignment to the participant without his consent of
duties or responsibilities materially inconsistent with his
positions and duties described in his contract of
employment (together, “Good Reasons”), 
provided that the participant may not terminate his
employment for Good Reason unless he first gives the
company written notice specifying the Good Reason (within
ninety days after the occurence of the event giving rise to
Good Reason in the case of an employee who is taxable in
the United States on his salary) and the company does not
cure the Good Reason within thirty days after the date of
such notice; or
(c) by reason of the company terminating the participant’s
employment within the group for a reason other than:
(i) the participant’s conviction of a plea of nolo contendere
to any felony;
(ii) the participant’s gross negligence in the discharge of
his duties;
(iii) the participant’s wilful misconduct in the discharge of
his duties;
(iv) the participant’s wilful and material breach of any
provisions of the participant’s contract of employment
which breach, if susceptible to cure, is not ended
immediately upon written notice, or not cured by the
participant within ten (10) business days following
written notice from the board detailing such breach;
(v) the participant’s failure to perform his material duties
(other than as a result of his disability) which is either
wilful or deliberately repeated after written notice, or not
cured by the participant within ten (10) business days
following written notice from the board detailing such
failure; or
(vi) the participant’s becoming insolvent or making any
arrangement or composition with his creditors,
provided that no act or failure to act on the participant’s part
will be considered “wilful” if done, or omitted to be done by
the participant in good faith and in the reasonable belief that
his action or omission was in the best interests of the
company,
an Allocation will vest at the end of the Performance Period and
an Option will become exercisable and remain exercisable for a
period of twelve months from the end of the Performance
Period.  The number of Shares which vest or over which
Options are exercisable will, in these circumstances, be
determined by reference to the extent to which the Performance
Condition(s) have been fulfilled over the Performance Period and
will then be pro-rated according to the length of time between
the date of grant of the Award and when the participant ceased
employment (plus one year) when compared to the original
Performance Period.
If a participant ceases to be employed within the group for one
of the reasons set out above on or after the expiry of the
Performance Period, a subsisting Option may be exercised for a
period of twelve months to the extent that the Performance
Condition(s) have been fulfilled. 
An award will, in any event, lapse on the tenth anniversary of its
date of grant, if not previously vested or exercised.
8 TAKEOVER, SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT AND
LIQUIDATION
In the event of:
(a) a sale by the company of substantially all of its assets in
one transaction or a series of related transactions;
(b) the acquisition by any person, entity, or group (within the
meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 of the United States of America, as amended) of
equity interests in the company representing thirty-five per
cent (35%) or more of the voting power in the company
(including voting power exercisable on a contingent or
deferred basis as well as immediately exercisable voting
power);
(c) a merger or consolidation involving the company in which
holders of the company’s equity securities immediately
before the merger or consolidation do not immediately after
the merger or consolidation own over fifty per cent (50%) of
the voting power in the entity surviving the merger or
consolidation (including voting power exercisable on a
contingent or deferred basis as well as immediately
exercisable voting power); or 
(d) when, at any time during a participant’s employment, the
individuals who constitute the board on the date on which
the participant commences employment (the “Incumbent
Directors”) cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority thereof; provided, however, that a director who was
not a director at the date on which the Scheme was
approved by the company shall be deemed to be an
Incumbent Director if such director was elected by, or on
the recommendation of or with the approval of at least a
majority of the directors of the company who then qualified
118
Notice of the annual general meeting
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (continued) as Incumbent Directors, either actually (because they were
directors on the date on which the Scheme was approved
by the company) or by prior operation of this sub-clause (d),
but excluding, as a member of the Incumbent Directors, any
such individual whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest
relating to the election of the directors of the company (as
such terms are used in Rule 14a-2 of Regulation 14A
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 of
the United States of America)
(provided that a series of transactions shall be considered
related if they occur within an eighteen month period, but the
fact that a series of transactions occur over a period longer than
eighteen months shall not preclude such transactions from
being related),
an Allocation will vest immediately and an Option will become
exercisable and remain exercisable for a period of one month.
The number of Shares which vest or over which Options are
exercisable will, in these circumstances, be determined by
reference to the extent to which the Performance Condition(s)
have been fulfilled over the reduced Performance Period.
If such an event takes place on or after the expiry of the
Performance Period, a subsisting Option may be exercised for a
period of one month to the extent that the Performance
Condition(s) have been fulfilled. 
If such an event occurs, an award may also be released in
exchange for an equivalent new award to be granted by any
acquiring company, if the participant so wishes and the
acquiring company agrees. 
Where any such event occurs as part of an internal
reorganisation of the company, subsisting awards will be
exchanged for new awards granted by the acquiring company
unless such an offer is not forthcoming from the acquiring
company in which case vesting or exercise as set out above will
be permitted.
9 VARIATION OF SHARE CAPITAL
In the event of any variation in the ordinary share capital of the
company, such adjustments to the number of Shares subject to
awards and the price (if any) at which they may be acquired
may be made by the Remuneration Committee as it may
determine to be appropriate.
10 VOTING, DIVIDEND AND OTHER RIGHTS
Until Options or Allocations are exercised or vest, participants
have no voting or other rights in respect of the Shares subject
to those awards. 
Shares issued or transferred pursuant to the Scheme will rank
pari passu in all respects with Shares already in issue except
that they will not rank for any dividend or other distribution paid
or made by reference to a record date falling prior to the date of
exercise or vesting of the relevant award.
Benefits obtained under the Scheme shall not be pensionable.
Awards are not assignable or transferable.
11 ADMINISTRATION AND AMENDMENT
The operation of the Scheme will be supervised by the
Remuneration Committee which may amend the Scheme by
resolution provided that:
(a) prior approval of the company in general meeting will be
required for any amendment to the advantage of
participants to those provisions of the Scheme relating to
eligibility, the limitations on the number of Shares, cash or
other benefits subject to the Scheme, a participant's
maximum entitlement or to the basis for determining a
participant’s entitlement under the Scheme and the
adjustment thereof in the event of a variation in capital,
except in the case of minor amendments to benefit the
administration of the Scheme and amendments to take
account of changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for
participants or for any member of the group and
(b) no amendment may be made which would alter to the
disadvantage of participants any rights already acquired by
them under the Scheme without the prior approval of a
majority of the affected participants.
12 OVERSEAS SCHEMES
The board may from time to time and without further formality
establish further plans in overseas territories, any such plan to
be similar to the Scheme but modified to take account of local
tax, exchange control or securities laws, regulation or practice.
Shares made available under any such plan would count
against any limits on overall or individual participation in the
Scheme save that only newly issued Shares or Shares
transferred from treasury would count against the overall dilution
limits.
13 TERMINATION
The Scheme may be terminated at any time by resolution of the
board or of the company in general meeting and in any event no
awards may be granted on or after the tenth anniversary of the
date on which the Scheme is approved by the company in
general meeting.  Termination will not affect the outstanding
rights of participants.
By order of the board
David J Haddon
Secretary
25 March 2008
Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   119 120 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
120
Shareholders’ diary
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Financial year end 31 December
Annual general meeting Monday 28 April 2008
ANNOUNCEMENT OF QUARTERLY RESULTS
First quarter Tuesday 6 May 2008
Second quarter Thursday 31 July 2008
Third quarter Thursday 6 November 2008
Year end and fourth quarter Monday 9 February 2009
TICKER SYMBOLS
STOCK EXCHANGE Ticker Symbol
London Stock Exchange (ords) RRS
Nasdaq Stock Market (ADRs) GOLD Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007   121
121
Proxy form
for the annual general meeting to be held on Monday 28 April 2008 at 08h45
Randgold Resources Limited
Incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands  Registration number: 62686
I/We
of
being the holders of ordinary shares
hereby appoint
of
or failing him
of
or failing him, the chairman of the meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting of shareholders
of the company to be held in the Conference Room of the Atlantic Hotel, St Bredale, Jersey, JE3 8HE, Channel Islands at 08h45 on 28 April 2008
and at every adjournment of that meeting.
Please indicate with an “X” or tick in the appropriate space below how you wish your votes to be cast.
AGENDA ITEM Vote for Vote against Abstain
1 Ordinary resolution - Adoption of the directors’ report and accounts
2 Ordinary resolution - Re-election of directors D Mark Bristow 
(Chief Executive Officer)
3 Ordinary resolution - Election of directors Graham P Shuttleworth 
(Financial Director)
4 Ordinary resolution - Adoption of the report of the remuneration committee
5 Ordinary resolution - Approve the fees payable to directors
6 Ordinary resolution - Re-appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors 
of the company
7 a Special resolution - Increase of authorised share capital
b Special resolution - Amend paragraph 4 of memorandum of association
c Special resolution - Amend Article 4.1 of the articles of association
d Special resolution - Approve Restricted Share Scheme
Signed at on 2008
Signature(s)
Assisted by me (WHERE APPLICABLE)
Full names of signatory if signing in a representative capacity.  Please use block letters. 122 Randgold Resources    |    Annual Report 2007
122
Notes to the proxy
for the annual general meeting to be held on Monday 28 April 2008 at 08h45
Randgold Resources Limited
Incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands  Registration number: 62686
Instructions for signing and lodging the annual general meeting proxy form:
1 A deletion of any printed matter and the completion of any blank spaces need not be signed or initialled.  Any alterations must be signed, not
initialled.
2 The chairman shall be entitled to decline to accept the authority of the signatory;
under the power of attorney; and
on behalf of the company,
unless the power of attorney or authority is deposited at the office of the company’s registrars being Computershare Investor Services (Channel
Islands) Limited (see address details below) not less than 48 hours (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded) before the time for
holding the meeting.
3 The signatory may insert the name of any person(s) whom the signatory wishes to appoint as his proxy in the blank spaces provided for that
purpose.
4 When there are joint holders of shares and if more than one such joint holders be present or represented, then the person whose name
appears first in the register in respect of such shares or his proxy, as the case may be, shall alone be entitled to vote in respect thereof.
5 The completion and lodging of this form of proxy will not preclude the signatory from attending the meeting and speaking and voting in person
thereat to the exclusion of any proxy appointed in terms hereof should such signatory wish to do so.
6 If the signatory does not indicate in the appropriate place on the face hereof how he wishes to vote in respect of any resolutions, his proxy
shall be entitled to vote as he deems fit in respect of that resolution.
7 The chairman of the general meeting may reject or accept any proxy form which is completed other than in accordance with these instructions,
provided that he is satisfied as to the manner in which a member wishes to vote.
8 If the shareholding is not indicated on the form of proxy, the proxy will be deemed to be authorised to vote the total shareholding registered
in the shareholder’s name.
REGISTRARS
COMPUTERSHARE INVESTOR SERVICES (CHANNEL ISLANDS) LIMITED
PO Box 83
Ordnance House
31 Pier Road, St Helier
Jersey JE4 8PW
Channel Islands
Tel: (44) 1534 825 203 10 year overview 1997-2007
Morila project gets
go-ahead
40% of Morila sold for US$132m
plus 50% of the debt
Morila pours first gold
IPO and listing on
London Stock Exchange
Listing on Nasdaq
Randgold
Resources
in FTSE 250
2 for 1 share split
improves tradeability
Loulo development
approved
Shareholders
get pay-out
of US$81m
Morila produces
+1Moz
Loulo
commissioned
Market cap reaches
US$1 billion
97
Rescoped study supports
enlarged Tongon project
07
Dividend increased
by 20%
Dividend payments
initiated
06 05
Global share offer
raises US$240m
04
Market cap tops
US$3.0 billion
Randgold Resources share price (LSE:RRS)
Gold price
Y alea underground
development starts
03 02 01 00 99 98
ADR split
0
100
200
300
400
Index
50
150
250
350
450
500
Designed and produced by du Plessis Associates Randgold Resources creates value
for all its stakeholders by developing
and operating profitable gold mines.
Flap 10 year overview 1997-2007
05 Corporate profile and key numbers
06 Highlights of the year
08 Chairman’s statement
BOARD AND MANAGEMENT
12 Directors
14 Management
CEO’S REVIEW
18 Chief executive’s review
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
22 Financial review
OPERATIONS
26 Loulo Mine
35 Morila Mine
PROJECT
42 Tongon project
RESERVES AND RESOURCES
49 Annual resource and reserve
declaration
50 Table of mineral rights
50 Resource triangle
EXPLORATION REVIEW
52 Exploration review
NEW BUSINESS
64 New business
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
66 Social responsibility
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
68 Corporate governance report
73 Remuneration committee report
78 Directors’ report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
80 Statement of directors’
responsibilities
81 Report of the independent auditors
82 Financial statements
110 Group structure
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
112 Analysis of shareholding
114 Directory
115 Operations
116 Notice of annual general meeting
120 Shareholders’ diary
121 Proxy form
122 Notes to the proxy
Randgold Resources    Annual Report 2007     The power of people and partnerships
www.randgoldresources.com
