 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc (‘RB’)  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Enabling 
healthier lives
The global leader in consumer
health and hygiene Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement 1
Results Highlights 2
Chief Executive’s Statement 3
Operational Detail 9
Governance & Remuneration
Board of Directors and Executive Committee 20
Report of the Directors 21
Chairman’s Statement on Corporate  
Governance 24
Corporate Governance Report 26
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 33
Directors’ Remuneration Report 34
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the 
Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc  47
Group Income Statement 50
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 50
Group Balance Sheet 51
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 52
Group Cash Flow Statement  53
Notes to the Financial Statements 54
Five-year Summary 85
Parent Company Independent Auditors’  
Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser  
Group plc  86
Parent Company Balance Sheet 87
Notes to the Parent Company Financial  
Statements 88
Our Relationships and  
Principal Risks 93
Shareholder Information 104
Contents
RB refers to entities in the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc group of companies.
‘RB – The global leader in consumer health and hygiene’. Global claim based on RB’s definition of combined Consumer Health 
and Hygiene Sales. Data sources: Consumer Health: OTC (Nicholas Hall); Condoms/Devices (ACNielsen); Footcare (ACNielsen – 
select markets only); Hygiene: RB select categories (Euromonitor). RB Annual Report 2013 1
Strategic Report   Chairman’s Statement
will update Shareholders on the review’s 
progress during 2014. 
Cash and Dividend
The strong growth produced strong 
cash flow, allowing the Company to pay 
down more of its debt. The Company is 
in strong financial health and your Board 
is proposing a final dividend of 77p per 
share. This brings the dividend for the 
year to 137p per share, an increase of 
2% over 2012. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
In addition to being a financial 
contributor to society, the Company  
is also a contributor to environmental 
and humanitarian needs of society.  
The Company was proud to announce 
a major new global initiative with Save 
the Children, a longstanding partner, to 
address the scourge of child deaths from 
diarrhoea, which is highly preventable 
through better health and hygiene. 
Corporate Governance
The detailed Corporate Governance 
Statement and Report on pages 24 
to 32 reflects the Board’s recognition 
of the importance of our governance 
responsibilities. 
The Board conducted regular reviews 
of the performance of the business, 
its strategy, brands, human resources, 
corporate responsibility and reputation 
and business risks. It was decided 
to change the trading name of the 
Company to ‘RB’, moving away from  
the harder to say, spell and search 
‘Reckitt Benckiser’. There are no  
changes to legal entity names.
Board of Directors
It was with great regret that I accepted 
in June the resignation due to ill health 
of Graham Mackay, our then Senior 
Independent Director. Graham sadly 
passed away in December. He delivered 
great service to your Company over 
his eight years on the Board and will 
be missed. André Lacroix has been 
appointed Senior Independent Director.
On behalf of the Board I have 
pleasure in reporting that your 
Company delivered strong  
results ahead of targets for  
2013. Net revenue excluding  
RB Pharmaceuticals grew 7%, 
operating profit (adjusted)
1
 excluding 
RB Pharmaceuticals grew 7%, and 
adjusted
1
 net income grew at 2%,  
all at constant exchange rates. 
The Company’s twin strategy is to  
focus on growing the health and 
hygiene brands of its core portfolio and 
to achieve a stronger emerging market 
penetration to better balance its historic 
developed market strength. 
At the end of 2013, health and hygiene 
brands represented 72% of the core 
portfolio and the emerging market  
areas represented 43%. This progress  
is pleasing but equally so were the  
results in Europe and North America 
which achieved growth in every  
quarter of the year. Our acquisitions,  
more fully reported elsewhere in  
this report, contributed materially to 
these achievements. 
RB Pharmaceuticals
After the entry of generic US  
competition to RB Pharmaceuticals’ 
Suboxone and the stable performance  
of the Film alternative, your Board 
announced a strategic review of this  
part of the Company. The review will 
recommend the optimal future for  
RB Pharmaceuticals and the Company 
New Purpose-inspired Strategy 
Delivers Strong Performance
In December, we appointed  
Nicandro Durante as an independent 
Non-Executive Director. Nicandro, an 
Italian/Brazilian and CEO of BAT, brings 
significant consumer goods industry and 
emerging markets experience. Also in 
December Richard Cousins advised me 
that he would not be available to stand 
for re-election to the Board. I thank 
Richard for his contributions to our 
Company. Judith Sprieser and Kenneth 
Hydon will step down as Chairs of the 
Remuneration and Audit Committees 
respectively in 2014. They have both 
been extraordinarily effective Chairs of 
the Committees.
Your Nominations Committee is 
actively involved in a project to appoint 
additional Non-Executive Directors. 
Annual General Meeting Resolutions
The resolutions to be voted on at our 
AGM on 7 May 2014, are explained in 
the Notice of Meeting, including the 
new requirement to offer Shareholders 
a binding vote on our Remuneration 
Policy, the details of which are set out in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 34 to 46. We believe this policy 
has served the Company well and hope 
Shareholders will endorse it. 
Thanks 
On behalf of the Board, I thank our 
CEO, Rakesh Kapoor, his executive 
management team and our employees 
globally for their commitment to 
delivering strong performance. The Board 
is often reminded that an enduring 
differentiator of the Company is its 
people and their positive performance-
minded culture. My thanks go also to 
my Board colleagues for their continued 
support and guidance. 
The Board thanks you, our Shareholders, 
for your on-going confidence in the 
Company. 
Adrian Bellamy Chairman
1
   Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items 2 RB Annual Report 2013
after dividends, acquisitions  
& restructuring
Strong cash flow took  
net debt to
£2,096m
Strategic Report   Results Highlights
2014 Targets 
•	 	 Net	r evenue	gr owth	of	+4-5%	at	 
constant exchange rates, excluding  
RB Pharmaceuticals, including the 
immaterial residual impact of the  
Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) collaboration.
•	 	 Flat	to	moderate	operating	margin
3 
expansion, excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
Medium-term KPIs (Key 
Performance Indicators)
•	 	 Health	and	hygiene	r evenues	to	incr ease	
as a percentage of core
4
 net revenue by 
1% per annum going forward.
•	 	 LAP AC
2
 and RUMEA
2
 combined to be 
equal in net revenue size to ENA
2
 by end 
of 2015.
•	 	 Achieve	200	bps	per	annum	of	net	
revenue growth on average above  
our market growth (excluding  
RB Pharmaceuticals).
•	 	 Achieve	moderate	operating	margin
3
 
expansion.
1   Excluding RB Pharmaceuticals at constant  
exchange rates.
2  Latin America, North Asia, South East Asia, and 
Australia and New Zealand (LAPAC), Russia and CIS, 
Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and sub-Saharan 
Africa (RUMEA), North America, Central Europe, 
Northern Europe, Southern Europe and Western 
Europe (ENA).
3   Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional 
items; and excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
4   Core includes health, hygiene, home and  
portfolio brands.
RB Delivers Another 
Strong Year in 2013
68% 
volume share of the
US market
Suboxone Film maintained
Adjusted net income up +2% 
(+2% constant): 
269.8p
adjusted 
diluted 
earnings  
per share
These results give us 
confidence that we have 
the right business strategy, 
the right organisation, the 
right platforms and the right 
culture to deliver sustained 
growth and outperformance.
Operating 
margins
3
 up
exceeding target
+20 
bps 
Health & hygiene 
Powerbrands
Durex, Mucinex, Strepsils, 
Dettol, Lysol, Harpic & Finish 
led the growth
RUMEA
2
& LAPAC
2
Strong growth in
emerging market areas
Greater speed  
and scale
ENA
2
+4% 
total 
growth 
(at constant  
exchange rates)
Total net revenue
£10bn
Total 
growth
1 +7%  RB Annual Report 2013 3
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement
At the end of the second year of our new strategy, it is 
appropriate to reflect on the progress we have made. 
The achievements have been many. Building on the successful 
traditions of the Company, we are creating something unique 
and powerful. We are creating a new force in consumer health 
across the globe. RB is building capabilities to provide innovative 
solutions for healthier lives. 
Global health trends are changing 
profoundly. People are living longer 
and are increasingly aware of the 
need to look after themselves as they 
seek to prolong and enjoy their lives. 
Families are better educated about 
health issues and are increasingly keen 
to take control of their own wellbeing. 
The emergent middle class has become 
far more health conscious as the links 
between health and prosperity become 
clearer. Governments also want citizens 
to take on responsibility for their  
every-day ailments as they strive to 
reduce the economic burden of rising 
health care costs and to focus limited 
resources on more complex diseases.
Our vision and our purpose are to 
support consumers as they make their 
choices for their own households and 
their own families; to put them in 
control and give them the power to  
do what is right for them.
Creating a New Global 
Force in Consumer Health
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive
POweRBRANDS  
Focus on health, hygiene and home
POweRMARKeTS  
Powermarkets prioritised on  
growth potential and where we  
have capabilities to win
ORGANISATION  
Informed by consumer clusters,  
LAPAC, RUMEA and ENA 
MARGINS  
Drive margins to fund investment and 
profit growth, and convert to cash
Our Strategy
Our vision is a world where people  
are healthier and live better
Our purpose is to make a difference by 
giving people innovative solutions for 
healthier lives and happier homes
HEALTH HYGIENE HOME 4 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement
As the global leader in consumer health and 
hygiene, RB’s reputation for being ‘the health  
care brand for health care professionals’ (HCPs)  
is growing. Amongst many online schemes, we’re 
piloting an online consumer health care portal 
‘RBforHealth’ in the UK and Italy, giving HCPs 
access to interactive training modules, and a 
collection of essential resources. 
Our business model continues to 
develop to support this strategy. We 
remain focused on Powermarkets and 
Powerbrands where we believe the 
opportunities are greatest. Our new 
geographic structure has paid dividends 
as we have significantly expanded our 
presence in emerging markets. And our 
renewed focus on health and hygiene 
has seen us boost our presence in key 
consumer health segments that we 
believe will deliver benefits to all our 
stakeholders in the future. 
We have done this through focused 
investment in our people and financial 
resources, and through a series 
of strategic acquisitions that have 
demonstrated our intent to develop 
further in areas where we see the  
most potential.
Consumers are at the Centre of  
our Vision
RB owns brands that consumers love 
and trust. They know our products 
can make a difference and help 
them live healthier lives, but our 
strategy is different from traditional 
pharmaceutical consumer health 
companies. Our deep expertise as a 
consumer-centric company means we 
can continuously provide highly relevant 
products and benefits based on what 
consumers want, informed with robust 
science and medical support. 
We continue to invest in this strategy. 
We have increased our spending on key 
partnerships across the world so we can 
understand better where the emerging 
opportunities and needs lie; in whatever 
demographic or geography they exist. 
Trusted Powerbrands for 
Self Health Care
OuR 19 POweRBRANDS 
Good health is the key to happiness.
Hygiene is the foundation of  
healthy living.
Home is the centre of family life. 
Food is run as a stand-alone 
business.
Helping UK pharmacists 
help their patients
Building Trust with Health Care Professionals RB Annual Report 2013 5
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement
Acquisitions Reinforce  
our Position 
Strengthening our Health Platform
In May 2013 we significantly 
strengthened our health platform in 
Latin America, where historically we 
have had less on-the-ground ability  
to execute than in other regions.  
Our collaboration with Bristol-Myers 
Squibb brought into our portfolio a 
number of important over-the-counter 
brands that have leading positions 
in key segments such as cold and flu 
and pain relief in the rapidly growing 
markets of Brazil and Mexico. In China, 
we acquired the leading traditional sore 
throat brand Manyanshuning, which 
has already shown strong growth in the 
first year of our ownership. Beyond this, 
it is helping to build a consumer health 
platform in one of the world’s largest 
consumer markets. 
Vitamins, Minerals and  
Supplements (VMS)
We have also broadened our category 
portfolio with the purchase of Schiff 
at the end of 2012. This provided us 
with a meaningful position in the fast-
growing area of vitamins, minerals and 
supplements. The category is worth 
£29bn globally and is growing at an 
annual rate of 4-5%.  
As more and more people become 
aware of the potential benefits of 
supplements as part of a holistic 
approach to health and wellbeing, 
this category goes from strength to 
strength. As an example, many people 
want to eat a balanced diet with the 
right nutrients but are unable to do so. 
Supplementing diet is one way VMS 
fulfils an important role.
In each of these cases we have used 
our operational expertise to integrate 
the acquisitions rapidly, and we are 
confident that each will deliver lasting 
value for Shareholders. Collectively 
these transactions will contribute to 
our strategy of creating a unique global 
health and hygiene focused company 
with broad category coverage across a 
host of fast growing segments, including 
analgesics, cold and flu, gastrointestinal 
maladies and VMS. They have also 
expanded our geographic capabilities, 
ensuring we are better positioned than 
ever to meet our targets.
STRATeGIC ACquISITIONS  
AND PARTNeRSHIPS
Guilong Medicine
Strategic acquisition of the traditional 
Chinese medicine brand Manyanshuning – 
the No.1 sore throat remedy in China.
Bristol-Myers Squibb
Boosting our strength in Latin America  
in over-the-counter brands.
Acquiring Schiff has given RB a leading 
position in the large and rapidly growing 
vitamins, minerals and supplements category; 
effectively doubling the value of the global 
health markets we are now in to £60bn.
A key brand in this category is MegaRed – 
made from krill oil instead of fish oil, this 
gives our consumers the same 
benefits for their heart and 
health, but with a much more 
palatable fish-free taste.
MegaRed launches into over  
20 new European and Asian 
markets in 2014.
Heart health is key to the 
enjoyment of life
Diving into the Vast Vitamins, Minerals 
and Supplements Category 6 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement 
Focus on the Right Categories and 
the Right Geographies
These acquisitions add to our 
considerable progress on the first 
pillar of our strategy, to focus on the 
faster growing, higher margin and 
better consumer loyalty of health and 
hygiene brands. Our KPI, which we 
had already accelerated to 2015, to 
achieve 72% of our core net revenue 
from these two categories has been 
achieved two years early. 
The second pillar of our strategy is a 
particular focus on 16 Powermarkets 
where the opportunity to grow and 
outperform is greatest, such as in Brazil, 
Russia, India and China. This is why we 
created two emerging market areas, 
our third pillar, LAPAC and RUMEA, 
to enhance our focus, capabilities and 
brand penetration programme. Our KPI 
is to make these emerging market areas  
50% of our core net revenue by 2015. 
We also made the unconventional 
but breakthrough step of combining 
Europe and North America as one 
organisation. This has enabled ENA to 
become a leaner, faster organisation 
with the ability to enhance the scale of 
our innovations across both sides of the 
Atlantic and deliver very good growth.
Our final pillar of margin 
improvement remains key and is 
a focus for every business, in every 
market, every day. It is what generates 
the fuel to invest in our brands and 
ultimately to generate excellent returns 
for our Shareholders.
Expanding Powermarkets 
LAPAC
North Asia / South East Asia /  
Australia & New Zealand / Latin America
RuMeA
Russia & CIS / Middle East, North Africa  
& Turkey / sub-Saharan Africa
eNA
North America / Central Europe /  
Northern Europe / Southern Europe / 
Western Europe
AReAS
Gil, Baek Jiyoung,  
Shin Seunghoon & Kang Ta  
Judges on The Voice of Korea 
An innovative collaboration saw Strepsils sponsoring 
the popular national talent TV show The Voice of 
Korea. The Strepsils brand was embedded into all 
aspects of the show; contestants even used Strepsils 
during the shows to keep their throats feeling great. 
This helped Strepsils’ distribution into 16 cities, 14,000 
pharmacies and 30,000 points of sale. Sales doubled!
Boosting Strepsils Sales in 
South Korea RB Annual Report 2013 7
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement
gaining a million views in just two weeks 
and becoming Australia’s No.1 video ever. 
Facebook ‘Likes’ increased 4,000%;  
there was a 35:1 return on advertising 
revenue and a Silver Lion advertising award 
at Cannes.
Strategic Review of RB 
Pharmaceuticals 
As part of our constant commitment  
to drive shareholder value, during 
the year we announced a strategic 
review of RB Pharmaceuticals. We have 
consistently said that, once generic 
competition to RB Pharmaceuticals’ 
Suboxone had been on the market in 
the US for a number of months, we 
would examine all the options for what 
is a very valuable asset. That review 
is ongoing and we will update our 
Shareholders during 2014.
Our Responsibility
Our purpose to provide innovative 
solutions for healthier lives and happier 
homes inspires our business strategy 
but it is a determination that is also at 
the heart of our social purpose. We 
take the same innovative approach 
to our responsibility and sustainability 
initiatives as we do to our business  
and brands.
environmental Performance
We take our environmental 
performance equally seriously and 
are targeting a one-third reduction 
in carbon emissions across the entire 
lifecycle of our products by 2020. In the 
past five years we have already reduced 
carbon emissions per dose of product 
by 25%, leading to our recognition 
as a leader in this area by the Carbon 
Disclosure Project. 
We have adopted a similar approach 
to our use of water, which is becoming 
an increasingly scarce resource in many 
parts of the world, yet is critical to our 
business and to consumers.
Innovating to Outperform
1   Core includes health, hygiene, home and 
portfolio brands
Nick & Dani, Australia, 
‘Fundawear’ testers on 
viral YouTube video
GeOGRAPHIC KPI
43
%
achieved
Core
1
 Company 
net revenues from 
LAPAC and RuMeA 
to be equal to eNA 
by end of 2015
CATeGORY KPI
72
%
achieved
Core
1
 Company 
net revenues from 
health and hygiene 
to increase by  
1% per annum
Durex is about great and safe sex. As the 
global No.1 sexual wellbeing brand it is 
reaching new consumers in very innovative 
ways. A series of ‘Durexperiments’  
included creating ‘Fundawear’ – vibrating 
underwear, activated by your partner via a 
smart phone app.
This innovative idea was launched in 
Australia. The YouTube video went viral, 
Fun with Durexperiments 8 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Chief Executive’s Statement
This illness is preventable 
through better hygiene 
and health and our 
goal together is to 
radically reduce the 
global death rate  
by 2020. 
We have set a one-third target for water 
reduction and are designing innovative 
new products that reduce both the 
volumes of water required for their 
manufacture, as well as in their use. For 
instance our new Dettol Touch of Foam 
requires far less water than conventional 
hand wash products as it does not 
require water to create a lather. In 
addition, we have a target to achieve 
one-third of our net revenue from more 
sustainable products by 2020.
Healthier Lives
We have launched a groundbreaking 
initiative with Save the Children to 
tackle the causes of diarrhoea, which 
kills 800,000 children under five every 
year – that’s more than a child a minute. 
Working with governmental, NGO  
and business partners, we aim to 
remove it as the No.2 cause of death  
in young children. 
Our People
The success of these initiatives, and  
of the business as a whole, lies with 
our employees. RB people are different. 
They have unmatched passion and 
commitment, and live for results. Once 
again I would like to thank them for all 
their efforts.
Healthier Business, 
Healthier World
E V E R Y M I N U T E
SAVE A CHILD
Help stop deaths 
from diarrhoea
In partnership with
Making a difference in 
Ethiopia, Bangladesh and 
many more countries
It will shock many people to learn that 
diarrhoea is the second biggest killer 
worldwide of children under five, claiming 
around 800,000 lives per year. That’s 90 
young lives every hour. RB is on a mission 
with Save the Children to change this!
Taking a Stand Against Preventable Disease  
– Save a Child Every Minute! 
There is little doubt that 2014 will be another challenging 
year. Our actions in 2013 mean that we believe we can 
still look forward to another period of outperformance. 
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive
Photo credits  Above: Save the Children 
Below: Lucia Zoro / Save the Children RB Annual Report 2013 9
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
Mucinex Fast Max in the wider cold and  
flu category in 2011-2012, and then 
subsequently into the sinus category in 2013. 
And for 2014 we have now announced our 
entry into the allergy category with our  
new Mucinex Fast Max Allergy tablets, a 
non-drowsy antihistamine with 24-hour relief 
from indoor and outdoor allergies.
•	 Geographic roll outs: Our global consumer 
health infrastructure and go-to-market 
capability will facilitate further geographic 
expansion of our existing brands. We have 
already had significant success with Gaviscon, 
a longstanding brand in our portfolio. We 
have also recently announced the launch of 
our newly acquired MegaRed brand in over 
20 countries during 2014.
Hygiene – 43% of Core Net Revenue 
Good hygiene is the foundation of healthy 
living and we believe it is important to educate 
consumers about good hygienic practices. Our 
Powerbrands are positioned with this in mind 
and we have a number of large and market-
leading Powerbrands in hygiene.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	antiseptic	liquids	with	the	
Powerbrand Dettol.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	disinfectant	cleaners	
(products which both clean and disinfect 
surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs) with the 
Powerbrand Lysol, in North America, and the 
surface care products in the Dettol range 
outside North America.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	automatic	dishwashing	
(products used in automatic dishwashers) 
with the Powerbrand Finish.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	the	overall	surface	car e	
category due to leading positions across 
disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant 
multi-purpose cleaners, lavatory care, 
speciality cleaners and polishes/waxes.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	depilatories	with	the	
Powerbrand Veet.
•	 	 No.2	worldwide	in	lavatory	car e	with	L ysol	in	
North America and the Powerbrand Harpic, 
across Europe and developing markets.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	upper	gastr o-intestinal	
products with the Powerbrand Gaviscon.
•	 	 Leading	position	in	analgesics	in	Eur ope	and	
Australia with the Powerbrand Nurofen.
•	 	 Leading	positions	in	footcar e	in	many	
markets outside North America and Latin 
America, with the Powerbrand Scholl.
Attractive Features of Consumer Health:
Attractive demographics such as an emerging 
middle class keen to manage their health  
and an ageing population with greater needs. 
Governments keen to encourage consumers  
to self-medicate on symptom management,  
as more complex diseases make ever greater 
calls on their funds. Health brands have higher 
consumer trust and loyalty; brands have 
superior gross margins and finally there is  
a fragmented market place, dominated by 
prescription pharmaceutical companies with 
typically less focus on and expertise in 
consumer marketing. 
RB Positioning and Ability to win:
Our consumer-centric and innovation-led 
mindset, puts the consumers’ needs first.  
We have built a global consumer health 
infrastructure and are present in all of the major 
consumer health categories. The combination 
of our consumer focused and innovation-led 
mindset, our R&D and regulatory capabilities, 
and our global infrastructure, positions us well 
for continued growth and outperformance. 
Growth Drivers
Growth will be driven by three core 
components:
•	 Science-based innovations: Our R&D 
department sits firmly alongside our category 
organisation and is core to the development 
of scientifically driven and consumer-focused 
innovation. We don’t discover new molecules 
rather we mine the wealth of existing science 
and use our technical expertise and capability 
to deliver products, using that science, which 
consumers find relevant, convenient, know 
and trust. For example, when you have a 
headache, your number one priority is to get 
rid of pain quickly, so we developed Nurofen 
Express, a patented combination of ibuprofen 
and sodium which speeds up the release of 
the active ingredient and so targets pain 
twice as quickly as an ibuprofen-only product.
•	 Brand extensions: Trust is important within 
consumer health, and we build on the trust 
and loyalty we have created within our 
brands to create opportunities in adjacent 
segments. Take for example Mucinex, our 
market-leading cough and congestion 
product in the US. We have built on the 
equity we created in this brand to launch 
Our Strategy for Growth and 
Outperformance
Our vision is a world where people are healthier 
and live better. Our purpose is to make a 
difference by giving people innovative solutions 
for healthier lives and happier homes.
Our strategy for growth and outperformance  
to deliver our vision centres around four  
key pillars:
1.  Powerbrands – a disproportionate focus on 
our 19 Powerbrands in the health, hygiene 
and home categories.
2.  Powermarkets – a disproportionate  
focus on our 16 Powermarkets, a  
significant number of which are in emerging 
markets and which have higher absolute 
growth potential.
3.  Organisation – we have organised our 
business around seven major consumer 
clusters, each of which has Powermarkets 
within it.
4.  Margins – we undertake continuous 
initiatives aimed at freeing resource to invest 
in the business and driving moderate margin 
expansion over the medium-term.
POweRBRANDS – STRATeGIC PILLAR 1
Our Powerbrands are carefully selected for their 
high growth and margin potential, and we 
invest disproportionately behind these brands 
to drive superior performance. We have 19 
Powerbrands, all bar one of which are classified 
into our three core categories of health, 
hygiene and home.
Health – 29% of Core Net Revenue 
Consumer health has a number of attractive 
features as a category and we have built the 
skill set to win in these categories. 
 
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	condoms	for	both	 
safe and more pleasurable sex, with the 
Powerbrand Durex.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	cough	with	the	
Powerbrand Mucinex.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	medicated	sor e	thr oat	
products with the Powerbrand Strepsils.
A Detailed Look at our Strategy
Good health is the key to happiness.
Hygiene is the foundation of  
healthy living. 10 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
LAPAC: North Asia, South East Asia,  
Australia & New Zealand, Latin America
RUMEA: Russia & CIS; Middle East, North Africa 
& Turkey; sub-Saharan Africa
ENA: North America, Central Europe,  
Northern Europe, Southern Europe, Western 
Europe
MARGINS – STRATeGIC PILLAR 4
The fourth pillar of our strategy is margin. 
Increasing gross margin is a key priority. It is at 
the forefront of our ‘virtuous’ earnings model. 
Gross margin is an indicator of our ability to 
drive topline growth over time with the key 
drivers being the following:
•	 Improving the mix: We focus on categories 
where we can add real value for consumers, 
and earn a corresponding significant and 
sustainable margin. 
•	 	 Cost	optimisation	pr ogrammes: this is a 
continual process in our business and not a 
stop-start effort. Now called ‘Project Fuel’, 
we are continually looking for greater 
efficiencies and savings within our supply 
chain. We also look at our products, with a 
relentless focus on doing things at a cheaper 
cost, and enhancing quality and the 
consumer experience.
•	 	 Pricing: we look to take price increases 
where appropriate.
Gross margin increased by 150 bps to 59.4%  
in 2013 due to a combination of the above 
factors and positive mix arising from the 
discontinuation of our private label business 
during 2012. 
Gross Margin expansion to Fund More 
Investment in our Brands
Our gross margin growth funds investment 
behind our brands, which we have defined as 
BEI (Brand Equity Investment). BEI encompasses 
TV and print, social and digital media, and 
consumer and medical marketing. It is a key 
metric for us and represents a combination of 
category and penetration building activities, as 
well as consumer and doctor awareness and 
education programmes.
In 2013 BEI was 13.0%, an increase of  
30 bps over the prior year, and helped drive 
total net revenue growth of 7% (constant,  
ex RB Pharmaceuticals) a strong 
outperformance versus market growth.  
 
particularly tough stains. The tip exchange has 
proved a great success and we have already 
seen encouraging penetration improvements in 
Vanish during the year. 
Medium-term KPI 
Our prime portfolio focus is on health and 
hygiene and we had a medium-term KPI that 
72% of our core revenue will come from health 
and hygiene brands by 2015. At the end of 
2013 we actually achieved this KPI due to our 
strong organic growth, supplemented by 
acquisitions. We are now targeting to increase 
this 	 by 	 +1% 	 per 	 annum 	 going 	 forwar d.	
Portfolio Brands
We have a number of local brands which do 
not fit with our health, hygiene and home 
focus. These are managed with a focus on local 
scale and cash generation.
POweRMARKeTS AND ORGANISATION  
– STRATeGIC PILLARS 2 & 3
The second pillar of our strategy is ‘A Focus On 
Powermarkets’. Our brands are marketed and 
sold in nearly 200 markets across the world, 
but we know that the vast majority of our 
global growth will come from a few key areas. 
We have identified 16 Powermarkets, in both 
developed and emerging countries. These are 
markets where we see exceptional potential for 
growth and where we have an ability to win.
The third pillar of our strategy is organisation, 
where we seek a balance of emerging markets 
and developed markets. We take a consumer-
centric view of the world and see seven major 
consumer clusters, around which we organise 
ourselves. Each cluster has one or more 
Powermarkets within it. Consumers within 
these clusters have significant similarities in 
how they use, choose and buy our categories 
of consumer goods and so it makes sense to 
group them together. 
The first three of these consumer clusters are 
the consumers of Latin America, North Asia  
and South Asia, which together with Australia 
and New Zealand we group together into one 
organisational structure named LAPAC. The 
next three clusters are Russia and CIS, Middle 
East, North Africa and Turkey, and sub-Saharan 
Africa, and we group these three together into 
one organisational structure called RUMEA. The 
seventh consumer cluster comprises Europe and 
North America (ENA). Across these two markets 
there are many similarities in behaviours, in 
brand development and in how the retail trade 
is organised. Hence ENA forms the third 
geographic organisational structure.
Medium-term KPI 
Our medium-term goal is to grow the emerging 
market areas of LAPAC and RUMEA faster so 
that by 2015 they together represent 50% of 
our core revenues, equal in size to ENA. At the 
end of 2013 they represented 43%. In 2013 
our progress was impacted by adverse currency 
movements in a number of emerging markets, 
by weaker performance in RUMEA and by our 
Schiff acquisition within ENA.
 
•	 	 No.2	worldwide	in	pest	contr ol	with	 
the Powerbrand Mortein, the Group’s 
international brand, supported by local brand 
franchises like d-Con in North America.
•	 	 No.3	worldwide	in	acne	tr eatment	with	the	
Powerbrand Clearasil.
The hygiene category is spearheaded by our 
Dettol/Lysol Powerbrands; ‘trusted champions 
of health, everyday’. We undertake many 
campaigns to help educate consumers on good 
hygienic practices in emerging markets, such as 
‘new mums’ hospital visit initiatives. We visit 
new mums in hospital and educate them about 
the importance of healthy habits around their 
home when they take their new child home for 
the first time. We also visit schools as part of 
our ‘healthy hands’ campaign and teach 
children the importance of washing their 
hands, and how to do it properly. 
These are just a few examples of where we 
believe we have a significant opportunity to 
grow awareness and penetration of our brands 
through consumer targeted education, coupled 
with the right innovations for healthy living.
Home – 22% of Core Net Revenue 
Home will always be the centre of a family’s 
world and our market-leading home care 
Powerbrands are positioned to create  
happier homes.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	fabric	tr eatment	(pr oducts	
to remove stains from clothes, carpets and 
upholstery) with the Powerbrand Vanish, 
around the globe and Resolve/Spray ‘n Wash 
in North America.
•	 	 No.2	worldwide	in	air	car e	with	the	
Powerbrand Air Wick.
•	 	 No.1	worldwide	in	water	softeners	 
(products to prevent limescale build-up on 
washing machines and laundry) with the 
Powerbrand Calgon.
•	 	 No.2	worldwide	in	garment	car e	(laundry	
cleaning products for delicate garments) with 
the Powerbrand Woolite.
We have a proven track record of bringing 
innovation that consumers love. A good 
example of our innovative approach to this 
category is our new Vanish ‘Superbar’. It has 
been designed specifically for emerging 
markets and has made Vanish more affordable 
to consumers where price remains a barrier and 
where people don’t have washing machines for 
their clothes. We also set up the online ‘Vanish 
tip exchange’ during the year. This was a 
business development initiative aimed at 
creating an online community for consumers  
to discuss how they use Vanish to get rid of 
Home is the centre of family life.  RB Annual Report 2013 11
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
Our culture is underpinned by a highly  
geared, performance-driven remuneration 
structure applied universally to our Top400 
global leaders. 
A robust supply of talented staff for the  
Group is attributable to the Group’s 
commitment to provide challenging, global 
careers for confident high achievers, supported 
by a highly leveraged performance-contingent 
compensation policy. Our executive leadership 
team has extensive experience in the FMCG 
and health care sectors. The members of our 
Executive Committee have been with us for  
an average of 12 years. 
The Group believes its ability to attract and 
retain the excellent management needed  
relies on continuing to offer diverse global 
experiences coupled with performance-driven 
remuneration. The Group trains and develops 
its middle and senior management pipeline 
through formal training programmes focusing 
on three areas – leadership skills, functional 
skills and general skills – and through a 
deliberate policy of training on the job.  
The Group has a number of formal training 
modules for Top400. 
During 2013, the Group ran over 46 courses 
across these modules, providing approximately 
450 trainings of the Top400. Management is 
international and is trained through rotation  
in international postings both in countries and 
in the Group’s central functions. Succession 
planning is a critical management discipline  
and is reviewed annually (at least) by the  
full Board and quarterly (at least) by the 
Executive Committee.
The Group closely monitors and tracks its 
Top400. This is the core management team of 
the business and is a diverse group, consisting 
of over 55 nationalities. Over 62% of the 
Top400 is working in a country that is not their 
original domicile, consistent with the Group’s 
policy to develop a multinational management 
team. Turnover within this Top400 group in 
2013 was 11%, of which 7% was involuntary, 
which the Group considers excellent retention, 
balanced with the need to refresh the team 
with new talent. 2013 saw 46 promotions,  
63 moves, and 29 external recruits. The Group 
ended the year with a low level of vacancies 
within the Top400 of 11, or around 3% of the 
measured group.
Food
The Group owns a largely North American food 
business, the principal brands of which are the 
Powerbrand French’s Mustard (the No.1 
mustard), and Frank’s Red Hot Sauce (the No.1 
hot sauce and wing sauce in North America). 
Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A)
We believe opportunities will continue to  
arise to augment our organic growth via M&A 
over time. The consumer health segment is a 
fragmented market and RB is well positioned to 
take advantage of consolidation opportunities 
which may arise. We require a number of 
criteria to be fulfilled before considering  
any inorganic opportunities. They must be 
strategically compelling, able to perform better 
under the ownership of RB, fit within a part of 
the business where we have the managerial 
depth to integrate them quickly and effectively, 
and must be value accretive.
Generating Shareholder Value
A Faster Growing P&L and Market 
Outperformance
Our core business, under the four pillars of our 
strategy, is aimed at positioning RB in faster 
growing markets and faster growing and 
higher margin categories. With relentless focus 
on gross margin and investing virtuously we 
seek to generate Shareholder value through 
sustainable top line growth and moderate 
margin expansion in the medium-term. 
Strong Focus on Net working Capital and 
Cash Conversion
We continue to target operational management 
on net working capital and in 2013 achieved 
110% cash conversion of our net income. By 
emphasising working capital management,  
we are able to convert a high proportion of 
operating profit into cash. Further, our tight 
control over net capital expenditure (purchases 
less disposals of property, plant and equipment 
and intangible assets) means that we are able 
to convert a high proportion of our net cash 
generated from operating activities into free 
cash flow (i.e., net cash generated from 
operating activities less net capital expenditure). 
Sustainable Returns to Shareholders
Our dividend payout ratio has been maintained 
at 50% of adjusted net income and this year’s 
dividend of 137p represents a 2% increase  
over the prior year. We have also undertaken  
a modest share buy back programme of  
around £280m which broadly equals the  
level of new share issuance for employee 
incentive programmes. 
OuR ReSOuRCeS
The principal resource is management and 
employees. The other major resources required 
by the business are an adequate supply of the 
raw and packaging materials consumed by the 
Group’s products and the necessary funds for 
developing new products and reinvestment in 
advertising and promoting those brands. 
Talented, Global employees
Our strategy is delivered by highly talented  
and driven people from around the world. 
Diverse backgrounds and experiences foster a  
culture of entrepreneurism and achievement. 
Brand Equity Investment 
% of net revenue (ex RB Pharmaceuticals)
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Declared dividend per share pence
90 60 30 0 150 120
0
3
6
9
12
15
*adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items and 
  tax effects thereon
134.0
125.0
0
3
6
9
12
15
2013 2012 2011
9
6
3
0
15
12 12.7
12.0
13.0
Our gross margin growth also funds our 
investment in the capabilities we need in  
order to continuously bring new innovation  
to our consumers. We have strengthened our 
consumer health capabilities by increasing our 
investment behind clinical, medical, regulatory 
and compliance. We have also increased 
investment in our emerging market areas of 
RUMEA and LAPAC as we implement our 
strategy of further resource allocation to  
these markets. 
We have invested more than £200m 
incrementally over the past two years as we 
prioritise the long-term, sustainable growth of 
our brands.
Aiming for Moderate Operating Margin 
expansion over the Medium-term
The combination of our focus on gross margin 
expansion, and relentless cost containment 
funds both investment in our business and 
moderate operating margin expansion over the 
medium-term.
In 2013 we increased adjusted margins by  
20 bps (ex RB Pharmaceuticals) ahead of our 
ingoing target.
Non-core Businesses
RB Pharmaceuticals 
RB Pharmaceuticals is a pioneer in the field of 
innovative prescription treatments for chronic 
diseases of addiction. It is responsible for the 
development of the Group’s Subutex and 
Suboxone prescription drug business. Both 
products are based on buprenorphine for 
treatment of opiate dependence. In the US, 
Suboxone lost the exclusivity afforded by its 
orphan drug status on 8 October 2009.  
On 31 August 2010, the Group announced 
that it had received approval from the US Food 
and Drug Administration for its application to 
manufacture and market Suboxone sublingual 
Film. Suboxone sublingual Film has been 
developed through an exclusive agreement 
with MonoSol Rx, utilising its proprietary 
PharmFilm® technology, to deliver Suboxone  
in a fast-dissolving sublingual Film. 
In October 2013 we announced our decision  
to undertake a strategic review of this business. 
This review is underway and we will update our 
Shareholders during the course of 2014.
Medical journals are endorsing the 
science behind Gaviscon, proving  
how it resolves the pain of the acid 
pocket caused after eating 
food. RB health professionals 
have been spreading the  
news at leading gastro-
intestinal symposia from 
Shanghai to Berlin.
Gaviscon – it’s About 
the Science 12 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
OuR INDuSTRY, MARKeT AND 
COMPeTITIVe eNVIRONMeNT
The health, hygiene and home care industry  
is generally characterised by steady growth  
in demand, with some variation due to 
macro-economic factors. Some emerging 
markets exhibit more volatile demand in 
reaction to macro-economic factors. The 
principal drivers of market growth in all markets 
are the rate of household formation, growth in 
the level of disposable income and demand for 
new products that offer improved performance 
or greater convenience.
The industry is intensely competitive. The 
Group’s competitors differ in various segments 
of the industry. The Group competes with 
numerous, well-established, local, regional, 
national and international companies, some  
of which are very large and have significant 
resources with which to establish and defend 
their products, market shares and brands. 
Principal multinational competitors include 
pharmaceutical companies such as Bayer, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson and 
Novartis and FMCG companies like Clorox, 
Colgate-Palmolive, Henkel, Procter & Gamble, 
SC Johnson and Unilever. There are also a 
number of strong local industry companies.
RB competes in strongly branded segments  
by focusing on its leading positions in higher 
growth categories. It is typically the market 
leader or a close follower, a position obtained 
through its ability to introduce new products 
(whether improved or newly developed), 
supported by a rising and substantial level of 
marketing and media investment. A lot of 
competition in the industry focuses on 
competing claims for product performance.  
For this reason, failure to introduce new 
products and gain acceptance may significantly 
impact the Group’s operating results. The 
Group must also defend itself against 
challenges to its leadership positions in 
markets: this requires significant marketing 
expenditure and promotional activity.
The Group’s products also compete with private 
label products sold by major retail companies. 
The Group does this by focusing on delivering 
innovative new products with real consumer 
benefits, which private label typically does  
not do. Consistent marketing investment 
communicates the benefits of the Group’s 
brands directly to consumers.
Technological change and product 
improvement can be a key determinant of the 
Group’s success. RB’s success in introducing 
new and improved products stems from its 
heavy focus on developing a pipeline of 
product innovation. The Group maintains a 
large category development organisation 
(including market and consumer research, R&D 
and regulatory) to fuel the innovation pipeline 
and share category success factors and 
learnings. The Group invested £199m in R&D in 
2013 (2012: £171m). R&D is a key contributor 
to innovative new products, but the Group 
does not believe that R&D spend is the 
dominant performance indicator for innovation 
generation and success. Understanding of, and 
insights into, consumer behaviour and needs, 
and building its brands is a significant 
competitive advantage.
Supply constraints do exist in the Group’s 
supply chain from time to time. These normally 
arise due to unexpected additional demand for 
products or the time delay involved in stepping 
up production of new items to the levels 
required internationally. The Group’s supply 
chain is deliberately relatively well spread in 
terms of geography and technology, such that 
the reliance on any one facility is reduced. 
However, there are a number of facilities that 
remain critical to the Group’s supply chain, 
where major interruption to normal working 
could involve disruption to supply. The Group’s 
suppliers are similarly deliberately well spread  
in terms of geography and supplied items, but 
there are nonetheless some risks to continuity 
of supply arising from some specialised 
suppliers both of raw materials and of third 
party manufactured items.
OuR STRuCTuRe
The Group structures its business through a 
matrix of a centralised category development, 
global sales, supply and support functions 
(finance, human resources and information 
services), combined with three area 
organisations: ENA, LAPAC and RUMEA, plus 
Food and RB Pharmaceuticals. The central 
category development function is responsible 
for Powerbrand strategies, brand equity 
programmes and best practices, and new 
product development (including research  
and development (R&D) and consumer and 
market research), for implementation by the 
area organisations.
Our R&D facilities are located at 28 different 
sites (many of which are situated in or 
alongside our production facilities). Our main 
R&D facilities are located in Hull (England), 
Montvale, New Jersey (US), Dongguan (China), 
Salt Lake City (US), Ludwigshafen (Germany), 
Gurgaon (India), Mira (Italy) and Bangkok 
(Thailand).
Technological change and product 
improvement is a key determinant of our 
success. We believe that our success in 
introducing new and improved products comes 
from our focus on developing a pipeline of 
product innovation through consumer-focused 
approaches. We maintain a large category 
development organisation (including market 
and consumer research, R&D, and marketing 
and sales best practice) to fuel the innovation 
pipeline and share category success factors  
and learning. We undertake R&D to support 
the development and commercialisation of  
new and improved products in all of our 
product categories and for increased 
manufacturing efficiencies.
The global supply function is responsible for all 
procurement (raw and packaging materials and 
services), production and logistics globally, and 
is directly responsible for the operation of the 
Group’s 48 production facilities worldwide. 
Facilities are located in Europe (15 facilities) and 
North America (six), Asia (18), Latin America 
(five), and Africa Middle East (four).There are a 
small number of facilities in higher risk labour 
and social environments.
The percentages of female members in the 
Group’s Director, senior manager and all 
employee populations are 10%, 14% and  
41% respectively.
The Group has designated the members of  
its Top40 population as RB’s ‘senior managers’ 
for the purposes of the gender split disclosure 
required by s414C of Companies Act 2006.
The total number of employees to which the 
split relates is 24,514. This figure is different 
from the total employee numbers reported  
as it excludes seasonal labour which varies 
significantly during the year and for which 
gender identifiers are not recorded.
There is a comprehensive set of policies 
governing employment and employees to 
ensure that the Group remains an attractive 
employer. The Group is committed to the 
principle of equal opportunity in employment; 
no applicant or employee receives less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of 
nationality, age, gender, religion or disability. 
It is essential to the continued improvement in 
efficiency and productivity that each employee 
understands the Group’s strategies, policies and 
procedures. Open and regular communication 
with employees at all levels is an essential  
part of the management process. The Board 
encourages employees to become Shareholders 
and participate in the employee share 
ownership schemes.
The Group relies on its brands, brand names 
and intellectual property. The Group’s major 
brand names are protected by internationally 
registered trademarks. The Group also 
maintains patents or other protection for its 
significant product formulations, designs and 
processing methods. The Group aggressively 
monitors these protections and pursues any 
apparent infringements.
Our Supply Chain
The Group considers that its primary raw 
materials, such as bulk chemicals (including a 
number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal 
cans etc), are generally in adequate global 
supply. The cost of these items fluctuates from 
time to time but not at levels that seriously 
impinge on the ability of the Group to supply 
its products or generate profit. The Group is 
profitable and cash generative. The Group 
believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting 
Durex can reach people and with MTV 
it reached 900 million people across 
36 countries through the internet and 
live music with its #someonelikeme 
campaign to promote 
great sex, safe from 
transmission of HIV  
and other diseases. 
Durex & MTV  
#someonelikeme RB Annual Report 2013 13
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
performances. Scholl, Strepsils and Nurofen in 
particular performed well, behind innovations 
such as the new Scholl Express Pedi for hard 
skin and Nurofen for Children. 
North America delivered another strong 
performance, driven by Mucinex brand 
extensions, improved in-store execution  
and targeted digital and traditional media 
campaigns. Lysol also produced an excellent 
result behind innovations such as ‘Power and 
Free’, and our recently launched ‘Healthing’ 
campaign to strengthen our core equity of 
germ protection. We successfully integrated 
Schiff in the US. Over achievement of synergies 
allowed for increased reinvestment behind  
the brands to drive penetration, distribution, 
improved in-store activities and shelf presence. 
The combination of Europe and North America 
under one organisation is bringing greater 
speed and scale to our innovations such as the 
launch of MegaRed in Europe just one year 
after acquisition. 
Adjusted operating profit was £1,321m an 
incr ease	of	+12%	at	constant.	The	adjusted	
operating	margin	incr eased	+160	bps.
LAPAC. 2013 total net revenue increased to 
£2,511m,	with	like-for -like	gr owth	of	+10%.	
China experienced strong growth as we 
executed our ‘power city’ roll out plans, and 
increased distribution. On a category basis 
Durex had a strong performance driven by 
innovation and targeted digital and social 
media campaigns. In hygiene, Dettol grew 
strongly behind innovations in anti-bacterial 
soaps, shower gels and antiseptics, and our 
new Dettol kitchen gel, underpinned by our 
‘Healthing’ campaign for new mums and kids. 
In home, Vanish had a strong year as we 
refocused on winning penetration through  
our successful online ‘Vanish Tip Exchange’ 
programme in a number of countries. 
Adjusted	operating	pr ofit	incr eased	+12%	 
to £495m. Adjusted operating margin was  
-30 bps lower at 19.7%. The margin was 
reduced due to the amortisation of the BMS 
collaboration agreement, which commenced  
in May 2013. 
RuMeA. 2013 net revenue was £1,356m, with 
like-for -like	gr owth	of	+5%.	Gr owth	has	been	
impacted by socio-economic issues in parts of 
the area. We are also experiencing operational 
issues in Turkey and South Africa. A number of 
corrective actions have been put in place and 
are showing modest early results. 
However, a further slowing of market 
conditions in Russia impacted growth in Q4 
which	was	+3%	on	a	like-for -like	basis.	In	 
spite of the slowing environment Nurofen 
experienced strong growth in Q4 as we have 
now lapped the upscheduling in Russia. In 
hygiene, Veet, Dettol and Mortein had a good 
quarter to complete a year of strong growth. 
Adjusted operating profit declined by -2% to 
£284m, a -120 bps decline in the adjusted 
operating margin to 20.9%. Gross margin 
enhancement from improved mix and pricing 
was more than offset by increased investment 
in BEI and capabilities to support future growth, 
adverse transactional FX and employee-related 
to total growth with our acquisitions of Schiff 
and Guilong and our collaboration with BMS  
in Latin America (LATAM) all performing 
strongly, and ahead of ingoing expectations.  
RB Pharmaceuticals net revenue declined by 
8% (at constant rates) due to the loss of our 
higher margin tablet sales in the US following 
our voluntary withdrawal of Suboxone tablets. 
However market share of Suboxone Film in the 
US was sustained at around 68% despite the 
launch of generic tablets in March.
Gr oss	margin	incr eased	by	+150	bps	to	59.4%.	
This was due to a combination of improved 
mix, modest price increases, cost optimisation 
programmes (‘Project Fuel’) and the non-
recurring impact of our withdrawal from the 
private label business. These improvements 
were not as strong in the second half, which 
also saw adverse currency movements and a 
stronger comparative. 
We raised investment behind our brands (as 
defined	by	our	BEI	metric),	by	+30	bps	to	
13.0% of net revenue (ex RB Pharmaceuticals), 
equating to an incremental £100m investment 
over the prior year (at constant rates). The 
increase in brand equity investment is focused 
on Powerbrands, Powermarkets and new 
initiatives, as well as our newly acquired brands. 
We also increased investment behind 
capabilities important to our future growth – in 
particular in the areas of consumer health and 
emerging markets.
Operating profit as reported was £2,345m, 
-4% versus 2012 (-4% constant), reflecting the 
impact of an exceptional pre-tax charge of 
£271m (2012: £135m). Details of the 
exceptional charge are set out in note 3 and 
relate to a provision for historic regulatory 
issues, principally competition law, restructuring 
costs in relation to the new organisation, and 
acquisition and integration costs. On an 
adjusted basis, operating profit was ahead 
+2%	(+1%	constant)	to	£2,616m.	The	adjusted	
operating margin decreased by -90 bps to 
26.0%. Excluding RB Pharmaceuticals, the 
adjusted operating margin increased by  
+20	bps	to	23.6%.	
Net finance expense was £31m (2012: £34m). 
The tax rate was 25% after deducting  
the exceptional charge, and 24% for  
adjusted profit. 
Net income as reported was £1,739m, a 
decrease of -5% (-5% constant) versus 2012. 
On	an	adjusted	basis,	net	income	r ose	+2%	
(+2%	constant).	Diluted	ear nings	per	shar e	of	
238.5p was -4% lower on a reported basis; on 
an	adjusted	basis,	the	gr owth	was	+2%	 
to 269.8p. 
Segmental Performance At Constant 
exchange Rates
The three geographical areas are responsible  
for local execution of marketing and sales 
programmes:
eNA. Total net revenue was £5,074m, with 
like-for -like	gr owth	of	+3%	and	total	gr owth	 
of	+4%.	2013	was	a	str ong	year	for	ENA	with	
growth returning to most parts of Europe, with 
the exception of Southern Europe. All of our 
consumer health Powerbrands delivered strong 
ability to prioritise and focus effort, and speed 
of implementation and reaction are also critical.
INTeRNATIONAL OPeRATIONS AND 
ReGuLATORY POSITION
The health and hygiene industries are heavily 
regulated by, inter alia, the European Union 
(EU) and individual country governments 
around the world. The home care industry has 
regulation, but to a lesser extent. Ingredients, 
manufacturing standards, labour standards, 
product safety, marketing and advertising 
claims are all subject to detailed and  
developing regulation.
The Group has a comprehensive set of policies 
and procedures designed to govern its business 
methods and practices and protect its 
reputation. These cover, inter alia, a 
comprehensive Code of Conduct, an 
Environment Policy, a Global Manufacturing 
Standard, a Product Safety Policy including 
compliance with regulatory and product  
quality requirements. Internal controls on 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
matters and reputational risk are further 
outlined in pages 15 to 19 of this Report.
We take compliance extremely seriously and 
have committed resource and management 
attention to these matters. Additionally the 
Group maintains and continues to improve  
a robust compliance training programme, 
ensuring that all senior managers sign an 
annual disclosure, and executive management 
sign additionally a reporting document 
certifying compliance with the Group’s Code  
of Conduct.
OuR PeRFORMANCe IN 2013
The results include the business of Schiff from 
14 December 2012, Guilong from 8 January 
2013, and BMS from 8 May 2013, the dates of 
acquisition/start of the collaboration. Where 
appropriate, the term ‘like-for-like’ describes 
the performance of the business on a 
comparable basis, excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, disposals, discontinued operations 
and translational foreign exchange movements. 
Where appropriate, the term ‘base business’ 
includes ENA, LAPAC, RUMEA and Food. Base 
business excludes RB Pharmaceuticals. Where 
appropriate, the term ‘core’ includes health, 
hygiene, home and portfolio brands and 
excludes RB Pharmaceuticals and Food. Where 
appropriate, the term ‘adjusted’ excludes the 
impact of exceptional items.
Total net revenue was £10,043m, an increase 
of	+7%	at	constant	exchange	rates	excluding	
RB	Pharmaceuticals	or	+5%	like-for -like	(ex	 
RB Pharmaceuticals). Our like-for-like growth 
was health and hygiene led as we continue  
to focus on and invest disproportionately in 
these categories, delivering science-based 
innovations, brand extensions and geographic 
roll outs. Mucinex, Durex, Dettol and Lysol 
performed particularly well in 2013. From a 
geographic perspective over two-thirds of the 
contribution to like-for-like growth came from 
our emerging market areas of LAPAC and 
RUMEA. Our developed market area of ENA 
deliver ed	like-for -like	gr owth	of	+3%,	a	very	
strong performance in challenging market 
conditions.	The	impact	of	net	M&A	added	+2%	 14 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
emerging market areas driven by the continued 
success of Lysol/Dettol hand wash foam in the 
US, Germany, Korea and China.
Harpic continued its strong momentum behind 
penetration programmes and the launch of our 
All-in-1 line extension in India.
Home
Net revenue increased to £1,974m, a like-for-
like	gr owth	rate	of	+2%.	V anish	had	a	very	
strong final quarter as we refocused the 
strategy on penetration, underpinned by the 
launch of our successful online ‘Vanish Tip 
Exchange’ campaign in Europe and a number 
of our emerging market countries. 
Portfolio
Net revenue decreased to £499m, with a 
like-for-like decline of -12%. This was due 
principally to actions taken in the European 
footwear business and continued weakness  
in laundry detergents and fabric softeners in 
Southern Europe. 
FINANCIAL ReVIew
Basis of Preparation: The financial 
information is prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as endorsed by the EU and IFRSs as issued 
by the International Accounting Standards 
Board, with applicable parts of the 2006 
Companies Act and with the accounting 
policies set out in note 1 on pages 54 to 57.
Constant exchange: Movements in exchange 
rates relative to Sterling affect actual results as 
reported. The constant exchange rate basis 
adjusts the comparative to exclude such 
movements, to show the underlying growth  
of the Group.
Net Revenue: Net revenue was £10,043m 
(2012:	£9,567m),	an	incr ease	of	+5%.
Net Finance expense: Net finance expense 
was £31m (2012: £34m). 
Tax: The effective tax rate was 25% (2012: 
24%). This increase was primarily due to the 
non-deductability of the exceptional items.  
The adjusted tax rate was 24%.
Net working Capital: Net working capital 
(inventories, trade and other receivables and 
trade and other payables) was minus £863m 
(2012: minus £700m). 
Cash Flow: Cash generated from operations 
was £2,756m (2012: £2,423m) and net cash 
generated from operating activities was 
£2,121m (2012: £1,888m). Net interest paid 
was £24m (2012: £7m) and tax payments were 
£611m (2012: £528m). Capital expenditure 
was higher than the prior year at £225m (2012: 
£177m). Acquisition of businesses of £418m 
related to the acquisition of Guilong and 
collaboration agreement with BMS. 
Net Debt: At the end of the year net debt  
was £2,096m (2012: £2,426m). This reflected 
strong free cash flow generation, offset by the 
payment of two dividends totalling £992m  
and the acquisition of businesses for £418m. 
The Group regularly reviews its banking 
arrangements and currently has adequate 
facilities available to it. The Group issued two 
bonds in September 2013.
currently under-treated markets. We also have 
a strong pipeline, as we look to deliver to 
patients the next generation products for 
opioid addiction. These longer-term prospects 
will be tempered with short-term volatility. We 
continue to expect erosion of Film share with 
some more price sensitive patients and payors 
switching to cheaper alternatives. We are 
pleased to announce that we have recently 
appointed a new Chairman, Howard Pien, who 
will play an important part in the next stage of 
RB Pharmaceuticals’ evolution.
The strategic review we announced in October 
of last year is underway. We will provide further 
information on this review during the course 
of 2014.
CATeGORY PeRFORMANCe
Health
Net revenue increased to £2,633m with 
like-for -like	gr owth	of	+10%.	It	was	a	very	
strong year for our consumer health category 
which had an excellent start. Innovation-led 
growth was driven by Mucinex, with its further 
expansion beyond cough and congestion into 
sinus and cold & flu, and aided by a long and 
strong season during the first half. These 
successes provide a firm base on which to 
launch a further category extension within the 
Mucinex franchise, with the roll out of Mucinex 
Allergy – 24-hour relief from indoor and 
outdoor allergies, in 2014.
Our consumer health acquisitions are 
performing strongly. In respect of Schiff in the 
US the over achievement of synergies allowed 
for increased reinvestment behind the brands, 
improved shelf presence and distribution. In 
China our Manyanshuning sore throat brand, 
which came with the Guilong acquisition,  
has had a strong year, and we are seeing 
encouraging results from our collaboration 
agreement with BMS in LATAM. 
Hygiene
Net revenue increased to £3,835m, with 
like-for -like	gr owth	of	+7%.	The	performance	
was driven by strong growth in the Dettol/Lysol 
franchise across all three of our areas. Our 
‘Healthing’ campaign, combined with the 
continued expansion and success of the Power 
& Free portfolio, drove growth across ENA. In 
emerging market areas we continue to focus 
on driving brand equity building initiatives such 
as our new mums hospital visit, and schools 
programmes. Our successful category extension 
of Dettol Kitchen Gel has driven strong growth 
in India for both Q4 and the full year. Hand 
wash was strong in both developed and 
costs from management changes as we address 
the operational issues. 
The volatility in several of RUMEA’s markets  
is likely to remain in the near term. However  
we remain confident that the organisational 
and operational changes being put in place, 
together with our focus and strategy to drive 
the penetration of our brands should improve 
performance in the future. 
The Group’s two non-core businesses, Food 
and RB Pharmaceuticals, performed as follows:
Food. 2013 net revenue was £325m, a flat 
performance versus the prior year and also  
in the fourth quarter. Macro conditions 
surrounding the food category remain 
unchanged with weaker markets and  
lower inflation. 
RB Pharmaceuticals. 2013 net revenue was 
£777m, a decrease of 8%. Our volume market 
share for Film in the US exited the year at 
68%, broadly maintained since the entry of 
generic tablets. The underlying volume growth 
in prescriptions in the US continues to be low 
double digit growth. This growth is offset by 
the loss of our higher margin tablet sales in 
the US following our voluntary withdrawal of 
Suboxone tablets in March and the entry of 
generic tablets now competing with our Film. 
Our non-US business was impacted by 
government imposed price reductions in a 
number of European markets.
Operating profit decreased -21% to £428m. 
The operating margin was down -890 bps to 
55.1%, in line with earlier guidance. The main 
drivers of the margin decline are negative 
leverage from the revenue decline, negative mix 
of the lower margin albeit more sustainable 
Film, and increased R&D investment in our 
clinical pipeline. We expect this increase in R&D 
investment to continue into 2014 and beyond 
as we continue to build a strong, sustainable 
growth business. 
There have been no further material 
developments in the three Hatch-Waxman 
challenges to the Film patents in US. We expect 
the litigation to follow the typical timelines  
for Hatch-Waxman litigation, and believe the 
formulation and process patent protection to 
be strong. 
RB Pharmaceuticals is a strong, sustainable 
business with good long-term prospects. It  
has a market-leading, physician and patient 
preferred product in the US, with strong patent 
protection up until 2030. The business outside 
of the US has much potential in what are 
2013 Results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals
In light of the announcement of generic competition to Suboxone in the US, the Group provides  
the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2013 excluding  
RB Pharmaceuticals.
     RB ex RB     RB 
 Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Total RB
 £m % £m %  £m  %
Net	r evenue	 9,266	 +5%*	 777	 -8%*	 10,043	 +4%*
Adjusted	operating	pr ofit	 2,188	 +7%**	 428	 -21%**	 2,616	 +1%**
Adjusted	operating	margin	 	 +23.6%	 	 55.1%	 	 +26.0%
*	like-for -like	at	constant	exchange	rates	**	at	constant	exchange	rates RB Annual Report 2013 15
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
The Board regularly considers and takes 
account of the significance of sustainability 
matters, their potential risks to the business of 
the Group and the opportunities to enhance 
value that may arise from an appropriate 
response including risks relating to 
environmental impacts, employees, society  
and communities, as well as reputational risks. 
The Board undertakes a formal review of 
sustainability matters at least annually. This 
includes providing oversight to ensure that the 
Group has in place effective policies, systems 
and procedures for managing sustainability 
matters and mitigating significant sustainability 
risks. The Board believes that it receives 
adequate information and training on 
sustainability matters and their potential risks 
and opportunities to the business of the Group. 
Additionally, the Audit Committee regularly 
reviews the arrangements for, and effectiveness 
of, risk management and internal audit 
including the full range of risks facing the 
Group such as risks relating to sustainability 
matters, reputational risks and risks relating  
to employees. 
The CEO has specific responsibility for 
sustainability. As part of established 
management processes, which include 
performance management systems and 
appropriate remuneration incentives, senior 
management reports directly to the CEO on 
sustainability matters on a regular basis. On the 
Executive Committee (EC), the EVP Category 
Development has operational accountability  
for the implementation of sustainability (bar 
charitable giving), in partnership with the EVP 
Supply, and supported by the rest of the EC 
within their respective areas and functions.
full year dividend of 137p per share (2012: 
134p),	an	overall	incr ease	of	+2%.	The	
dividend, if approved by Shareholders at the 
AGM on 7 May 2014, will be paid on 29 May 
to Shareholders on the register at the record 
date of 21 February. The ex-dividend date was 
19 February and the last date for election for 
the share alternative to the dividend is 7 May. 
The final dividend will be accrued once 
approved by Shareholders.
Contingent Liabilities: The Group is involved 
in a number of investigations by government 
authorities and has made provisions for such 
investigations, where appropriate. Where it is 
too early to determine the likely outcome of 
these matters or to make a reliable estimate, 
the Directors have made no provision for such 
potential liabilities. 
The Group from time to time is involved in 
discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters  
in a number of jurisdictions around the world. 
Where appropriate, the Directors make 
provisions based on their assessment of  
each case.
OuR SuSTAINABILITY STRATeGY  
& PeRFORMANCe
In line with the requirements of the 2006 
Companies Act, a rationale has been developed 
and a review undertaken to determine what 
information to include in this Report as 
necessary for an understanding of the 
development, performance and position of the 
business of the Group relating to environmental 
matters (including the impact of the Group’s 
business on the environment), its employees, 
and social and community issues – referred to 
in this Report as sustainability matters. 
exceptional Items: A total pre-tax exceptional 
charge of £271m has been incurred during the 
year in respect of the following: 
•	 	 £225m	charge	for	historic	r egulatory	issues,	
principally competition law; and
•	 	 £46m	r estructuring	costs	in	r elation	to	 
the new organisation, acquisition and  
integration costs.
These costs have previously been disclosed by 
the Company. In 2012 an exceptional pre-tax 
charge of £135m was incurred. 
Balance Sheet: At the end of 2013, the Group 
had total equity of £6,336m (2012: £5,922m), 
an	incr ease	of	+7%.	Net	debt	was	£2,096m	
(2012: £2,426m) and total capital employed in 
the business was £8,432m (2012: £8,348m).
This finances non-current assets of £12,248m 
(2012: £12,009m), of which £761m (2012: 
£736m) is property, plant and equipment, the 
remainder being goodwill, other intangible 
assets, deferred tax, available for sale financial 
assets, retirement benefit surplus and other 
receivables. The Group has net working capital 
of minus £863m (2012: minus £700m), current 
provisions of £215m (2012: £104m) and 
long-term liabilities other than borrowings  
of £2,554m (2012: £2,678m).
The Group’s financial ratios remain strong. 
Return on Shareholders’ funds (net income 
divided by total Shareholders’ funds) was 
27.5% on a reported basis and 31.1% on an 
adjusted basis (2012: 30.8% on a reported 
basis and 32.7% on an adjusted basis).
Dividends: The Board recommends a final 
dividend of 77p per share (2012: 78p) to give a 
ANNuAL KeY PeRFORMANCe INDICATORS (KPIs)
The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of KPIs that are most relevant to the Group and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2013 2012 Comments
Net	r evenue	gr owth	excl.	RB	Pharmaceuticals	 +5%	 +5%	 Measur es	the	incr ease	in	sales	of	the	Gr oup	 
% like-for-like growth of net revenue   (excl. RB Pharmaceuticals) 
at constant exchange rates 
Powerbrands 71%  70% Measures the growth and importance of the 
% of total net revenue from 19 Powerbrands   Group’s flagship brands
Gross margin %  59.4% 57.9% Measures the resources available for reinvestment 
Gross profit as % of total net revenue    or profit growth
Brand Equity Investment (BEI) 13.0%  12.7% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the 
BEI as % of total net revenue excl. RB Pharmaceuticals   Group’s brands (excl. RB Pharmaceuticals)
Operating	margin	%* 	 excl.	RB	Pharmaceuticals	 23.6%	 23.4%	 Measur es	the	pr ofitability	of	the	Gr oup 
    (excl. RB Pharmaceuticals)
Adjusted	net	income*	 +2%	 +6%	 Measur es	the	overall	pr ofitability	of	the	Gr oup
Ear nings	per	shar e	(fully	diluted)* 	 269.8p	 263.3p
1
 Measures the increase in profit per share of the Group 
%	change	in	ear nings	per	shar e	(fully	diluted)* 	 +2%	 +7%
Net cash flow from operations £1,930m £1,735m Measures how the Group converts its profits into cash 
	 	 +11%	 +10%
Net working capital -£863m -£700m Measures the ability of the Group to finance 
(defined as inventories, trade and other receivables and -8.6% -7.3% its expansion and release cash from working capital 
trade and other payables) as % of total net revenue 
Management turnover 4% 8% % of Top400 management that have left the Group
 
* 	 Adjusted	to	exclude	the	impact	of	exceptional	items. 
1
  Restated. Refer to note 1 for further details. 16 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
Supply Chain Responsibility and  
Human Rights
Most product, component and raw material 
supply chains present a number of potential 
reputational risks relating to: labour standards; 
health, safety and environmental standards; 
raw material sourcing; and the social, ethical 
and environmental performance of third party 
manufacturers and other suppliers. The Group’s 
Global Manufacturing Standard for responsible 
production (GMS) mandates minimum 
requirements regarding employment 
arrangements, labour standards and health, 
safety and environmental management, in  
line with international guidelines, for the 
Group’s own manufacturing sites, third party 
manufacturers and suppliers. Management 
processes and controls in place include  
Group, area and regional monitoring and 
assessment of compliance with the GMS  
(and other) requirements.
Climate Change
The effects of climate change could disrupt the 
Group’s supply chain by affecting the Group’s 
ability to source raw materials, manufacture 
products and distribute products. Due to the 
Group’s industry sectors and product categories 
the GHG emissions originating from energy use 
at its direct operations are of medium-to-low 
impact in comparison to those of other similarly 
sized companies, as assessed for example in 
recent reports of the independent Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP), www.cdproject.net.
Under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, quoted 
companies are required to report their annual 
carbon emissions. For the period 1 January 
2013 to 31 December 2013 the Group’s 
emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalents (tCO
2
e) from: 
•	 	 	 Combustion	 of	 fuel	 and	 operation	 of	 facilities	
(Scope 1) were 80,806 tCO
2
e*.
•	 	 Electricity ,	 heat,	 steam	 and	 cooling	 pur chased	
for own use (Scope 2) were 206,956 tCO
2
e*.
•	 	 T otal	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	emissions	wer e	
287,762 tCO
2
e*.
The Group’s intensity measurement for the 
same period was 0.0398 tCO
2
e*	per	unit	of	
production (tCO
2
e per 1000 CU).
*	Data	assur ed	by	Er nst	&	Y oung	
Methodology for Calculating the Annual 
Carbon emissions
We have reported on all of the emission sources 
required under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic and Directors’ Report) Regulations 
2013. We report all GHG emissions from 
operations (including global manufacturing, 
warehouse, R&D) covered by the consolidated 
financial statements for which we have 
operational control with the exception of 
offices’ emissions and MEDCOM fleet 
emissions. We will endeavour to include  
office and MEDCOM fleet emissions in 2014 
reporting. In the case of acquisitions of 
businesses, the emissions are included in  
the first full calendar year of RB ownership.  
CO
2
e emissions were calculated using 
internationally recognised methodologies from 
potential sustainability risks, the issues of 
greatest concern for the Group’s stakeholders, 
the issues that society has identified as 
important through regulation and international 
standards and those issues covered by our 
existing policies and commitments.
Key sustainability issues for  
the business
•	 Sustainable	pr oduct	innovation	
•	 Hygiene	and	illness-pr evention
•	 Human	rights
•	 Consumer	behaviour	change
•	 Responsible	supply	chain
•	 Pr oduct	stewar dship	
•	 Natural	raw	material	sour cing
•	 	 Envir onmental	impact	r eduction	 
– water, energy, greenhouse gas 
emissions (GHG), waste
•	 Pollution	(contaminated	land)	
•	 Health	and	safety
Strategic Sustainability Priorities
The aspects the Group has identified are 
common to many fast moving consumer  
goods (FMCG) companies with well-known 
brands and are essentially determined by the 
Group’s sectors and the products the Group 
manufactures and sells. The Group’s strategic 
priorities therefore remain: 
1  To achieve continual improvement in our 
overall sustainability performance, focusing 
on those issues where we can make a 
significant difference including global health 
and hygiene, sustainable product innovation, 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water 
impact; and
2  To manage our business in a socially and 
ethically responsible manner.
The Group’s approach to sustainability, in 
support of the Group’s vision, purpose and 
business strategy, includes four key goals  
for 2020:
•	 	 One-thir d	r eduction	in	carbon	footprint	and	
water impact per dose of product.
•	 	 One-thir d	of	net	r evenue	fr om	mor e	
sustainable products.
•	 	 Help	 over	 200	 million	 people	 to	 impr ove	their	
health and hygiene.
•	 	 Partner	with	Save	the	Childr en	to	deliver	a	
vision of stopping diarrhoea from being the 
world’s second biggest cause of death of 
children under five.
These high level goals are supported by specific 
targets and functional programmes, grouped 
under three areas: better design, better 
production and healthier communities. The 
Group focuses on a number of specific topics  
to deliver against the strategic priorities. These 
include, but are not limited to:
In the category development organisation,  
the Category Group Director – Sustainability, 
Sourcing & Consumer Sciences manages the 
sustainability programme on a day-to-day basis. 
Our Senior Vice President (SVP) of Corporate 
Communication and Affairs is responsible for 
the Group’s strategic charitable giving. The  
R&D function includes the Global Regulatory 
Affairs (GRA) group, which is responsible for 
ensuring that our products meet regulatory 
requirements and are safe for their intended 
use. Our SVP Human Resources (HR) and  
the global HR function manage the Group’s 
human resources, employee remuneration and 
benefits, employment practices, organisational 
development, training and elements of health 
and safety (e.g. stress management). 
Key areas of sustainability internal control  
and performance, including sustainability 
disclosures, are independently reviewed  
and verified by both internal and external 
organisations, including Internal Audit, and 
their findings regularly reported to senior 
management, the CEO, the Audit Committee 
and the Board. The Board has identified and 
assessed the range of sustainability and 
associated reputational risks and concluded 
that there are limited material risks to the 
Group’s long and short-term value arising from 
sustainability matters, other than potential risks 
common to similarly sized businesses operating 
in its industry sectors and with similarly 
well-known brands.
The Group has a full set of policies, 
programmes and control arrangements, 
building on its central Code of Conduct, that 
address the full range of sustainability matters 
and reputational risks. The Code itself is the 
subject of an annual training and awareness 
programme, and is covered by an annual review 
and certification process carried out by Internal 
Audit and the Legal Department. The Code and 
other Group policies relating to sustainability 
can be found at www.rb.com.
Sustainability Focus Areas
The Group has identified the key sustainability 
issues for the business, following 
Accountability’s 5-Part Materiality Test and the 
GRI Technical Protocol on Applying the Report 
Content Principles. This process includes an 
assessment of the Group’s significant aspects, 
Americans search online when their 
coughs and colds start. RB partnered with 
a uS specialist counting who was going 
online where, so when 
an area of the uS was 
starting to catch a cold, 
Mucinex was advertising 
right there to tell them 
how it could help.
Mucinex – When the 
Cough Starts  RB Annual Report 2013 17
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
The Group’s activities expose it to a number  
of risks which, while actively managed, as 
described above, may still adversely impact the 
business and its financials. The principal risks 
that, in the opinion of the Directors, pose the 
most significant threat to the delivery of the 
Group’s strategic objectives are as follows,  
with a more expansive explanation provided  
on pages 93 to 100 of this report. The Group 
recognises the risks described here and has 
taken measures, addressed in this report and  
in previous reports, to mitigate these risks.
We could be adversely affected by economic 
conditions in, and political developments 
affecting, the markets in which we operate.  
A variety of factors may adversely affect our 
results of operations and financial condition 
during periods of economic uncertainty or 
instability, social or labour unrest or political 
upheaval in the markets in which we operate. 
Such periods may also lead to government 
actions, such as imposition of martial law,  
trade restrictions, foreign ownership 
restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, 
nationalisation or expropriation of property  
or other resources, or changes in legal and 
regulatory requirements and taxation regimes. 
We may also be unable to access credit markets 
materially adversely affecting our liquidity and 
capital resources or cost of capital. 
Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a 
significant portion of our revenue, and any 
material adverse change to demand for existing 
Powerbrands, or any future products we may 
develop, could have a material adverse effect 
on our business. 
Consumer preferences, tastes and habits  
are constantly evolving. Various factors,  
some of which are beyond our control, may 
have an adverse impact on demand for our 
Powerbrands. Similarly, we may fail to  
respond to changing consumer wants or  
fail to differentiate our Powerbrands from 
competitors’ products, both of which  
could adversely impact consumer demand  
for our products. 
Our business, financial condition, and results of 
operations, substantially depend on our ability 
to improve our existing products, and 
successfully develop and launch new products 
and technologies. 
If we are unable to successfully develop,  
launch and market new products that obtain 
consumer interest and acceptance, we may be 
unable to compete and maintain or grow our 
market share. If we enter new categories or 
geographies in which we have limited 
experience, we may be exposed to unexpected 
or greater risks.
Substantial harm to our reputation, or the 
reputation of one or more of our brands, may 
materially adversely affect our business.  
Various factors may adversely impact our 
reputation, including product quality 
inconsistencies or contamination resulting in 
recalls. Reputational risks may also arise from 
our third parties’ labour standards, health, 
safety and environmental standards, raw 
material sourcing, and ethical standards. We 
may also be the victim of product tampering or 
counterfeiting or grey imports. Any litigation, 
lost working day accident rate between 2012 
and 2013; zero fatalities in 2013.
The Group’s 2012 Sustainability Report, 
published on 31 May 2013, describes progress 
made in key sustainability topics. For example:
•	 	 At	the	end	of	2012,	the	Gr oup	had	achieved	
a 25% reduction in lifecycle carbon 
emissions per dose compared to the 2007 
baseline. This was a reduction of 4.6% 
compared to 2011.
•	 	 Our	continued	support	of	the	inter national	
charity Save the Children, reaching 150,000 
children in 2012.
The 2013 Sustainability Report will be published 
in April 2014 and will provide a full update on 
progress towards meeting our new 
sustainability goals and targets.
The sustainability and corporate responsibility 
section on the Group’s website (www.rb.com/
sustainability) and its annual sustainability 
reports (available at www.rb.com) provide 
further information on its policies, systems and 
procedures for managing sustainability matters 
and the risks and opportunities that may arise 
from them, including: the extent to which it 
complies with those policies, systems and 
procedures; Key Performance Indicators (KPIs); 
and its sustainability programmes, targets and 
progress. The Group reports in line with the 
Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines – Version 3.0 (GRI G3 – 
www.globalreporting.org) and a Content Index 
and Application Level Table is provided in the 
Sustainability Report. Selected data in the 
annual Sustainability Report is assured by 
external auditors. 
For more information see our 2012 
Sustainability Report, published on 31 May 
2013, at www.rb.com/sustainability-report2012 
and also our 2013 Sustainability Report, to be 
published in April 2014. 
PRINCIPAL RISKS
RB operates a major risk assessment process  
to identify, assess, control, mitigate and review 
those risks it considers to be most significant  
to the successful execution of our strategy. The 
most senior managers of our business dedicate 
time each year in a facilitated discussion with 
the Group risk team to consider the risk 
environment for their particular functional or 
geographic area of responsibility and how their 
emerging or known risks could impact on the 
achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives; 
similar sessions are held with the Group’s 
external advisors. The key content from these 
sessions are then synthesised into the Group’s 
‘Top Ten’ risks, with each risk having an EC 
owner, who is accountable for executing the 
current control strategy and for compiling and 
executing a plan of mitigating actions to 
properly manage the Group’s exposure to that 
risk. Progress is reviewed periodically and the 
full output from the major risk assessment 
process is formally submitted annually by the 
EC to the Board for its consideration and 
endorsement. Through the course of each year, 
the EC and Board agendas address all of the 
top risks through specific deep dives to ensure 
proper focus and progress with mitigation.
the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and 
International Energy Authority (IEA). 
The Group has taken a leadership position  
with regard to its products’ total carbon 
footprint, by seeking to understand, measure 
and reduce the GHG emissions generated by  
all stages in the product lifecycle for its global 
product portfolio, and including amongst other 
things: the raw and packaging materials 
provided by its suppliers; the Group’s own 
direct manufacturing and other operations; 
transportation of both raw materials and 
finished products; the retail sale of its  
products; consumers’ use of its products; and 
the disposal/recycling of those products and 
their packaging. 
RB’s Global Ingredient Guidelines (GIG)
RB has been monitoring and reviewing 
ingredients for the past 12 years and has been 
carrying out a range of ingredients removal and 
restriction programmes outlined in our GIG. 
Our objective is to continually improve the 
environmental, safety and sustainable profile of 
our products, by systematically removing 
specific ingredients from product formulae and 
packaging / device component specifications.  
Our GIG combines regulatory, sustainability and 
safety requirements for generic ingredient 
groupings, plus specific directions on the use 
(or the prohibition of use) of specific raw 
materials / ingredients to assist formulators and 
other Company employees in the development 
and marketing of products that meet these 
commitments.
Health and Safety Management
Accidents caused through a failure of the 
Group’s safety management systems could 
potentially lead to loss of life for one or more  
of the Group’s employees. The Group maintains 
an external certification to OHSAS 18001 for 
the Group’s management of heath and  
safety issues and a programme covering 
manufacturing sites, warehouses, distribution 
centres and laboratories.
Progress 
The Group has a long-standing record of 
measuring and managing sustainability issues. 
Progress to date includes:
•	 	 A	16%	r eduction	in	GHG	emissions	 
from manufacturing & warehouse sites 
(2000-2013).
•	 	 Continuation	of	RB’ s	tr ee	planting	initiative	
for three more years (2012 – 2014). By the 
end of 2013, 6.15 million native trees had 
been planted in Canada (including 351,000 
in 2013) which continues to make RB’s 
manufacturing operations effectively carbon 
neutral (2006-2014).
•	 	 A	52%	r eduction	in	manufacturing	and	
warehouse energy per unit of production 
(2000-2013).
•	 	 A	43%	r eduction	per	unit	of	pr oduction	of	
water use (2000-2013).
•	 	 A	9%	r eduction	per	unit	of	pr oduction	of	
waste (2000-2013).
•	 	 A	93%	r eduction	in	accident	rates	since	
2001, including over 5% reduction in the  18 RB Annual Report 2013
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
systems in such countries may not be well-
established, reliable or enforced and there may 
be difficulties in obtaining legal redress, 
particularly against the state or state-owned 
entities, creating higher operational costs and 
risks to our business. 
We could be subject to investigations and 
potential enforcement action, which could have 
a material adverse effect on our business.  
We could be subject to regulatory investigations 
or potential enforcement action that targets 
ingredients, an industry, a set of business 
practices or our specific operations. Regulatory 
authorities and consumer groups may request 
or conduct reviews of the use of certain of our 
ingredients, or ingredient legislation may 
change. These could result in a need to change 
our formulations which could be costly or may 
not be possible. 
Historical or future violations of antitrust and 
competition laws may have a material adverse 
impact on our business, financial condition and 
results of operations.  
Failure to comply with applicable antitrust and 
competition laws, rules and regulations in any 
jurisdiction may result in civil and/or criminal 
legal proceedings. As part of the announcement 
of our HY 2013 results, we reported a provision 
of £225m, principally relating to competition 
matters. Our ultimate liability for such matters 
could exceed this provision. 
We operate in a number of countries in which 
bribery and corruption pose significant risks, 
and we may be exposed to liabilities under 
anti-bribery laws for any violations. Any 
violation of applicable money laundering laws 
could also have a negative impact on us. 
We are subject to the UK Bribery Act 2010, the 
US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as 
amended, and similar laws worldwide. Given 
our extensive international operations, we are 
exposed to significant risks, particularly with 
respect to parties not subject to our control 
such as agents and joint venture partners, and 
also through businesses we acquire. 
Our business is subject to product  
liability claims.  
We may be subject to legal proceedings and 
claims arising out of our products, including  
as a result of unanticipated side effects or 
issues that become evident only after products 
are widely introduced into the marketplace  
or additionally claims that our products are 
defective, contain contaminants, provide 
inadequate warnings or instructions, or  
cause personal injury to persons or damage  
to property. We may be required to pay 
compensation for losses or injuries or have  
to pay substantial damages, and related costs, 
or additionally be subject to the imposition of 
civil and criminal sanctions. 
Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside 
the product liability area could also adversely 
impact our business, results of operations and 
financial condition.  
Outside the product liability area, we are 
subject to legal proceedings and other claims 
arising out of the ordinary course of business 
including, but not limited to, claims alleging 
intellectual property rights infringement, breach 
Volatility in the price of commodities, energy 
and transportation may impact our profitability.  
Increases in cost or decreases in availability 
could adversely affect our profitability if we are 
unable to pass on the higher costs as price 
increases or achieve cost efficiencies. 
We have grown, and may continue to grow, in 
part, through acquisitions, joint ventures and 
business alliances, which involve various risks.  
Acquisitions present a range of risks and 
uncertainties, in addition to the risk of 
management resource requirements to handle 
the acquisition and the base business 
simultaneously. There could be increased debt 
and interest payments to fund larger acquisitions, 
which could place pressure on our credit rating. 
We may fail in achieving an acquisition yet still 
bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses. We 
may fail to achieve projected benefits of an 
acquisition, or we may take on unforeseen 
future liabilities with an acquisition. 
We may be unable to attract and retain 
qualified personnel, including key  
senior management.  
The market for talent is intensely competitive 
and we could face challenges in sourcing 
qualified personnel. If we are unable to achieve 
our performance targets, our senior management 
would not be entitled to their variable pay, 
which may operate as a disincentive for them 
to continue their employment with us. 
A disruption to, or failure of, our information 
technology systems and infrastructure, may 
adversely affect our business.  
Failures or disruptions to our systems or the 
systems of third parties on whom we rely,  
due to any number of causes, particularly if 
prolonged, or, if any failure or disruption were 
to impact our backup or disaster recovery plans, 
could result in a loss of key data and/or affect 
our operations. Sub-optimal implementations 
of new systems could occur. Our computer 
systems, software and networks may be 
vulnerable to unauthorised access, computer 
viruses or other malicious code and other cyber 
threats that could have a security impact. All  
of these could be costly to remedy and we may 
be subject to litigation.
Our business is subject to significant 
governmental regulation.  
Regulation is imposed in respect of, but  
not limited to, ingredients, manufacturing 
standards, labour standards, product safety  
and quality, marketing, packaging, labelling, 
storage, distribution, advertising, imports and 
exports, social and environmental responsibility 
and health and safety. These regulations can 
change and may become more stringent. 
Additionally we are required to obtain, maintain 
and update licences for some products. If we 
are found to be non-compliant with applicable 
laws and regulations, we could be subject to 
civil remedies such as fines, injunctions or 
product recalls, and/or criminal sanctions. 
The laws and regulations to which we  
are subject may not be transparent, may  
be difficult to interpret, and/or may be  
enforced inconsistently.  
Emerging markets can pose heightened risks 
with respect to laws and regulations. The legal 
disputes on tax matters and pay structures may 
subject us to negative attention in the press, 
which can damage reputation. 
We could be materially adversely affected by 
the loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone 
and Subutex. 
Our RB Pharmaceuticals’ business may face 
price pressure or share loss from the increased 
branded and generic competition that is 
entering the market both in the US and in  
the rest of world leading to a material  
reduction in net revenue from this product 
adversely affecting our overall revenues and 
operating profit.
We could be impacted by the fact we compete 
in intensely competitive industries.  
We compete with well-established local, 
regional, national and international companies 
including private label and generics. Some of 
these may have more resources to establish  
and promote their products. If we are unable  
to offer products that consumers choose over 
our competitors’ products, or maintain 
successful relationships with our trade 
customers, who determine access to shelf space 
and promotions, or to effectively compete in 
new channels, our business and results could 
be materially impacted. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange 
rate risk.  
In FY 2013, 93% of our net revenue was 
derived from markets outside the UK. The 
Sterling value of our revenues, profits and cash 
flows from non-UK markets may be reduced or 
our supply costs, as measured in Sterling in 
those markets, may increase. Additionally, 
competitors may benefit if they incur costs in 
weaker currencies relative to Sterling. We 
currently hedge some of our currency exposures 
using financial instruments, but we may not  
be effective. 
We are subject to the risk that countries in 
which we operate may impose or increase 
exchange controls or devalue their currency.  
We operate in markets which have been known 
to impose exchange controls. Such controls 
may restrict or make it impossible to repatriate 
earnings, borrow on the international markets 
to fund operations in that country or limit our 
ability to import raw materials or finished 
products. Additionally we operate in markets 
that are prone to currency devaluations which 
can make our products more expensive in local 
currency terms.
We face risks of interruptions of our supply 
chain and disruptions in our production 
facilities, which could materially adversely affect 
our results of operations.  
We may face risks to continuity of supply arising 
from certain specialised suppliers, both of raw 
materials and of third party manufactured items. 
Significant disruptions to our own, or our 
suppliers’ operations, may affect our ability to 
source raw materials and negatively impact our 
costs. Suppliers may fail to fulfil their contractual 
obligations. Replacing suppliers may require 
them to be qualified under industry, 
governmental or our standards, which could 
require investment and may take time.  RB Annual Report 2013 19
Strategic Report   Operational Detail
a going concern and maintain an efficient 
capital structure to optimise the cost of capital. 
The Group monitors net debt (total borrowings 
less cash and cash equivalents; short-term 
available for sale financial assets and financing 
derivative financial instruments) and at the year 
end the Group had net debt of £2,096m  
(2012: £2,426m). The Group seeks to pay 
down net debt using cash generated by the 
business to maintain an appropriate level  
of financial flexibility. Details of numerical 
disclosures relating to the Group’s financial risk 
management are included in note 14 to the 
financial statements on pages 70 to 73. 
A more detailed explanation of risks is on  
page 93.
OuR PROSPeCTS
We are targeting:
•	 	 Net	r evenue	gr owth	of	+4-5%*.
•	 	 Flat	to	moderate	operating	margin	
expansion**.
These targets exclude RB Pharmaceuticals.
*	 	 At	constant	rates	including	the	immaterial	impact	
of the BMS collaboration.
**	 	 Adjusted 	 to 	 exclude 	 the 	 impact 	 of 	 exceptional 	 items.
Post Balance Sheet event
On 24 February 2014 part of a current wider 
legal case was settled, which related to one of 
the current provisions held at the balance sheet 
date. The remaining provisions that were held 
in relation to this case at the balance sheet date 
are still considered to be appropriate.
Cautionary Note Concerning Forward 
Looking Statements
This document contains forward looking 
statements, including statements with respect to 
the financial condition, results of operations and 
business of RB and certain of the plans and 
objectives of the Company with respect to these 
items. These forward looking statements are made 
pursuant to the ‘Safe Harbor’ provisions of the 
United States private securities litigation reform act 
of 1995. In particular, all statements that express 
forecasts, expectations and projections with 
respect to future matters, including trends in 
results of operations, margins, growth rates, 
overall market trends, the impact of interest or 
exchange rates, the availability of financing to the 
Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies 
and the completion of strategic transactions are 
forward looking statements. These forward 
looking statements are not guarantees of future 
performance: by their nature, forward looking 
statements involve known and unknown risk and 
uncertainty and other factors because they relate 
to events and depend on circumstances that will 
occur in the future. There are a number of factors, 
discussed in this Annual Report that could cause 
actual results and developments to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied by these forward 
looking statements, including many factors outside 
RB’s control. Past performance cannot be relied 
upon as a guide to future performance. Each 
forward looking statement speaks as of the date 
of the particular statement.
By Order of the Board
Rakesh Kapoor, CEO
7 March 2014
At 31 December 2013, we had £4,350m in 
undrawn commitments. If we are not able to 
access the commercial paper market to the 
extent that we require, we may need to 
drawdown amounts under our committed 
bilateral credit facilities, which accrue interest at 
floating rates. Increases in such rates could result 
in significantly higher interest expense for us. 
We are subject to risks relating to estimates and 
assumptions that we are required to make, and 
that may affect the reported amounts in our 
financial statements.  
The preparation of our financial statements 
requires management to make some estimates 
and assumptions based on management’s best 
knowledge at the time. Actual amounts may 
however ultimately differ from those estimates. 
We are subject to a range of compliance and 
routine risks as part of everyday business. 
In order to manage the more numerous and 
routine risks, the Group maintains a complete 
and robust governance framework. 
We may face risks based on changes to  
market prices. 
Due to the nature of its business the Group is 
exposed to commodity price risk related to the 
production or packaging of finished goods such 
as oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw 
materials. This risk is, however, managed 
primarily through medium-term contracts with 
certain key suppliers and is not viewed as being 
a material risk. The Group is not exposed to 
equity securities’ price risk.
We are subject to risks related to interest  
rate changes. 
The Group has both interest-bearing and non 
interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The Group 
monitors its interest expense rate exposure on a 
regular basis. The Group manages its interest 
rate exposure on its gross financial assets by 
using fixed rate term deposits.
There is potential for credit risks with financial 
institutions around the globe. 
The Group has no significant concentrations of 
credit risk. Financial institution counterparties 
are subject to approval under the Group’s 
counterparty risk policy and such approval is 
limited to financial institutions with a BBB 
rating or above. The Group uses BBB and 
higher rated counterparties to manage risk and 
uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.  
The amount of exposure to any individual 
counterparty is subject to a limit defined within 
the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed 
annually by the Board.
Liquidity Risk
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with 
high-quality international banks. All of these 
facilities have similar or equivalent terms and 
conditions, and have a financial covenant, 
which is not expected to restrict the Group’s 
future operations. The committed borrowing 
facilities, together with available uncommitted 
facilities and central cash and investments, are 
considered sufficient to meet the Group’s 
projected cash requirements. 
Capital Management Risk
The Group’s objectives for managing capital are 
to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as 
of contract, environmental laws and health and 
safety laws, and advertising claims. Significant 
claims, or a substantial number of small claims, 
may be expensive to defend and may divert 
management time and resources away from 
our operations. 
Labour disruptions may affect the results of  
our operations.  
A substantial portion of our workforce is 
unionised, and we are party to collective 
bargaining agreements covering approximately 
one-third of our direct employees. Our ability  
to negotiate these agreements satisfactorily or 
our relationship with unions, including labour 
disputes or work stoppages, could have an 
adverse impact on our business. 
Changes in tax legislation and other 
circumstances that affect tax calculations could 
adversely affect our financial condition and 
results of operations. 
We are subject to tax laws and transfer pricing 
regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including 
those relating to the flow of funds between RB 
and its subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate in any 
given financial year reflects a variety of factors 
that may not be present in succeeding financial 
years, and may be affected by changes in the 
tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we 
operate.Tax authorities may challenge our 
arrangements and if material challenges were 
to be successful, our effective tax rate may 
increase, and we may incur significant costs. 
Any of the foregoing could materially and 
adversely affect our business. 
We may be unable to secure and protect our 
intellectual property rights.  
Even if obtained, these rights may be 
invalidated, circumvented or challenged in 
future, and third parties may infringe on, or 
misappropriate, our rights. We may fail to 
discover any infringements of our intellectual 
property rights, or be unable to successfully 
defend and enforce our rights. 
The loss of patent protection, ineffective 
protection, or expiry of our patents may impact 
our financial condition and results of operations.  
Patent protection varies in different countries, 
and can be substantially weaker in emerging 
markets. We may face challenges in enforcing 
or extending our current intellectual property 
protections, or any protections we may obtain 
in future, in these markets. 
We may face challenges to our intellectual 
property rights, including allegations of 
infringement of others’ rights.  
If we are unable to successfully defend against 
these challenges, we may face various 
sanctions, including injunctions, monetary 
sanctions, product recalls, alterations to our 
intellectual property, products, and/or 
packaging, which could result in significant 
expense and negative publicity. 
Our business may be adversely affected by our 
funding requirements. 
Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to 
generate cash from operations and the level of 
borrowings, the level of acquisitions, the level 
of share repurchases and dividends, disposals, 
target ratings for our debt and options available 
to us in the equity and debt markets.    20 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Board of Directors and Executive Committee
Roberto Funari (Brazilian) 
eVP , LAPAC (from 1 July 2013). Rejoined in 
February 2013 following two years at Imperial 
Tobacco where he was Group Marketing 
Director and Executive Committee member.  
In his prior 12-year career with the Group, 
Roberto held increasingly senior marketing and 
general management roles in both emerging 
and developed markets, including Brazil, 
Netherlands, South Africa and Central Europe. 
His last role was as Global Category Officer for 
fabric and home care. 
Rob de Groot (Dutch)  
eVP , eNA. Joined in 1988. After international 
roles in marketing and sales he became General 
Manager The Netherlands, then SVP , Regional 
Director Eastern Europe and was appointed 
Global Category Officer, surface and dish 
before being appointed EVP North America & 
Australia. Rob is responsible for North America, 
Northern Europe, Central Europe, Southern 
Europe and Western Europe and is 
headquartered in Amsterdam.
Adrian Hennah (British) 
Chief Financial Officer (CFO). 
Gareth Hill (South African) 
SVP , Information Services. Joined in 2006. 
Previously Information Systems Director at 
Arcadia Group Ltd. Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was 
at IBM UK Ltd, Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in 
South Africa and Arthur Andersen. He is a 
qualified chartered accountant.
Rakesh Kapoor (Indian)  
Chief executive Officer (CeO). 
Frederic Larmuseau (Belgian) 
eVP , RuMeA. Joined in 2001 as marketing 
director for Malaysia & Singapore. In 2003 he 
became regional marketing director for East 
Asia and in 2005 became Global Category 
Director for Vanish. In 2008 he was appointed 
General Manager for Brazil and a year later was 
promoted to SVP Regional Director Latin 
America. In January 2013, Frederic was 
appointed to SVP Regional Director North 
America and was appointed EVP of RUMEA in 
June 2013. 
Simon Nash (British) 
SVP , Human Resources. Joined in 2009 from 
Novartis Consumer Health, where he was 
Global Head of HR for the Consumer Health 
division, based in Switzerland. Simon started his 
international career with Procter & Gamble in 
detergent manufacturing, before moving into 
HR with Mars Confectionery. He moved to New 
York in 1993 with Kraft Foods International and 
then on to Chicago as HR Head of the office 
products subsidiary of Fortune Brands Inc.
joined RB in 1987 and served in various 
regional and central marketing roles. He  
was appointed EVP Category Development in  
2006 with responsibility for global category 
management, R&D, media, market research 
and strategic alliances.
André Lacroix (Fr ench)	*	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2008 
and the Senior Independent Director in June 
2013. He is Group Chief Executive of Inchcape 
plc and Chairman of Good Restaurants AG.  
He was previously Chairman and CEO of Euro 
Disney, and has also held positions at Burger 
King (Diageo), Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst &  
Young LLP .
Judith Sprieser	(American)	‡	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003 and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee in 2004. 
She was previously CEO of Transora, Inc., and 
Executive Vice President (formerly CFO) of Sara 
Lee Corporation. She is a Director of Allstate 
Insurance Company, InterContinental Exchange, 
Inc., Royal Ahold NV and Experian plc.
warren Tucker	(British)	*	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2010. 
He was CFO of Cobham plc from 2003 until 
2013. He is a chartered accountant and 
previously held senior finance positions at  
Cable & Wireless plc and British Airways plc.  
He is Non-Executive Director and Chairman-
designate of PayPoint plc and a Non-Executive 
Director of Thomas Cook Group.
* Member of the Audit Committee 
‡ Member of the Remuneration Committee 
# Member of the Nomination Committee 
eXeCuTIVe COMMITTee
Heather Allen (Canadian) 
eVP , Category Development. Joined in 1996. 
She undertook a number of senior marketing 
roles in Eastern Europe, before becoming 
Marketing Director US in 1999. She was 
appointed General Manager Canada in 2003 
and joined the global head office in the UK in 
2006 as Global Category Officer germ 
protection, surface and personal care. She was 
appointed to her current role in May 2011.
Amedeo Fasano (Italian) 
eVP , Supply. Joined in 1997 as Supply Director 
Italy. After the Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser 
merger, he was appointed Manufacturing 
Director for Central, South Western and 
Southern Europe Regions. In 2002 he became 
Regional Supply Director North America and in 
2003 SVP Supply North America, Australia and 
New Zealand. In 2007 he took over the role of 
SVP Supply Developing Markets and in March 
2009 Amedeo was appointed as EVP Supply. 
He previously worked for Pirelli Tyres in multiple 
supply roles in Italy, Turkey, Argentina and UK.
THe BOARD OF DIReCTORS
Adrian Bellamy	(British)	‡	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1999 
and Non-Executive Chairman in May 2003.  
He is a Director of The Gap Inc and a Director 
and Chairman of Williams-Sonoma Inc.  
He was formerly Chairman of The Body Shop 
International plc and a director of various 
companies including Gucci Group NV and  
The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
Richard Cousins	(British)	‡	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2009. 
He is CEO of Compass Group PLC. He was CEO 
of BPB plc, and Non-Executive Director of P&O 
and HBOS. Richard will not offer himself for 
re-election at the AGM in May 2014 and will 
retire from the Board after the AGM.
Nicandro Durante	(Brazilian/Italian)	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 
December 2013. He is CEO of British American 
Tobacco p.l.c. (BAT). Nicandro has had an 
extensive career at BAT and became Chief 
Operating Officer in January 2008 and CEO  
in March 2011. 
Dr Peter Harf	(German)	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1999 
and is the Deputy Chairman. He was Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee until June 
2004. Peter is the CEO of Parentes Holding SE 
(formerly Joh. A. Benckiser) and a Director of 
Coty Inc. He is also Chairman of Labelux and 
the non-profit DKMS foundation.
Adrian Hennah (British) 
Appointed CFO Designate in January 2013 and 
Director and CFO in February 2013. He joined 
following six years at Smith & Nephew plc as 
CFO. He was CFO at Invensys for four years and 
spent 18 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where 
he held a number of senior management and 
financial roles. Adrian also worked at PwC in 
audit and consultancy. He is a Non-Executive 
Director of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed  
Elsevier NV.
Kenneth Hydon	(British)	*	# 
Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee in  
2006. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants, the Association 
of Chartered Certified Accountants and the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers. He was  
the Senior Independent Director between 2005 
and 2006. He retired as CFO of Vodafone 
Group plc in 2005 and was a Non-Executive 
Director of Tesco PLC from 2004 to 2013. He is 
a Non-Executive Director of Pearson plc and 
Merlin Entertainments PLC.
Rakesh Kapoor	(Indian)	# 
Joined the Board in September 2011 following 
his appointment as CEO of the Company. He 
Board of Directors and  
Executive Committee RB Annual Report 2013 21
Governance & Remuneration   Report of the Directors
Biographical details of the current Directors are 
set out on page 20.
Graham Mackay, who served on the Board as 
Non-Executive Director and was the nominated 
Senior Independent Director, resigned as a 
Director of the Company on 12 June 2013. 
André Lacroix was designated as the Senior 
Independent Director on 12 June 2013.
Directors’ Interests
A statement of Directors’ interests in the share 
capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 at 
the end of this report.
Details of Directors’ options to subscribe for 
shares in the Company are included on  
page 46 in the audited part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
No Director had a material interest at any time 
during the year in any derivative or financial 
instrument relating to the Company’s shares. 
The details of the Directors’ remuneration and 
service agreements are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46.
Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Matters 
Information on ESG and related matters is set 
out in the Strategic Report on pages 15 to 17.
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions 
Information on the required disclosure of the 
Group’s GHG emissions for the year ended  
31 December 2013 is set out in the Strategic 
Report on pages 16 to 17.
Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility
Information on the Group’s management of 
sustainability and corporate responsibility issues 
is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 15 
to 17 and in the Group’s annual Sustainability 
Reports, which provide information on its 
policies, programmes, targets and progress in 
this area.
Political Donations
No political donations or expenditure of the 
type requiring disclosure under s.366 and s.367 
of the Companies Act 2006 (2006 Act) were 
made in the year ended 31 December 2013 nor 
are any contemplated.
Takeover Directive
The Company is required to disclose certain 
additional information required by s.992 of the 
2006 Act, which implemented the EU Takeovers 
Directive. The following sets out disclosures not 
covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Articles give the Board power to appoint 
Directors, but also require Directors to submit 
themselves for election at the first AGM 
following their appointment. Under the 
Articles, all Directors are required to offer 
themselves for re-election every three years. 
the UK. The Group is committed to the 
principle of equal opportunity in employment: 
no applicant or employee receives less 
favourable treatment on the grounds of 
nationality, age, gender, religion, race,  
ethnicity or disability. The Group recognises  
its responsibilities to disabled persons and 
endeavours to assist them to make their full 
contribution at work. Where employees 
become disabled, every practical effort is made 
to allow them to continue in their jobs or to 
provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
It is essential to the continued improvement  
in efficiency and productivity throughout the 
Group that each employee understands the 
Group’s strategies, policies and procedures. 
Open and regular communication with 
employees at all levels is an essential part  
of the management process. A continuing 
programme of training and development 
reinforces the Group’s commitment to 
employee development. 
Regular departmental meetings are held  
where opinions of employees are sought  
on a variety of issues. The Group operates 
multi-dimensional internal communications 
programmes which include the provision of a 
Group intranet and the publication of regular 
Group newsletters.
Group incentive schemes reinforce financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance  
of the business. Employees typically have three  
to five performance objectives which are  
directly linked to their job and their specific 
contribution to the overall performance of the 
Group. In addition, presentations and videos 
are given to employees around the Group on 
publication of the Group’s financial results.  
The Board encourages employees to become 
Shareholders and to participate in the Group’s 
employee share ownership schemes, should 
they so wish. Sharesave schemes covering most 
of the world give employees the opportunity to 
acquire shares in the Company by means of 
regular savings.
Directors
The Directors who held office during year and 
those serving at the date of this report are: 
Adrian Bellamy 
Richard Cousins 
Liz Doherty (resigned 12 February 2013) 
Nicandro Durante (appointed 1 December 
2013) 
Peter Harf 
Adrian Hennah (appointed 12 February 2013) 
Kenneth Hydon 
Rakesh Kapoor  
André Lacroix 
Graham Mackay (resigned 12 June 2013) 
Judith Sprieser 
Warren Tucker 
The Directors submit their Annual Report 
and audited consolidated financial 
statements of the Group for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 to the members 
of the Company.
Future Developments
Information on the likely future developments 
of the Group is set out in the Operational Detail 
on pages 9 to 19 and in the Chief Executive’s 
Statement on pages 3 to 8 respectively.
Audited results for the period are set out on 
pages 50 to 84. 
In the view of the Directors, the Group’s  
likely future developments will centre on its 
main product categories of health, hygiene  
and home. 
Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies are set out on pages 17 
to 19 of the Strategic Report and in note 14 on 
pages 70 to 73.
The information referred to above is 
incorporated by reference into, and shall be 
deemed to form part of, this Report. This 
Report of the Directors has been drawn up and 
presented in accordance with, and in reliance 
upon, applicable UK company law and the 
liabilities of the Directors in connection with 
this Report shall be subject to the limitations 
and restrictions provided by such law.
Dividend
In July 2013, the Directors resolved to pay an 
interim dividend of 60p per ordinary share 
(2012: 56p). The dividend was paid on  
26 September 2013. The Directors are 
recommending a final dividend for the year  
of 77p per share (2012: 78p) which, together 
with the interim dividend, makes a total for the 
year of 137p per share (2012: 134p). The final 
dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, will 
be paid on 29 May 2014 to Shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on  
21 February 2014.
Research and Development
The Group continues to carry out R&D in the 
search for new and improved products in all  
its categories and for increased manufacturing 
efficiencies. Direct expenditure on R&D in 2013 
amounted to £199m (2012: £171m).
Acquisitions and Disposals
Information on the Company’s acquisition and 
disposal activities during the year and up to the 
date of this Report is set out in the Strategic 
Report on page 5. 
Employees 
During 2013, the Group employed an average 
of 37,100 (2012: 35,900) people worldwide, of 
whom 3,700 (2012: 3,700) were employed in 
Report of the Directors 22 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Report of the Directors 
Authority to Purchase Own Shares
Shareholders approved a resolution for the 
Company to make purchases of its own shares 
at the AGM in 2013. The Directors announced 
their intention to commence a share repurchase 
programme during 2013 for the repurchase  
of up to 6 million shares for the purpose of 
offsetting the dilutive impact of employee  
share schemes.
In accordance with that announcement and the 
authority granted at the AGM in 2013, market 
purchases of 6 million of the Company’s 
ordinary shares were made during 2013 at a 
total cost of £278,705,370 including stamp 
duty. The authority granted at the AGM in 
2013 remains valid until the conclusion of this 
year’s AGM on 7 May 2014 and the Directors 
will seek to renew the authority to make 
market purchases through a resolution to be 
put to Shareholders at this year’s AGM. This 
authority will be limited to a maximum of  
73 million ordinary shares and sets the 
minimum and maximum prices which may be 
paid. The Company’s intention would be to 
hold shares acquired under such authority in 
Treasury to satisfy outstanding awards under 
employee share incentive plans.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice convening the seventh AGM of the 
Company, to be held on Wednesday, 7 May 
2014 at 11.15 am at the London Heathrow 
Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex 
UB3 5AN, is contained in a separate document 
for Shareholders. 
In accordance with the Shareholder Rights’ 
Directive (Directive) which came into force  
in August 2009, the Company obtained 
Shareholder approval at the AGM in 2013  
to call meetings, other than Annual General 
Meetings, on 14 clear days’ notice. Prior to the 
implementation of the Directive, the Company 
was able to call meetings other than an AGM 
on 14 clear days’ notice without obtaining 
Shareholder approval and, to preserve this 
ability, Shareholders will be asked to renew 
their approval by passing Resolution 20 at  
the AGM. 
Although Article 78 governs the retirement  
of Directors by rotation, the Board has agreed 
that all the Directors will submit themselves for 
re-election/election at this year’s AGM and at 
future AGMs in compliance with the Code.
By Order of the Board
Elizabeth Richardson 
Company Secretary 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
103-105 Bath Road  
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH 
Company registration number: 6270876
7 March 2014
shares of 10p each with voting rights and 
16,732,850 ordinary shares of 10p each held  
in Treasury. Details of changes to the ordinary 
shares issued and of options and awards 
granted during the year are set out in note 22 
to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the 
Company’s ordinary shares are set out in  
the Articles. 
There are no restrictions on the voting rights 
attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares or 
the transfer of securities in the Company 
except, in the case of transfers of securities:
•	 	 That	certain	r estrictions	may	fr om	time	to	
time be imposed by laws and regulations  
(for example, insider trading laws); and
•	 	 Pursuant	to	the	Listing	Rules	of	the	United	
Kingdom Listing Authority whereby certain 
employees of the Company require the 
approval of the Company to deal in the 
Company’s ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company 
which carry special voting rights with regard to 
control of the Company. The Company is not 
aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Allotment of Shares
The Directors were granted authority at the  
last AGM held in 2013 to allot shares up to  
a nominal amount of £21m. That authority  
will apply until the conclusion of this year’s 
AGM. At this year’s AGM on 7 May 2014, 
Shareholders will be asked to grant an authority 
to make such allotments up to a nominal 
amount representing approximately one-third 
of the Company’s issued share capital as at the 
latest practicable date prior to the publication 
of the Notice of AGM. The authority sought 
would, if granted, expire at the earlier of 30 
June 2015 or at the conclusion of the AGM of 
the Company held in 2015. Excluding Richard 
Cousins who will retire at the 2014 AGM, the 
Board has confirmed that, in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (Code),  
all other Directors will submit themselves for 
re-election/election at this year’s AGM and at 
future AGMs.
A special resolution will also be proposed to 
renew the Directors’ power to make non-pre-
emptive issues for cash up to a nominal amount 
representing less than 5% of the Company’s 
issued share capital as at the latest practicable 
date prior to the publication of the Notice  
of AGM. 
The Board is responsible for the management 
of the business of the Company and may 
exercise all the powers of the Company subject 
to the provisions of the Company’s Articles. 
The Articles contain specific provisions and 
restrictions regarding the Company’s power to 
borrow money. Powers relating to the alteration 
of share capital are also included in the Articles 
and Shareholders are asked to renew such 
authorities each year at the AGM. A copy of 
the Articles is available from the corporate 
website www.rb.com or on written request 
from the Company Secretary or from the UK 
Registrar of Companies.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in  
the Articles, the Company’s Articles may be 
amended by a special resolution of the 
Company’s Shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that  
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control of the Company following a 
takeover, such as commercial contracts, bank 
agreements, property lease arrangements and 
employee share plans. None of these are 
deemed to be significant in terms of their 
potential impact on the business of the Group 
as a whole. 
There are no significant agreements between 
the Company and its Directors or employees 
providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment that occurs because of a takeover 
bid, except that provisions of the Company’s 
share plans may cause options and awards 
granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
There is no information that the Company 
would be required to disclose about persons 
with whom it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to the 
business of the Company.
Corporate Governance Statement
In compliance with the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules (DTR) 7.2.1, the disclosures 
required by DTR 7.2.2 to 7.2.7 are set out  
in this Report of the Directors and in the 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 26  
to 32 which together with the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities are incorporated by 
reference into this Report of the Directors.
Independent Auditors
The Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , 
have indicated their willingness to continue  
in office and a resolution that they be 
re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Share Capital
As at 31 December 2013, the Company’s issued 
share capital consisted of 719,802,329 ordinary 
Substantial Shareholdings 
As at 4 March 2014, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests  
(3% or more) in the total voting rights of the Company:
   No of
  % of total  ordinary Nature of 
  voting rights shares holding
JAB Holdings B.V. 10.65 76,659,342 Indirect
Massachusetts Financial Services Company and/or its subsidiaries 5.77 41,561,763 Indirect
Invesco Limited 4.06 29,255,679 Indirect RB Annual Report 2013 23
Governance & Remuneration   Report of the Directors 
Table 1 – Interests in the Share Capital of the Company
The Directors in office at the end of the year and those in office at 7 March 2014 had the following beneficial interests (unless stated otherwise) in the 
ordinary shares of the Company: 
      7 March 2014 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Adrian Bellamy       22,813  22,813  21,966
Richard Cousins       2,429  2,429  2,262
Nicandro Durante (appointed 1 December 2013)     0  0  n/a
Peter Harf       4,109  4,109  3,806
Adrian Hennah (appointed 12 February 2013)      13,629  13,629  n/a
Kenneth Hydon       5,510  5,510  5,337
Rakesh Kapoor       317,537  317,537  281,869
André Lacroix       2,253  2,253  2,086
Judith Sprieser       3,809  3,809  3,631
Warren Tucker       1,694  1,694  1,527
      
Notes
1  No person who was a Director (or a Director’s connected person) on 31 December 2013 and at 7 March 2014 had any notifiable share interests in 
any subsidiary.
2 The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests (which is open to inspection) contains full details of Directors’ shareholdings and options to subscribe. 24 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance
together with the terms of reference for the 
Board Committees, were reviewed and updated 
so that they continue to reflect the spirit and 
emphasis of the Code, remain fit for purpose 
and relevant to how RB operates. 
Board Evaluation 
The Code recommends that FTSE 350 
companies should undertake an external 
evaluation at least once every three years.  
The 2009 to 2012 Board evaluations were all 
undertaken internally. The recent evaluation for 
the year ended 2013 was externally facilitated 
by Egon Zehnder Limited. The summary 
outcome applauded the Company’s focus on 
Shareholder value and the quality of the Board’s 
decision making. It recognised the Board’s 
efficiency and focus but noted certain 
improvement opportunities on governance  
and Board succession matters. The 
recommendations to move the Board’s 
performance from good to great are further 
discussed in the performance evaluation section 
on page 28 of this Report.
Succession Planning
Succession planning to the Board and senior 
management roles remains one of the key  
areas to which the Board gives due attention. 
Progress continues to be made in this area and 
part of that progress is to ensure diversity in 
succession planning and to give members of 
RB’s senior management more exposure to the 
Board and externally. Additional information  
on RB’s succession planning activities at senior 
management levels is within ‘Resources’ on 
pages 11 to 12 of the Strategic Report. Our 
disclosure includes the new Companies Act 
2006 requirement to report specifically on the 
gender split for the Board, senior managers and 
total employee numbers. 
Annual Re-elections
All the Directors submitted themselves for 
re-election at the 2013 AGM and excluding 
Richard Cousins who is retiring after the AGM, 
will submit themselves for re-election at the 
2014 AGM and at future AGMs in compliance 
with the Code.
Diversity
The Company operates within a corporate 
diversity and inclusion policy framework 
adopted and reviewed by the Executive 
Committee. The Davies recommendation for 
boards to have a minimum of 25% female 
representation by 2015 is an aspiration the 
Company considers carefully as part of its 
recruitment exercises. 
The Board reiterates its view that facilitating 
and promoting diversity in its broadest sense 
has helped propel the Company’s success to 
date. It remains its practice to ensure that the 
Company’s Top40 executive roles, in particular, 
The UK Corporate Governance Code (Code) 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
(FRC) in September 2012 was applicable to 
the Company throughout the financial year 
ended 31 December 2013. 
The FRC confirmed that the recent changes  
to the Code together with changes to the UK 
Stewardship Code are intended to increase 
director accountability and encourage greater 
stakeholder engagement, whilst promoting the 
interest of Shareholders. Through the reports 
on the work of the Board and its committees, 
the changes provide investors with greater 
insight into the activities of listed companies. 
The Board takes seriously its responsibility for 
effective corporate governance and delivery of 
long-term Shareholder and stakeholder reward 
and its decisions are taken in light of these 
considerations. I am pleased to report to you 
directly on RB’s governance activities.
RB and Governance
The Board believes that implementing and 
maintaining high governance standards 
underpin our business objectives and our drive 
to create and maximise Shareholder value whilst 
managing the business effectively, responsibly 
and with integrity, so that we demonstrate 
accountability and maintain the trust of all our 
stakeholders. In addition to compliance with 
the best practice advice from regulatory and 
governance bodies, the Board ensures that  
high ethical standards are reflected in business 
behaviour and culture through RB’s global Code 
of Conduct which enables management to add 
ethical and behavioural standards to the legal 
and regulatory obligations existing in the areas 
and communities in which we operate. All 
employees and contractors are required to 
complete an annual conduct training course 
which includes the review of the global Code  
of Conduct. Statistics on employee compliance 
are subject to review by the Audit Committee.  
The Company also operates an active 
whistleblowing hotline, the reports from which 
are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
We are constantly seeking to develop our 
practices and governance framework to ensure 
that transparency and good governance 
permeate through the Group at all levels. Our 
professional employees are annually required  
to confirm compliance with corporate policies 
and are encouraged to suggest improvements. 
This ensures we maintain a dynamic process  
of enhancement which enables our operating 
businesses and group functions to operate with 
an appropriate awareness and recognition of 
their governance and regulatory obligations. 
Composition of the Board
The current and future composition of the 
Board remains an issue to which I and the rest 
of the Board give our full attention. We remain 
mindful of the recommendations of the Code 
on length of service and diversity and it is our 
aim to comply with these recommendations 
without compromising the culture that drives 
the success of our business. Unfortunately, our 
Senior Independent Director, Graham Mackay, 
had to retire from the Board in June 2013 for 
health reasons and sadly passed away on  
18 December 2013. Graham brought 
exceptional talents to the Board’s activities and 
he will be missed. The Board, on behalf of the 
Company and its Shareholders, is grateful for 
Graham‘s significant contributions over the  
past eight years and sends condolences and 
best wishes to his family. We have sought to 
strengthen the Board with the appointment of 
Nicandro Durante, who brings experience of a 
highly regulated and innovation-led industry, 
alongside extensive emerging markets’ 
experience, having worked in Asia, Africa and 
Latin America. He adds further international 
diversity to the Board. We continue to seek to 
recruit additional Non-Executive Directors who 
will bring a diverse range of skills, experience 
and perspectives to the Board’s activities.  
We announced at the end of December 2013 
that Richard Cousins will not offer himself for 
re-election at the 2014 AGM and will stand 
down at the close of business of the 2014 
AGM after having served as a Non-Executive 
Director since October 2009. 
The Board includes Peter Harf who, as a 
Shareholder-nominated Director, was not 
independent on appointment. Both Peter  
and I have served on the Board since 1999. In 
addition, Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Hydon 
have now been on the Board for a period 
exceeding ten years. The Board remains keen to 
ensure compliance with the recommendations 
of the Code but recognises that both Kenneth 
and Judith have been diligent servants of the 
Company who continue to add value to the 
activities of the Company as a whole. To ensure 
continuity and a successful transition, the Board 
recommends that Judith and Kenneth be 
re-appointed to the Board at the 2014 AGM.  
In recognition of their length of service, both 
Judith and Kenneth will step down as Chairs  
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees 
respectively before the end of the year, upon 
completion of this year’s exercise to refresh the 
composition of the Board.
To ensure that the Board is able collectively to 
increase its focus on Board composition, the 
membership of the Nomination Committee was 
increased in November 2013 to include all the 
Non-Executive Directors and the CEO. As part 
of the review of the Board’s effectiveness, the 
documents setting out the matters reserved for 
the Board and the delegations to the CEO, 
Chairman’s Statement on  
Corporate Governance RB Annual Report 2013 25
Governance & Remuneration   Chairman’s Statement on Corporate Governance 
are open to fresh thinking and must include 
personnel from different global backgrounds 
who bring new ideas to the table. The 
Company values its freedom to retain a  
group of people who, collectively, have the 
skills, experience and insight to implement  
the Company’s global vision and objectives  
and achieve long-term value growth without 
being hindered by a gender quota which  
does not take cognisance of the specific 
situation and culture of the Company. As  
at 31 December 2013: 
•	 	 10%	 (2012:	 10%)	 of	 the	 Boar d	 is	 female	 and	
50% (2012: 50%) are non-UK nationals; 
•	 	 11%	(2012:	11%)	of	the	Executive	
Committee is female and 78% (2012: 78%) 
are non-UK nationals; and
•	 	 14%	(2012:	15%)	of	the	T op40	managers	
are female and 66% (2012: 70%) are 
non-UK nationals. 
All RB employees understand their personal 
responsibility for ensuring that diversity policies 
and programmes are actively pursued, 
implemented and maintained. The Company 
does not set specific targets in absolute 
percentage terms to deter artificiality in the 
process; it measures progress year on year to 
ensure an improving picture on gender balance 
which it believes contributes to the Company’s 
growth and success. As at 31 December 2013: 
•	 	 42%	(2012:	41%)	of	the	Gr oup’ s	
professional population of 7,079 is female; 
and
•	 	 17%	(2012:	16%)	of	the	Gr oup’ s	T op400	
population is female.
Gender balance has improved consistently 
across the professional population. 
14, 49 and 95 (2012: 16, 44 and 94) 
nationalities are represented in the Top40, 
Top400 and professional populations 
respectively. 
Risk Management and Appetite
The Board monitors the level of risk through 
the Group’s major risk assessment process.  
We remain committed to building on and 
improving our understanding of the key risks 
facing the Group and its business operations 
and we constantly refine our appetite and 
tolerance of such risks. 
Explanation on Areas of Non-compliance 
with the Code (strict interpretation)
The Board recognises that the objective of the 
Code is to facilitate management’s delivery  
of business success in a transparent and 
responsible manner. The Code does not impose 
a rigid set of rules and recognises that certain 
actions and behaviours do not automatically 
imply poor organisational governance. The 
Board has authorised an explanation for the 
following areas where a strict interpretation 
might lead to a perception of non-compliance 
with certain areas of the Code: 
•	 	 I,	as	the	Chairman,	and	Peter	Harf,	the	
Deputy Chairman and a Shareholder-
nominated Director, have both served on  
the Board since 1999 and will be offering 
ourselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM; 
•	 	 Kenneth	Hydon	and	Judith	Sprieser	have	
now each been on the Board for over ten 
years. The Company continues to benefit 
from the skills and experience they bring  
to their roles and, with continuity in mind, 
Judith and Kenneth have agreed to stand  
for re-election at the AGM for a further year, 
before stepping down at the AGM in May 
2015 by which time they would have served 
on the Board for 11 years. Judith and 
Kenneth will step down as Chairs of their 
respective committees by the end of the  
year, following the outcome of the ongoing 
refresh of the Board’s composition. 
Recognising that it is important that the 
Board retains relevant knowledge and 
experience to continue its delivery of 
Shareholder value and provide continuity  
and consistency in the development and 
application of the Company’s strategic 
objectives, the Board will continue its efforts 
to refresh the membership of the Board in 
the short-term;
•	 	 Following	the	r etir ement	of	Graham	Mackay	
from the Board in June 2013, for the period 
from June 2013 until the date of this report, 
the Remuneration Committee was not 
composed of a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors. For the same 
reason, the Nomination Committee was not 
composed of a majority of independent 
Non-Executive Directors from June 2013 until 
November 2013 when the Board resolved  
to change the terms of reference on 
membership of the Nomination Committee 
to include all Non-Executive Directors; and
•	 	 Judith	Sprieser ,	in	her	capacity	as	Chair	 
of the Remuneration Committee, was 
unfortunately absent from the 2013 AGM 
held on 2 May 2013.
The Board has instructed me to confirm that, 
notwithstanding the foregoing disclosures and 
following the externally facilitated performance 
evaluation undertaken during 2013, each 
Director’s independence of thought and actions 
was assured and all decisions were taken to 
promote the success of RB as a whole. 
Statement of Compliance with the Code
The Corporate Governance Report on pages  
26 to 32 contains a summary of the Company’s 
governance arrangements and the regulatory 
assurances required under the Code. Except as 
explained above, the Company has complied 
with the Code throughout the year ended  
31 December 2013. 
Adrian Bellamy  
Chairman
7 March 2014 26 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report
RB at any time on or after 28 July 2009, 
benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in 
respect of the costs of defending claims  
against him or her and third party liabilities. 
Additionally, Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance cover was maintained throughout  
the year at the Company’s expense. 
A.2: DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES 
There is a clear division of responsibilities 
between the Chairman and the CEO.  
The Chairman is responsible for the overall 
operation, leadership and governance of  
the Board. 
The CEO is responsible for the executive 
management of RB’s business, consistent with 
the strategy and commercial objectives agreed 
by the Board. The CEO chairs the Executive 
Committee and, together with the CFO, certain 
Group functional heads and area EVPs he 
appoints to the Committee, provides the 
day-to-day management of the Company. 
Biographical details of the members of the 
Executive Committee are set out on page 20. 
The matters delegated to the CEO by the  
Board include:
•	 	 Power	to	delegate	the	day-to-day	
management of the business of the 
Company to each of the Officers of the 
Executive Committee, acting individually  
or as a group or sub-committee;
•	 	 Power	to	acquir e	and	dispose	of	businesses	
and to approve unbudgeted capital 
expenditure projects subject, in each case,  
to a £50m limit; and
•	 	 T r easury	policies	and	risk	management	
policies;
•	 	 Significant	changes	to	borr owing	facilities	or	
foreign currency transactions; and
•	 	 Review	and	appr oval	of	r ecommendations	
from the Committees of the Board. 
The annual review of this schedule was 
undertaken in November 2013 as part of the 
performance evaluations conducted for the 
2013 financial year. 
The principal activities undertaken by the Board 
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 3 
to 17.
Meetings 
Board meetings are structured to allow open 
discussion. The Board meets a minimum of  
five times a year and constitutes additional 
meetings (including by telephone or written 
resolution) to consider specific matters which  
it has reserved to itself for decision. 
In 2013, there were five regular Board meetings 
(plus two additional meetings). There were four 
Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration 
Committee meetings (plus one additional 
meeting) and one Nomination Committee 
meeting. The table below sets out the 
attendance by individual Directors at scheduled 
Board and Committee meetings.
Directors’ Insurance and Indemnities
The Directors benefit from the indemnity 
provision in the Company’s Articles of 
Association. Each individual, who is an Officer 
of the Company and/or of any company within 
Report of the Board
The Company enjoys a premium listing  
on the London Stock Exchange and is 
therefore required to produce a Corporate 
Governance Statement containing the 
information set out in this Report. This 
Report is prepared with reference to the 
Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate 
Governance Code (Code) in effect for the 
financial periods beginning on or after  
1 October 2012. This Report sets out how the 
Company has applied the Main Principles of the 
Code throughout the year ended 31 December 
2013 and as at the date of this Report.
A: Leadership
A.1: THE ROLE OF THE BOARD 
The Board leads and controls RB’s business  
with a Board structure similar to that of its 
principal international competitors. The Board 
approves strategy, carries out an advisory  
and supervisory role and accepts ultimate 
responsibility for the conduct of RB’s business. 
The schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision includes:
•	 	 T akeover	of fers	and	the	r esponse	to	any	
takeover approach;
•	 	 Significant	acquisitions,	disposals	and	capital	
expenditure projects;
•	 	 Final	appr oval	of	annual	budgets	and	
corporate plans;
•	 	 Appr oval	of	financial	statements	and	
Shareholder communications;
Number of Scheduled Meetings Attended during 2013 
   Note  Board  Audit  Remuneration  Nomination
Adrian Bellamy     5    4  1
Richard Cousins     5    4
Nicandro Durante   (a)  n/a      n/a
Peter Harf   (b)  4      1
Adrian Hennah     4      
Kenneth Hydon     5  4    1
Rakesh Kapoor     5      1
André Lacroix     5  4    1
Graham Mackay   (c)  1    1  
Judith Sprieser   (b)  4    4  1
Warren Tucker     5  4
Notes
(a) There were no scheduled Board meetings in 2013 subsequent to the appointment of Nicandro Durante. 
(b) Peter Harf and Judith Sprieser were unavoidably absent from one meeting each.
(c) Graham Mackay did not attend any meeting after February 2013 and formally retired from the Board due to ill health on 12 June 2013.
(d) Liz Doherty retired from the Board on 12 February 2013 and did not attend the scheduled Board meeting on the same date.
Corporate Governance Report RB Annual Report 2013 27
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report 
•	 	 Power	to	instruct	advisers	and	to	instigate	
legal proceedings on behalf of the Company 
in respect of matters for which no further 
Board authority is required.
A.3: THE CHAIRMAN
The Chairman, who was independent on 
appointment, is responsible for leading the 
Board and enabling the Directors to operate 
effectively as one unit to determine the 
strategy, risk appetite and governance structure 
necessary to deliver Shareholder value in a 
transparent and responsible manner. His 
responsibilities include:
•	 	 Chairing	and	ensuring	that	Boar d	meetings	
provide a forum that encourages open 
debate and effective contributions from 
individual Directors with sufficient time 
allocated to key issues; 
•	 	 Developing	an	ef fective	working	r elationship	
with the CEO whilst recognising the need  
to maintain the balance between critical 
friendship and executive responsibility;
•	 	 Finalising	the	Boar d	meeting	agenda	
developed by the CEO and the Company 
Secretary;
•	 	 Sponsoring	and	pr omoting	gover nance	and	
ethical practices;
•	 	 Encouraging	dialogue	between	the	 
Company and its Shareholders and other 
stakeholders and facilitating the Board’s 
understanding of Shareholders’ and other 
stakeholders’ concerns;
•	 	 Overseeing	the	induction,	information	and	
support provisions for Directors; and
•	 	 Leading	the	annual	performance	evaluation	
of the Board and its Committees.
A.4: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The Non-Executive Directors are independent  
of management and therefore able to provide 
critical input into Board decisions through their 
contributions to Board discussions and their 
roles on, and Chairmanship of, Board 
Committees. They:
•	 	 Contribute	inter national	and	operational	
experience and a knowledge and 
understanding of global financial issues, the 
sectors in which RB operates and the health 
and safety, environmental and community 
challenges it faces;
•	 	 Monitor	management	performance	against	
strategy and provide reasoned input and 
constructive challenge to ensure objectives 
are met; and
•	 	 Assess	and	monitor	the	integrity	of	financial	
information and the systems of risk 
management and internal control.
The Chairman holds a session with other 
Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion  
of each formal Board meeting without the 
Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director (SID)  
provides a sounding board for the Chairman 
and is available to the other Directors and 
Shareholders who have concerns that cannot 
be addressed through the Chairman, CEO  
or CFO.
B: Effectiveness
B.1: BOARD COMPOSITION 
The Board comprises the Chairman, Adrian 
Bellamy, seven Non-Executive Directors and two 
Executive Directors, Rakesh Kapoor, CEO and  
Liz Doherty, CFO until 12 February 2013 and 
Adrian Hennah, CFO from 12 February 2013. 
Information regarding the Directors serving at 
the date of this Report is set out on page 20. 
Additional biographical details are available 
from the Company’s website.
The Board identified Graham Mackay as the SID 
until his retirement in June 2013 when André 
Lacroix succeeded Graham as SID. The Board 
has determined that the majority of Non-
Executive Directors (excluding the Chairman) 
are independent as recommended by the Code. 
The Board deemed Judith Sprieser and Kenneth 
Hydon as independent notwithstanding that 
they have served over ten years. The Chairman, 
Adrian Bellamy, was independent on 
appointment. Peter Harf, the Deputy Chairman, 
is not independent by virtue of being a 
Shareholder-nominated Director. The 
Shareholder Agreement between the Company 
and JAB Holdings B.V. (JAB) at the time of the 
merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate Board 
Directors. A holding in excess of 20% or 10% 
of the Company’s ordinary shares entitles JAB  
to nominate two Directors or one Director 
respectively. JAB’s current holding is slightly  
in excess of 10%. The Company announced  
in December 2013 that Richard Cousins, 
Non-Executive Director, will not offer himself  
for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
B.2: NOMINATION COMMITTEE AND 
BOARD APPOINTMENTS 
Nomination Committee
Until November 2013, the Nomination 
Committee comprised the Chairman, who also 
chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Deputy 
Chairman, the SID and the Chairs of both  
the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
Following its meeting in November 2013,  
the Board agreed that the composition of the 
Nomination Committee would be increased  
to include all Non-Executive Directors plus the 
CEO. The Board has delegated authority to the 
Committee through its terms of reference, a 
copy of which is available on the Company’s 
website. The primary focus of the Committee  
is to make recommendations on:
•	 	 The	composition	and	performance	of	the	
Board and its Committees;
•	 	 Appointments	and	r e-elections	to	the	Boar d	
and its Committees; and
•	 	 Succession	plans	for	the	Chairman	and	other	
Directors.
The principal activities of the Nomination 
Committee during the year were: 
•	 	 Consideration	of	the	curr ent	and	futur e	
composition of the Board; and
•	 	 T ogether	with	the	r est	of	the	Boar d,	the	
appointment of Nicandro Durante as an 
additional Non-Executive Director on  
1 December 2013.
Board Appointments
The process leading up to the appointment  
of Nicandro Durante commenced with the 
appointment of Egon Zehnder Limited (Egon 
Zehnder) who worked with the Chairman and 
the Board to put together a profile based on 
the Board’s consensus of the key attributes 
required. In addition, the outcomes from the 
interviews undertaken as part of the externally 
facilitated Board performance evaluation fed 
into this process to ensure that there was good 
alignment from the Board on the profile for 
candidates. The Board received the CVs of 
approximately ten potential candidates who 
had been short listed following an initial review 
by the Chairman and members of the 
Nomination Committee. Following feedback 
and recommendations from individual Board 
members, the Chairman met with the 
recommended candidates. The Deputy 
Chairman, the CEO, the SID and the Group 
General Counsel also met with Nicandro who 
indicated a willingness to accept an offer 
following his own due diligence process. The 
Board approved the appointment of Nicandro 
and delegated authority to the Chairman to 
finalise terms and dates.
The Board reviews the medium and long-term 
succession plans for the Executive Directors 
annually. All Non-Executive Directors are kept 
involved in the recruitment process for both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Diversity and Business Success
The Board is confident that diversity contributes 
to the success of any business. It enables the 
business to better understand its opportunities 
and risks and to develop robust solutions to 
them. The Board believes and acts on the  
basis that:
•	 	 Diversity	is	much	br oader	than	gender	and	
should also not be a Board only issue. It 
incorporates diversity of race, thought, 
experience, skills, understanding, perspective 
and age and also requires implementation  
at all management levels; 
•	 	 Successful	companies	sell	their	goods	and	
services to customers regardless of gender, 
race, ethnic group or religion and a diverse 
workforce should reflect its customers.  
A diverse management is more in touch  
with its customers’ demands, investors’ 
expectations and employees’ concerns and 
provides a forum for these different 
Report of the Nomination Committee 28 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report
B.6: EVALUATION 
Performance Evaluation 
The Board maintains an ongoing review of its 
procedures and its effectiveness and those of  
its Committees throughout the year. From 2009 
to 2012, it carried out a formal and rigorous 
internal evaluation of its Committees and of 
individual Directors with a view to improving 
the effectiveness of the Board and its 
Committees and RB’s overall performance.  
The evaluation of the Board’s performance 
during 2013 was undertaken with support  
from an external facilitator. 
2013 Evaluation: Egon Zehnder was retained 
to facilitate the 2013 Board performance 
evaluation. Its remit included a focus on Board 
performance measured primarily by the growth 
of Shareholder value with due cognisance given 
to the Board’s focus on the business and its 
strategy. Particular attention was also given  
to personnel issues and the special and critical 
culture of the Company. Egon Zehnder received 
details of the 2011 and 2012 Board 
performance evaluations and presented at the 
July and November Board meetings. 
Egon Zehnder met with individual Directors 
using a pre-circulated two-page discussion 
guide which enabled them to reflect and  
gather their thoughts ahead of the meeting.  
They also met with the Company Secretary and  
the Group General Counsel who attend all 
Board meetings.
The individual discussion covered the strategic 
alignment and the impact of the Company’s 
re-stated vision on Board composition and 
future structure. Other areas in scope included 
Board meetings and dynamics, reporting to 
Shareholders, governance and Board processes, 
business performance, information flows, risk 
and people related issues. Two areas of specific 
focus, used as case studies of the Board’s 
decision-making, were the re-focus of the 
strategic direction of the Company into health, 
hygiene and home and the acquisitions 
undertaken during 2012/2013. The key 
objective was to ensure that the Board focuses 
on how it adds value to the business and 
captures the learning for future decision-
making. Key recommendations which the 
Board will progress include:
•	 	 Boar d	composition:	the	Boar d	should	
continue to seek to bolster its numbers  
with up to three additional Non-Executive 
Directors;
The Chairman has overall responsibility  
for ensuring that the Directors receive the 
information and training required for their 
roles. Directors are encouraged to take 
individual responsibility for identifying their 
needs and are expected to take the necessary 
steps to ensure that they are adequately 
informed about RB and their responsibilities  
as Directors. The Board is confident that all  
its members have the knowledge, ability and 
experience to perform the functions required  
of a director of a listed company.
The Company was subject to an FSA (now FCA) 
enquiry during 2012 which is still ongoing as at 
the date of this Annual Report. This related to 
an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules and 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules relating 
to a pledge (now redeemed) over shares held 
by the CEO (acquired when he was an 
Executive Committee member prior to his 
appointment as CEO) and a disposal of 
Company shares by a person discharging 
managerial responsibilities without the 
appropriate disclosures being made. 
B.5: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 
All members of the Board receive timely reports 
on items arising at meetings of the Board to 
enable due consideration of the items in 
advance of meetings. Directors unable to 
attend a particular meeting during the year had 
the opportunity to review and raise any issues 
on the relevant briefing papers. Board members 
also have access to a dedicated online team 
room containing relevant Company information 
including all Board and Committee papers. 
Each Director has access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary and a 
procedure exists for Directors to take 
independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in furtherance of  
their duties. 
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary ensures that the 
Company complies with all applicable rules, 
regulations and obligations governing the 
Company’s operations and is responsible for 
ensuring that the correct Board procedures are 
followed. She advises the Board on corporate 
governance matters. All Directors have access 
to the Company Secretary. Her appointment 
and removal are matters reserved to the Board.
B.3: COMMITMENT 
All new Non-Executive Directors confirm in 
writing that they are able to allocate sufficient 
time to meet the expectations of the role. The 
Board has adopted a letter of appointment that 
contains the terms on which Non-Executive 
Directors will be appointed including:
•	 	 Confirmation	that	the	appointment	is	a	
contract for services and details of any 
Committee appointments;
•	 	 Confirmation	of	the	initial	appointment	term	
of three years terminable on one month’s 
written notice and the expectation that the 
appointment will usually last for more than 
one term; and
•	 	 The	r equir ement	to	seek	the	agr eement	of	
the Chairman before accepting additional 
commitments including other directorships 
and the requirement to disclose any actual  
or potential conflicts of interest.
The terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee give the Committee responsibility 
for ensuring that Executive Directors do not 
take on more than one non-executive 
directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the 
chairmanship of such company. 
The externally facilitated evaluation of the 
Board’s performance undertaken in 2013 
concluded that the Chairman and other 
Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient  
time to the Company’s business. 
B.4: DEVELOPMENT 
Induction and Training
All new Directors are provided with a flexible 
induction programme tailored to accommodate 
individual areas of interest. The induction 
covers the provision of core Company-related 
internal and external documents, meetings with 
Directors and key senior executives and visits to 
various offices and factories as appropriate.
The Board holds at least one meeting each year 
at one of the Company’s operating units. The 
2012 meeting was held in Brazil and the 2013 
meeting was held in China. The Board plans to 
visit its operating unit in Salt Lake City, USA 
during 2014. The Board receives updates on 
legal, regulatory and governance matters from 
its internal and external advisers. As part of  
its investor relations programme, the Board 
received a detailed presentation on and review 
of the Company’s investor relations activities at 
its November meeting. 
perspectives to come together in devising 
successful business strategies; and
•	 	 Diversity	is	a	matter	of	organisational	cultur e	
largely set by example from the top. A Board 
that actively considers diversity is better able 
to support diversity efforts in the rest of the 
organisation and is equipped to identify the 
organisation’s requirements.
As part of the recruitment drive, Egon Zehnder 
was given a specific remit to ensure that more 
female and international candidates were put 
forward for consideration and the Committee, 
together with the full Board, considered and 
discussed the CVs of potential candidates at 
their November meetings. The Chairman and 
the Committee are continuing the search to 
refresh the composition of the Board with 
high-calibre candidates who will complement 
the Group’s strengths and contribute to its 
diversity and business success. 
Directors’ Conflicts of Interest
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 
the Company’s procedures for dealing with 
Directors’ conflicts of interest and these 
procedures have operated effectively during  
the year. A register of Directors’ conflicts is 
maintained by the Company Secretary and 
reviewed by the Board at least annually. The 
Board is aware of the other commitments  
of its Directors and any changes to these 
commitments are reported to the Board.
Report of the Nomination Committee (continued) RB Annual Report 2013 29
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report 
The Board is satisfied that the financial 
statements, report to regulators and price-
sensitive reports present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of RB’s position  
and prospects. 
To assist with financial reporting and the 
preparation of consolidated financial 
statements, the finance function has in place  
a series of accounting and treasury policies, 
practices and controls which are designed to 
ensure the identification and communication  
of changes in accounting standards, and 
reconciliation of core financial systems. The 
function consists of consolidation and financial 
accounting teams, and technical support which 
comprises senior finance managers who review 
external technical developments and 
accounting policy issues. In addition, the 
finance function maintains an up-to-date 
Group Finance Policy Manual and sets formal 
requirements with operating unit finance 
functions which specify the standard reports 
and approvals required by RB.
Throughout the year RB has had in place an 
ongoing process for evaluating the financial 
reporting process and the preparation of 
consolidated accounts. The basis for the 
preparation of consolidated accounts is as set 
out on page 54 under Accounting Policies. 
The Board agrees an engagement letter with 
the Auditors in respect of the full and half-year 
results and the Auditors’ statement on their 
work and reporting responsibilities is set out  
on pages 47 to 49.
Information on RB’s business model and 
strategy for generating and preserving 
longer-term growth and delivering on the 
Company’s stated objectives is set out in the 
Strategic Report on pages 9 to 11. 
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on 
page 33 details the Directors’ responsibility for 
the financial statements, for disclosing relevant 
audit information to the Auditors and for 
ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, 
balanced and understandable. An extra step 
involving an additional review of the draft 
Annual Report and a teleconference of the 
Board was added to the approval process so 
that the full Board, acting together, could 
confirm that the Annual Report was fair, 
balanced and understandable.
The going concern statement required by the 
Listing Rules and the Code is set out in the 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on  
page 33.
C.2: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL 
CONTROL 
The Board has established a risk and control 
structure designed to manage the achievement 
of business objectives. It has overall 
responsibility for RB’s system of internal control 
and for the effectiveness of such system.  
The system complies with the Turnbull guidance 
on Internal Control and Risk Management  
and provides reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement  
or loss.
ensure that Board information was succinct 
and essential.
•	 Offsite Board meeting: the objective was 
to help the Board make the most of the 
meeting and use it as an opportunity to meet 
Top400 executives in less formal settings.  
The offsite meeting in China during 2013 
took place over four days, twice the normal 
time previously allocated for such meetings. 
This afforded the Board an opportunity to 
immerse itself in the China business. Future 
offsite meetings will follow this more 
detailed programme. 
•	 	 People and succession: the objective  
was to deliver an increased exposure of the 
Top400 to the Non-Executive Directors. In 
addition to meeting the managers of the 
Chinese business, the Board received 
presentations from the other members of  
the Executive Committee, Top40 and Top400 
executives during the year. 
These outcomes and actions fed into the 
externally facilitated evaluation carried out in 
2013 and will continue to aid benchmarking 
and the measurement of progress in the 
coming years.
The 2013 evaluations of the Board Committees 
were undertaken with the use of detailed 
internally generated questionnaires which 
included a section for additional comments. 
The scores and additional comments were 
collated for subsequent discussions. 
The evaluation of the Chairman’s performance 
was undertaken by the SID with input from his 
fellow Non-Executive Directors, the CEO and 
the CFO. The Chairman evaluates each 
Director’s performance through one-to-one 
discussions with other Directors. The 
Remuneration Committee also reviews the 
performance of the Executive Directors and 
other members of the Executive Committee. 
B.7: DIRECTORS’ RE-ELECTION
In accordance with Code recommendations,  
all the Directors will submit themselves for 
re-election/election at the 2014 AGM. 
Excluding Richard Cousins who will not stand 
for re-election at the 2014 AGM, each Director 
has provided assurance that he or she remains 
committed to his or her role and can dedicate 
the necessary amount of time to attend to the 
Company’s business. In addition, the 
performance evaluation undertaken was 
rigorous and transparent to establish that each 
Director remains able to undertake his or her 
duties. Consequently, the Board recommends 
that all Shareholders vote ‘for’ on each of the 
resolutions to re-elect/elect the Directors at  
the 2014 AGM. The date each Director was 
originally appointed to the Board is included  
in the biographical details on page 20.
C: Accountability
C.1: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING 
The Board is responsible for the integrity of  
RB’s consolidated and the Company’s financial 
statements and recognises its responsibility to 
present a fair, balanced and understandable 
assessment of RB’s position and prospects.  
•	 	 Chairman	succession:	the	Nomination	
Committee should commence the planning 
process to identify a successor for the 
Chairman’s role;
•	 	 Interaction	with	Executive	Dir ectors:	the	
Executive Directors were encouraged to share 
their thoughts and plans at an earlier stage 
to encourage debate;
•	 	 Pr oject	specific	updates:	an	incr ease	in	the	
regularity of updates to the Board on the 
projects it oversees was recommended;
•	 	 Appr oach	on	r emuneration:	the	
Remuneration Committee was encouraged 
to discuss the impact of policy and regulatory 
issues with the Board to promote Board 
alignment on relevant issues; and
•	 	 Review	of	decisions:	noting	that	it	operated	
good post-acquisition reviews, the Board  
was encouraged also to review other key 
decisions on a regular basis.
Egon Zehnder also provides consultancy 
services to the Board’s recruitment activities. 
The Board recognised the benefit of using  
Egon Zehnder for its performance evaluation 
on the basis that this would provide a better 
understanding of the Board and its dynamics 
which would feed into the candidate  
search process.
Progress Update on Items from the 2012 
Evaluation: The 2012 evaluation was 
undertaken internally in a detailed and rigorous 
manner which started with an email from the 
Company Secretary to all Directors inviting their 
comments on the effectiveness of the Board 
the responses from which were used to develop 
a framework for the debate at the evaluation 
meeting. Key actions from the 2012 Board 
performance evaluation and progress made 
since then include:
•	 Corporate strategy: the objective was to 
ensure that the Non-Executive Directors 
received relevant information well in advance 
of meetings to facilitate their understanding 
of management’s key strategic focus. 
Strategic issues are discussed at every 
meeting with management sharing their 
thoughts earlier and this enabled both 
management and the Board to take swift 
actions on key opportunities.
•	 Investor Relations: the objective was for 
additional clarity on the Company’s investor 
relations strategy. The Board was given a 
presentation on the Company’s investor 
relations strategy during the year and, in 
November 2013, the Company held a 
well-received two-day strategy event at 
which the investor community met all the 
members of the Executive Committee, 
gaining an understanding of the depth  
and capability of management and the 
Company’s consumer health and emerging 
markets’ strategies.
•	 	 Advance papers to the Board: the 
improvement in the quality and timing  
of papers to the Board was noted. 
Management was advised to keep a tight 
rein on the quantity of advance material to  30 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report
•	 	 Compliance Controls – the Group 
maintains a compliance control programme 
that includes an independent and 
anonymous whistleblower reporting system, 
systematic reviews by the internal audit 
function, annual management reviews and 
personal compliance certification as well as 
specialised training in specific areas and 
functions of the business. Management 
provides the Board with regular updates on 
the compliance controls of the Group and 
considers recommendations for continuous 
improvement; and
•	 	 Monitoring – the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control and risk 
management is monitored regularly through 
a combination of management review, 
self-assessment, independent review through 
quality assurance, environment, health & 
safety and regulatory audits, as well as 
independent internal and external audit. The 
results of internal and external audit reviews 
are reported to and considered by the Audit 
Committee, and actions are taken to address 
any significant control matters identified.  
The Audit Committee also approves annual 
internal audit plans and is responsible for 
performing the ongoing review of the system 
of internal control and risk management on 
behalf of the Board.
The Board confirms that reviews of the 
appropriateness and effectiveness of the system 
of internal control and risk management 
throughout the financial year and up to the 
date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts have been satisfactorily completed in 
compliance with provision C.2.1 of the Code. 
The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.6 and 
the information is included in the section on 
Takeover Directive on pages 21 to 22.
and processes are embedded in the 
responsibilities of line managers;
•	 	 Budgeting – there is an annual planning 
process whereby operating budgets for the 
following financial year are prepared and 
reviewed by the Board. Long-term business 
plans are also prepared and reviewed by the 
Board on an annual basis;
•	 	 Management Reporting – there is a 
comprehensive system of management 
reporting. The financial performance of 
operating units and RB as a whole are 
monitored against budget on a monthly  
basis and are updated by periodic forecasts. 
Area and functional executives also perform 
regular strategic reviews with their 
management teams, which incorporate an 
assessment of key risks and opportunities;
•	 	 Risk Management – as part of the ongoing 
risk and control process, operating units 
review and evaluate risks to the achievement 
of business objectives and the Board reviews 
those significant risks which might impact  
on the achievement of corporate objectives. 
Mitigating controls, together with any 
necessary actions, are identified and 
implemented. A summary of the most 
significant risks faced by RB is included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 17 to 19 and fuller 
details of RB’s relationships and principal risks 
are set out on pages 93 to 100;
•	 	 Operating Unit Controls – each operating 
unit maintains a system of internal control 
and risk management which is appropriate to 
its own business environment. Such controls 
must be in accordance with Group policies 
and include management authorisation 
processes, to ensure that all commitments  
on behalf of RB are entered into only after 
appropriate approval. In particular, there is  
a structured process for the appraisal and 
authorisation of all material capital projects; 
The Board maintains an ongoing process for 
evaluating the system of internal control and 
identifying and managing risk. Management  
is required to apply judgement in evaluating  
the material risks RB faces in achieving its 
objectives, in determining the risks that are 
considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the 
likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, 
in identifying RB’s ability to reduce the 
incidence and impact on the business of risks 
that do materialise and in ensuring that the 
costs of operating particular controls are 
proportionate to the benefit.
RB’s control environment is supported by a 
Code of Conduct, on which employees receive 
training annually, and a range of policies on 
corporate responsibility. Other key elements 
within the internal control structure are 
summarised as follows:
•	 	 The Board and Management – the Board 
approves strategy and performs an advisory 
and supervisory role, with the day-to-day 
management of the Company being 
undertaken by the CEO supported by the 
Executive Committee. The CEO and other 
Executive Committee members have clearly 
communicated RB’s vision, strategy, 
operating model, values and business 
objectives across the Group;
•	 	 Organisational Structure – during the year 
ended 31 December 2013, RB operated 
three area organisations covering ENA, 
LAPAC and RUMEA together with RB 
Pharmaceuticals and Food, and centralised 
functions covering category development, 
supply, sales, finance, legal, information 
services and human resources, as well as  
an independent internal audit function. 
Throughout the organisation, the 
achievement of business objectives and  
the establishment of appropriate risk 
management and internal control systems 
C.3: AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS 
Introduction
In 2013 changes were made to the UK 
Governance Code. We reviewed our Terms  
of Reference and Annual Plan in the light of 
these changes particularly with respect to 
Shareholder information being fair, balanced 
and understandable. The production of the 
Annual Report is a complex task which is 
completed in a relatively compressed timeframe 
so we established a robust process for the 
review and approval of its contents in 
accordance with the new requirements.
The Committee recognises that independent 
and effective auditors are essential. The Internal 
Audit plan is risk based and the Head of 
Internal Audit has dual reporting lines to the 
CFO and me. In 2013 the routine rotation of 
both of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s (PwC) 
engagement partners took place and the 
Committee conducted a thorough review of 
PwC’s effectiveness and value for money.  
The Committee is aware of the Competition 
Commission’s and EU’s recommendations on 
audit tender and rotation and our current 
expectation is that an audit tender process will 
commence no later than 2019.
Throughout the year the Committee focused 
on providing reassurance to the Board on the 
integrity of the Company’s financial reporting, 
internal controls framework and risk 
management processes. The Committee has 
met with operational business management 
including local management when the Board 
visited China.
This will be my last report to Shareholders and  
I should especially like to thank André and 
Warren for their personal contributions and 
dedication to the work of the Committee.
Kenneth Hydon 
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises three 
Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth 
Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, Chairman since 16 
November 2006, (whom the Board has deemed 
independent notwithstanding he has served ten 
years on the Board), André Lacroix, Diploma, 
ESCP and Warren Tucker, BSc Economics & 
Accounting, MBA, ACA. Kenneth Hydon was 
CFO of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and 
is Chairman of the Audit Committees of both 
Pearson plc and Merlin Entertainments PLC, 
and was in the role at Tesco plc until 2013. 
Warren Tucker was CFO of Cobham plc until 
May 2013. Therefore, they both have relevant 
and recent financial experience. RB’s Auditors, 
Head of Internal Audit and CFO attend 
meetings and have regular private meetings 
with and direct access to the Committee. The 
Chairman and CEO attended some of the 
meetings and other senior management attend 
Audit Committee meetings by invitation. 
Report of the Audit Committee RB Annual Report 2013 31
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report 
The Audit Committee:
•	 	 Monitors	the	adequacy	and	ef fectiveness	of	
the system of internal control;
•	 	 Reviews	compliance	pr ocedur es	and	RB’ s	
overall risk framework (including the Group’s 
whistleblowing arrangements);
•	 	 Considers	r eports	on	Inter nal	Audit’ s	
activities, significant legal claims and 
regulatory issues; 
•	 	 Reviews	the	interim	and	full	year	financial	
statements before submission to the  
full Board; 
•	 	 Makes	r ecommendations	to	the	Boar d	
regarding the Auditors and their terms  
of appointment;
•	 	 Reviews	and	monitors	the	Auditors’	
independence and services supplied and the 
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit 
process; and
•	 	 Considers	operational	risk	and	contr ol	
processes covering assurance providers, 
geographical and functional areas. 
During 2013 the Audit Committee: 
•	 	 Met	four	times;	
•	 	 Consider ed	detailed	risk	and	contr ol	r eviews	
for selected Group major risks covering 
business transformation, regulatory 
compliance, data privacy, business continuity 
planning, legal and tax disputes, quality 
assurance and bribery;
•	 	 Reviewed	 local	 country	 and	 r egional	 risks	 and	
control status during the overseas Board visit;
•	 	 Reviewed	 the	 appr oach	 to	 deliver	 an	 upgrade	
to the Group’s ERP and monitored delivery of 
that programme;
•	 	 Appr oved	updates	to	the	Finance	Policy	
Manual and the Treasury policies;
•	 	 Monitor ed	whistleblowing	activities	and	
reviewed the policy;
•	 	 Reviewed	and	updated	the	policy	for	
non-audit fees to the Auditors and 
monitored its application;
•	 	 Reviewed	the	Audit	Committee	terms	of	
reference and the annual ‘Standing Agenda’;
•	 	 Reviewed	the	work	and	ef fectiveness	of	the	
Internal Audit function;
•	 	 Appr oved	the	terms	of	engagement	and	
reviewed the strategy, scope and 
effectiveness of the Auditors;
•	 	 Reviewed	and	discussed	with	the	Auditors	
the findings of their work during the year;
•	 	 Received	r egular	technical	updates	to	keep	
abreast of changes in financial reporting and 
governance matters; and
•	 	 Reviewed	the	performance	of	the	Audit	
Committee itself and agreed actions for 
dealing with the workload.
The Audit Committee has considered the 
following areas of significant judgement, 
complexity or estimation in relation to the 2013 
Group financial statements: 
•	 	 Acquisition accounting – valuation of 
acquired intangible assets  
In May 2013 the Group obtained regulatory 
approval for a three-year collaboration 
agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb in 
certain parts of Latin America. The 
Committee reviewed papers prepared by 
management addressing the accounting 
treatment applied, and the assumptions 
adopted in determining the fair value of 
assets and liabilities acquired including 
goodwill, the three-year collaboration 
agreement intangible asset and the prepaid 
option. Based on this review the Committee 
is comfortable that accounting for the 
transaction as a business combination under 
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations is 
appropriate and the assumptions applied  
are reasonable.
•	 T ax provisioning  
The Group from time to time is involved in 
disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in 
a number of jurisdictions around the world 
where the approach of the authorities is 
particularly difficult to predict. Where 
appropriate, provisions are made based on 
an assessment of each case. The level of 
provisioning for these tax investigations is an 
issue where management and tax judgement 
is important. The Committee has debated 
with management the key judgements 
made, including relevant professional advice 
that may have been received in each case, 
and considers the tax provisioning levels to 
be appropriate.
In addition, the Audit Committee has 
considered a number of other matters in 
relation to the 2013 Group financial 
statements, including:
•  Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite 
life intangible assets 
Management performs an annual 
impairment review for goodwill and other 
intangible assets with indefinite lives, 
including the Group’s Powerbrands. This is 
important given the significance of these 
items to the Group’s Balance Sheet. Key 
judgements include estimates of future 
business performance and cash generation, 
discount rates and long-term growth rates 
(refer to note 9 of the Group Financial 
Statements for further detail). The 
Committee has reviewed management’s 
analysis, including an assessment of the 
discount rates used, the appropriateness  
of specific risk factors applied to individual 
cash generating units and the adequacy  
of sensitivities applied. As a result of this 
review the Committee is comfortable  
with management’s conclusion that no 
impairment is required and that the indefinite 
life of the Group’s Powerbrands and various 
other brand intangible assets continues to  
be appropriate.
•	 	 Legal liability provisioning  
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the 
Group has recognised certain exceptional 
legal costs relating to historical regulatory 
investigations by various government 
authorities totalling £225m. The level  
of provisioning for these regulatory 
investigations is a matter where management 
and legal judgement is important. The 
Committee has discussed with management 
the key judgements made, including relevant 
legal advice received. 
•	 Exceptional items 
  The Committee has considered the 
presentation of the Group financial 
statements and, in particular, the 
presentation of exceptional items and  
the items included within such measures.  
The Committee has discussed this with 
management and agrees that the 
presentation provides more meaningful 
information to Shareholders about the 
underlying performance of the Group.
The Audit Committee notes that trade spend 
was an area of focus for the Auditors. It is the 
Committee’s view that whilst trade spend is a 
significant expense for the Group and involves 
an element of judgement, management 
operates an appropriate control environment 
which minimises the risks in this area. The 
Auditor’s risk assessment is made before 
consideration of the control environment. In 
addition, there have been no significant items 
or issues which have arisen during the year in 
relation to trade spend which would need to  
be brought to the attention of the Audit 
Committee and, as a result, the Committee 
does not consider that this is a significant issue 
for disclosure in its report.
Auditors and Auditor Independence
PwC and its predecessor firms have been the 
sole Auditors of RB since 2000, the year after 
the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and 
Benckiser N.V. in 1999, and the Company’s 
Auditors since its formation in 2007. At the 
time of the merger, PwC were the Auditors of 
Reckitt & Colman plc and Deloitte LLP were the 
Auditors of Benckiser N.V. Post merger, the 
Audit Committee undertook a review and 
subsequently selected PwC as auditor for the 
Group for the December 2000 year end. In the 
opinion of the Audit Committee, the 
relationship with the Auditors works well and 
the Committee remains satisfied with their 
independence and effectiveness. It has, 
accordingly, not considered it necessary to 
require the firm to tender for the audit work, 
although this is kept under review annually.  
It is a requirement that the audit partner 
responsible for audit is rotated every five years 
and the lead audit partner was rotated-off 
during 2013. Our current expectation is that we 
will commence preparations for a competitive 
tender no later than 2019. There are no 
Report of the Audit Committee (continued) 32 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Corporate Governance Report 
D: Remuneration
D.1: THE LEVEL AND COMPONENTS  
OF REMUNERATION 
The Company’s compensation plan is 
performance-driven and designed to foster  
RB’s innovative and entrepreneurial culture. 
Following the 1999 merger of Reckitt & 
Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. the Board set 
out to create a truly multinational Company 
and, as a result of this approach, people of 
many nationalities work with local citizens  
in each location in which RB operates. 
The level and components of remuneration 
across RB is designed to facilitate global 
mobility and diversity. A similar employment 
contract is used and compensation rules  
apply equally for RB’s Top400 managers  
in all markets. Salary ranges are based on 
global benchmarking and RB’s annual cash 
bonus structure, long-term incentives and  
other benefits are offered across  
operating companies. 
Details on the Company’s remuneration 
strategy and the Directors’ compensation 
arrangements are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46.
D.2: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND 
PROCEDURE 
The Remuneration Committee chaired by Judith 
Sprieser comprised four members until June 
2013 when it reduced to three following 
Graham Mackay’s retirement from the Board 
due to ill health. As at August 2013, Judith 
Sprieser had served ten years on the Board. 
Nonetheless, pursuant to Code provision B.1.1, 
the Board has determined that, in its opinion, 
Judith Sprieser remains independent. Richard 
Cousins is considered independent under the 
Code. The third member of the Committee  
is the Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, who was 
independent on appointment. 
Detailed information on the Committee  
and its activities is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46.
E: Relations with Shareholders
E.1: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 
The Board is committed to effective 
communications between the Company and its 
Shareholders. The Executive Directors and the 
Director of Investor Relations meet regularly 
with institutional Shareholders and financial 
analysts to discuss matters relating to the 
Company’s business strategy and current 
performance. The Board receives regular 
monthly reports from the CEO which include 
updates on share price developments, major 
buyers and sellers of shares, investors’ views  
and analysts’ reports on the industry and  
on the Company specifically. Feedback on 
presentations and roadshow meetings  
with institutional investors is presented to  
the Directors. The investor relations  
programme includes:
•	 	 Formal 	 pr esentations 	 of 	 full 	 year 	 and 	 half	 
year results and quarterly interim 
management statements;
•	 	 Regular 	 meetings 	 between 	 institutional	
investors and senior management to ensure 
that the investor community receives a 
balanced and complete view of RB’s 
performance, the issues faced by RB and  
any issues of concern to the investors; 
•	 	 Response 	 to 	 enquiries 	 fr om 	 institutional	
Shareholders through the Company’s investor 
relations team and from retail Shareholders 
through the Company Secretary; and
•	 	 A 	 section 	 dedicated 	 to 	 Shar eholders 	 on 	 the	
Company’s website. 
Over two days in November 2013, the  
Company held an investor event with the twin 
objectives of:
•	 	 Demonstrating 	 the 	 significant 	 talent 	 within 	
RB’s management team outside the CEO and 
CFO; and
•	 	 Updating 	 investors 	 on 	 the 	 Company’ s 	 value	
creation model and its ability to outperform 
with particular focus on health and hygiene, 
Powermarkets and emerging markets. 
The Chairman is available to discuss governance 
and strategy with major Shareholders should 
such a dialogue be requested. During the year 
the Chairman liaised with Shareholders and 
reported on these meetings to the Directors. 
The Company believes that it is important to 
make key executives available, along with the 
SID, if required, to discuss matters of concern 
with its Shareholders.
E.2: THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
The AGM provides all Shareholders with an 
opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to 
them. The AGM is used as the main opportunity 
for the Directors to meet directly with private 
investors. It is attended by the Directors and all 
Shareholders present are given the opportunity 
to ask questions of the Chairman, the Chairs of 
Board Committees and the Board as a unit.
All resolutions are voted on by way of poll so 
that each share has one vote. The results of the 
poll are released to the Stock Exchange and 
published on the website shortly after the AGM.
contractual obligations restricting the 
Company’s choice of Auditors. 
RB has a formal policy in place to safeguard 
Auditor independence. The Audit Committee 
and the CFO keep the independence and 
objectivity of the Auditors under review. The 
Committee reviews the nature and level of 
non-audit services undertaken by the Auditors 
during the year to satisfy itself that there is no 
impact on their independence. The Board 
recognises that in certain circumstances the 
nature of the advice required may make it  
more timely and cost effective to appoint  
the Auditors who already have a good 
understanding of RB.
The Company’s published policy on non-audit 
fees states that, on an annual basis, non-audit 
fees should not normally be in excess of 50% 
of the Group’s external audit and audit related 
fees on an aggregate basis. The Board confirms 
that, for the year ended 31 December 2013, 
non-audit fees were less than 50% of the audit 
and audit related fees. 
Following a recommendation by the Audit 
Committee, and in accordance with section 
489 of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing 
the re-appointment of PwC as the Company’s 
Auditors will be put to the Shareholders at the 
AGM. RB does not indemnify its Auditors.
Report of the Audit Committee (continued)
The Auditors report to the Audit Committee  
on the actions they take to comply with 
professional and regulatory requirements and 
with best practice designed to ensure their 
independence from RB, including periodic 
rotation of the audit engagement partners. 
Details of non-audit services are set out in  
note 4 on page 61. RB Annual Report 2013 33
Governance & Remuneration   Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors, having made appropriate 
enquiries, state that:
1  So far as each Director is aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s Auditors are unaware; and
2  Each Director has taken all the steps that  
he/she ought to have taken as a Director  
to make him/herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s Auditors are aware of  
that information.
By Order of the Board
Elizabeth Richardson 
Company Secretary 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
103-105 Bath Road  
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH 
Company registration number: 6270876
7 March 2014
governing the preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for Shareholders to 
assess a company’s performance, business 
model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on page 20 confirms that, 
to the best of his/her knowledge:
•	 	 The	Gr oup	financial	statements,	which	have	
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the 
IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
Group; and
•	 	 The	Report	of	the	Dir ectors	includes	a	fair	
review of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Going Concern 
The Group’s business activities, together  
with the factors likely to affect its future 
development, performance and position are  
set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 
19. The financial position of the Group and 
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and 
borrowing facilities, as well as the Group’s 
objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management 
objectives; details of its financial instruments 
and hedging activities; and its exposure to 
credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the 
Strategic Report on page 19 and in note 14 to 
the Group financial statements. 
The Group has considerable financial resources 
together with a diverse customer and supplier 
base across different geographical areas and 
categories. As a consequence, the Directors 
believe that the Group and Company are well 
placed to manage their business risks 
successfully despite the current uncertain 
economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group and Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual financial statements in 
accordance with the FRC’s ‘Going Concern and 
Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors of UK 
Companies 2009’. This statement is also made 
to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules 
9.8.6R(3) and 9.8.10R(1) and C.1.2 of  
the Code.
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the Directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, and 
the parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards) and applicable law. In 
preparing the Group financial statements, the 
Directors have also elected to comply with 
IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB). Under company law 
the Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.  
In preparing these financial statements, the 
Directors are required to: 
•	 	 Select	suitable	accounting	policies	and	then	
apply them consistently.
•	 	 Make	judgements	and	accounting	estimates	
that are reasonable and prudent.
•	 	 State	whether	IFRSs	as	adopted	by	the	
European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB 
and applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
Group and parent Company financial 
statements respectively.
•	 	 Pr epar e	the	financial	statements	on	the	
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 
to presume that the Company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are  
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and the Group and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with 
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the  
IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
the Group and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities 34 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Report
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been 
prepared in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of  
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) 
Regulations 2013. The Report meets the 
requirements of the UK Listing Authority’s 
Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules. In this Report we describe 
how the principles of good governance relating 
to directors’ remuneration, as set out in the  
UK Corporate Governance Code (September 
2012) (the Code), are applied in practice.  
The Remuneration Committee confirms that 
throughout the financial year the Company has 
complied with these governance rules and best 
practice provisions.
Introduction
On behalf of the Board of Directors, it gives me 
great pleasure to present to you the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended  
31 December 2013 for which we will be 
seeking approval at the Annual General 
Meeting (AGM) on 7 May 2014. In line with 
the new reporting regulations that came into 
effect on 1 October 2013, this Directors’ 
Remuneration Report is split into three parts: 
this Annual Statement, a Policy Report (subject 
to a binding Shareholder vote at the 2014 
AGM) and an Annual Report on Remuneration 
(subject to an advisory vote). I and my 
colleagues on the Remuneration Committee 
hope that the new layout of the Remuneration 
Report is clear, transparent and helpful, and 
that we can count on your support for our 
Remuneration Policy and its implementation 
during the year.
Context for Executive Remuneration at RB
The Committee continues to believe that its 
approach to remuneration, although different 
in some respects to typical FTSE practice, is an 
important factor in RB’s success, supporting a 
strong performance culture and delivering 
significant benefits to all Shareholders. Our 
approach to remuneration reflects the global 
nature of our business. Our management team 
is multinational, is globally mobile and we 
compete for talent against a peer group of 
global FMCG companies. Central to our pay 
philosophy are the principles of:
•	 Simplicity;
•	 Shar eholder	alignment;	and
•	 Pay	for	performance.
We reinforce our philosophy by positioning 
Executive Director fixed pay (base salary, 
pension and benefits) around median market 
levels, but providing Executive Directors with 
incentive opportunities strongly linked to 
performance to enable above-market pay 
opportunities for above-market performance  
in terms of growth, profitability and 
Shareholder returns.
MAJOR DECISIONS ON, AND CHANGES TO, 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
DURING THE YEAR
The Structure of 2014 LTIP Awards  
(granted in December 2013)
During the first quarter of 2013, I held 
meetings with a number of our largest 
Shareholders on the subject of executive 
remuneration. The Committee, and the Board 
of Directors as a whole, take very seriously the 
views and feedback of our Shareholders, and, 
although the majority of Shareholders are 
strongly supportive of our philosophy and 
policy on remuneration, we did receive some 
comments and concerns over our long-term 
incentive plan (LTIP); in particular, the sole use 
of adjusted earnings per share (EPS), the EPS 
performance range, and the vesting level for 
achieving threshold performance.
Following a review of our LTIP in response  
to this feedback, the Committee agreed to 
make two changes to awards granted in 
December 2013:
•	 	 A	widening	of	the	performance	range	for	
EPS compound annual average growth 
(CAAG) from 6%-9% p.a. to 6%-10% p.a.
•	 	 A	r eduction	in	the	thr eshold	vesting	level	
from 40% to 20% of maximum.
The Committee feels these changes reinforce 
our philosophy of above-market pay only for 
above-market performance. The new maximum 
vesting level of an EPS CAAG of 10% p.a. is 
equivalent to a top quintile (i.e. above 80th 
percentile) level of performance. In addition, we 
have maintained a threshold EPS CAAG target 
of 6% p.a. which is above market median 
performance, but reduced the level of vesting 
from 40% to 20% which substantially reduces 
the value of the LTIP to participants at this 
minimum level of performance.
The number of shares awarded to the CEO in 
December 2013 was increased from 200,000 in 
December 2012 to 240,000. The number of 
options awarded remained unchanged from 
previous years. The increase in the number  
of shares was considered appropriate in order 
to recognise the strong performance of the 
CEO since his appointment and still remains 
significantly below the LTI awards that were 
made to the previous CEO. Given the changes 
outlined above, the CEO will only receive value 
from this additional benefit if truly exceptional 
performance is delivered.
These changes are covered more fully in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration.
Some of our Shareholders expressed a 
preference for EPS to be supplemented by  
a second measure, such as return on capital 
employed, in our LTIP . The Committee 
considered this feedback in depth and 
concluded, on balance, that it wished to 
maintain the simplicity and consistency of the 
LTIP . The Committee believes that the heavy 
weighting of the long-term variable equity 
component of pay for Executives, together with 
our demanding executive share ownership 
requirements (equivalent to up to 30x salary) 
reduce the need for a second measure since the 
proportion of personal net worth that the 
Executive Directors have invested in Company 
shares already strongly motivates them to act in 
a manner consistent with the best interests of 
our Shareholders. 
I hope that this Remuneration Report achieves 
the aim of improved transparency and clarity 
under the new reporting requirements, and 
that we can count on your support at the 
forthcoming AGM for both our Remuneration 
Policy and the decisions we have taken as a 
Committee during the year.
Judith Sprieser 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee RB Annual Report 2013 35
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Component purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Variable Remuneration (incentives)
Annual bonus
To drive strong 
financial performance 
with significant reward 
for over achievement 
of annual targets
Financial targets are set by the Committee at the 
start of the year, with reference to prevailing 
growth rates in RB’s peer group, and across the 
health care and FMCG industries more broadly.  
At the end of the year, the Committee determines 
the extent to which these have been achieved.
Performance is assessed on an annual basis, using 
a multiplicative combination of the payouts for 
performance against each of the financial targets. 
Bonus payouts are in cash.
Under the terms and conditions of the plan, the 
Company has the right to seek redress and 
damages from any individual who has been found 
to have breached the Company’s Code of 
Conduct. This includes the Company’s right to 
require an individual to repay any costs incurred 
through a breach of the Code of Conduct from 
any bonus payment made in the year the breach/
costs were incurred.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the 
formulaic bonus outcomes both upwards and 
downwards (including to zero and capped at the 
maximum payout) to ensure alignment of pay with 
performance, e.g. in the event performance is 
impacted by unforeseen circumstances outside of 
management control.
Target opportunity: 
CEO: 120% of salary 
CFO: 90% of salary 
Maximum opportunity: 
3.57x Target 
(CEO: 428% of salary) 
(CFO: 321% of salary)
Performance will be assessed 
against the growth in one or 
more key financial metrics of 
the business determined on an 
annual basis.
The weighting between 
different financial metrics will 
be determined each year 
according to business priorities.
For threshold performance,  
the bonus payout will be nil.
Further details, including  
the performance measures  
for the current financial year,  
are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
LTIP
(share options and 
performance shares)
To incentivise and 
reward long-term 
performance, and  
align the interests of 
Executive Directors 
with those of 
Shareholders
The LTIP comprises grants of share options and 
awards of performance shares (based on a fixed 
number), which vest subject to the achievement  
of stretching performance targets.
The LTIP has a performance period of at least  
three years and a minimum vesting period  
of three years.
The LTIP opportunity and the combination of share 
options and performance shares are reviewed 
annually with reference to market data and the 
associated cost to the Company, calculated using 
an expected value methodology.
The performance condition is reviewed before 
each award cycle to ensure it remains 
appropriately stretching.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the 
formulaic LTIP outcomes to improve the alignment 
of pay with value creation for Shareholders to 
ensure the outcome is a fair reflection of the 
performance of the Company. 
The Committee calibrates LTIP share 
award and option grant sizes as a 
fixed number, with periodic 
adjustments to ensure that the fair 
value of an Executive Director’s total 
remuneration is appropriately 
positioned relative to peers. 
The maximum award to  
any individual in one year  
will be 300,000 shares and  
600,000 options.
Details of the LTIP opportunity  
in respect of each year will be 
disclosed in the Annual Report  
on Remuneration. 
Dividends do not accrue  
on unvested share awards or on 
shares underlying options before 
they are exercised.
Vesting of the LTIP is subject  
to continued employment  
and the achievement of 
stretching adjusted diluted EPS 
growth targets.
Threshold performance will 
result in 20% of maximum 
vesting. The vesting level will 
increase on a sliding scale  
from this threshold to 100% 
vesting for Stretch levels  
of performance.
Further details, including  
the performance targets 
attached to the LTIP in  
respect of each year, are 
disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
Sharesave
To encourage the 
ownership of RB shares
An HMRC approved scheme where employees 
(including Executive Directors) may save a monthly 
amount over three years. Options granted at up to 
a 20% discount.
Savings capped at the limit set  
by HRMC.
n/a
 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which Shareholders will be asked  
to approve at the 2014 AGM on 7 May 2014. The Committee intends that the policy will come into effect on this date, if approved by Shareholders, 
and be effective for three years.
A summary of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy is summarised in the table below: 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE 36 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report
Component purpose and 
link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base Salary and Benefits
Base Salary
To enable the total 
package to support 
recruitment and 
retention
Base salaries are reviewed annually typically with 
effect from 1 January.
Salary levels/increases take account of:
•			 Competitive	practice	in	the	Company’ s	
remuneration peer group, comprising 
international companies of a similar size  
and scope of operations.
•			 Individual	performance.
•			 Salary	incr eases	awar ded	acr oss	the	Gr oup	 
as a whole.
Salaries for Executive Directors 
should typically be around the 
median for competitors.
Salaries in respect of the year under 
review (and for the following year) 
are disclosed in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
To avoid setting expectations of 
Executive Directors and other 
employees, no maximum salary is 
set under the Remuneration Policy.
Salary increases for Executive 
Directors will be aligned with those 
of the wider workforce which take 
into account performance. 
Increases may be made above this 
level to take account of individual 
circumstances, which may include:
•			 Incr ease	in	the	size	or	scope	of	
the role or responsibilities.
•			 Incr ease	to	r eflect	the	individual’ s	
development and performance in 
role. For example where a new 
incumbent is appointed on a 
below market salary.
Where increases are awarded in 
excess of the wider employee 
population, the Committee  
will provide rationale in the relevant 
year’s Annual Report on 
Remuneration.
n/a
Pension
To provide appropriate 
levels of retirement 
benefit
Executive Directors may receive contributions into 
the RB Executive Pension Scheme, a defined 
contribution scheme, a cash allowance or  
a combination thereof.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration 
that is pensionable.
CEO: 30% of pensionable pay 
CFO: 25% of pensionable pay
n/a
Benefits
To provide benefits 
comparable to those 
that would be provided 
for an equivalent 
position elsewhere
Executive Directors receive benefits which consist 
primarily of the provision of a company car/
allowance and health care, although can include 
other benefits that the Committee deems 
appropriate, for example the cost of preparing tax 
returns or home leave.
Relocation allowances and international transfer 
related benefits may also be paid, where required.
None of the existing Executive 
Directors received total taxable 
benefits exceeding 10% of salary 
during the last three financial years, 
and it is not anticipated that the 
cost of benefits provided will exceed 
this level in the financial years over 
which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the 
discretion to approve a higher cost 
in exceptional circumstances  
(e.g. relocation) or in circumstances 
where factors outside the 
Company’s control have changed 
materially (e.g. increases in medical 
coverage inflation).
Benefits in respect of the year under 
review are disclosed in the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
n/a
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE (CONTINUED) RB Annual Report 2013 37
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Payments from Existing Awards
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed 
in this Report, i.e. before 7 May 2014. Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance Measure Selection and Approach to Target Setting
The measures used under the annual bonus are selected to reflect the Group’s main financial priorities for any given financial year. With regard to the 
LTIP , the Committee regularly reviews the performance measure to ensure that it aligns well with the Company’s strategy and with our Shareholders’ 
interests. EPS is considered the most appropriate LTIP performance measure for a number of reasons:
•	 It	focuses	Executives	on	r eal	pr ofit	gr owth	which	is	str ongly	aligned	with	value	cr eation	at	RB;
•	 It	pr ovides	a	well-r ecognised	and	accepted	measur e	of	the	Company’ s	underlying	financial	performance;	and
•	 It	is	a	measur e	that	the	plan	participants	can	dir ectly	impact	and	is	easily	measurable.
EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis, as shown in the Group’s financial statements, as this provides an independently verifiable measure  
of performance. However the Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to make adjustments to the measure if this is considered to be 
appropriate. Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points. Bonus targets take into 
account prevailing growth rates in RB’s peer group, and across the health care and FMCG industries more broadly. LTIP targets reflect industry context, 
expectations of what will constitute performance at the top of the peer group, and factors specific to the Company.
Remuneration Policy for other Employees
RB’s approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, individual 
performance and salary levels for comparable roles in comparable companies.
Senior employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors. Opportunities and 
specific performance conditions vary by organisational level, with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers, who comprise of the Top400 employees, are eligible to participate in the LTIP on broadly similar terms as the Executive Directors, 
although award sizes vary by organisational level. In addition, Senior Executives, who comprise of the Top40 employees, are also required to build up 
significant shareholdings in RB of between 30-50,000 shares, representing c.8x base salary. 
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s Sharesave plan on identical terms.
Shareholder Alignment
The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors’ and Shareholder interests through executives building up significant shareholdings 
in the Company. Executive Directors are expected to acquire a significant number of shares over a period of eight years and retain these until retirement 
from the Board of Directors. The shareholding requirement for the CEO is 600,000 shares and for the CFO is 200,000 shares. 
Details of the Executive Directors’ current personal shareholdings are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 46.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION
Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment. In line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (September 2012) guidelines, all Directors are subject to re-election annually at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Company’s bonus, share option, 
long-term incentive or pension schemes. An element of the basic fee is, however, paid in RB shares.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below:
Component and objective Approach of the Company
Fees (cash  
and shares)
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive 
Directors of the highest 
calibre with broad 
commercial experience 
relevant to the 
Company
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with recommendations provided by  
the Chairman and CEO. The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as Chairman  
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees also receive an 
additional fee.
Fee levels may be reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 January. Fees are reviewed by taking into account 
external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 30 and FTSE 100 companies. Time commitment 
and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive fees are delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares which must be held until retirement 
from the Company. 
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review (and for the following year), 
including the split between cash and shares, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited to £1.5m by the Company’s Articles of Association. 38 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
SCENARIO ANALYSIS
The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different 
elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: ‘Minimum’, ‘On-target’ and ‘Maximum’.
Potential reward opportunities are based on RB’s Remuneration Policy, applied to 2014 base salaries. The annual bonus and LTIP are based on the maximum 
opportunity levels applying for FY 2014. Benefits are based on those benefits paid in respect of FY 2014.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of the AGM which follows the third anniversary 
of grant and the projected values exclude the impact of share price movement. 
 
 
 
Diluted earnings per share pence
200 150 100 50
11 10 09 08 07
10 09 08 07
11 10 09 08 07
0 250
Adjusted net income £m 
*Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items and 
  tax effects thereon. Refer note 8 of the financial statements
  for further detail.
2000 1600 1200 800 400 0
0
50
100
150
200
250
Declared dividend per share pence
75 50 25 0 125 100
0
25
50
75
100
125
*Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items and 
  tax effects thereon. Refer note 8 of the financial statements
  for further detail.
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
1,143*
905*
1,418*
1,818
*
1,661*
Maximum On-target Minimum
Maximum On-target Minimum
Average three year earnings per share growth (p.a)
Rakesh Kapoor, CEO 
£m
20 16 12 84 0
123.4*
157.8*
247.1
*
194.7*
80.0
55.0
100.0
125.0
115.0
226.5*
Adrian Hennah, CFO 
£m
86 42 0 10
0
4000
8000
12000
16000
20000
LTIP Annual 
bonus
Salary
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
LTIP Annual 
bonus
Salary
Salary, Pension 
& benefits
Annual 
bonus
LTIP
6% 7% 8% 9%
% vesting
80 60 40 20 0 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
04 8121620
Maximum 
On-target
Minimum
Maximum 
On-target
Minimum
18.25
4.87
1.16
Rakesh Kapoor, CEO 
£m
Rakesh Kapoor, CEO 
£m
04 8121620
18.25
4.87
1.16
Salary, pension and benefits Annual bonus Long-term incentives (share options and performance shares)
0123456
Maximum 
On-target
Minimum
Adrian Hennah, CFO 
£m
1.75
0.71
5.11
6% 20%
24%
100% 100%
21%55% 41%29% 30%
74% 14% 35% 51%
Valuation Assumptions
The ‘Minimum’ scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits (i.e. fixed remuneration), being the only elements of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration package not linked to performance.
The ‘On-target’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus payout (120% and 90% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively) 
and LTIP threshold vesting at 20% of the maximum award level.
The ‘Maximum’ scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout under all incentives (428% and 321% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively, 
under the annual bonus, and full vesting of LTIP awards).
The value of performance shares and share options is based on the price at grant of £47.83 (11 December 2013). Share options are valued as 10% of 
face value which has been calculated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions aligned to the three-year performance period.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION
External Appointment
In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all existing 
components of remuneration, as follows:
Component Approach Award
Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market 
data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic 
salary. Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, the shortfall  
to median may be managed with phased increases over a period of two or three years 
subject to their development in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include (but are not limited 
to) the provision of a company car or car allowance, health care and any necessary 
relocation expenses in line with ongoing Remuneration Policy.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions and/or an equivalent cash supplement 
in line with existing executives as set out in the ongoing Remuneration Policy.
Annual bonus The structure described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant 
maximum opportunity. 
Target: 120% of salary
Multiple: 3.57x Target
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other 
executives, as described in the policy table. LTIP grants can take the form of performance 
shares, share options or a combination of the two.
300,000 performance shares
600,000 share options
The overall limit of variable remuneration will be as set out in the policy table taking into account the maximum value of the annual bonus and the 
maximum awards of options and shares under the LTIP .
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to ‘buy out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer,  
i.e. over and above the approach outlined in the table above. In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance 
conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher 
than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and made on a like-for-like basis.  RB Annual Report 2013 39
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Internal Promotion
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees, as detailed 
above. Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to 
honour these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Executive Director Remuneration Policy 
at the time of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 37. A base fee in line with 
the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for membership of the Board of Directors, with additional fees payable for acting as Deputy Chairman, 
Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and for being a member of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. Fees will be delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares to be held until retirement from the Company.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee. In accordance with 
general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract which is terminable on twelve months’ notice and this practice will 
also apply for any new Executive Directors. In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one year’s 
remuneration based on base salary, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period. Termination payments may take the form of payments 
in lieu of notice. Copies of Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Company’s registered office.
The Company’s policy on any termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant 
contractual terms in the executive’s service contract and the circumstances of the termination. The table below summarises how awards under the 
annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committee’s discretion as 
provided under the rules of the plan:
Reason for cessation Timing of vesting/payment Calculation of vesting/payment
Annual Bonus
Voluntary resignation or 
termination with ‘cause’
Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
All other circumstances At the end of the financial year Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that 
objectives set at the beginning of the plan year 
have been met. Any such bonus will be paid on 
a pro rata basis up to the termination date.
LTIP
Voluntary resignation or 
termination with ‘cause’
Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
Ill-health, injury, permanent 
disability, retirement with the 
agreement of the Company, 
redundancy or any other 
reason that the Committee 
determines in its  
absolute discretion
After the end of the financial year in which the cessation of 
employment occurs; or at the discretion of the Committee,  
after the end of the relevant performance period.
The Committee determines whether and to 
what extent outstanding awards vest based  
on the extent to which performance conditions 
have been achieved (either to the end of the 
financial year in which cessation of employment 
occurs, or over the full performance period) 
and the proportion of the performance  
period worked.
Death As soon as possible after date of death The Committee may disapply performance 
conditions but will reduce awards to reflect the 
proportion of the performance period worked.
Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any 
performance conditions have been satisfied 
(unless the Committee determines that the 
performance conditions should not apply). 
Awards will also be reduced pro rata to  
take into account the proportion of the 
performance period not completed, unless  
the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged  
for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, 
where appropriate. 40 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS 
With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, Executive Directors may accept 
one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director of another company and retain any fees received. Details of external appointments and the 
associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on Executive Remuneration Policy. However, the Company seeks to promote and maintain 
good relations with employee representative bodies – including trade unions and works councils – as part of its employee engagement strategy, and 
consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the 
Company operates. Although the Company does not consult employees on executive remuneration, the Committee is mindful of the salary increases 
applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries for Executive Directors.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS 
The Committee considers Shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from Shareholder 
representative bodies more broadly, in shaping Remuneration Policy. The Committee Chairman speaks with a number of the Company’s largest Shareholders 
on the subject of executive remuneration at least on an annual basis. The majority of Shareholders are supportive of the Company’s philosophy and 
policy on remuneration, and the Committee will continue to keep its Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the 
Company’s long-term strategy and aligns closely with Shareholders’ interests. The Committee will continue to consult our major Shareholders before 
making any significant changes to our Remuneration Policy.
 Annual Report on Remuneration
The following section provides details of how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year ended 31 December 2013.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2013
As of 31 December 2013, the Remuneration Committee comprised three Non-Executive Directors.
•	 Judith	Sprieser	(Chairman)
•	 Richar d	Cousins
•	 Adrian	Bellamy
Graham Mackay was also a member of the Remuneration Committee until 12 June 2013 when he retired from the Board. As at 31 December 2013, 
Judith Sprieser has served ten years on the Board of Directors. Nonetheless, pursuant to Code provision B.1.1, the Board of Directors has determined 
that, in its opinion, Judith Sprieser remains independent. Richard Cousins is considered independent under the Code. Adrian Bellamy, Chairman of the 
Company, was independent on appointment but has served on the Board of Directors for more than nine years. 
The Committee’s purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility by ensuring that Remuneration Policy and practices 
reward fairly and responsibly; are linked to corporate and individual performance; and take account of the generally accepted principles of good 
governance. On behalf of, and subject to approval by, the Board of Directors, the Committee primarily:
•	 Sets	and	r egularly	r eviews	the	Company’ s	overall	r emuneration	strategy;
•	 Determines	the	general	Remuneration	Policy	for	Senior	Executives;	and
•	 In	r espect	of	the	Chairman,	the	Executive	Dir ectors	and	members	of	the	Executive	Committee	sets,	r eviews	and	appr oves:
	 •	 Remuneration	policies,	including	annual	bonuses	and	long-term	incentives;
	 •	 Individual	r emuneration	and	compensation	arrangements;
	 •	 Individual	benefits	including	pension	and	superannuation	arrangements;
	 •	 T erms	and	conditions	of	employment	including	the	Executive	Dir ectors’	service	agr eement;
	 •	 Participation	in	any	of	the	Company’ s	bonus	and	long-term	incentive	plans;	and
	 •	 The	targets	for	any	of	the	Company’ s	performance-r elated	bonus	and	long-term	incentive	plans.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board of Directors on the 
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors. Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate  
in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee held four scheduled meetings and one additional meeting during the year and details of members’ attendance at 
meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance section on page 26.
ADVISERS
Kepler Associates (‘Kepler’) was originally appointed by the Committee as independent advisor in mid-2012 following a competitive tender process,  
and was retained during 2013. The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Kepler remains independent of the Company and 
that the advice provided is impartial and objective. Kepler is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, 
details of which can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. During 2013, Kepler provided support to the Committee in relation to short 
and long-term incentive design, benchmarking executive remuneration structure and levels, and the consultation of Shareholders on remuneration 
matters. Kepler Associates does not advise the Company on any other matters. Their total fees for the provision of remuneration services to the 
Committee in 2013 were £215,935 on the basis of time and materials. RB Annual Report 2013 41
Governance & Remuneration    Directors’ Remuneration Report 
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2013 AGM
The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2012 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
        Total number of votes % of votes cast
For (including discretionary)        421,057,300 81.77%
Against        93,881,447 18.23%
Total votes cast (excluding withheld votes)       514,938,747 100.0%
Votes withheld        11,173,126 
Total votes cast (including withheld votes)       526,111,873 
Whilst the level of support for the Remuneration Report was broadly similar to that received at the 2012 AGM (84%), the Committee recognises that 
there remain a number of areas of concern for Shareholders, including incentive award opportunities and the use of a single long-term performance 
measure (EPS growth). The Committee believes the existing incentive arrangements are simple, reinforce our remuneration principles and align 
Executives closely with the interests of our Shareholders. In addition, the requirement for Senior Executives to build up significant shareholdings in the 
Company further supports our policy of executive alignment with Shareholders’ interests. The Committee regularly reviews the incentive arrangements 
for Executive Directors and, taking into account the feedback received from our Shareholders, decided to make a number of changes to LTIP awards 
that were granted in December 2013, including a reduction in the threshold vesting level and an extension to the EPS performance range as explained 
in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s letter. 
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors (audited)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the 
prior year. The values of each element of remuneration are based on the actual value delivered, where known. For the year ended 31 December 2012, 
the LTIP value has been restated to reflect the actual value of LTIP awards that vested on 2 May 2013 (at a share price of £46.77, rather than the 
estimated value based on £37.99, being the three-month average share price to 31 December 2012):
      Rakesh Kapoor Adrian Hennah
1
 Liz Doherty
2
        
      2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
      £ £ £ £ £ £
Base salary      832,000 800,000 550,000 – 90,100 428,000
Taxable benefits
3
      38,585 31,000 20,992 – 4,044 24,000
Annual bonus
4
      3,564,288 1,814,000 1,767,150 – 78,153 729,000
LTIP      2,010,240
5
 5,527,800 – – – –
Pension benefit
6
      247,200 238,000 135,500 – 12,500 73,000
Other      – – 1,395,750
7
 – – –
Total      6,692,313 8,410,800 3,869,392 – 184,797 1,254,000
1
  Adrian Hennah joined the Board of Directors as CFO on 12 February 2013. However he was employed by the Company from 1 January 2013 and the 
figures above represent all payments from the commencement of his employment. During 2013, Adrian Hennah served as a Non-Executive Director 
of Reed Elsevier PLC, for which he retained fees of £65,000. These fees are excluded from the table above.
2
  Liz Doherty stepped down from the Board of Directors on 12 February 2013 but was maintained in employment with the Company until  
15 March 2013. The figures above represent all payments until the cessation of her employment. Details of payments made on cessation of 
employment are provided on page 44.
3
 Taxable benefits consist primarily of company car or car allowance, health care and home leave. 
4
 Cash payment for performance during the year. See ‘Annual Bonus in respect of 2013 performance’ on page 42 for details.
5
  Reflects the estimated value of LTIP shares and options granted in December 2010 which are due to vest on 7 May 2014 at 40%. These have been 
valued using an average share price over Q4 of £46.88. See the relevant sections on pages 42 for further details.
6
  During the year Rakesh Kapoor participated in the RB Executive Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, in relation to which the Company 
contributed £50,000 in the year (2012: £50,000 for Rakesh Kapoor and Liz Doherty). The Company also paid Executive Directors a cash allowance 
which amounted to £197,200 and £135,500 for Rakesh Kapoor and Adrian Hennah, respectively. In combination these payments reflect the full 
pension provision outlined in the policy table (2012: £188,000 for Rakesh Kapoor and £23,000 for Liz Doherty).
7
  Includes a sign-on award of £200,000, paid on appointment, partially to replace the value of deferred bonus awards at his previous employer. Value 
also includes a cash lump sum equal in value to 25,000 RB shares of £1,195,750, the net amount of which has been used to purchase shares which 
are retained as part of the Executive share ownership obligation. 42 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 (AUDITED)
Annual Bonus in Respect of 2013 Performance
The performance measures attached to the 2013 annual cash bonus plan were net revenue and net income growth. As in 2012, target performance 
was calibrated to deliver a bonus of 120% and 90% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively, with bonus payments worth up to 3.57x these target 
amounts (equivalent to 428% of salary for the CEO and 321% of salary for the CFO) available for truly exceptional performance. Performance under 
each of the measures is combined multiplicatively such that Threshold performance would deliver zero bonus whilst Stretch performance would deliver 
3.57x target bonus.
The net revenue and net income targets set at the start of the year (not disclosed as we consider them to be commercially sensitive) took into account 
the fact that generics for Suboxone tablets entered the US market in late February 2013, and were anticipated to have a material impact on the revenue 
and profitability of the RB Pharmaceuticals business. Despite the challenges faced within RB Pharmaceuticals, the Group has delivered exceptional 
performance, by continuing to grow the core business and maintaining market share within RB Pharmaceuticals.
•	 	 Excluding	RB	Pharmaceuticals,	net	r evenues	have	incr eased	7%	based	on	a	constant	exchange	rate	and	5%	on	a	like-for -like	basis.	These	ar e	well	
above the general market growth rates. This growth has been led by our new strategy to drive health and hygiene Powerbrands together with our 
focus on 16 Powermarkets. 
•	 	 Excluding	RB	Pharmaceuticals,	adjusted	operating	pr ofit	has	also	incr eased	by	7%	based	on	a	constant	exchange	rate,	with	margins	incr easing	to	
23.6%, exceeding targets.
•	 	 Our	volume	film	market	shar e	for	total	bupr enorphine	pr escriptions	in	the	US	has	been	maintained	at	68%	since	the	launch	of	generic	tablets	which	
demonstrates an outstanding performance despite huge challenges being faced in this area.
•	 	 Excellent	pr ogr ess	has	been	made	with	our	acquir ed	businesses.	The	ef fective	ongoing	integration	of	Schif f	and	ef fective	collaboration	agr eements	
with BMS and Guilong has proven again RB’s strength to acquire high quality businesses and delivering superior shareholder value.
•	 W e	have	also	deliver ed	a	significant	gr oss	margin	expansion	of	+150	bps	and	net	working	capital	impr ovements	of	£163m	to	minus	£863m.
•	 This	str ong	performance	has	r esulted	in	a	dividend	payment	which	is	2%	above	that	deliver ed	last	year .
Based on performance measures against the targets, but also supported by the overall financial results outlined above, the Committee has decided to 
make an annual bonus award of 428% of base salary to the CEO and 321% of base salary to the CFO, equivalent to 3.57x target bonus.
CEO’s 2011 LTIP
LTIP awards for 2011 were dependent on compound average annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over the three-year period ending on 31 December 
2013. The threshold target for awards was growth of 6% p.a., with awards vesting in full for growth of 9% p.a. The threshold performance target was 
achieved and the CEO’s LTIP award (granted to him when he was EVP , Category Development) may vest to the following extent in May 2014 for 
performance over the completed three-year period:
   Interests Exercise Vesting Interests Date Assumed Estimated
Awards   held price % vesting vesting market price value
Shares   60,000 n/a 
40%
 24,000 7 May 2014 
£46.88
 £1,125,120
Options   180,000 £34.64  72,000 7 May 2014  £881,280
The value disclosed above and in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 41 captures the full number of interests vesting. As the market 
price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2013  
of £46.88. The actual value at vesting will be trued-up in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Former CFO’s LTIP awards
In line with the LTIP rules, Liz Doherty’s outstanding LTIP share awards and option grants did not lapse on cessation of employment, but were prorated 
for the time elapsed from the start of each respective performance period to cessation of employment. Performance was tested over the performance 
period to 31 December 2013 to determine the vesting outcome for each time prorated award (which is due to vest in May 2014), as follows:
  Date of Interest Exercise Time  Vesting Interests Assumed Estimated
Awards  grant granted price prorated interest
1
 % vesting market price value
Shares 9 February 2011 10,000 n/a 7,372 40% 2,949  £138,249
Shares 5 December 2011 45,000 n/a 18,173 0% 0 £46.88 £0
Options 5 December 2011 90,000 £32.09 36,346 0% 0  £0
1
 Reflects the number of weeks elapsed from the start of the performance period (1 January) to cessation of employment (15 March 2013).
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
The following Non-Executive Director fee policy was in place for the year ended 31 December 2013:
          Fee delivered
Role         Cash fee in RB shares
Chairman         £308,000 £67,000
Deputy Chairman         £82,000 £18,000
Non-Executive Director         £70,000 £15,000
Chairman of Audit Committee         £30,000 –
Chairman of Remuneration Committee        £30,000 –
Member of Audit Committee         £15,000 –
Member of Remuneration Committee        £15,000 –
Senior Independent Director         £12,000 – RB Annual Report 2013 43
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2013 and 
the prior year: 
      2013 fees £ 2012 fees £
       
    Base fee Committee 2013 Base fee Committee 2012
    Cash Shares fees Total Cash Shares fees Total
Adrian Bellamy    308,000 67,000 – 375,000 283,000 62,000 – 345,000
Richard Cousins    70,000 15,000 15,000 100,000 61,500 13,500 10,000 85,000
Peter Harf    82,000 18,000 15,000 115,000 65,500 14,500 10,000 90,000
Kenneth Hydon    70,000 15,000 30,000 115,000 61,500 13,500 20,000 95,000
André Lacroix
1
    70,000 15,000 21,000 106,000 61,500 13,500 10,000 85,000
Judith Sprieser    70,000 15,000 30,000 115,000 61,500 13,500 20,000 95,000
Warren Tucker    70,000 15,000 15,000 100,000 61,500 13,500 10,000 85,000
Graham Mackay
2
    35,000 15,000 13,500 63,500 61,500 13,500 17,000 92,000
Nicandro Durante
3
    7,083 – – 7,083 – – – –
1
 André Lacroix was appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect from 12 June 2013.
2
 The fees paid to Graham Mackay for 2013 relate to the period 1 January 2013 to 12 June 2013 when he stepped down from the Board of Directors.
3
 Nicandro Durante was appointed a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2013.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2013 (AUDITED)
LTIP
In December 2013, Executive Directors were granted the following awards under the LTIP , based on a fixed number of shares and share options: 
   Shares Market
   over which price
   awards at date Exercise Face Performance Exercise/
  Date of grant granted of award
1
 price
2
 value
3
 period  vesting period
Performance shares
Rakesh Kapoor   240,000   £11,205,600 1 Jan 14 – 
  11 December 2013  £46.69 n/a  31 Dec 16 May 17
Adrian Hennah   45,000   £2,101,050  
Share options
Rakesh Kapoor   400,000   £18,676,000 
  11 December 2013  £46.69 £47.83  1 Jan 14 – May 17 –
       31 Dec 16 Dec 23
Adrian Hennah   90,000   £4,202,100  
1
 The market price on the date of award is the closing share price on the date of grant.
2
 The exercise price is based on the average closing share price over the five business days prior to the date of grant.
3
 Based on the market price at the date of award.
Consistent with awards made since December 2008, vesting of the LTIP awards is dependent on the achievement of targets relating to compound 
average annual growth (CAAG) in EPS over a three-year period. EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis, as shown in the Group’s financial 
statements, as this provides an independently verifiable measure of performance. However the Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to 
make adjustments to the measure if this is considered to be appropriate. Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There is no retesting. Awards granted in December 2013 will vest on the following, revised schedule:
EPS CAAG     <6% 6% Between 6% and 10% >10%
Proportion of awards vesting (%)    Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100%
In addition to the above awards and as disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report, following his appointment as CFO in February 2013, 
Adrian Hennah was granted the following awards under the LTIP , based on a fixed number of shares and share options in the form of performance 
shares and share options: 
   Shares over
   which awards Market price at Exercise Face Performance Exercise/
  Date of grant granted date of award
1
 price
2
 value
3
 period  vesting period
Performance shares
Adrian Hennah 13 February 2013 45,000 £44.19 n/a £1,988,550 1 Jan 13 –
       31 Dec 15 May 16
Share options
Adrian Hennah 13 February 2013 90,000 £44.19 £42.61 £3,977,100 1 Jan 13 – May 16 –
         31 Dec 15 Feb 23
1
 The market price on the date of award is the closing share price on the date of grant.
2
 The exercise price is based on the average closing share price over the five business days prior to the date of grant.
3
 Based on the market price at the date of award. 44 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Vesting of Adrian Hennah’s LTIP awards is dependent on the achievement of targets relating to compound average annual growth (CAAG) in EPS over  
a three-year period, as summarised in the table below. There is no retesting.
EPS CAAG       <6% 6% 7% 8% >9%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 40% 60% 80% 100%
Additionally, to reflect forfeited long-term incentive awards in relation to his previous employment, in December 2013 Adrian Hennah received, and in 
December 2014 will receive (subject to continued employment at each relevant award date), a cash lump sum equal in value to 25,000 RB shares, based 
on the option price for the annual LTI grant made in each relevant December. 
In relation to this arrangement Adrian Hennah was awarded a cash sum of £1,195,750 equating to 25,000 RB shares at the option price for the annual 
LTI grant made on 11 December 2013. Following deductions for tax, Adrian Hennah used the net proceeds to purchase 13,629 RB shares which will be 
retained under his share ownership obligation.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION
The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration 
for all UK employees who form part of the senior management team (Top400). This group has been chosen as it represents the most appropriate 
comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Group Chief Executive.
The analysis excludes part-time employees and is based on a consistent set of employees, i.e. the same individuals appear in the 2012 and  
2013 populations. 
        CEO Other employees
        % change 2012-2013 % change 2012-2013
Base salary         4%  3%
Taxable benefits         24%  0%
Annual bonus         96%  51%
The difference in the percentage change of the annual bonus for the CEO and other employees is primarily a result of the fact that different targets are 
set for different areas of the business which are subject to different challenges.
The percentage change in taxable benefits for other employees excludes international transfer benefits as this is volatile from year to year based on each 
individuals circumstance.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The table below shows Shareholder distributions (i.e. dividends and share buy backs) and total employee pay expenditure for FY 2012 and FY 2013, 
along with the percentage change in both.
       2013  2012  % change
       £m  £m   2012-2013
Shareholder distributions (dividends and share buy backs)     1,271  1,451  -12.4%
Total employee expenditure       1,329  1,220  8.9%
EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR (AUDITED)
As outlined in last year’s Remuneration Report, Liz Doherty received a lump-sum termination payment which reflected historical contractual terms and 
company policy in April 2013 totalling £705,392. As disclosed last year, the Committee has updated the termination provisions for the CEO and the 
new CFO so that they are aligned with best practice and limited to 12 months base salary.
The payment to Liz Doherty consisted of a severance payment of £203,490 and a contractual payment in respect of one-half of annual base salary 
(£214,200) and a payment in respect of one-half of the average APP payout for the previous two years (£287,702). 
Unvested share and option awards held by Liz Doherty at the time of her ceasing to be employed by RB will vest in May 2014 based on performance to 
31 December 2013, in accordance with the LTIP rules. The awards were also reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period not 
completed at the point of cessation of employment. The value of these LTIP awards is £138,249.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS (AUDITED)
No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE
The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 100 Index over the five-year period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013.  
The index was selected on the basis of companies of a comparable size in the absence of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK. The table below 
details the Chief Executive’s single figure of remuneration over the same period. 
Historical TSR Performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical holding over the five years to 31 December 2013.
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
DEC 12 DEC 11 DEC 10 DEC 09 DEC 08 DEC 07
£  Value of £100 invested at 31 December 2008
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
DEC 13 DEC 12 DEC 11 DEC 10 DEC 09 DEC 08
£
US Peer group comparison
FTSE 100 comparison
Reckitt Benckiser      
FTSE 100
Historical TSR performance
Growth in the value of a hypothetical holding over the 5 years 
to 31 December 2013 RB Annual Report 2013 45
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 CEO single figure of remuneration (£000)      2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Rakesh Kapoor         £4,497 £8,411 £6,692
Bart Becht       £28,881 £17,150 £18,076  
STI award against maximum opportunity      100% 76% 31% 53% 100%
LTI award against maximum opportunity      100% 100% 100% 100% 40%
IMPLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2014
Base Salary
Base salaries are reviewed taking into account competitive practice for similar roles in the Company’s remuneration peer group, comprising 19 international 
companies and individual performance. Following its review of salary levels in late 2013, the Committee approved the following base salary increases 
with effect from 1 January 2014:
     Base salary at Base salary from Percentage
Executive Director     1 January 2013 1 January 2014 increase
Rakesh Kapoor     £832,000 £865,000 4%
Adrian Hennah     £550,000 £561,000 2%
The base salary increases for Executive Directors takes into account performance and follows the same base salary merit increase guidelines as other  
UK employees. The average salary increase was c.3%, effective 1 January 2014.
Pension
The CEO and CFO continue to receive pension contributions (or equivalent cash allowances) of 30% and 25% of salary, respectively.
Performance Related Annual Bonus
For 2014, there will be no changes to the annual bonus opportunities for Executive Directors. Bonuses will continue to be based on RB’s absolute net 
revenue growth (in Sterling at a constant exchange rate) and absolute net income growth (in Sterling at constant exchange rate), with the outcome 
under each of the measures combined multiplicatively to give a bonus outcome of 3.57x the target bonus opportunity if both Stretch targets are met.
Following the announcement of the strategic review of RB Pharmaceuticals, for 2014, 90% of the bonus opportunity will be based on the performance 
of the base business (excluding RB Pharmaceuticals) and 10% of the bonus opportunity based on the performance of RB Pharmaceuticals.
We have not disclosed the performance targets for 2014 as we consider them to be commercially sensitive. However, we commit to disclosing the 
targets retrospectively in the directors remuneration report for the year ending December 2015.
LTIP
LTIP awards for FY 2014 were granted in December 2013. Details of these awards are summarised on page 43. Awards to be made in December 2014 
will be disclosed in the Annual Report of Remuneration in next year’s Remuneration Report. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2014
Chairman and Non-Executive Director Fees
With effect from 1 January 2013, the fee payable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors is £375,000 per annum and the basic fee payable to  
each Non-Executive is £85,000 per annum, of which £67,000 and £15,000 is paid in the form of RB shares respectively. The additional fee payable for 
chairing either of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is £30,000 per annum, and for acting as the Senior Independent Director is £12,000 per 
annum. The Deputy Chairman receives an additional fee of £15,000 of which £3,000 is delivered in RB shares.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fee levels will next be reviewed in 2014, with any changes effective from 1 January 2015.
Executive Directors’ Shareholding Requirements (audited)
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2013:
      Shares held Options held
       
       Owned Performance Vested Performance
       outright or tested but but not tested but Shareholding
       vested unvested exercised unvested guideline 
       (A) (B) (C) (D) # shares
Rakesh Kapoor       317,537 700,000 360,000 1,380,000 600,000
Adrian Hennah       13,629 90,000 – 180,000 200,000
Rakesh Kapoor has exceeded his prorated target based on tenure to date and Adrian Hennah has made good progress towards his target during his 
first year as an Executive Director to the satisfaction of the Committee. Due to the levels of shareholdings of the current executive directors, LTIP awards 
that vest over the next three to five years will be required to be held until the director reaches their share ownership guideline. Indeed, we require 
directors to build up their share ownership guideline over eight years in equal instalments. This results in Directors having to buy shares from their own 
resources. The Committee also intends to consider during the year the extent to which Executives may be required to hold shares following their 
departure from the Board. Details of the scheme interests contained in columns B-D are provided in the table overleaf. 46 RB Annual Report 2013
Governance & Remuneration   Directors’ Remuneration Report 
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND OPTIONS UNDER THE LTIP (AUDITED)
        Market Market
     Exercised/ At  price at price at
    Granted vested 31.12.13  date of date of
   At during during or date of Option award exercise/ Exercise/
LTIP Notes Grant date 1.1.13 the year the year cessation price £ £ vesting £ vesting period
Liz Doherty* 
Options 1 5.12.11 90,000 – – 90,000 32.09   May 14
Performance-based  
restricted shares 1 9.2.11 10,000 – – 10,000  32.70  May 14
 1 5.12.11 45,000 – – 45,000  32.19  May 14
Adrian Hennah 
Options 1 13.2.13 – 90,000 – 90,000 42.61   May 16–Feb 23
  11.12.13 – 90,000  90,000 47.83   May 17–Dec 23
Performance-based  
restricted shares 1 13.2.13 – 45,000 – 45,000  44.19  May 16
 1 11.12.13 – 45,000 – 45,000  46.69  May 17
Rakesh Kapoor  
Options 1 11.12.07 120,000  120,000 – 29.44  45.90 May 11–Dec 17
 2 8.12.08 180,000   180,000 27.29   May 12–Dec 18
 2 7.12.09 180,000   180,000 31.65   May 13–Dec 19
 1 1.12.10 180,000   180,000 34.64   May 14–Dec 20
 1 5.12.11 400,000   400,000 32.09   May 15–Dec 21
 1 3.12.12 400,000   400,000 39.14   May 16–Dec 22
 3 11.12.13  400,000  400,000 47.83   May 17–Dec 23
Performance-based  
restricted shares 1 7.12.09 60,000  60,000   31.80 46.77 May 13
 1 1.12.10 60,000   60,000  34.08  May 14
 1 5.12.11 200,000   200,000  32.19  May 15
 1 3.12.12 200,000   200,000  39.66  May 16
 3 11.12.13  240,000  240,000  46.69  May 17
      
    Granted Exercised Lapsed  Option Market
   At during during during At price price at  Exercise
Sharesave Scheme  Grant date 1.1.13 the year the year the year 31.12.13  (£) exercise (£) period
Rakesh Kapoor   8.9.08 796    796 21.92  Feb 16–July 16
Adrian Hennah  4.9.13  403   403 37.20  Feb 19–July 19
Notes
1 Vesting of LTIP is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over a three-year period:
EPS CAAG for awards granted in December 07-12 <6% 6% 7% 8% >9%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 40% 60% 80% 100%
2 Options which are vested but unexercised.
3 Vesting of LTIP is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth (CAAG) in adjusted EPS over a three-year period:
EPS CAAG for awards granted in December 13 <6% 6% 7% 8% 9% >10%
Proportion of awards vesting (%) Nil 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
*  Details of Liz Doherty outstanding share LTIP share awards and option grants including vesting % and prorated awards based on cessation of 
employment are included on page 42 (former CFO’s LTIP awards). RB Annual Report 2013 47
Financial Statements   Independent Auditors’ Report 
Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc
reporting units, comprising the Group’s 
operating businesses in these regions and 
centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the 
Group audit, we determined the type of work 
that needed to be performed at reporting units 
by us, as the Group engagement team, or 
component auditors within PwC UK and from 
other PwC network firms operating under our 
instruction. Where work was performed by 
component auditors, we determined the level 
of involvement we needed to have in the audit 
work at those reporting units to be able to 
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence had been obtained as a basis for our 
opinion on the Group financial statements as  
a whole. 
Accordingly, we identified 58 reporting units 
out of the Group’s 699 reporting units which, 
in our view, required an audit of their complete 
financial information, either due to their size  
or their risk characteristics. These 58 reporting 
units accounted for 74% of the Group’s profit 
before tax and 75% of the Group’s revenue. 
Our audit work at these reporting units, 
together with additional procedures performed 
at the Group level, gave us the evidence we 
needed for our opinions on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
Areas of Particular Audit Focus 
In preparing the financial statements,  
the Directors made a number of subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and that consider future 
events that are inherently uncertain. We 
primarily focused our work in these areas  
by assessing the Directors’ judgements  
against available evidence, forming our own 
independent judgements, and evaluating the 
disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined 
information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for  
us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness  
of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be  
those that required particular focus in the 
current year. This is not a complete list of all 
risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. 
We discussed these areas of focus with the 
Audit Committee. Their report on those matters  
that they considered to be significant issues in 
relation to the financial statements is set out  
on page 31. 
What an Audit of Financial Statements 
Involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). An audit  
involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements 
sufficient to give reasonable assurance that  
the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of:
•	 	 Whether	the	accounting	policies	ar e	
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;
•	 	 The	r easonableness	of	significant	accounting	
estimates made by the Directors; and 
•	 	 The	overall	pr esentation	of	the	financial	
statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited Group financial statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by 
us in the course of performing the audit. If  
we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 
the implications for our report.
Overview of our Audit Approach
Materiality 
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These 
helped us to determine the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate 
the effect of misstatements both individually 
and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we 
determined materiality for the Group financial 
statements as a whole to be £128m. This is 
calculated as being 5% of profit before tax 
adjusted for exceptional items. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that  
we would report to them misstatements 
identified during our audit above £6m as  
well as misstatements below that amount  
that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Overview of the Scope of our Audit 
The Group is primarily structured along  
three geographic regions being LAPAC (Latin 
America, North Asia, South East Asia, Australia 
and New Zealand), RUMEA (Russia and the  
CIS, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and 
sub-Saharan Africa), ENA (Europe and North 
America) with separate segments for the Food 
and RB Pharmaceuticals businesses. The Group 
financial statements are a consolidation of 
Report on the Group Financial 
Statements
Our Opinion
In our opinion the Group financial statements 
defined below:
•	 	 Give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	of	the	
Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and 
of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the 
year then ended;
•	 	 Have	been	pr operly	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union; and
•	 	 Have	been	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	with	the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of 
what we say in the remainder of this report.
Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs as 
Issued by the IASB  
As explained in note 1 to the financial 
statements, the Group, in addition to applying 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has 
also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
In our opinion the Group financial statements 
comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have Audited
The Group financial statements, which are 
prepared by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, 
comprise:
•	 	 The	Gr oup	balance	sheet	as	at	31	December	
2013;
•	 	 The	Gr oup	income	statement	and	statement	
of comprehensive income for the year  
then ended;
•	 	 The	Gr oup	statement	of	changes	in	equity	
and cash flow statement for the year then 
ended; and
•	 	 The	notes	to	the	Gr oup	financial	 
statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation comprises 
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements (the ‘Annual Report’), rather than in 
the notes to the financial statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the financial statements 
and are identified as audited. 48 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Independent Auditors’ Report 
Area of focus How	the	scope	of	our	audit	addr essed	the	ar ea	of	focus
Trade Spend Accruals
The business enters into a number of sales agreements with 
customers that have a wide range of terms (promotions, rebates  
& discounts). Estimates of the trade obligations in connection  
with these agreements (trade spend accruals) are material to the 
balance sheet. 
We focused on this area because of the high level of judgement 
required in accounting for trade spend due to varying contractual 
terms and the fact that elements of the calculation are subjective 
and may not be finalised until after the year end. Accordingly the 
focus of our work includes the completeness and valuation of  
the estimates. 
We agreed trade spend terms to underlying customer contracts and assessed 
whether estimates of trade spend were consistent with the terms set out in 
the contracts. We evaluated movements in trade spend estimates based on 
the accuracy of historic estimates, as well as against expectations derived from 
underlying contracts, to ascertain whether current year accruals were in line 
with the obligations. We also compared historical accuracy of prior year trade 
spend accruals to the actual liabilities incurred. In addition we tested a 
number of controls relating to trade spend accruals, covering items such as 
the segregation of duties over the creation and approval of the accruals and 
both the review and resolution of variations between expected and actual 
trade spend deductions awarded.
Provision for Uncertain Tax Exposures 
The Group has material tax exposures relating to potential or existing 
challenges by tax authorities in a number of territories around the 
world. These arise for a number of reasons including transactions 
undertaken where the applicable tax treatment is uncertain or 
judgemental or due to transfer pricing arrangements arising from 
centralised functions. 
We focused on this area because of the level of judgement required 
to be applied by management in quantifying appropriate provisions 
against these exposures. Changes in assumptions could materially 
impact the amounts recorded in the financial statements.  
 
We obtained a detailed understanding of the Group’s tax strategy and 
assessed key technical tax issues and risks related to business and legislative 
developments. We obtained explanations and evidence from management 
regarding the tax treatments applied to material transactions and an 
understanding of the transfer pricing policy within the Group. We challenged 
the key assumptions, particularly in relation to significant transactions 
undertaken in the period and where there have been significant 
developments in communications with local tax authorities, as well as 
undertaking a critical assessment of evidence that supports any provisions.
Acquisition of BMS Collaboration Agreement
We focused on this area because it was a complex transaction which 
required the Directors to exercise a significant level of judgement, 
particularly around the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired 
and the timing of their recognition. 
(Refer also to note 26 to the financial statements.)
We evaluated the Directors’ assessment of this transaction as a business 
combination and discussed the rationale for the accounting principles applied 
around the timing of recognition of certain assets and liabilities. We obtained 
management’s valuations of the acquired assets and liabilities and evaluated 
these by comparing management’s cash flow forecasts to Board approved 
plans. In addition we challenged the assumptions supporting the acquisition 
synergies and tax benefits by comparing these to supporting third party 
market data, as well as comparing forecasts to historic performance. 
We performed sensitivity analysis over key drivers within the cash flow 
forecasts, including revenue, operating profit and estimated synergies, as  
well as the key assumptions around discount and growth rates. We then 
considered the likelihood of such movement in these key assumptions arising 
in assessing the appropriateness of the overall valuations. 
Risk of Fraud in Revenue Recognition 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require us to consider the risk of fraud in  
revenue recognition. 
As a consumer goods group a large number of sales agreements are 
entered into with customers with a wide range of terms covering 
promotions, rebates and discounts which increases complexity. In 
addition, current economic conditions in certain territories can place 
increased pressure on management to meet performance targets. 
Accordingly there is a risk that revenue could be misstated. 
We focused our procedures on the occurrence of transactions and whether 
they were recorded in the period in which the Group became entitled to 
record revenue. We performed a combination of testing internal controls 
around revenue recognition and substantive testing of revenue recorded 
during the year using data analysis and sampling techniques. We tested sales 
transactions and credit notes raised around the year end and also reviewed 
significant customer contracts, in order to assess whether the conditions for 
revenue had been met. We also tested manual journals posted to record 
revenue to determine whether those postings were consistent with the 
Group’s revenue recognition policy.
Risk of Management Override of Internal Controls 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this. 
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the 
‘whistle-blowing’ arrangements. We interviewed senior management and the 
Group’s internal audit function and specifically asked for their views on fraud 
and instances of fraud noted during the year. We examined the significant 
accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements  
for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk of material 
misstatement due to fraud. We also tested manual journal entries and 
incorporated an element of unpredictability in the timing of our work  
and samples in our testing plans. RB Annual Report 2013 49
Responsibilities for the Financial 
Statements and the Audit
Our Responsibilities and those of  
the Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 33, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and ISAs  
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us  
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with  
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not,  
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown or 
into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the  
Parent Company Financial Statements of  
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year ended  
31 December 2013 and on the information  
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is 
described as having been audited.
Mark Gill (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London  
7 March 2014
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’).  
We have nothing to report having performed 
our review.
On page 33 of the Annual Report, as required 
by the Code Provision C.1.1, the Directors state 
that they consider the Annual Report taken as a 
whole to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for 
members to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy. On page 31,  
as required by C.3.8 of the Code, the Audit 
Committee has set out the significant issues 
that it considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how they were addressed. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required  
to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 	 The	statement	given	by	the	Dir ectors	is	
materially inconsistent with our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•	 	 The	section	of	the	Annual	Report	describing	
the work of the Audit Committee does not 
appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Other Information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required  
to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the Annual Report is:
•	 	 Materially	inconsistent	with	the	information	
in the audited Group financial statements; or
•	 	 Appar ently	materially	incorr ect	based	on,	or	
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•	 Is	otherwise	misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Going Concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the directors’ statement, set out on 
page 33, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement the 
Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to prepare the Group’s financial statements 
using the going concern basis of accounting. 
The going concern basis presumes that the 
Group has adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend it to  
do so, for at least one year from the date the 
financial statements were signed. As part of  
our audit we have concluded that the Directors’ 
use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However ,	because	not	all	futur e	events	or	
conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Opinion on Matters Prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the 
Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors 
for the financial year for which the Group 
financial statements are prepared is consistent 
with the Group financial statements.
Other Matters on which we are 
Required to Report by Exception
Adequacy of Information and  
Explanations Received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion  
we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit. We  
have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility.
Directors’ Remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made, and 
under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review certain elements of the report to 
Shareholders by the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration. We have no exceptions to  
report arising from these responsibilities.
Financial Statements   Independent Auditors’ Report  50 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Group Income Statement & Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
For the year ended 31 December      Notes  £m  £m
Net revenue       2  10,043  9,567
Cost of sales        3  (4,074)  (4,029)
Gross profit         5,969  5,538
Net operating expenses       3  (3,624)  (3,096)
Operating profit       2  2,345  2,442
Adjusted operating profit         2,616  2,577
Exceptional items       3  (271)  (135)
Operating profit         2,345  2,442
Finance income       6  25  26
Finance expense       6  (56)   (60)
Net finance expense         (31)   (34)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation       2,314  2,408
Tax on profit on ordinary activities       7  (574)  (583)
Net income         1,740  1,825
Attributable to non-controlling interests        1  4 
Attributable to owners of the parent        1,739  1,821
Net income         1,740  1,825
Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per share       8  242.1p  251.4p
Diluted earnings per share       8  238.5p  248.4p
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
For the year ended 31 December      Notes  £m  £m
Net income         1,740  1,825
Other comprehensive (expense) / income 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
Net exchange adjustments on foreign currency translation, net of tax    7  (369)  (255)
Gains on net investment hedges       7  6  –
Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax      7  13  3
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserves on disposal of subsidiary, net of tax  7  –  9
         (350)  (243)
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent years
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans, net of tax    7  41  (41)
         41  (41)
Other comprehensive expense, net of tax        (309)  (284)
Total comprehensive income         1,431  1,541
Attributable to non-controlling interests        1   (1)
Attributable to owners of the parent        1,430  1,542
         1,431  1,541
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
Group Income Statement
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income RB Annual Report 2013 51
Financial Statements   Group Balance Sheet
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
As at 31 December       Notes  £m  £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets      9  11,141  11,162
Property, plant and equipment       10  761  736
Deferred tax assets       11  47  49
Available for sale financial assets       14  –  2
Retirement benefit surplus       21  50  27
Other receivables       13  249  33
         12,248  12,009
Current assets
Inventories       12  746  735
Trade and other receivables       13  1,306  1,407
Derivative financial instruments       14  22  4
Current tax receivables         17  20
Available for sale financial assets       14  2  4
Cash and cash equivalents       15  808  887
         2,901  3,057
Total assets         15,149  15,066
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Borrowings       16  (2,169)  (3,271)
Provisions for liabilities and charges       17  (215)  (104)
Trade and other payables       20  (2,915)  (2,842)
Derivative financial instruments       14  (159)  (43)
Current tax liabilities         (203)    (203)
         (5,661)   (6,463)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings       16  (598)  (3)
Deferred tax liabilities       11  (1,702)  (1,824)
Retirement benefit obligations       21  (301)  (426)
Provisions for liabilities and charges       17  (156)  (100)
Non-current tax liabilities         (329)   (311)
Other non-current liabilities         (66)   (17)
          (3,152)  (2,681)
Total liabilities         (8,813)   (9,144) 
Net assets         6,336  5,922
EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Share capital       22  74  73
Share premium          243  184
Merger reserve       24  (14,229)  (14,229)
Hedging	r eserve	 	 	 	 	 	 	 24	 	 15  2
Foreign currency translation reserve       24  (494)  (131)
Retained earnings         20,725  20,022
         6,334  5,921
Non-controlling interests         2  1
Total equity         6,336  5,922
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
The financial statements on pages 50 to 84 were approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 7 March 2014 by:
Adrian Bellamy Rakesh Kapoor
Director Director
Group Balance Sheet 52 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Group Statement of Changes in Equity
       Foreign  Total
       currency  attributable Non-
	 	 	 Shar e	 Shar e		 Merger	 Hedging	 translation	 Retained	 	to	owners	of	 contr olling	 T otal
   capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings the parent interests equity
Restated
1
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2012   73 86 (14,229) (1) 110 19,672 5,711 70 5,781
Comprehensive income
Net income        1,821 1,821 4 1,825
Other comprehensive (expense) / income 
Remeasurements of defined
benefit plans, net of tax  7      (41) (41)  (41)
Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7    3   3  3
Net exchange losses on foreign 
currency translation, net of tax  7     (250)  (250) (5) (255)
Reclassification of foreign currency 
translation reserves on disposal
of subsidiary, net of tax  7     9  9  9
Total other comprehensive income / (expense)  – – – 3 (241) (41) (279) (5) (284)
Total comprehensive income / (expense)  – – – 3 (241) 1,780 1,542 (1) 1,541
Transactions with owners
Proceeds from share issue    98     98  98
Share-based payments  23      49 49  49
Current tax on share awards        23 23  23
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 22      (535) (535)  (535)
Dividends   27      (916) (916) (4) (920)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest       (51) (51) (55) (106)
Reclassification of non-controlling
interest on disposal          (9) (9)
Total transactions with owners   – 98 – – – (1,430) (1,332) (68) (1,400)
Balance at 31 December 2012   73 184 (14,229) 2 (131) 20,022 5,921 1 5,922
Comprehensive income
Net income        1,739 1,739 1 1,740
Other comprehensive income / (expense)
Remeasurements of defined benefit
plans, net of tax  7      41 41  41
Gains on cash flow hedges, net of tax 7    13   13  13
Net exchange losses on foreign 
currency translation, net of tax  7     (369)  (369)  (369)
Gains on net investment hedges       6  6  6
Total other comprehensive income / (expense)  – – – 13 (363) 41 (309) – (309)
Total comprehensive income / (expense)  – – – 13 (363) 1,780 1,430 1 1,431
Transactions with owners
Proceeds from share issue  22 1 59     60  60
Share-based payments  23      55 55  55
Current tax on share awards        16 16  16
Deferred tax on share awards        44 44  44
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury 22      (279) (279)  (279)
Treasury shares re-issued        79 79  79
Dividends  27      (992) (992)  (992)
Total transactions with owners    1 59 – – – (1,077) (1,017) – (1,017)
Balance at 31 December 2013   74 243 (14,229) 15 (494) 20,725 6,334 2 6,336
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
Group Statement of Changes in Equity RB Annual Report 2013 53
Financial Statements   Group Cash Flow Statement
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
For the year ended 31 December      Notes  £m  £m
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating profit         2,345  2,442
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment        171  148
Fair value losses/(gains)          1   (7)
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets      –  (13)
Gain on sale of businesses       26  –  (32)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories         (61)  19
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables       32  (16)
Decrease in payables and provisions         (18)  (167)
Non-cash exceptional items         231  -
Share-based payments         55  49
Cash generated from operations         2,756  2,423
Interest paid         (49)  (34)
Interest received         25  27
Tax paid         (611)  (528)
Net cash generated from operating activities       2,121  1,888
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment        (200)   (166)
Purchase of intangible assets          (25)   (11)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment        9  13
Disposal of intangible assets          –  9
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired      26  (418)  (877)
Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed        –  81
Maturity/(purchase) of short-term investments        2  7
Maturity of long-term investments         2  14
Net cash outflow on deconsolidation of a subsidiary       –  (6)
Net cash used in investing activities        (630)   (936)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares      22  60  98
Shares purchased and held in Treasury      22  (279)  (535)
Treasury shares re-issued         79  –
Proceeds from borrowings         637  887
Repayments of borrowings         (1,002)   (112)
Dividends paid to owners of the parent      27  (992)  (916)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest        –  (4)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest      25  (28)  (106)
Net cash used in financing activities        (1,525)   (688)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents       (34)  264
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year       882  634
Exchange losses         (43)  (16)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year       805  882
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents       15  808  887
Overdrafts       16  (3)  (5)
         805  882
 
R ECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATIONS
Net cash generated from operating activities        2,121  1,888
Net purchases of property, plant and equipment       (191)   (153)
Net cash flow from operations         1,930  1,735
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details. 
Group Cash Flow Statement 54 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
1.1p for the year ended 31 December 2012  
as a result of the adoption of IAS19 (revised). 
The cash flow statement was restated as a 
result of the change in operating profit, with an 
offsetting decrease in payables and provisions.
A number of new standards, amendments and 
interpretations are effective for annual periods 
beginning after 1 January 2014 and have not 
yet been applied in preparing these financial 
statements. None of these are expected to have 
a significant effect on the financial statements 
of the Group.
Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include 
the results of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc,  
a company registered in the UK, and all its 
subsidiary undertakings made up to the same 
accounting date. Subsidiary undertakings are 
those entities controlled by Reckitt Benckiser 
Group plc. Control exists where the Group is 
exposed to, or has the rights to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee and has 
the ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns. 
In the case of acquisitions and disposals of 
businesses, the results of trading are consolidated 
from or to the date upon which control passes.
Inter-company transactions, balances and 
unrealised gains on transactions between 
Group companies have been eliminated on 
consolidation. Unrealised losses have also been 
eliminated to the extent that they do not 
represent an impairment of a transferred asset. 
Subsidiaries’ accounting policies have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the Group. 
Operating Segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided 
to the chief operating decision-maker. The  
chief operating decision-maker (CODM), who is 
responsible for allocating resources and assessing 
performance of the operating segments, has 
been identified as the Executive Committee. 
Specific items of income and expense reported 
to the Executive Committee outside of the 
individual segment financial information, are 
shown in the Corporate segment.
Foreign Currency Translation
Items included in the financial statements  
of each of the Group’s entities are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates (the 
functional currency). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in Sterling, which  
is the Group’s presentation currency.
in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements 
and unconsolidated structured entities. These 
three standards are not mandatory under IFRS 
as adopted by the EU for the Group until  
1 January 2014; however the Group has 
decided to early adopt the standards as of  
1 January 2013. The impact on the Group of 
applying these standards is not significant.
IFRS 13 explains how to measure fair value and 
enhances fair value disclosures. The standard 
does not significantly change the measurement 
of fair value but codifies it in one place. The 
impact on the Group is not significant.
The amendments under IAS 36 Impairment of 
Assets in respect of the disclosure requirements 
have been early adopted.
IAS 19 (Revised) replaces the interest cost on 
pension scheme liabilities and expected return 
on pension scheme assets with a net interest 
amount that is calculated by applying the 
discount rate used to measure the defined 
benefit obligation at the beginning of the 
period to the net defined benefit liability/asset.
In addition, the Group now treats the net 
pension scheme interest amount as finance 
income/expense. Previously the interest cost on 
pension scheme liabilities and expected return 
on pension scheme assets were classified in 
either cost of sales or net operating expenses. 
The Directors believe that this change provides 
more relevant information about the 
performance of the Group and aligns the 
Group’s accounting policies with common 
industry practice. 
These restatements had no impact on the 
balance sheet and the following impact on  
the income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income.
 Year ended
 31 December 2012 
 £m
Group income statement
Decrease in cost of sales 1
Decrease in net operating expenses 6
Increase in operating profit 7
Increase in finance expense (19)
Decrease in tax on profit on  
ordinary activities 4
Decrease in net income (8)
Group statement of comprehensive income
Decrease in actuarial losses, net of tax 8
Increase in other comprehensive income 8
Net impact on total  
comprehensive income –
 
Basic, diluted, adjusted basic and adjusted 
diluted earnings per share decreased by  
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The principal accounting policies adopted in the 
preparation of these financial statements are 
set out below. Unless otherwise stated, these 
policies have been consistently applied to all  
the years presented.
Basis of Preparation and Changes in 
Accounting Policy
These financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with EU endorsed International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) and  
with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
The financial statements are also in compliance 
with IFRS as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board. These financial 
statements have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention, as modified by  
the revaluation of certain financial assets and 
liabilities (including derivative instruments) at 
fair value through profit or loss. A summary  
of the Group’s more important accounting 
policies is set out below.
The Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis for accounting in preparing  
these financial statements. The Directors have  
a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. 
The preparation of financial statements that 
conform to IFRS requires management to make 
estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the 
balance sheet date and revenue and expenses 
during the reporting period. Although these 
estimates are based on management’s best 
knowledge at the time, actual amounts may 
ultimately differ from those estimates.
The Group applies, for the first time, amendments 
to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other 
Comprehensive Income, IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and IAS 19 
(Revised) Employee Benefits.
Amendments to IAS 1 require items of other 
comprehensive income that may be reclassified 
to profit or loss to be presented separately  
from items that will never be reclassified. The 
statement of comprehensive income has been 
revised accordingly.
IFRS 10 replaces previous guidance on control 
and consolidation, IFRS 11 requires joint 
arrangements to be accounted for as a joint 
operation or as a joint venture depending on 
the rights and obligations of each party to the 
arrangement, and IFRS 12 requires enhanced 
disclosures of the nature, risks and financial 
effects associated with the Group’s interests  
Notes to the Financial Statements RB Annual Report 2013 55
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
to the cash generating unit, or group of cash 
generating units, to which they relate and are 
tested annually for impairment.
The Directors also review the useful economic 
life of brands annually, to ensure that these 
lives are still appropriate. If a brand is 
considered to have a finite life, its carrying 
value is amortised over that period.
Payments made in respect of product 
registration, acquired and re-acquired 
distribution rights are capitalised where the 
rights comply with the above requirements  
for recognition of acquired brands. If the 
registration or distribution rights are for a 
defined time period, the intangible asset is 
amortised over that period. If no time period  
is defined, the intangible asset is treated in  
the same way as acquired brands.
Acquired computer software licences are 
capitalised at cost. These costs are amortised on 
a straight line basis over a period of seven years 
for Enterprise Resource Planning systems and 
five years or less for all other software licences.
Research and Development
Research expenditure is written off in the year 
in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the 
year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the 
requirements of IAS 38 to be capitalised and 
then amortised over the useful life of the 
developed product. 
Exceptional Items
Where material, non-recurring expenses or 
income are incurred during a period, these 
items are disclosed as exceptional items in the 
income statement. Examples of such items are:
•	 	 Restructuring	and	other	expenses	r elating	to	
the integration of an acquired business and 
related expenses for reconfiguration of the 
Group’s activities.
•	 	 Impairments 	 of 	 curr ent 	 and 	 non-curr ent 	 assets.
•	 Gains/losses	on	disposal	of	businesses.
•	 Acquisition	r elated	costs.
•	 	 Costs	arising	as	a	r esult	of	material	 
and non-recurring regulatory and  
litigation matters.
The Group also presents an alternative adjusted 
earnings per share calculation to exclude the 
impact of the exceptional items.
Management believes that the use of adjusted 
measures such as adjusted operating profit, 
adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per 
share provide additional useful information on 
underlying trends to Shareholders.
Impairment of Assets
Assets that have indefinite lives are tested 
annually for impairment. All assets are  
tested for impairment if there is an event or 
circumstance that indicates that their carrying 
value may not be recoverable. If an asset’s 
carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount 
an impairment loss is recognised in the income 
statement. The recoverable amount is the 
higher of the asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and its value in use. 
Where the measurement of the fair value of 
identifiable net assets acquired is incomplete  
at the end of the reporting period in which  
the combination occurs, the Group will report 
provisional fair values. Final fair values are 
determined within a year of the acquisition 
date and retrospectively applied.
The excess of the consideration transferred and 
the amount of any non-controlling interest over 
the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities 
and contingent liabilities acquired (including 
intangibles) is recorded as goodwill.
The consideration transferred is measured  
as the fair value of the assets given, equity 
instruments issued (if any), and liabilities 
assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition. 
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. 
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are 
included in the Group financial statements  
from the acquisition date.
For acquisitions before 1 January 2010 goodwill 
represents the excess of the cost of acquisition 
over the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities with acquisition 
related costs capitalised as part of the cost  
of acquisition. 
Non-controlling Interests
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis the 
non-controlling interest is measured at either 
fair value or a proportionate share of the 
acquiree’s net assets. 
Purchases from non-controlling interests are 
accounted for as transactions with the owners 
and therefore no goodwill is recognised as  
a result of such transactions. 
Goodwill and Intangible Fixed Assets
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries since  
4 January 1998 is included in intangible assets. 
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to this date 
has not been reinstated. Goodwill is allocated  
to the cash generating unit, or group of cash 
generating units, to which it relates and is tested 
annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried  
at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Separately acquired brands are shown at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and impairment. 
Brands acquired as part of a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition 
date, where they are separately identifiable. 
Brands are amortised over their useful 
economic life, except when their life is 
determined as being indefinite.
Applying indefinite lives to certain acquired 
brands is appropriate due to the stable 
long-term nature of the business and the 
enduring nature of the brands. A core element 
of the Group’s strategy is to invest in building 
its brands through an ongoing programme of 
product innovation and sustained and rising 
marketing investment. Within the Group, a 
brand typically comprises an assortment of base 
products and more innovative products. Both 
contribute to the enduring nature of the brand. 
The base products establish the long-term 
positioning of the brand while a succession of 
innovations attracts ongoing consumer interest 
and attention. Indefinite life brands are allocated 
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into 
the functional currency using exchange rates 
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of foreign currency 
transactions and from the translation at year 
end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement, except 
where hedge accounting is applied.
The financial statements of overseas subsidiary 
undertakings are translated into Sterling on the 
following basis:
•	 	 Assets	and	liabilities	at	the	rate	of	exchange	
ruling at the year end date.
•	 	 Pr ofit	and	loss	account	items	at	the	average	
rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising from the translation 
of the net investment in foreign entities, and  
of borrowings and other currency instruments 
designated as hedges of such investments,  
are taken to equity on consolidation.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated  
at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment, with the exception of freehold 
land, which is shown at cost less impairment. 
Cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the asset. 
Except for freehold land and assets under 
construction, the cost of property, plant and 
equipment is written off on a straight-line basis 
over the period of the expected useful life of 
the asset. For this purpose, expected lives are 
determined within the following limits:
•	 Fr eehold	buildings:	not	mor e	than	50	years;	
•	 	 Leasehold	land	and	buildings:	the	lesser	 
of 50 years or the life of the lease; and
•	 	 Owned	plant	and	equipment:	not	mor e	than	
15 years (except for environmental assets 
which are not more than 20 years). 
In general, production plant and equipment 
and office equipment are written off over  
ten years or less; motor vehicles and computer 
equipment over five years or less.
Assets’ residual values and useful lives are 
reviewed, and adjusted if necessary, at each 
balance sheet date. Property, plant and 
equipment are reviewed for impairment if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be 
appropriate. Freehold land is reviewed for 
impairment on an annual basis.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, 
plant and equipment are determined by 
comparing the asset’s carrying value with  
any sale proceeds, and are included in the 
income statement.
Business Combinations
The acquisition method is used to account  
for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Identifiable 
net assets acquired (including intangibles) in  
a business combination are measured initially  
at their fair values at the acquisition date.  56 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
The net interest amount is calculated by 
applying the discounted rate used to measure 
the defined benefit obligation at the beginning 
of the period to the net defined benefit  
liability/asset.
The net pension scheme interest is presented as 
finance income/expense.
Post-Retirement Benefits Other  
Than Pensions
Some Group companies provide post-retirement 
medical care to their retirees. The costs of 
providing these benefits are accrued over the 
period of employment and the liability 
recognised in the balance sheet is calculated 
using the projected unit credit method and  
is discounted to its present value and the fair 
value of any related asset is deducted.
Employee Share Schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided  
to employees under share option and restricted 
share schemes. Any shortfall between the cost 
to the employee and the fair market value of 
the awards at date of grant is charged to the 
income statement over the period to which  
the performance criteria relate, with the credit 
taken directly to retained earnings. Additional 
employer costs in respect of options and 
awards are charged to the income statement 
over the same period with the credit included  
in payables. Where awards are contingent  
upon non-market performance conditions, an 
assessment of the likelihood of these conditions 
being achieved is made at the end of each 
reporting period and reflected in the 
accounting entries made.
The proceeds received net of any directly 
attributable transaction costs are credited to 
share capital and share premium when the 
options are exercised.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has  
a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events; it is more likely than not 
that there will be an outflow of resources to 
settle that obligation; and the amount can be 
reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at the 
present value of the Directors’ best estimate of 
the expenditure required to settle the obligation 
at the balance sheet date.
Derivative Financial Instruments and 
Hedging Activity
The Group may use derivatives to manage its 
exposures to fluctuating interest and foreign 
exchange rates. These instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date the 
contract is entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured at their fair value. The method of 
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends 
on whether the derivative is designated as a 
hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the 
item being hedged. Derivatives that qualify for 
hedge accounting are treated as a hedge of  
a highly probable forecast transaction (cash 
flow hedge).
Current tax is the expected tax payable on  
the taxable income for the year, using tax  
rates enacted, or substantively enacted, at the 
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to  
tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the 
liability method, on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
consolidated financial statements. The deferred 
tax is not accounted for if it arises from the 
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction (other than a business combination) 
that affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit or loss at that time. Deferred tax is 
determined using tax rates (and laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the 
balance sheet date and are expected to apply 
when the deferred tax asset or liability is 
settled. Deferred tax assets are recognised to 
the extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profit will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries 
except where the investor is able to control the 
timing of temporary differences and it is probable 
that the temporary difference will not reverse  
in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the 
same tax jurisdiction are offset where there is  
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets against current tax liabilities and where 
there is an intention to settle these balances  
on a net basis.
Pension Commitments
Group companies operate defined contribution 
and (funded and unfunded) defined benefit 
pension schemes.
The cost of providing pensions to employees 
who are members of defined contribution 
schemes is charged to the income statement  
as contributions are made. The Group has  
no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid.
The liability or surplus recognised in the balance 
sheet in respect of defined benefit pension 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation at the balance sheet date, less the 
fair value of the plan assets. The defined 
benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
independent actuaries using the projected unit 
credit method. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation is determined by discounting 
the estimated future cash flows by the yield on 
high-quality corporate bonds denominated in 
the currency in which the benefits will be paid, 
and that have a maturity approximating to the 
terms of the pension obligations. The costs of 
providing these defined benefit schemes are 
accrued over the period of employment. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
immediately in other comprehensive income.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately  
in income. 
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
Value in use is calculated with reference to the 
future cash flows expected to be generated by 
an asset (or group of assets where cash flows 
are not identifiable to specific assets). The 
pre-tax discount rate used in brand impairment 
reviews is based on a weighted average cost of 
capital for comparable companies operating in 
similar markets and geographies as the Group 
including, where appropriate, an adjustment 
for the specific risks associated with the 
relevant cash generating unit.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or 
net realisable value. Cost comprises materials, 
direct labour and an appropriate portion of 
overhead expenses (based on normal operating 
capacity) required to get the inventory to its 
present location and condition. Inventory 
valuation is determined on a first in, first out 
(FIFO) basis. Net realisable value is the estimated 
selling price less applicable selling expenses.
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are initially recognised at  
fair value and subsequently held at amortised 
cost, less provision for impairment. If there is 
objective evidence that the Group will not be 
able to collect the full amount of the receivable, 
an impairment is recognised through the 
income statement. Significant financial 
difficulties of the debtor, probability that a 
debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial 
reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments are considered indicators that the 
trade receivable is impaired. The impairment  
is calculated as the difference between the 
carrying value of the receivable and the present 
value of the related estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original interest rate. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash 
balances and other deposits with a maturity  
of less than three months when deposited. 
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, 
bank overdrafts that form an integral part  
of the Group’s cash management, and are 
repayable on demand, are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings 
in the balance sheet.
Borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised 
initially at fair value less attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at 
amortised cost with any difference between 
cost and redemption value being recognised  
in the income statement over the period of the 
borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Income Tax
Income tax on the profit for the year comprises 
current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity.  
In this case the tax is also recognised in  
other comprehensive income or directly  
in equity, respectively. RB Annual Report 2013 57
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
Net Revenue
Net revenue is defined as the amount invoiced 
to external customers during the year that is 
gross sales net of trade discounts, customer 
allowances for credit notes and returns and 
consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT and 
other sales-related taxes. Net revenue is 
recognised at the time that the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the products are 
transferred to the customer.
Leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment where 
the Group has substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership are classified as finance 
leases. Assets held under finance leases are 
capitalised at lease inception at the lower of the 
asset’s fair value and the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Obligations related 
to finance leases, net of finance charges in 
respect of future periods, are included as 
appropriate within borrowings. The interest 
element of the finance cost is charged to the 
income statement over the life of the lease  
so as to produce a constant periodic rate of 
interest on the remaining balance of the liability 
for each period. The property, plant and 
equipment are depreciated on the same basis  
as owned plant and equipment or over the life 
of the lease, if shorter.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified 
as operating leases. Operating lease rentals (net 
of any related lease incentives) are charged 
against profit on a straight line basis over the 
period of the lease.
Share Capital Transactions
When the Group purchases equity share  
capital, the amount of the consideration  
paid, including directly attributable costs, is 
recognised as a change in equity. Purchased 
shares are either held in Treasury, in order to 
satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in 
order to maintain capital, an equivalent amount 
to the nominal value of the shares cancelled 
would be transferred from retained earnings  
to the capital redemption reserve.
Dividend Distribution
Dividends to owners of the parent are 
recognised as a liability in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s 
Shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in 
the period in which they are approved and paid.
Accounting Estimates and Judgements 
The Directors make a number of estimates and 
assumptions regarding the future, and make 
some significant judgements in applying the 
Group’s accounting policies. These include:
•	 	 Estimates	of	futur e	business	performance	 
and cash generation, discount rates and 
long-term growth rates supporting the net 
book amount of indefinite life intangible 
assets at the balance sheet date (refer to  
note 9). If the actual results should differ, or 
changes in expectations arise, impairment 
charges may be required which would 
adversely impact operating results.
•	 	 The	continuing	enduring	natur e	of	the	
Group’s brands supporting the assumed 
useful lives of these assets (refer to note 9).
•	 	 Measur ement	of	intangible	assets	both	 
in business combinations and other asset 
acquisitions requires the Group to identify 
such assets. Assumptions and estimates are 
made about future cash flows and appropriate 
discount rates to value identified intangible 
assets (refer to note 26).
•	 	 The	actual	tax	paid	on	pr ofits	is	determined	
based on tax laws and regulations that differ 
across the numerous jurisdictions in which 
the Group operates. Assumptions are made 
in applying these laws to the taxable profits 
in any given period in order to calculate the 
tax charge for that period. Where the eventual 
tax paid or reclaimed is different to the 
amounts originally estimated, the difference 
will be charged or credited to the income 
statement in the period in which it is 
determined (refer to note 7).
•	 	 Assumptions 	 ar e 	 made 	 as 	 to 	 the 	 r ecoverability	
of tax assets especially as to whether there 
will be sufficient future taxable profits in the 
same jurisdictions to fully utilise losses in 
future years (refer to note 11).
•	 	 The	Gr oup	r ecognises	legal	pr ovisions	in	line	
the Group’s provisions policy. The level of 
provisioning for regulatory investigation is  
a matter where management and legal 
judgement is important (refer to note 17).
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) 
At inception the relationship between the 
hedging instrument and the hedged item  
is documented, as is an assessment of the 
effectiveness of the derivative instrument used 
in the hedging transaction in offsetting changes 
in the cash flow of the hedged item. This 
effectiveness assessment is repeated on an 
ongoing basis during the life of the hedging 
instrument to ensure that the instrument 
remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
1  Derivatives classified as cash flow hedges: 
the effective portion of changes in the fair 
value is recognised in other comprehensive 
income. Any gain or loss relating to the 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the income statement.
  Amounts recognised in other comprehensive 
income are recycled to the income statement  
in the period when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. If the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, or no longer meets the 
criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss existing in other comprehensive 
income at that time remains in other 
comprehensive income, and is recognised 
when the forecast transaction is ultimately 
recognised in the income statement. If the 
forecast transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss in other 
comprehensive income is immediately 
transferred to the income statement.
2  Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge 
accounting: these are classified at fair value 
through profit or loss. All changes in fair 
value of derivative instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised 
immediately in the income statement.
Net Investment Hedges
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments 
designated as hedges of the net investments  
in foreign operations are recognised in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that the 
hedging relationship is effective. Gains and 
losses accumulated in the foreign currency 
translation reserve are included in the income 
statement when the foreign operation is 
disposed of.  58 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
2 OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Executive Committee is the Group’s chief operating decision-maker (CODM). Management has determined the operating segments based on the 
reports reviewed by the Executive Committee for the purposes of making strategic decisions and assessing performance. The Executive Committee 
considers the business principally from a geographical perspective, but with the RB Pharmaceuticals (in table referred to as RBP) and Food businesses 
being managed separately given the significantly different nature of these businesses and the risks and rewards associated with them.
The Group’s geographical segments comprise Europe and North America (ENA); Latin America, North Asia, South East Asia and Australia and New 
Zealand (LAPAC); and Russia and CIS, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Sub-Saharan Africa (RUMEA). The geographical segments derive their 
revenue primarily from the manufacture and sale of branded products in the health, hygiene and home categories. RB Pharmaceuticals derives its 
revenue exclusively from the sales of buprenorphine-based prescription drugs, used to treat opiate dependence and Food derives its revenue from  
food products primarily sold in ENA.
The Scholl Footwear business, previously reported as part of RUMEA, is now reported as part of ENA. Comparative information has been restated on  
a consistent basis. 
The Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on net revenue and operating profit before exceptional items. 
Finance income and expense are not allocated to segments, as they are managed on a central Group basis. 
Specific items of income and expense reported to the Executive Committee outside of the individual segment financial information, are shown in the 
Corporate segment. For the year ended 31 December 2013 the Corporate segment had £nil profit or loss (2012: £32m – relating primarily to the 
disposal of the Paras Personal Care business).
Operating Segments
The segment information provided to the Executive Committee for the operating segments for the year ended 31 December is as follows: 
         Total
    ENA LAPAC RUMEA Food Corporate Ex-RBP  RBP Total
2013    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net revenue    5,074 2,511 1,356 325 – 9,266 777 10,043
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment  93 48 9 5 – 155 16 171
Adjusted operating profit    1,321 495 284 88 – 2,188 428 2,616
Exceptional items           (271)
Operating profit           2,345
Net finance expense           (31)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation         2,314
         Total
    ENA LAPAC RUMEA Food Corporate Ex-RBP  RBP Total
2012 (restated)
1
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net revenue    4,744 2,327 1,338 321 – 8,730 837 9,567
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment   95 32 8 5 – 140 8 148
Adjusted operating profit    1,156 465 296 92 32 2,041 536 2,577
Exceptional items           (135)
Operating profit           2,442
Net finance expense           (34)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation          2,408
1
   Restated for Scholl Footwear segment move from RUMEA to ENA (net revenue £66m and operating loss of £7m) and the impact of the accounting 
policy change discussed in note 1. RB Annual Report 2013 59
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
2 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
The Executive Committee reviews net working capital by segment and other assets and liabilities on a Group basis. The split of assets and liabilities by 
segment provided to the Executive Committee is as follows. Assets and liabilities not presented to the Executive Committee are shown below as a 
reconciling item. 
      ENA LAPAC RUMEA Food RBP Total
2013      £m £m £m £m £m £m
Inventories      416 245 99 5 129 894
Trade and other receivables      585 368 208 1 112 1,274
Total segment assets      1,001 613 307 6 241 2,168
Trade and other payables      (1,488) (675) (254) (14) (261) (2,692)
      ENA LAPAC RUMEA Food RBP Total
2012 (restated)
1
      £m £m £m £m £m £m
Inventories      393 250 110 4 108 865
Trade and other receivables      625 363 193 - 178 1,359
Total segment assets      1,018 613 303 4 286 2,224
Trade and other payables       (1,442) (661) (269) (13) (241) (2,626)
1
  Restated for Scholl Footwear segment move from RUMEA to ENA (£8m inventory, £24m trade and other receivables, £14m trade and other trade 
payables).
The assets and liabilities are reported based upon the operations of the segment and the physical location of the asset or liability. There are a number of 
Group assets and liabilities that are not specifically attributable to one segment. Reconciliation of these assets and liabilities to total assets or liabilities in 
the balance sheet is shown below:
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Inventories for operating segments         894  865
Unallocated:
Elimination of profit on inter-company inventory       (148)  (130)
Total inventories per the balance sheet        746  735
Trade and other receivables for operating segments       1,274  1,359
Unallocated:
Group items         32  48
Total trade and other receivables per the balance sheet      1,306  1,407
Total inventories and trade and other receivables per the balance sheet     2,052  2,142
Other unallocated assets         13,097  12,924
Total assets per the balance sheet        15,149  15,066
Trade and other payables for operating segments       (2,692)  (2,626)
Unallocated:
Group items         (223)  (216)
Total trade and other payables per the balance sheet       (2,915)  (2,842)
Other unallocated liabilities         (5,898)  (6,302)
Total liabilities per the balance sheet        (8,813)  (9,144)
Unallocated assets include goodwill and intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred and current tax, available for sale assets, retirement 
benefit surplus, other receivables, derivative financial assets and cash and cash equivalents. Unallocated liabilities include borrowings, provisions for 
liabilities and charges, current and deferred tax liabilities, other liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details. 60 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
2 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Analysis of Categories
The Group analyses its revenue by the following categories: 
           Net revenues
       
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Health	 								 2,633  2,068
Hygiene	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3,835  3,682
Home	 								 1,974  1,966
Portfolio brands         499  693
Food         325  321
         9,266  8,730
RB Pharmaceuticals         777  837
Total         10,043  9,567
Health,	hygiene,	home	and	portfolio	brands	categories	ar e	all	split	acr oss	the	thr ee	geographical	segments	of	ENA,	LAP AC	and	RUMEA.	Food	(which	 
is sold primarily in ENA) and RB Pharmaceuticals are recognised within their own operating segments.
The Company is domiciled in the UK. The split of revenue from external customers and non-current assets (other than financial instruments, deferred 
tax assets and retirement benefit surplus assets) between the UK, the US (being the single biggest country outside the country of domicile) and that 
from all other countries is:
          All other
        UK US countries Total
2013        £m £m £m £m
Net revenue        676 2,777 6,590 10,043
Goodwill and other intangible assets       1,536 4,212 5,393 11,141
Property, plant and equipment        148 125 488 761
Other receivables        2 30 217 249
          All other
        UK US countries Total
2012 (restated)
1
        £m £m £m £m
Net revenue        643 2,480 6,444 9,567
Goodwill and other intangible assets       1,536 4,274 5,352 11,162
Property, plant and equipment        137 124 475 736
Other receivables        4 4 25 33
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
The net revenue from external customers reported on a geographical basis above is measured consistently with that in the operating segments.
Major customers are typically large grocery chains, mass market and multiple retailers. The Group’s customer base is diverse with no single external 
customer accounting for more than 10% of net revenue, and the top ten customers accounting for less than a quarter of total net revenue. RB Annual Report 2013 61
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
3 ANALYSIS OF COST OF SALES AND NET OPERATING EXPENSES
           2012 
         2013  (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Cost of sales         (4,074)  (4,029)
Distribution costs         (2,467)  (2,314)
Administrative expenses:
Pharmaceuticals research and development        (47)  (25)
Other research and development         (152)  (146)
Other         (692)  (489)
Total administrative expenses         (891)  (660)
Other net operating income         5  13
Exceptional items         (271)  (135)
Net operating expenses         (3,624)  (3,096)
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
Total foreign exchange losses of £16m (2012: £nil) have been recognised through the income statement. These amounts exclude financial instruments 
fair valued through the income statement and amounts recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
         2013  2012
Exceptional items         £m  £m
Legal provision         225  –
Acquisition, integration and restructuring costs        46  135
Total exceptional items         271  135
The Group incurred an exceptional charge of £271m during the year in respect of the following: 
•	 £225m	legal	pr ovision	for	historic	r egulatory	issues	(2012:	£nil).	Refer	to	note	17. 
•	 	 £46m	r estructuring	costs	in	r elation	to	the	new	organisation,	acquisition	and	integration	costs	(2012:	£135m	r elating	to	the	new	organisation,	
acquisition and integration costs, and withdrawal of private label). This consists primarily of redundancy and business integration costs which have 
been included within operating expenses. 
4 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
During the year, the Group (including its overseas subsidiaries) obtained the following services from the Company’s Auditor and its associates.
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Audit services pursuant to legislation    
    Audit of the Group’s annual accounts        1.8  1.9
    Audit of the accounts of the Group’s subsidiaries       3.8  3.8
Audit related assurance services         0.3  0.4
Total audit and audit related services        5.9  6.1
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for other services:
    Taxation compliance services         0.5  0.2
    Taxation advisory services          1.7  4.3
    Other assurance services         0.2  0.2
    All other non-audit services         0.4  0.1
Total non-audit services         2.8  4.8
         8.7  10.9
Included in the above is £0.1m (2012: £0.1m) in relation to the audit of the financial statements of associated pension schemes of the Group. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
62 RB Annual Report 2013
5 EMPLOYEES
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
(a) Staff costs       Notes  £m  £m
The total employment costs, including Directors, were:
Wages and salaries         1,026  958
Social security costs         197  170
Net pension costs (excluding net pension interest)     21  51  43
Share-based payments       23  55  49
         1,329  1,220
1
  Net pension costs have been restated to exclude net pension scheme interest now included in net finance expense. Wages and salaries restated on a 
consistent basis with 2013. Refer to note 1 for further details.
Details of Directors’ emoluments are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46, which forms part of the financial statements. 
Compensation awarded to key management (the Executive Committee):
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Short-term employee benefits         17  11
Post-employment benefits         1  1
Share-based payments         14  15
Termination benefits         1  4
         33  31
Termination benefits and share-based payments include contractual commitments made to key management in 2013, comprising cash payments and 
shares to vest in 2014.
(b) Staff numbers
The monthly average number of people employed by the Group, including Directors, during the year was:
         2013  2012
         ‘000  ‘000
ENA         12.5  13.9
RUMEA         7.6  7.1
LAPAC         15.1  13.7
RB Pharmaceuticals         0.7  0.6
Other         1.2  0.6
         37.1  35.9
6 NET FINANCE EXPENSE
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
Finance income         £m  £m
Interest income on cash and cash equivalents        25  26
Total finance income         25  26
Finance expense
Interest payable on borrowings         (31)  (30)
Net pension scheme interest         (8)  (19)
Amortisation of issue costs of bank loans        (11)  (6)
Other finance expense         (6)  (5)
Total finance expense         (56)  (60)
Net finance expense         (31)  (34)
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
RB Annual Report 2013 63
7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Current tax         712  662
Prior year adjustments         (52)  (21)
Total current tax          660  641
Origination and reversal of temporary differences        9  22
Impact of changes in tax rates         (95)  (80)
Total deferred tax (note 11)          (86)  (58)
Tax on profit on ordinary activities        574  583
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. Accordingly, the Company’s profits for the 
year ended 31 December 2013 are taxed at an effective rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%). 
UK income tax of £124m (2012: £138m) is included within current tax and is calculated at 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for 
the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation        2,314  2,408
Tax at the notional UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%)      538  590
Effects of:
    Tax at rates other than the UK corporation tax rate       (67)  10
    Adjustments to amounts carried in respect of unresolved tax matters     160  77
    Incurrence/(utilisation) of tax losses        1  7
    Withholdings and local taxes         21  16
    Adjustment in respect of prior periods        (9)  (58)
    Impact of changes in tax rates          (95)  (80)
    Exceptional items          20  8
    Other permanent differences         5  13 
Tax on profit on ordinary activities         574  583
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
The tax charge is expected to be impacted by items in the nature of those listed above for the foreseeable future. 
Following the enactment of legislation in the UK to reduce the corporation tax rate to 21% from 1 April 2014, the total tax charge in 2013 includes the 
impact on the income statement of calculating the UK deferred tax balances at the lower UK corporation tax rate. The impact of this rate change is a 
£95m reduction in the tax charge in the income statement. The tax (charge)/credit relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows:
           2012
        2013   (restated)
1
       
       Tax   Tax 
      Before  credit/ After Before credit/ After
      tax (charge) tax tax (charge) tax
      £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net exchange adjustments on foreign currency translation    (369) – (369) (256) 1 (255)
Gains on cash flow and net investment hedges     19 – 19 4 (1) 3
Reclassification of foreign currency translation reserve on disposal of subsidiary  – – – 9 – 9
Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans (note 21)    68 (27) 41 (52) 11 (41)
Other comprehensive income      (282) (27) (309) (295) 11 (284)
Current tax       –   (2)
Deferred tax (note 11)       (27)   13
       (27)   11
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
The tax credited directly to the statement of changes in equity during the year is as follows:
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Current tax         16  23
Deferred tax (note 11)         44  –
         60  23 Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
64 RB Annual Report 2013
8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
         pence  pence
Basic earnings per share         242.1  251.4
Diluted earnings per share         238.5  248.4
Adjusted basic earnings per share         273.8  266.5
Adjusted diluted earnings per share         269.8  263.3
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
Basic
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to owners of the parent (2013: £1,739m (2012: £1,821m)) by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year (2013: 718,384,234 (2012: 724,238,235)).
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive 
ordinary shares. The Company has two categories of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: Executive Share Options and Employee Sharesave schemes.  
The options only dilute earnings when they result in the issue of shares at a value below the market price of the share and when all performance criteria 
(if applicable) have been met. As at 31 December 2013, there were 4 million (2012: 4 million) of Executive Share Options not included within the 
dilution because the exercise price for the options was greater than the average share price for the year.
The Directors believe that diluted earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for the impact of exceptional items after the appropriate tax amount, provides 
additional useful information on underlying trends to Shareholders in respect of earnings per ordinary share.
Details of the adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent are as follows:
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Net income attributable to owners of the parent       1,739  1,821
Exceptional items          271  135
Tax effect of exceptional items         (43)  (26)
Adjusted net income attributable to owners of the parent       1,967  1,930
         2013  2012
         Average  Average
         number of  number of
         shares  shares
On a basic basis        718,384,234 724,238,235
Dilution for Executive Options outstanding and Executive Restricted Share Plan    9,829,873 8,098,123
Dilution for Employee Sharesave Scheme Options outstanding     838,787 659,327
On a diluted basis        729,052,894 732,995,685
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
RB Annual Report 2013 65
9 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
   Brands  Goodwill  Software  Other  Total
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Cost
At 1 January 2013   7,757  3,335  57  235  11,384
Additions   1  –  21  3  25
Arising on business combinations   113  71  –  57  241
Disposals   –  –  (2)  –  (2)
Exchange adjustments   (154)  (94)  –  (12)  (260)
At 31 December 2013   7,717  3,312  76  283  11,388
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 January 2013   82  28  22  90  222
Amortisation and impairment charge  3  –  1  27  31
Disposals   –  –  (2)  –  (2)
Exchange adjustments   1  (1)  (1)  (3)  (4)
At 31 December 2013   86  27  20  114  247
Net book amount at 31 December 2013  7,631  3,285  56  169  11,141
   Brands  Goodwill  Software  Other  Total
   (restated)
1
  (restated)
1
      (restated)
1
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Cost
At 1 January 2012   7,106  3,080  48  236  10,470
Additions   2  –  9  –  11
Arising on business combinations   884  357  –  –  1,241
Disposals   (37)  (17)  –  –  (54)
Exchange adjustments   (198)  (85)  –  (1)  (284)
At 31 December 2012   7,757  3,335  57  235  11,384
Accumulated amortisation and impairment 
At 1 January 2012   80  30  21  81  212
Amortisation and impairment charge  3  –  1  9  13
Disposals   –  (1)  –  –  (1)
Exchange adjustments   (1)  (1)  –  –  (2)
At 31 December 2012   82  28  22  90  222
Net book amount at 31 December 2012  7,675  3,307  35  145  11,162
Net book amount at 1 January 2012  7,026  3,050  27  155  10,258
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
The amount stated for brands represents the fair value of brands acquired since 1985 at the day of acquisition. Other includes product registration, 
distribution rights and capitalised product development costs.
Software includes intangible assets under construction of £52m (2012: £31m). 
The majority of brands, all of goodwill and certain other intangibles are considered to have indefinite lives for the reasons noted in the Accounting 
Policies and therefore are subject to an annual impairment review. A number of small non core brands are deemed to have a finite life and are 
amortised accordingly.
The net book amounts of indefinite and finite life intangible assets are as follows:
           2012
         2013  (restated)
1
Net book amount          £m  £m
Indefinite life assets:
 Brands         7,606  7,650
 Goodwill         3,285  3,307
 Other         39  36
Total indefinite life assets         10,930  10,993
Finite life assets:
 Brands         25  25
 Software         56  35
 Other         130  109
Total finite life assets         211  169
Total net book amount of intangible assets        11,141  11,162
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
66 RB Annual Report 2013
9 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are allocated to a cash generating unit or a group of cash generating units (together ‘CGU’) 
for the purposes of impairment testing. 
Cash Generating Units
After considering all the evidence available, including how brand and production assets generate cash inflows and how management monitors the 
business, the Directors have concluded that the Group’s CGUs are health (sexual wellbeing), health (VMS), health (other), hygiene, home, and food. 
Integration of the Schiff business was ongoing but not completed by year end. As a result this business continued to be treated as its own CGU, health 
(VMS). This CGU will be reassessed following the completion of integration into the Group’s operations in 2014. 
An analysis of the net book amount of indefinite life assets and goodwill by CGU is shown below:
        2013 2012 (restated)
1
       
    Indefinite   Indefinite
    life assets  Goodwill Total life assets Goodwill Total
CGU  Key brands  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Health	(sexual	wellbeing)	 	 Dur ex	 1,915 956 2,871 1,952 976 2,928
Health	(other)	 	 Gaviscon,	Mucinex,	Nur ofen,
  Scholl, Strepsils 3,036 1,786 4,822 2,926 1,783 4,709
Health	(VMS)	 	 Airbor ne,	MegaRed,	Move	Fr ee	 801 352 1,153 815 357 1,172
Hygiene	 	 Bang,	Clearasil,	Dettol,	Finish,
	 	 Harpic,	L ysol,	Mortein,	V eet	 1,082 149 1,231 1,176 149 1,325
Home	 	 Air	W ick,	Calgon,	V anish,	W oolite	 781 42 823 786 42 828
Food  French’s 30 – 30 31 – 31
   7,645 3,285 10,930 7,686 3,307 10,993
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
Indefinite life assets allocated to the Food CGU are not considered significant relative to the Group’s total indefinite life assets. As such the disclosures 
below do not include discussion on the assumptions specific to Food. 
Annual Impairment Review Key Assumptions
The annual impairment review for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives is based on an assessment of each CGU’s value in use. Value 
in use is calculated from cash flow projections, based on historical operating results and short-term budgets and medium-term business plans approved 
by management covering a four-year period with an extrapolated fifth year. These projections exclude any estimated future cash inflows or outflows 
expected to arise from restructuring not yet implemented. 
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using the estimated long-term growth rates stated below. Individual long-term growth rates 
are applied to each product type within a CGU, and as such ranges are provided in some cases below. The long-term growth rates applied do not 
exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market and countries in which the CGU operates.
Management has assessed the appropriate discount rate for each individual CGU, using a Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) for  
comparable companies operating in similar markets and geographies as the Group as the base discount rate, adjusted for risks specific to each CGU. 
Due to the similar geographic and product diversification of their respective markets and risks associated with each CGU, a pre-tax discount rate of 
11%	was	determined	for	each	of	the	health	(sexual	wellbeing),	health	(other),	hygiene	and	home	CGUs	(2012:	11%).	Health	(VMS)	is	pr edominantly	
concentrated in one market, being the US. Therefore a pre-tax discount rate of 14% was applied, reflecting the increased risk associated with this CGU 
from its market concentration and the fact that this is a relatively new business to the Group.
Key assumptions (which are kept under constant review by management) in the impairment review include future sales volumes, revenue growth rates 
and prices, and future levels of marketing support required to sustain, grow and further innovate brands. The cash flow projections also take account  
of the expected impact from new product initiatives, efficiency initiatives and the maturity of the markets in which each CGU operates. These key 
assumptions are based on past performance and our experience of volumes, growth rates and prices in our key markets.
           Pre-tax
           discount
CGU         Growth %  rate %
Health	(sexual	wellbeing)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	 	 11
Health	(VMS)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2.5	 	 14
Health	(other)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1-4	 	 11
Hygiene	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0-4	 	 11
Home	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 0-2	 	 11
Impairment Review
In October 2013 an impairment review was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU with its carrying amount, including 
goodwill. No impairment was considered necessary. There were no significant changes in the period subsequent to the review. 
Any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which the recoverable amounts of the health (sexual wellbeing), health (other), hygiene and 
home CGUs is based would not imply an impairment. 
With a recoverable amount exceeding its carrying value by £19m, the health (VMS) CGU is the most sensitive to reasonably possible changes to key 
assumptions. This is expected of a recent acquisition where the acquired intangible assets were valued at fair value and updated at the end of the 
hindsight period in December 2013. Any significant change in assumptions could cause the carrying value to exceed the recoverable amount. For 
example, if all other assumptions were held constant, a reduction of 100 bps of the assumed compound annual growth rate in undiscounted net cash 
flows would result in the carrying value of this CGU exceeding its recoverable amount by £15m. Management expects that the completion of the 
integration of the business with the health (other) CGU in 2014 will realise planned synergies and hence minimise the risk of impairment. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
RB Annual Report 2013 67
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
         Land and Plant and
         buildings equipment Total
         £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2013         525 1,285 1,810
Additions         28 172 200
Arising on business combination         1 4 5
Disposals         (4) (44) (48)
Reclassifications         46 (46) –
Exchange adjustments         (20) (49) (69)
At 31 December 2013         576 1,322 1,898
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2013         205 869 1,074
Charge for the year         29 111 140
Disposals         (4) (35) (39)
Exchange adjustments         (6) (32) (38)
At 31 December 2013         224 913 1,137
Net book amount at 31 December 2013        352 409 761
         Land and Plant and
         buildings equipment Total
         (restated)
1
 (restated)
1
 (restated)
1
         £m £m £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2012         512 1,272 1,784
Additions         13 153 166
Arising on business combination         1 7 8
Disposals         (8) (65) (73)
Deconsolidation of subsidiary         (2) (9) (11)
Reclassifications         21 (21) –
Exchange adjustments         (12) (52) (64)
At 31 December 2012         525 1,285 1,810
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2012         189 863 1,052
Charge for the year         24 111 135
Disposals         (3) (57) (60)
Deconsolidation of subsidiary         (1) (6) (7)
Exchange adjustments         (4) (42) (46)
At 31 December 2012         205 869 1,074
Net book amount at 31 December 2012        320 416 736
Net book amount at 1 January 2012        323 409 732
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
The net book amount of assets under construction is £60m (2012: £62m). Assets under construction are included within plant and equipment. 
The reclassification from plant and equipment to land and buildings of £46m (2012: £21m) shows the transfer of completed assets. 
Capital expenditure which was contracted but not capitalised at 31 December 2013 was £30m (2012: £20m). Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
68 RB Annual Report 2013
11 DEFERRED TAX
        Short-term  Retirement
      Accelerated  temporary  benefit
      capital Intangible differences   obligations
      allowances assets (restated)
1
 Tax losses (restated)
2
 Total
Deferred tax liabilities      £m  £m  £m £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2012      19 1,979 (184) (6) (36) 1,772
Charged/(credited) to the income statement     12 (92) (29) – (51) (160)
Credited to other comprehensive income     – – – – (10) (10)
Arising on business combination      1 299 (13) (9) – 278
Disposal of business      – (15) – – – (15)
Exchange differences      (1) (46) 4 – 2 (41)
At 31 December 2012      31 2,125 (222) (15) (95) 1,824
Charged/(credited) to the income statement     (11) (96) – 5 17 (85)
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive income    – – – – 27 27
Charged/(credited) directly to equity     – – (44) – – (44)
Arising on business combination      – 37 (12) – – 25
Exchange differences      – (42) 2 – (5) (45)
At 31 December 2013      20 2,024 (276) (10) (56) 1,702
1
 Refer to note 26 for further details. 
2
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
      Accelerated  Short-term  Retirement
      capital  Intangible temporary   benefit
      allowances assets differences Tax losses obligations Total
Deferred tax assets      £m  £m  £m £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2012      (5) (16) 82 32 57 150
Credited/(charged) to the income statement     14 8 (44) (32) (48) (102)
Credited to other comprehensive income      – – 2 – 1 3
Exchange differences      – 1 (2) – (1) (2)
At 31 December 2012      9 (7) 38 – 9 49
(Charged)/credited to the income statement     – (6) 8 – (1) 1
Exchange differences      – – (3) – – (3) 
At 31 December 2013      9 (13) 43 – 8 47
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Certain deferred tax assets in respect of overseas corporation tax losses and other temporary differences totalling £163m (2012: £152m) have not been 
recognised at 31 December 2013 as the likelihood of future economic benefit is not sufficiently assured. These assets will be recognised if utilisation of 
the losses and other temporary differences becomes reasonably certain. 
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as no tax is expected to be payable on them in the 
foreseeable future based on the current repatriation policy of the Group. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
RB Annual Report 2013 69
12 INVENTORIES
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Raw materials and consumables         155  157
Work in progress         35  27
Finished goods and goods held for resale        556  551
Total inventories         746  735
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included as cost of sales amounted to £3,849m (2012: £3,821m). This includes inventory write 
offs and losses of £46m (2012: £23m).
The Group inventory provision at 31 December 2013 was £69m (2012: £81m).
13 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
         2013  2012
Amounts falling due within one year        £m  £m
Trade receivables         1,173  1,269
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables        (44)  (47)
Trade receivables – net         1,129  1,222
Other receivables         126  131
Prepayments and accrued income         51  54
         1,306  1,407
Trade receivables consist of a broad cross-section of our international customer base for whom there is no significant history of default. The credit risk of 
customers is assessed at a subsidiary and Group level, taking into account their financial positions, past experiences and other relevant factors. Individual 
customer credit limits are imposed based on these factors. 
As at 31 December 2013, trade receivables of £77m (2012: £92m) were past due but not impaired. The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due 
but not impaired is as follows:
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Up to 3 months         77  92
As at 31 December 2013, trade receivables of £71m (2012: £77m) were considered to be impaired. The amount of provision at 31 December 2013 was 
£44m (2012: £47m). It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered due to the nature and historical collection of trade 
receivables. The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows:
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Up to 3 months         33  37
Over 3 months         38  40
         71  77
The movement in the provision for impaired receivables consists of increases for additional provisions offset by receivables written off and unused 
provision released back to the income statement. The gross movements in the provision are considered to be insignificant.
The other receivables do not contain impaired assets. They consist of items including reclaimable sales tax and are from a broad range of countries 
within the Group.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Sterling         101  99
Euro         282  305
US dollar         283  388
Brazil Real         107  89
Other currencies         533  526
         1,306  1,407
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the year end is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any 
collateral as security.
Non-current other receivables at 31 December 2013 were £249m (2012: £33m). £203m relates to a prepayment for an option to acquire legal title to 
intellectual property (refer to note 26). The remaining balance relates to other non-current prepayments and receivables due after one year.  Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
70 RB Annual Report 2013
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Financial Instruments by Category
       Derivatives Fair value  Carrying Fair
      Loans and used for through Available value value
      receivables hedging the P&L for sale total total
At 31 December 2013      £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets as per the balance sheet
Short-term deposits
1
      – – – 2 2 2
Trade and other receivables
2
      1,275 – – – 1,275 1,275
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts   – 16 6 – 22 22
Cash and cash equivalents      808 – – – 808 808
         Other   
         financial  
       Derivatives Fair value liabilities at Carrying Fair
       used for through amortised value value
       hedging the P&L cost total total
       £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities as per the balance sheet
Borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations and bond)
3
    – – 2,167 2,167 2,167
US$1bn bond (two tranches of US$500m at 2.125% and 3.625% respectively)
4
   – – 595 595 597
Finance lease obligations
3
       – – 5 5 5
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts    – 159 – 159 159
Trade and other payables
5
       – – 2,768 2,768 2,768
Other non-current liabilities
5,6
       – – 45 45 45
       Derivatives Fair value  Carrying Fair
      Loans and used for through Available value value
      receivables hedging the P&L for sale total total
At 31 December 2012      £m £m £m £m £m £m
Assets as per the balance sheet
Auction rate securities
7
      – – – 2 2 2
Short-term deposits
1
      – – – 4 4 4
Trade and other receivables
2
      1,366 – – – 1,366 1,366
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts   – 4 – – 4 4
Cash and cash equivalents      887 – – – 887 887
         Other  
         financial  
       Derivatives Fair value liabilities at Carrying Fair
       used for through amortised value value
       hedging the P&L cost total total
       £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities as per the balance sheet
Borrowings (excluding finance lease obligations)
3
     – – 3,269 3,269 3,269
Finance lease obligations
3
       – – 5 5 5
Derivative financial instruments – FX forward exchange contracts    43 – – 43 43
Trade and other payables
5
       – – 2,698 2,698 2,698
Other non-current liabilities
5,6
       – – 17 17 17
1
   These short-term deposits do not meet the requirements to be classified as cash equivalents as they have maturities greater than three months.  
They are however highly liquid assets.
2
  Prepayments and accrued income and employee benefit assets are excluded from the trade and other receivables balance as the analysis above  
is required only for financial instruments.
3
  The categories in this disclosure are determined by IAS 39. Finance leases are outside the scope of IAS 39, but they remain within the scope of  
IFRS 7. Therefore finance leases have been shown separately.
4
  The fair value of bonds at 31 December 2013 is a liability of £597m (2012: £nil). This value is derived using a quoted market rate in an active market 
(level 1 classification).
5
  Social security liabilities and other employee benefit liabilities are excluded as the analysis above is required only for financial instruments.
6
 Included in other non-current liabilities is £21m (2012: £12m) to purchase the remaining shares of Shanghai Manon Trading Company Limited.
7
   These investments are auction rate securities issued by US state authorities, denominated in US dollars with redemption dates falling beyond 2013. 
They are typically traded on a secondary market, however due to the inactivity of this market there was uncertainty over whether they were likely  
to be redeemed within one year and therefore were classified as non-current in 2012. 
The carrying value less impairment provision of investments, current borrowings, cash at bank, trade receivables and trade payables are assumed  
to approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature.
The fair value measurement hierarchy levels have been defined as follows: 
1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1). 
2  Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly  
(i.e. derived from prices) (level 2). If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. 
3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (i.e. unobservable inputs) (level 3). Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
RB Annual Report 2013 71
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2013 is a liability of £159m (2012: £43m) and an asset of £22m (2012: £4m).  
This value is determined using forward exchange rates derived from market sourced data at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted 
back to present value (level 2 classification).
As the value of level 3 instruments at 31 December 2013 is not material (2012: not material), no further level 3 disclosures have been made.
The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements which are not netted in the balance 
sheet. The value of these contracts at 31 December 2013 is a liability of £137m (2012: £39m). This figure consisted of assets of £22m (2012: £4m) and 
liabilities of £159m (2012: £43m).
The Group also has cash which is subject to a right of offset. As at 31 December 2013 the value of this cash was £27m (2012: £63m) of which 
consisted of assets of £34m (2012: £63m) and overdrafts of £7m (2012: £nil). As at 31 December 2013 the value of cash assets outside of netting 
agreements was £774m (2012: 824m) and the value of overdrafts outside of netting agreements was £3m (2012: £5m).
Financial Risk Management
The Group’s multinational operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates 
(foreign exchange risk), market prices, interest rates, credit risks and liquidity. The Group has in place a risk management programme that uses foreign 
currency financial instruments, including debt, and other instruments, to limit the impact of these risks on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group’s financing and financial risk management activities are centralised into Group Treasury (GT) to achieve benefits of scale and control.  
GT manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks. GT manages only those risks and flows 
generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken. 
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of Treasury activity and individually approves significant 
activities. GT operates under the close control of the CFO and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
1. Market Risk
(a) Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises from 
future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. 
The Group’s policy is to align interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation 
exposure on foreign currency profits after tax. The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries 
where most of its assets are located. 
It is the Group’s policy to monitor and only where appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction exposure. These transaction exposures arise mainly 
from foreign currency receipts and payments for goods and services and from the remittances of foreign currency dividends and loans. 
The local business units enter into forward foreign exchange contracts with GT to manage these exposures where practical and allowed by local regulations. 
GT matches the Group exposures, and hedges the net position where possible, using spot and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2013 was £5,287m payable (2012: £4,303m payable).
The Group has designated bonds totalling $1,000m (£597m) as the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship. The hedged risk is the 
foreign exchange currency risk on the value of the Group’s net investment in assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars. The net gain or loss under 
this arrangement is recognised in other comprehensive income. The net effect on other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013 
was a £6m gain (2012: £nil).
Cash Flow Hedge Profile
The Group held forward foreign exchange contracts denominated as cash flow hedges primarily in Euro, Australian dollars, Singapore dollars, Sterling 
and US dollars. Notional value of the payable leg resulting from these financial instruments was as follows:
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Euro         319  90
Australian dollar         177  90
Singapore dollar         120  43
Sterling         98  –
Canadian dollar         –  60
US dollars         32  1
Other         60  55
         806  339
These forward foreign exchange contracts are expected to mature over the period January 2014 to January 2015 (2012: January 2013 to January 2014).
There is no ineffective portion recognised in the income statement arising from cash flow hedges (2012: £nil). 
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comprehensive income on forward exchange contracts in 2013 of £13m gain (2012: £3m 
gain) are recognised in the income statement in the year or years during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement, which is 
generally within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. 
In the case of cash flow hedges, these are denominated in a diverse range of currencies, where a fluctuation in one individual currency relationship, with  
all others held constant, does not have a significant effect on the income statement or Shareholders’ equity. A fluctuation analysis has been performed  
for all currencies. The largest potential fluctuation would be in respect of forward contracts between the Australian dollar and the Singapore dollar. If the 
Singapore dollar had strengthened/weakened by 5% against the Australian dollar, with all other variables held constant, the impact on Shareholders’ equity 
would have been £12m (2012: less than £1m). As at 31 December 2013 if all other currencies had strengthened/weakened by 5% against Sterling with all 
other variables held constant, this would have had an immaterial effect on the income statement or Shareholders’ equity (2012: immaterial).  72 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
The remaining major monetary financial instruments (liquid assets, receivables, interest and non-interest bearing liabilities) are directly denominated in 
the local functional currency or are transferred to the functional currency of the Group through the use of derivatives. 
(b) Price risk
Due to the nature of its business the Group is exposed to commodity price risk related to the production or packaging of finished goods, such as oil 
related, and a diverse range of other, raw materials. This risk is, however, managed primarily through medium-term contracts with certain key suppliers 
and is not therefore viewed as being a material risk.
(c) Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group has both interest-bearing and non interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The Group monitors its interest expense rate exposure on a regular 
basis. The Group manages its interest income rate exposure on its gross financial assets by using a combination of fixed rate term deposits.
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a regular basis. Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration refinancing, renewal of 
existing positions, alternative financing and hedging. Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the income statement of a defined 
interest rate shift. For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies, calculated on a full year and pre-tax basis. 
The scenarios are only run for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions. Based on the simulations performed, the impact on the income 
statement of a 50 basis-point shift in interest rates would be a maximum increase of £11m (2012: £9m) or decrease of £11m (2012: £9m), respectively 
for the liabilities covered. The simulation is done on a periodic basis to verify that the maximum loss potential is within the limit given by management.
2. Credit Risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits 
with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers. The credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in note 13. 
Financial institution counterparties are subject to approval under the Group’s counterparty risk policy and such approval is limited to financial institutions 
with a BBB rating or above. The Group uses BBB and higher rated counterparties to manage risk and uses BBB rated counterparties by exception. The 
amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the 
Board. Derivative financial instruments are only traded with counterparties approved in accordance with the Board approved policy. Derivative risk is 
measured using a risk weighting method.
The table below summarises the Group’s major financial institution counterparties by credit rating (lower of S&P and Moody’s) and balances (cash 
equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits) at the balance sheet date.
Counterparty Risk
       2013    2012
       
     Credit Limit Exposure  Credit Limit Exposure
Counterparty     rating £m £m  rating £m £m
Bank A     AA- 200 142  AA 175 157
Bank B     A+ 150 113  A 125 125
Bank C     A 125 97  A 100 89
Bank D     AAA 300 92  – – –
Bank E     A+ 150 83  A 125 97
Bank F     A+ 150 79  – – –
Bank G     A 125 78  A 100 64
Bank	H	 	 	 	 	 A- 75 59  A 75 36
Bank I     A- 75 57  A 100 36
Bank J     A 125 52  A 100 84
3. Liquidity Risk
Cash flow forecasting is performed by the local business units and aggregated by GT. GT monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements 
to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities. Funds 
over and above those required for short-term working capital purposes by the overseas businesses are generally remitted to GT. The Group uses the 
remittances to settle obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued by institutions with a BBB rating 
or better.
Borrowing Facilities 
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it. The Group has bilateral credit facilities with high-quality international banks. All of these 
facilities have similar or equivalent terms and conditions, and have a financial covenant, which is not expected to restrict the Group’s future operations. 
At the end of 2013, the Group had, in addition to its long-term debt of £598m (2012: £3m), committed borrowing facilities totalling £4,350m  
(2012: £4,000m), of which £3,500m exceeded 12 months’ maturity. Of the total facilities at the year end, £nil (2012: £nil) was utilised. The committed 
borrowing facilities, together with available uncommitted facilities and central cash and investments, are considered sufficient to meet the Group’s 
projected cash requirements.
The undrawn committed facilities available, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at the balance sheet date, were as follows:
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Undrawn committed borrowing facilities:
Expiring within one year         850  400
Expiring between one and two years        500  850
Expiring after more than two years         3,000  2,750
         4,350  4,000
All borrowing facilities are at floating rates of interest. RB Annual Report 2013 73
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
14 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
The facilities have been arranged to cover general corporate purposes including support for commercial paper issuance. All facilities incur commitment 
fees at market rates.
Headr oom	between	net	debt	and	available	facilities	at	31	December	2013	was	£2,254m	(2012:	£1,574m).
The Group’s borrowing limit at 31 December 2013 calculated in accordance with the Articles of Association was £61,689m (2012: £60,468m).
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities and the derivatives which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based 
on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date, including interest to be paid. 
        Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
       Total 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 December 2013       £m £m £m £m £m
Commercial paper       (2,159) (2,159) – – –
Bonds       (744) (17) (17) (354) (356)
Other borrowings        (22) (19) – (3) –
Trade payables       (991) (991) – – –
Other payables       (1,826) (1,777) (15) (34) –
        Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
       Total 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 December 2012       £m £m £m £m £m
Commercial paper       (3,250) (3,250) – – –
Other borrowings        (24) (21) – (3) –
Trade payables       (948) (948) – – –
Other payables       (1,767) (1,750) – (17) –
The table below analyses the Group’s derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based  
on the remaining period between the balance sheet and the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows which have been calculated using spot rates at the relevant balance sheet date.
        Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
        1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 December 2013        £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts        
Outflow        (5,240) (47) – –
Inflow        5,099 47 – –
        Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over
        1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years
At 31 December 2012        £m £m £m £m
Forward exchange contracts        
Outflow        (4,233) (70) – –
Inflow        4,190 70 – –
4. Capital Management
The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term 
available for sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments (refer to note 16). Total equity includes share capital, reserves and 
retained earnings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet. 
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Net debt (note 16)         2,096  2,426
Total equity         6,336  5,922
         8,432  8,348
The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and 
benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure and providing returns for Shareholders, the Company provided returns to Shareholders in 2013 in the 
form of dividends and the buy back of shares. Refer to notes 27 and 22 respectively.
The Group monitors net debt and at year end the Group had net debt of £2,096m (2012: £2,426m). The Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash 
generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
74 RB Annual Report 2013
15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Cash at bank and in hand         304  371
Short-term bank deposits         504  516
Cash and cash equivalents         808  887
The Group operates in a number of territories, where there are either foreign currency exchange restrictions or where it is difficult for the Group to 
extract cash readily and easily in the short-term. As a result £109m (2012: £115m) of cash included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted for use by 
the Group.
16 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – BORROWINGS
         2013  2012
Current         £m  £m
Bank loans and overdrafts
1
         18  19
Commercial paper
2
         2,149  3,250
Finance lease obligations         2  2
         2,169  3,271
         2013  2012
Non-current         £m  £m
Bonds         595  –
Finance lease obligations         3  3
         598  3
1
 Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies, all are unsecured and bear interest based on relevant LIBOR equivalent.
2
 Commercial paper was issued in US dollars, is unsecured and bears interest based on relevant LIBOR equivalent. 
         2013  2012
Maturity of debt         £m  £m
Bank loans and overdrafts repayable:
Within one year or on demand         18  19
Other borrowings repayable:
Within one year:
 Commercial paper         2,149  3,250
 Finance leases         2  2
Between two and five years:
 Bonds         299  –
     Finance leases (payable by instalments)        3  3
Over five years:
   Bonds         296  –
         2,749  3,255
Gross borrowings (unsecured)         2,767  3,274
         2013  2012
Analysis of net debt          £m  £m
Cash and cash equivalents          808  887
Overdrafts          (3)  (5)
Borrowings (excluding overdrafts)         (2,764)  (3,269)
Current available for sale financial assets        2  4
Derivative financial instruments         (139)  (43)
         (2,096)  (2,426)
         2013  2012
Reconciliation of net debt          £m  £m
Net debt at beginning of year          (2,426)  (1,795)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents        (34)  264 
Repayment of borrowings          1,002  112
Proceeds from borrowings          (637)  (887) 
Borrowings acquired in business combination        –  (99)
Exchange and other movements          (1)  (21)
Net debt at end of year          (2,096)  (2,426) RB Annual Report 2013 75
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
17 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 
        Legal  Restructuring Other Total
        provisions provisions provisions provisions
        £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 (restated)
1
        34 30 114 178
Charged to the income statement        26 123 16 165
Arising on business combination        7 – 14 21 
Utilised during the year        (8) (87) (41) (136)
Released to the income statement        – – (23)  (23)
Exchange adjustments        – – (1) (1)
At 31 December 2012 (restated)
2
        59 66 79 204
Charged to the income statement        241 9 30 280
Arising on business combination        – – 21 21
Utilised during the year        (9) (39) (40) (88)
Released to the income statement        (6) (12) (29) (47)
Exchange adjustments        1 – – 1
At 31 December 2013        286 24 61 371
Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows:
           2012 
         2013  (restated)
2
         £m  £m
Current         215  104
Non-current         156  100
         371  204
1
 Provisions previously reported as ‘Other provisions’ have now been reported as ‘Legal’ and ‘Other’ provisions.
2
 Refer to note 26 for further details.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will be 
an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Legal provisions include £222m (2012: £nil) of exceptional legal provisions in relation to a number of historic regulatory investigations by various 
government authorities in a number of markets. These investigations involve mainly competition law inquiries.
The restructuring provision relates principally to redundancies, the majority of which is expected to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions include onerous lease provisions expiring between 2014 and 2016 of £6m (2012: £7m) and environmental and other obligations 
throughout the Group, the majority of which are expected to be used within five years.
18 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS 
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases due:
Within one year         57  37
Later than one and less than five years        90  72
After five years         23  32
         170  141
Operating lease rentals charged to the income statement in 2013 were £71m (2012: £54m).
As at 31 December 2013, total amounts expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-lease arrangements were £4m (2012: £5m). 
Amounts credited to the income statement in respect of sub-lease arrangements were £1m (2012: £2m).
19 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities comprising guarantees relating to subsidiary undertakings, at 31 December 2013 amounted to £1m (2012: £3m).
The Group is involved in a number of investigations by government authorities and has made provisions for such investigations, where appropriate. 
Where it is too early to determine the likely outcome of these matters, the Directors have made no provision for such potential liabilities. 
The Group from time to time is involved in disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in a number of jurisdictions around the world. Where 
appropriate, the Directors make provisions based on their assessment of each case. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
76 RB Annual Report 2013
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
         2013  2012 
         £m  £m
Trade payables         991  948
Other payables         127  119
Other tax and social security payable        112  98
Accruals         1,685  1,677
         2,915  2,842
21 PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT COMMITMENTS
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans around the world covering many of its employees, which  
are principally funded. The Group’s most significant defined benefit pension plan (UK) is a final salary plan, which closed to new entrants in 2005.  
As at 31 December 2013 there were 6,902 (2012: 6,843) participants receiving benefits, 5,949 (2012: 6,168) participants with deferred benefits and 
365 (2012: 516) active participants. Trustees of the plan are appointed by the Group, active members and pensioner membership, and are responsible 
for the governance of the plan, including paying all administrative costs and compliance with regulations. The plan is funded by the payment of 
contributions to the plan’s Trust, which is a separate entity from the rest of the Group. The Group also operates a number of other post-retirement plans 
in	certain	countries.	The	major	plan	is	in	the	US	(US	Retir ee	Health	Car e	Plan),	wher e	salaried	participants	become	eligible	for	r etir ee	health	car e	benefits	
after they reach a combined ‘age and years of service rendered’ figure of 70, although the age must be a minimum of 55. This plan closed to new 
members in 2009. As at 31 December 2013 there were 2,422 (2012: 2,691) eligible retirees and 1,061 (2012: 1,193) current employees potentially 
eligible. A Benefits Committee of the plan is appointed by the Group, and is responsible for the governance of the plan, including paying all 
administrative costs and compliance with regulations. This plan is unfunded. 
           2012 
         2013   (restated)
1
         £m  £m
Balance sheet assets for:   
Other         50  27
Asset in balance sheet         50  27
Balance sheet obligations for:   
UK         (68)  (177)
US (medical)         (117)  (128)
Other         (116)  (121)
Liability in balance sheet         (301)  (426)
Net pension liability         (251)  (399)
Income statement charge included in operating profit for
2
:   
Defined contribution plans         27  25
Defined benefit plans (net charge excluding interest)    
    UK         9  8
    US (medical)         3  (1)
    Other         12  11
Total pension costs recognised in operating profit (note 5)      51  43
Income statement charge included in net finance expense (note 6)     8  19
Income statement charge included in profit on ordinary activities before tax    59  62
Remeasurements (gains)/losses for:   
UK         (25)  34
US (medical)         (12)  2
Other         (31)  16
         (68)  52
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
2
  The income statement charge included within operating profit includes current service cost, administrative costs, past service costs and gains and 
losses on settlement and curtailment.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 
       2013    2012 
           (restated)
1
       
     US    US
    UK (medical) Other Total UK (medical) Other Total
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded obligations    (1,223) – (258) (1,481) (1,181) – (257) (1,438)
Fair value of plan assets    1,155 – 303 1,458 1,004 – 277 1,281
(Deficit)/surplus of funded plans    (68) – 45 (23) (177) – 20 (157)
Present value of unfunded obligations   – (117) (111) (228) – (128) (114) (242)
Liability in balance sheet    (68) (117) (66) (251) (177) (128) (94) (399)
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details. RB Annual Report 2013 77
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
21 PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)
The movement in the Group’s net liability is as follows: 
      Present value of obligation   Fair value of plan assets
       
     US    US
    UK (medical) Other Total UK (medical) Other Total
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 (restated)
1
    1,092 133 357 1,582 (896) – (216) (1,112)
Current service cost    8 3 11 22 – – – –
Curtailment gain    – (4) – (4) – – – –
Interest expense/(income)    51 6 14 71 (42) – (10) (52)
    59 5 25 89 (42) – (10) (52)
Remeasurements:         
-  Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in 
  interest income    – – – – (41) – (6) (47)
- (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic assumptions  (4) (3) – (7) – – – –
- (Gain)/loss from change in assumptions   85 13 9 107 – – – –
- Experience losses/(gains)    (6) (8) 13 (1) – – – –
    75 2 22 99 (41) – (6) (47)
Exchange differences    – (6) (13) (19) – – 10 10
Contributions – employees    1 – – 1 (1) – – (1)
Contributions – employers    – – – – (70) (6) (75) (151)
Payments from plans:         
    Benefit payments    (46) (6) (20) (72) 46 6 20 72
As at 31 December 2012 (restated) 
1
   1,181 128 371 1,680 (1,004) – (277) (1,281)
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
         
At 1 January 2013     1,181 128 371 1,680 (1,004) – (277) (1,281)
Current service cost    9 3 12 24 – – – –
Interest expense/(income)    50 5 12 67 (44) – (15) (59)
    59 8 24 91 (44) – (15) (59)
Remeasurements:         
- Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in  
   interest income    – – – – (51) – (26) (77)
- (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic assumptions  (10) 9 6 5 – – – –
- (Gain)/loss from change in assumptions   25 (13) (21) (9)  – – – 
- Experience (gains)/losses    11 (8) 10 13 – – – –
    26 (12) (5) 9 (51) – (26) (77)
Exchange differences    – (2) (1) (3) – – (1) (1)
Contributions – employees    1 – – 1 (1) – – (1)
Contributions – employers    – – – – (99) (5) (4) (108)
Payments from plans:         
- Benefit payments    (44) (5) (20) (69) 44 5 20 69
As at 31 December 2013     1,223 117 369 1,709 (1,155) – (303) (1,458)
The significant actuarial assumptions used for the two major plans as at 31 December 2013 were:
        2013   2012
       
        US   US
      UK  (medical) UK  (medical)
      %  % %  %
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries     3.6  – 4.5  –
Rate of increase in deferred pensions during deferment    3.4  – 2.9  –
Rate of increase in pension payments – pensioners    3.1  – 2.7  –
Rate of increase in pension payments – non-pensioners    3.1  – 2.7  –
Discount rate      4.4  4.8 4.3  4.1
Inflation assumption      3.6  – 3.0  –
Annual medical cost inflation      –  5.0–9.0 –  5.0–9.0 Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
78 RB Annual Report 2013
21 PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)
Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. For the UK plan the 
mortality assumptions were based on the following tables; the average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at aged 60 on the balance sheet 
date is as follows:
        2013   2012
       
      UK  US UK  US
      years  years years  years
Male      28.4  25.1 28.2  24.1
Female      30.3  27.5 30.1  25.8
The average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at aged 60 (15 years after the balance sheet date for the UK and 20 years after the balance 
sheet date for the US), is as follows:
        2013   2012
       
      UK  US UK  US
      years  years years  years
Male      30.2  27.3 30.0  25.7
Female      32.2  29.4 31.9  26.7
For the UK plan the mortality assumptions were based on the standard SAPS mortality table with medium cohort improvements to 2009 (scaled by 90% 
for males and 100% for females). Allowance for future improvements is made by adopting the 2012 edition of the CMI series with a long term trend of 
1.5% per annum.
For the US plan the mortality assumptions were determined using the RP2000 Generational Mortality Table.
The sensitivity of the UK defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions 
 
         Change in Defined  
       Change in assumption Benefit Obligation
Discount rate       Increase 0.1% Decrease by 1.8%
RPI increase       Increase 0.1% Increase by 1.4%
Life expectancy      Members younger by 1 year Increase by 2.3%
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to 
occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Impact of medical cost trend rates
A one percentage change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 Impact on defined benefit obligation
        2013   2012
       
      +1%  -1% +1%  -1%
      £m  £m £m  £m
Effect on service cost and interest cost     1  (1) 2  (1)
Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation     18  (15) 20  (16)
Group plan assets are comprised as follows: 
       2013    2012
           (restated)
1
       
     US    US
    UK (medical) Other Total UK (medical) Other Total
    £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Total equities    293 – 163 456 407 – 143 550
Total bonds    655 – 120 775 521 – 102 623
Total property    196 – 11 207 68 – 7 75
Total other assets    11 – 9 20 8 – 25 33
Fair value of plan assets    1,155 – 303 1,458 1,004 – 277 1,281
1
 Refer to note 1 for further details.
All Total equities and Total bonds are quoted investments. All Total other assets are unquoted investments.
Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical plans, the group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which 
are detailed below:
Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets underperform this 
yield, this will create a deficit. Both the UK and US plans hold equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while 
providing volatility and risk in the short-term. As the plans mature, the Group intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets 
that better match the liabilities. All the UK plans have agreed with the Company a plan to de-risk the investment strategy of the plans at a pace that  
is commensurate with a planned return to full funding over a reasonable time scale. The de-risking plan provides for a proportion of the investment 
portfolio to move from equity holdings to government and corporate bonds over time. The corporate bonds are global securities with an emphasis on 
the	UK	and	US.	However ,	the	Gr oup	believes	that	due	to	the	long-term	natur e	of	the	plan	liabilities	and	the	str ength	of	the	supporting	Gr oup,	a	level	 
of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Group’s long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently. 
Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the 
value of the plans’ bond holdings. RB Annual Report 2013 79
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
21 PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)
Inflation risk: Some of the Group pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most  
cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation). The majority of the plans’ assets are either 
unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities) inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.  
In the US plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk. 
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member. Whilst the plans allow for an increase in  
life expectancy, increases above this assumption will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. This is particularly significant in the UK plan, where 
inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Change in regulations: The Group is aware that future changes to the regulatory framework may impact the funding basis of the various plans in the 
future. The Group’s pensions department monitors the changes in legislation and analyses the risks as and when they occur. 
Investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. A large 
portion of assets in 2013 consists of quoted equities and quoted bonds, although the group also invests in property, and cash. The group believes  
that quoted equities offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk. The Trustees of all the UK funds have moved the 
overwhelming majority of their assets to low cost investment funds in consultation with the Company whilst maintaining a prudent diversification.
For the largest UK plan, a full independent actuarial valuation was carried out at 5 April 2010 and a new valuation is currently underway with an 
effective date of 5 April 2013. For the US plan, a full independent actuarial valuation was carried out at 1 January 2012. The Group has agreed that it 
will aim to eliminate the pension plan deficit in the UK and Ireland over the next four years. Funding levels are monitored on an annual basis and the 
current agreed contribution rate is 19.5% of pensionable salaries in the UK and nil in the US. The triennial valuation for the largest UK plan (effective 
date 5 April 2013) is due to be finalised during 2014, and any further contributions in excess of the ongoing contribution rate of 19.5% will be finalised 
at that time. The total contribution expected for 2014 is £54m and will be finalised when the current UK plan valuation is signed off by the Group and 
Trustee. The Group considers that the contribution rates set at the last valuation date, and any future further contributions in excess of the contribution 
rate, will be sufficient to eliminate the deficit over the agreed period and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase 
significantly. For the purpose of IAS19 the projected unit valuation method was used for the UK and US plans, rolling forward the preliminary UK plan 
triennial valuation results (at 5 April 2013) and the 1 January 2012 US plan valuation to 31 December 2013. For the largest UK plan, the weighted 
average duration of the deferred benefit obligation is 17.3 years (2012: 17.3 years).
22 SHARE CAPITAL
        Equity  Nominal Subscriber  Nominal
        ordinary value ordinary value
Issued and fully paid        shares  £m  shares £m
At 1 January 2013       734,210,757 73 2 –
Allotments        2,324,422 1 – –
At 31 December 2013       736,535,179 74 2 –
        Equity  Nominal Subscriber  Nominal
        ordinary value ordinary value
Issued and fully paid        shares  £m  shares £m
At 1 January 2012       728,621,602 73 2 –
Allotments        5,589,155 – – –
At 31 December 2012       734,210,757 73 2 –
The holders of equity ordinary shares (par value 10p) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per 
share at meetings of the Parent Company.
The 	 holders 	 of 	 subscriber 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 (par 	 value 	 £1) 	 have 	 no 	 entitlement 	 to 	 dividends. 	 Holders 	 have 	 no 	 right 	 to 	 attend 	 or 	 vote 	 at 	 any 	 general 	 meeting	
of the Company unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or vary the rights attached to the subscriber shares.
Allotment of ordinary shares
During the year 2,324,422 ordinary shares (2012: 5,589,155 ordinary shares) were allotted and 4,258,793 ordinary shares were released from Treasury 
(2012: nil) to satisfy vestings/exercises under the Group’s various share schemes as follows:
       2013    2012
       
     Number Consideration Number Consideration
Ordinary shares of 10p     of shares £m  of shares £m
Executive Share Options – exercises     4,638,734 131 3,024,735 74
Restricted Shares Awards – vesting     1,571,035 – 1,405,345 –
Total under Executive Share Option and Restricted Share Schemes  6,209,769 131 4,430,080 74
Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan – vesting   40,000 – 20,000 –
Savings-Related Share Option Schemes – exercises   333,446 7 1,139,075 24
Total     6,583,215 138 5,589,155 98
Market Purchases of Shares
During 2013 the Company purchased 6,000,000 equity ordinary shares in accordance with its share buy back programme (2012: 14,991,643) all  
of which are held as Treasury shares. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £279m (including stamp duty) which has been deducted from 
Shareholders’ equity (2012: £535m). 4,258,793 Treasury shares were released in 2013, leaving a balance held at 31 December 2013 of 16,732,850 
(2012: 14,991,643). Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
80 RB Annual Report 2013
23 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Group operates a number of incentive schemes, including a share option scheme, a restricted share scheme, and other share award schemes.  
All schemes are equity settled. The charge for share-based payments for the year was £55m (2012: £49m).
Executive Share Awards
Share options and restricted shares (Executive share awards) are awarded to the Top400 Management Group. Executive Share Awards have a  
contractual life of ten years but vest according to the following compound average annual growth (CAAG) rates in adjusted earnings per share over a 
three-year period:
        Adjusted earnings per
CAAG         share growth over % of options and
per year (%)        three years (%) shares vesting
9         29.5  100
8          26.0  80
7          22.5  60
6          19.1  40
The cost is spread over the three years of the performance period. For Executive Committee and Top40 members vesting conditions are not retested.  
For remaining Top400 members the targets can be retested over four or five years. If any target has not been met any remaining shares or options 
which have not vested will lapse. 
Other Share Awards
Other share awards represent SAYE Schemes (offered to all staff within the relevant geographic area) and a number of Senior Executive Share 
Ownership Policy Plan (SOPP) awards. Other share awards have contractual lives of three to seven years and are generally not subject to any vesting 
criteria other than the employee’s continued employment.
Individual tranches of these other share awards are not material for detailed disclosure and therefore have been aggregated in the tables below.
All outstanding Executive and Other share awards as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 are included in the tables below which analyse the 
charge for 2013 and 2012. The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of the award.
Table 1: Fair value
        Black-Scholes model assumptions
 
    Exercise  Share price on  Dividend  Risk-free Fair value of
    price Performance grant date Volatility yield Life interest rate one award
Award   Grant date £ period £ % % years % £
Share options
2004  08 December 2003 12.76 2004-06 12.80 24 2.6 4 4.50 2.46
2005  06 December 2004 15.47 2005-07 15.44 23 2.3 4 4.88 2.99
2006  05 December 2005 18.10 2006-08 18.16 22 2.4 4 4.69 3.33
2007  08 December 2006 22.57 2007-09 23.00 20 2.2 4 4.65 4.23
2008  11 December 2007 29.44 2008-10 29.72 20 1.8 4 5.53 5.99
2009  08 December 2008 27.29 2009-11 27.80 25 3.1 4 2.78 4.69
2010  07 December 2009 31.65 2010-12 31.80 26 3.5 4 1.69 4.70
2011   01 December 2010 34.64 2011-13 34.08 26 4.3 4 2.16 4.49
2012  05 December 2011 32.09 2012-14 32.19 25 5.4 4 1.00 3.18
2013  03 December 2012 39.14 2013-15 39.66 20 4.3 4 0.61 3.29
2014  11 December 2013 47.83 2014-16 46.69 19 3.7 4 0.76 3.85
Restricted shares
2009  08 December 2008 – 2009-11 27.80 25 3.1 4 2.78 24.31
2010  07 December 2009 – 2010-12 31.80 26 3.5 4 1.69 27.23
2011  01 December 2010 – 2011-13 34.08 26 4.3 4 2.16 28.22
2012  05 December 2011 – 2012-14 32.19 25 5.4 4 1.00 25.30
2013  03 December 2012 – 2013-15 39.66 20 4.3 4 0.61 32.76
2014  11 December 2013 – 2014-16 46.69 19 3.7 4 0.76 39.80 RB Annual Report 2013 81
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
23 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
Table 2: Share awards movements 2013
     Movement in number of options
 
       Options    Options
       outstanding    outstanding
      Fair value of at 1 Jan  Granted/   at 31 Dec
      one award 2013 adjustments Lapsed Exercised 2013
Award     Grant date £ number number number number number
Share options
2004  08 December 2003  2.46 67,000 – – (67,000) –
2005  06 December 2004 2.99 165,511 – – (52,061) 113,450
2006  05 December 2005 3.33 263,300 – – (35,000) 228,300
2007  08 December 2006 4.23 1,160,358 – – (841,856) 318,502
2008  11 December 2007 5.99 1,844,079 – – (1,037,886) 806,193
2009  08 December 2008 4.69 2,172,285 – (1,513) (1,075,071)  1,095,701
2010  07 December 2009 4.70 2,955,162 – (1,469) (1,155,308) 1,798,385
2011  01 December 2010 4.49 3,055,949 4,667 (143,162) (359,422) 2,558,032
2012  05 December 2011 3.18 3,186,439 14,000 (264,914) (15,130) 2,920,395
2013  03 December 2012 3.29 4,022,000 90,000 (791,412) – 3,320,588
2014  11 December 2013 3.85 – 4,020,400 – – 4,020,400
Restricted shares
2010  07 December 2009 27.23 1,344,186 – (62) (1,344,124) –
2011  01 December 2010 28.22 1,396,412 2,333 (71,097) (214,152) 1,113,496
2012  05 December 2011 25.30 1,477,571 7,000 (122,364) (12,759) 1,349,448
2013  03 December 2012 32.76 1,986,000 104,000 (472,355) – 1,617,645
2014  11 December 2013 39.80 – 1,985,000 – – 1,985,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE  Various Various 662,986 134,254 (52,920) (138,332) 605,988
US SAYE  Various Various 643,736 147,514 (68,637) (158,136) 564,477
Overseas SAYE  Various Various 1,084,343 2,011 (76,991) (36,978) 972,385
SOPP  Various Various 180,000 50,000 (10,000) (40,000) 180,000
      
Weighted average exercise price (share options)   £32.13 £47.57 £37.03 £28.17 £36.57
Table 3: Share awards movements 2012
     Movement in number of options
 
       Options    Options
       outstanding    outstanding
      Fair value of at 1 Jan  Granted/   at 31 Dec
      one award 2012 adjustments Lapsed Exercised 2012
Award     Grant date £ number number number number number
Share options
2003  22 November 2002 2.05 67,319 – – (67,319) –
2004  08 December 2003  2.46 263,000 – – (196,000) 67,000
2005  06 December 2004 2.99 398,511 – – (233,000) 165,511
2006  05 December 2005 3.33 581,971 – – (318,671) 263,300
2007  08 December 2006 4.23 1,516,358 – (1,000) (355,000) 1,160,358
2008  11 December 2007 5.99 2,790,669 – (3,000) (943,590) 1,844,079
2009  08 December 2008 4.69 2,991,334 – (5,353) (813,696) 2,172,285
2010  07 December 2009 4.70 3,229,322 – (182,958) (91,202) 2,955,162
2011  01 December 2010 4.49 3,559,047 – (496,841) (6,257) 3,055,949
2012  05 December 2011 3.18 4,020,400 (686,800) (147,161) – 3,186,439
2013  03 December 2012 3.29 – 4,022,000 – – 4,022,000
Restricted shares
2009  08 December 2008 24.31 1,338,916 – (2,000) (1,336,916) –
2010  07 December 2009 27.23 1,493,830 – (86,447) (63,197) 1,344,186
2011  01 December 2010 28.22 1,620,015 25,000 (243,371) (5,232) 1,396,412
2012  05 December 2011 25.30 2,010,200 (461,550) (71,079) – 1,477,571
2013  03 December 2012 32.76 – 1,986,000 – – 1,986,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE  Various Various 754,823 152,282 (77,753) (166,366) 662,986
US SAYE  Various Various 722,362 203,972 (109,551) (173,047) 643,736
Overseas SAYE  Various Various 1,975,152 7,956 (99,103) (799,662) 1,084,343
SOPP  Various Various 100,000 110,000 (10,000) (20,000) 180,000
Weighted average exercise price (share options)   £29.53 £38.11 £33.46 £24.37 £32.13
For options outstanding at the year end the weighted average remaining contractual life is 5.63 years (2012: 5.69 years). Options outstanding at  
31 December 2013 that could have been exercised at that date were 4,360,531 (2012: 5,672,533) with a weighted average exercise price of £28.35 
(2012: £26.08). Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
82 RB Annual Report 2013
23 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
The assumptions made within the valuation calculation with respect to the achievement of performance criteria are based on the Directors’ expectations 
in light of the Group’s business model and relevant published targets.
Under the terms of the plans, early exercise may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and therefore the effect of early exercise is not incorporated 
into the calculation. 
The calculation also assumes that there will be no leavers in the following year. No material modifications have been made to the plans in 2013 or 2012 
for the purposes of the valuation.
Volatility: An estimate of future volatility is made with reference to historical volatility over a similar time period to the performance period or the contractual 
life as appropriate.
Historical	volatility	is	calculated	based	on	the	annualised	standar d	deviation	of	the	Gr oup’ s	daily	shar e	price	movement,	being	an	appr oximation	to	the	
continuously compounded rate of return on the share.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.  
The contribution in 2013 was £35m (2012: £27m).
The weighted average share price for the year was £45.80 (2012: £35.79).
Options and restricted shares granted during the year
Options and restricted shares which may vest or become exercisable at various dates between 2015 and 2021 are as follows:
          Number of
        Price to be paid shares under
         £  option
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 – share options        47.83 4,110,400
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 – restricted shares       – 2,089,200
Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan      – 40,000
Total          6,239,600
Savings-Related Share Option Schemes
UK Scheme         37.20 129,438
US Scheme         37.20 147,514
Total          276,952
Options and restricted shares unvested/unexercised at 31 December 2013
Options and restricted shares which have vested or may vest at various dates between 2014 and 2020 are as follows:
       Price to be paid £    Number of shares under option
       
Executive share option and restricted share schemes    From To  2013  2012
Reckitt Benckiser 1999 Share Option Plan – Annual Grant    12.76 18.10 341,750 495,811
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2006 – Annual Grant – options  22.57 22.57 318,502 1,160,358
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 – Annual Grant – options  27.29 47.83 16,519,694 17,235,914
Reckitt Benckiser Long-term Incentive Plan 2007 – Annual Grant – restricted shares – – 6,065,789 6,204,169
Reckitt Benckiser Senior Executives Share Ownership Policy Plan   – – 180,000 180,000
        23,425,735 25,276,252
       Price to be paid £    Number of shares under option
       
Savings-related share option schemes     From To  2013  2012
UK Scheme      16.90 37.20 605,988 662,986
US Scheme      25.78 37.20 564,477 643,736
Overseas Scheme      21.95 27.99 972,385 1,084,343
Total         2,142,850 2,391,065
Executive Share Options are awarded at an exercise price determined on grant and payable on exercise following satisfaction of performance criteria. 
Restricted share awards entitle the recipient to receive shares at no cost following satisfaction of performance criteria. RB Annual Report 2013 83
Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements
24 RETAINED EARNINGS AND OTHER RESERVES
The merger reserve relates to the 1999 combination of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N.V. and a Group reconstruction in 2007 treated as a merger 
under Part 27 of the Companies Act 2006.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedge 
transactions that are extant at year end.
The foreign currency translation reserve contains the accumulated foreign exchange differences from the translation of the financial statements of the 
Group’s foreign operations arising when the Group’s entities are consolidated. The reserve also contains the translation of liabilities that hedge the Group’s 
net exposure in a foreign currency.
25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
On 19 March 2013 the Group purchased an additional 25% of Shanghai Manon Trading Company Limited, thereby increasing its share to 75.01%.  
The consideration for the transaction amounted to £28m, including transaction costs. 
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 5a.
The principal subsidiary undertakings included in the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2013 are disclosed in note 2 to the Parent Company 
financial statements. 
26 BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS
a. Collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS)
On 8 May 2013 the Group received regulatory approval for a three-year collaboration agreement with BMS for a number of market-leading over-the-
counter consumer health care brands in Brazil, Mexico and certain other parts of Latin America. This arrangement, which also includes personnel, 
supply contracts and an option to acquire legal title to the related intellectual property at the end of the collaboration period for a multiple of earnings, 
was secured for an upfront cash payment of $482m (£311m). 
This transaction is accounted for as a business combination under IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations.
The collaboration agreement provides the Group with an immediate health care platform, distribution network and infrastructure in Latin America and 
trusted brands with a strong fit with the Group’s existing health portfolio. 
All assets and liabilities were recognised at the following provisional fair values. The amount of consideration transferred over the net assets acquired  
is recognised as goodwill in the Group financial statements. 
           Provisional
           fair value
           £m
Intangible asset           57
Deferred tax assets           4
Provisions           (16)
Net assets acquired            45
Goodwill           36
Consideration transferred for net assets and goodwill          81
Payment for prepaid option           250
Total consideration transferred           331
Cash consideration           311
Deferred consideration           20
Total consideration transferred            331
Related to the transaction, payments totalling £250m have been attributed to the future option to acquire legal title to the related intellectual property. 
The option is exercisable by the Group at the end of the collaboration period, subject to certain payments, in addition to the £331m, to be made at that 
time. The prepayment of this option is not an asset purchased as part of the business combination under IFRS 3 (Revised), and is therefore disclosed 
separately in the table above. The prepayment is included in other non-current receivables.
The intangible asset acquired relates to the three-year collaboration agreement. 
Goodwill represents the strategic premium to establish an immediate platform, infrastructure and distribution network in the Latin American over-the-
counter consumer health care market, the value of expected synergy savings, and assembled workforce. 
Acquisition related costs of £3m are included in net operating expenses and exceptional items in the income statement.
The fair values of identifiable net assets are stated at provisional amounts which will be finalised within the 12-month hindsight period following 
acquisition. Provisional fair value adjustments cover the recognition of acquired intangibles and their associated deferred tax and accounting  
policy alignment. 
All assets and liabilities are included within the LAPAC operating segment and the health category. The amount of revenue and profit of the BMS 
business	since	acquisition	wer e	not	material	in	the	context	of	the	Gr oup	Income	Statement.	Had	the	business	been	acquir ed	on	1	January	2013,	the	
revenue and profit of the Group for the year would not have been materially different to those appearing in the Group Income Statement. Financial Statements   Notes to the Financial Statements 
84 RB Annual Report 2013
26 BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS (CONTINUED)
b. Acquisition of Schiff
On 14 December 2012 the Group acquired control of Schiff by acquiring 100% of the issued share capital for a consideration of $1.3bn (£813m). Schiff 
is a leading provider of branded vitamins, nutrition supplements and nutrition bars predominantly in the US. Schiff’s vitamins, minerals and supplements 
(VMS) product portfolio includes a number of market-leading brands in the specialist product category in the US. This transaction has been accounted 
for by the acquisition method. 
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated and disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report 
and Financial Statements. The table below sets out the movements from the provisional fair values detailed in the 2012 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements and the updated final fair values at acquisition date. The adjustments made to restate the Group balance sheet primarily relate to the 
recognition of a minor brand intangible, and adjustments to provisions for legal matters and trade related expenses due to additional information which 
has come to light during the hindsight period and recognition of related deferred tax liabilities.
These adjustments have been recorded as a prior year restatement of the balance sheet of the Group as at 31 December 2012. There is no impact to 
the Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
      Provisional fair Additional Final fair values 
      values at  fair value at acquisition
      acquisition date adjustments date
       £m  £m  £m
Intangible assets        811  4  815
Property, plant and equipment       9  (1)  8
Inventories       27    27
Trade and other receivables       27    27
Current tax receivable       9    9
Cash and cash equivalents       6    6
Borrowings        (99)    (99)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (current)      (42)  24  (18)
Trade and other payables       (37)    (37)
Deferred tax liabilities       (268)  (10)   (278)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (non-current)     (3)    (3)
Other non-current liabilities       (1)    (1)
Net assets acquired        439  17  456
Goodwill       374  (17)  357
Total consideration transferred        813  –  813
Total cash consideration       813  –  813
Total consideration transferred        813  –  813
The intangible assets acquired include the brand assets associated with Airborne, Digestive Advantage, MegaRed, Move Free and Schiff Vitamins.
c. Minor Acquisitions and Disposals
On 8 January 2013 the Group obtained control of Oriental Medicine Company Limited, a manufacturer of traditional Chinese sore throat products,  
by acquiring 100% of the share capital for cash consideration of £102m. A further £18m of cash consideration is deferred over the next three years. 
On 17 September 2012 the Group acquired a 100% interest in SICO by acquiring the trade and business assets of the leading Mexican condom 
manufacturer. 
On 29 May 2012 the Group sold the Paras personal care business for £81m, net of cash disposed. A gain of £32m is recognised in the income 
statement for the year ended 31 December 2012, of which £15m arises from deferred tax. 
27 DIVIDENDS
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Dividends on equity ordinary shares:
2012 Final paid: 78p (2011: Final 70p) per share       561  511
2013 Interim paid: 60p (2012: Interim 56p) per share       431  405
Total dividends for the year         992  916
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 77p per share which will absorb  
an estimated £554m of Shareholders’ funds. If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 29 May 2014 to Shareholders who are on the register on  
21 February 2014, with an ex-dividend date of 19 February 2014. 
28 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 24 February 2014 part of a wider legal case was settled, which related to one of the current provisions held at the balance date. The remaining 
provisions that were held in relation to this case at the balance sheet date are still considered to be appropriate.  RB Annual Report 2013 85
Financial Statements   Five-year Summary
        2012
       2013 (restated)
1
 2011 2010 2009
Income statement       £m £m  £m £m £m
Net revenue       10,043 9,567 9,485 8,453 7,753
Operating profit        2,345 2,442 2,395 2,130 1,891
Adjusted operating profit       2,616 2,577 2,487 2,231 1,891
Exceptional Items       (271) (135) (92) (101) –
Operating profit       2,345 2,442 2,395 2,130 1,891
Net finance (expense)/income       (31) (34) (19) 6 1
Profit on ordinary activities before tax      2,314 2,408 2,376 2,136 1,892
Tax on profit on ordinary activities       (574) (583) (622) (566) (474)
Attributable to non-controlling interests      (1)  (4) (9) (2) –
Net income attributable to owners of the parent     1,739 1,821 1,745 1,568 1,418
Balance sheet
Net assets       6,336 5,922 5,781 5,130 4,014
Net working capital       (863) (700) (701) (639) (867)
Statistics
Reported basis
Operating margin       23.3% 25.5% 25.3% 25.2% 24.4%
Total interest to operating profit (times covered)     75.6x 71.8x 126.1x n/a n/a
Tax rate       24.8% 24.2% 26.2% 26.5% 25.0%
Diluted earnings per share       238.5p 248.4p 237.1p 213.8p 194.7p
Dividend cover
†
       1.8x 1.9x 1.9x 1.9x 2.0x
Declared dividends per ordinary share      137p 134p 125p 115p 100p
Adjusted basis*
Operating margin       26.0% 26.9% 26.2% 26.4% 24.4%
Total interest to operating profit (times covered)     84.4x 75.8x 130.9x n/a n/a
Diluted earnings per share       269.8p 263.3p 247.1p 226.5p 194.7p
Dividend cover
†
       2.0x 2.0x 2.0x 2.0x 2.0x
† Dividend cover is calculated by dividing basic earnings/adjusted earnings per share by ordinary dividends per share relating to the year.
* Adjusted basis is calculated by adding/deducting the exceptional items from net income for the year. 
1
 Restated for change in IAS 19 as discussed in note 1 to the Group financial statements. 2011 and prior years have not been restated. 
Five-year Summary 86 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Parent Company Independent Auditors’ Report
specified by law have not been made. We  
have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility.
Other Information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in 
the Annual Report is:
•	 	 Materially	inconsistent	with	the	information	
in the audited Parent Company financial 
statements; or
•	 	 Appar ently	materially	incorr ect	based	on,	or	
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Parent Company acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
•	 	 Is	otherwise	misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the Financial 
Statements and the Audit
Our Responsibilities and those of the 
Directors 
As explained more fully in the Statement of 
Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 33, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Parent Company financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law 
and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and 
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
Other Matter
We have reported separately on the Group 
financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group 
plc for the year ended 31 December 2013. 
Mark Gill (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London  
7 March 2014
•	 	 Whether	the	accounting	policies	ar e	
appropriate to the Parent Company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed;
•	 	 The	r easonableness	of	significant	accounting	
estimates made by the Directors; and 
•	 	 The	overall	pr esentation	of	the	financial	
statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited Parent Company financial statements 
and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on Matters Prescribed by 
the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 	 The	information	given	in	the	Strategic	Report	
and the Report of the Directors for the 
financial year for which the Parent Company 
financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Parent Company  
financial statements.
•	 	 The	part	of	the	Dir ectors’	Remuneration	
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006.
Other Matters on which we are 
Required to Report by Exception
Adequacy of Accounting Records and 
Information and Explanations Received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	 	 W e	have	not	r eceived	all	the	information	and	
explanations we require for our audit; or
•	 	 Adequate	accounting	r ecor ds	have	not	been	
kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 	 The	Par ent	Company	financial	statements	
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ Remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
Report on the Parent Company 
Financial Statements
Our Opinion
In our opinion the Parent Company financial 
statements:
•	 	 Give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the	state	 
of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2013;
•	 	 Have	been	pr operly	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
•	 	 Have	been	pr epar ed	in	accor dance	with	the	
requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of 
what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have Audited
The Parent Company financial statements, 
which are prepared by Reckitt Benckiser Group 
plc, comprise:
•	 	 The	Par ent	Company	balance	sheet	as	at	 
31 December 2013; and
•	 	 The	notes	to	the	Par ent	Company	financial	
statements, which include a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation comprises 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice).
In applying the financial reporting framework, 
the Directors have made a number of subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates. In making 
such estimates, they have made assumptions 
and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements (‘Annual Report’); rather than in  
the notes to the financial statements. These are 
cross-referenced from the financial statements 
and are identified as audited.
What an Audit of Financial Statements 
Involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance with 
International Standards on Auditing (UK & 
Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’). An audit involves 
obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the financial 
statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of:
Parent Company Independent Auditors’ 
Report to the Members of Reckitt 
Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report 2013 87
Financial Statements   Parent Company Balance Sheet
          2013  2012
As at 31 December       Notes  £m  £m
Fixed assets
Investments       2  14,729  14,680
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year      3  70  59
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year     4  2  8
         72  67
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year      5  (5,676)  (4,498)
Net current liabilities         (5,604)  (4,431)
Total assets less current liabilities        9,125  10,249
Provisions for liabilities       6  (222)  –
Net assets         8,903  10,249
EQUITY
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital       7  74  73
Share premium account        8  243  184
Profit and loss reserve       8  8,586  9,992
Total Shareholders’ funds       8  8,903  10,249
The financial statements on pages 87 to 92 were approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Adrian Bellamy Rakesh Kapoor
Director Director
Parent Company Balance Sheet 88 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
1 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Accounting Convention
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
applicable UK accounting standards. Accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
As permitted by s.408 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Foreign Currency Translation
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
Taxation
The tax charge/credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of 
certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which  
to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions  
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based 
on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Fixed Assets
Fixed asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and their recoverable amount, which is determined as the higher of net realisable value and value 
in use. A review for the potential impairment of an investment is carried out by the Directors if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value of the investment may not be recoverable. Such impairment reviews are performed in accordance with FRS 11, ‘Impairment of Fixed 
Assets and Goodwill’.
Employee Share Schemes
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share schemes. Any shortfall between the cost to the employee 
and the fair market value of the awards at date of grant is charged to the income statement over the period to which the performance criteria relate, 
with the credit taken directly to the profit and loss account. Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the income 
statement over the same period with the credit included in equity. Where awards are contingent upon future events an assessment of the likelihood  
of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting year and reflected in the accounting entries made.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. 
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to 
investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the Company accounts.
Debtors
Debtors are initially recognised at fair value less provision for impairment.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will 
be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. 
Share Capital Transactions
When the Company purchases equity share capital, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge 
to equity. Purchased shares are either held in Treasury in order to satisfy employee options, or cancelled and, in order to maintain capital, an equivalent 
amount to the nominal value of the shares cancelled is transferred from the profit and loss reserve.
Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a preset obligation (i.e. when they have been approved).
Cash Flow Statement 
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has presented a Group cash flow statement in its 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements. The Directors have not 
prepared a cash flow statement for the Company. 
Notes to the Parent Company  
Financial Statements RB Annual Report 2013 89
Financial Statements   Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
2 INVESTMENTS
          Shares in subsidiary
           undertakings
           £m
Cost:
At 1 January 2013           14,680
Additions during the year           49
At 31 December 2013           14,729
Provision for impairment:
At 1 January 2013           –
Provided for during the year           –
At 31 December 2013           –
Net book amounts:
At 1 January 2013            14,680
At 31 December 2013           14,729
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2013, all of which are included in the consolidated financial statements, are shown below.
       Country of
       incorporation Effective % of 
       or registration share capital
      Product category and operation held by the Group
Reckitt Benckiser plc    holding company UK Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser (Australia) Pty Limited   health, hygiene, home Australia Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser (Brasil) Limitada    health, hygiene, home Brazil Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser (Canada) Inc.    health, hygiene, home and food Canada Ordinary 100
Reckitt	Benckiser	Deutschland	GmbH	 	 	 health,	hygiene,	home	 Germany	 Or dinary	100
Reckitt Benckiser España SL    health, hygiene, home Spain Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser France SAS    health, hygiene, home France Ordinary 100
Reckitt	Benckiser	Healthcar e	(UK)	Limited	 	 	 health,	hygiene,	home	 UK	 Or dinary	100
Reckitt Benckiser LLC    health, hygiene, home and food US Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Inc.   pharmaceuticals US Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser (India) Limited    health, hygiene, home India Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser Italia SpA    health, hygiene, home Italy Ordinary 100
Reckitt Benckiser Arabia FZE    health, hygiene, home UAE (Dubai) Ordinary 100
Schiff Nutrition International, Inc.    health US Ordinary 100
With the exception of Reckitt Benckiser plc, none of the above subsidiaries are held directly by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc. 
As permitted by s.410 of the Companies Act 2006, particulars of other subsidiary undertakings are not shown above. A full list of the Company’s 
subsidiary	undertakings	will	be	annexed	to	the	Company’ s	annual	r etur n	to	Companies	House.
3 DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Amounts owed by Group undertakings        70  59
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand.
4 DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Deferred tax assets         2  8
Deferred tax assets consist of short-term timing differences.
5 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Amounts owed to Group undertakings        5,673  4,491
Taxation and social security         3  7
         5,676  4,498
Included in the amounts owed to Group undertakings is an amount of £5,671m (2012: £4,473m) which is unsecured, carries interest at LIBOR and is 
repayable on demand. All other amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and are repayable on demand. 90 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
6 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that there will 
be an outflow of resources to settle that obligation, and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for liabilities include indemnities provided by the Company to subsidiaries for exceptional legal provisions in relation to a number of historic 
regulatory investigations by various government authorities in a number of markets. These investigations involve mainly competition law inquiries. 
Provisions expected to be settled within one year are £137m (2012: £nil) and after more than one year but less than five years are £85m (2012: £nil).
7 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
     Equity   Nominal  Subscriber   Nominal
     ordinary  value  ordinary  value
Issued and fully paid     shares   £m   shares  £m
At 1 January 2013    734,210,757  73  2  –
Allotments     2,324,422  1  –  –
At 31 December 2013    736,535,179  74  2  –
     Equity   Nominal  Subscriber   Nominal
     ordinary  value  ordinary  value
Issued and fully paid     shares   £m   shares  £m
At 1 January 2012    728,621,602  73  2  –
Allotments     5,589,155  –  –  –
At 31 December 2012    734,210,757  73  2  –
For details of the allotment of ordinary shares during 2013 refer to note 22 of the Group financial statements on page 79.
The holders of ordinary shares (par value 10p) are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share  
at meetings of the Parent Company.
The 	 holders 	 of 	 subscriber 	 or dinary 	 shar es 	 (par 	 value 	 £1) 	 have 	 no 	 entitlement 	 to 	 dividends. 	 Holders 	 have 	 no 	 right 	 to 	 attend 	 or 	 vote 	 at 	 any 	 general 	 meeting	
of the Company unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or vary the rights attached to the subscriber shares.
8 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
     Share  Share   Profit and
     capital  premium  loss reserve  Total
Movements during the year     £m  £m  £m  £m
At 1 January 2013     73  184  9,992  10,249
Loss for the financial year     –  –  (269)  (269)
Dividends     –  –  (992)  (992)
Shares allotted under share schemes     1  59  –  60
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments   –  –  49  49
Share-based payments     –  –  6  6
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury    –  –  (279)  (279)
Treasury shares reissued     –  –  79  79
At 31 December 2013     74  243  8,586  8,903
     Share  Share   Profit and
     capital  premium  loss reserve  Total
Movements during the year     £m  £m  £m  £m
At 1 January 2012     73  86  11,447  11,606
Loss for the financial year     –  –  (54)  (54)
Dividends     –  –  (916)  (916)
Shares allotted under share schemes     –  98  –  98
Capital contribution in respect of share-based payments   –  –  43  43
Share-based payments     –  –  7  7
Shares repurchased and held in Treasury    –  –  (535)  (535)
At 31 December 2012     73  184  9,992  10,249
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has £8,288m (2012: £9,725m) of its profit and loss reserve available for distribution.
During 2013 the Company purchased 6,000,000 equity ordinary shares in accordance with its share buy back programme (2012: 14,991,643) all of 
which are held as Treasury shares. The total amount paid to acquire the shares was £279m (including stamp duty) which has been deducted from 
Shareholders’ equity (2012: £535m). 4,258,793 Treasury shares were released in 2013, leaving a balance held at 31 December 2013 of 16,732,850 
(2012: 14,991,643). RB Annual Report 2013 91
Financial Statements   Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
9 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc has two employees, the Group’s CEO and CFO. The tables below include details of their share awards and those for any 
individuals previously holding these roles. Details of their share awards that are not fully vested are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
charge for share-based payments for the year was £6m (2012: £7m) and National Insurance contributions were £3m (2012: £7m). The Company has 
used the Black-Scholes pricing model to calculate the fair value of one award on the date of the grant of the awards.
The fair value of awards with options outstanding at 31 December 2013 is shown in note 23 of the Group financial statements on pages 80 to 82.
Table 1: Share awards movements 2013
    Movement in number of options
      
       Options    Options
        outstanding     outstanding at
      Fair value of at 1 January Granted/    31 December
      one award 2013 adjustments Lapsed Exercised 2013
Award    Grant date  £ number number number number number
Share options
2007  08 December 2006 4.23 800,000 – – (800,000) –
2008  11 December 2007 5.99 600,000 – – (600,000) –
2009  08 December 2008 4.69 600,000 – – (600,000) –
2010  07 December 2009 4.70 534,615 – – (534,615) –
2011  01 December 2010 4.49 334,615 – (66,923) (267,692) –
2012  05 December 2011 3.18 490,000 – (53,654) – 436,346
2013  03 December 2012 3.29 400,000 90,000 – – 490,000
2014  11 December 2013 3.85 – 490,000 – – 490,000
Restricted shares
2010  07 December 2009 27.23 267,308 – – (267,308) –
2011  01 December 2010 28.22 177,308 8,173 (33,461) (133,847) 18,173
2012  05 December 2011 25.30 245,000 – (37,628) – 207,372
2013  03 December 2012 32.76 200,000 45,000 – – 245,000
2014  11 December 2013 39.80 – 285,000 – – 285,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE  04 September 2006 6.61 1,011 – – – 1,011
Weighted average exercise price     £29.79 £46.48 £33.51 £27.94 £39.97
Table 2: Share awards movements 2012
    Movement in number of options
      
       Options    Options
        outstanding     outstanding at
      Fair value of at 1 January Granted/    31 December
      one award 2012 adjustments Lapsed Exercised 2012
Award    Grant date  £ number number number number number
2007  08 December 2006 4.23 800,000 – – – 800,000
2008  11 December 2007 5.99 600,000 – – – 600,000
2009  08 December 2008 4.69 693,077 – – (93,077) 600,000
2010  07 December 2009 4.70 653,077 – (65,385) (53,077) 534,615
2011  01 December 2010 4.49 600,000 – (265,385) – 334,615
2012  05 December 2011 3.18 490,000 – – – 490,000
2013  03 December 2012 3.29 – 400,000 – – 400,000
Restricted shares
2009  08 December 2008 24.31 346,538 – – (346,538) –
2010  07 December 2009 27.23 326,538 – (32,692) (26,538) 267,308
2011  01 December 2010 28.22 310,000 – (132,692) – 177,308
2012  05 December 2011 25.30 245,000 – – – 245,000
2013  03 December 2012 32.76 – 200,000 – – 200,000
Other share awards
UK SAYE  04 September 2006 6.61 1,011 – – – 1,011
Weighted average exercise price     £29.15 £39.14 £34.05 £28.87 £29.79
Further details of the share awards relating to the relevant Directors are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46.
For details of the contractual life, performance criteria, valuation assumptions and volatility of the share awards, please refer to note 23 of the Group 
financial statements.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options is 5.63 years (2012: 5.69 years).
The weighted average share price for the year was £45.80 (2012: £35.79). 92 RB Annual Report 2013
Financial Statements   Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
10 AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The fee charged for the statutory audit of the Company was £0.05m (2012: £0.05m).
11 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption within Financial Reporting Standard No. 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ not to disclose related party 
transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries of the Reckitt Benckiser Group. There were no other related party transactions (2012: nil). 
12 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has issued a guarantee to the Trustees of the Reckitt Benckiser Pension Fund covering the obligations of certain UK subsidiaries of the 
Group who are the sponsoring employers of the UK defined benefit pension fund. The guarantee covers any amounts due to the pension fund from 
these subsidiaries if they fail to meet their pension obligations. 
Other contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 19 of the Group financial statements.
13 DIVIDENDS
         2013  2012
         £m  £m
Dividends on equity ordinary shares:
2012 Final paid: 78p (2011: Final 70p) per share       561  511
2013 Interim paid: 60p (2012: Interim 56p) per share       431  405
Total dividends for the year         992  916
In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 77p per share which will absorb an 
estimated £554m of Shareholders’ funds. If approved by Shareholders it will be paid on 29 May 2014 to Shareholders who are on the register on  
21 February 2014, with an ex-dividend date of 19 February 2014.
14 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS
On 24 February 2014 part of a wider legal case was settled, which related to one of the current provisions held at balance sheet date. The remaining 
provisions that were held in relation to this case at the balance sheet date are still considered to be appropriate. RB Annual Report 2013 93
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
develop, could have a material adverse effect 
on our business. 
Our results of operations depend to a 
significant extent on our ability to launch  
and sell products that appeal to, and are 
accepted by consumers and, in particular, our 
Powerbrands. Consumer preferences, tastes 
and habits are constantly evolving. Various 
factors, some of which are beyond our control, 
may have an adverse impact on demand for  
our Powerbrands. For example, certain  
products within our health and hygiene 
categories have in the past exhibited, and may 
in the future exhibit, seasonal fluctuations. 
Launch of new products or variants of our 
existing Powerbrands may not neutralise the 
impact of weak performance of one of  
our Powerbrands. Similarly, our failure to 
differentiate our existing Powerbrands or future 
products from competitors, whether through 
quality, innovation, marketing or otherwise, 
may adversely impact consumer demand for 
our products. Certain markets, including a 
number of emerging markets in which we plan 
to focus our investment and growth efforts, 
exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to 
macro-economic factors than other markets. 
Similarly, if consumer patterns change within 
the major consumer clusters that we have 
identified, or fail to react as anticipated, we 
may have to reassess our growth plans, and 
alter our sales strategy. 
If we are unable to respond to changes in 
consumer demand in a timely or adequate 
manner, or at all, and/or accurately predict or 
anticipate factors that may impact demand, 
and if we are unable to differentiate our brands 
from competitors, our business, financial 
condition and results of operations may be 
materially and adversely affected. 
Our business, financial condition, and results  
of operations substantially depend on our 
ability to improve our existing products, and 
successfully develop and launch new products 
and technologies.
Our ability to maintain and grow our market 
share depends to a large extent on our ability 
to successfully and cost-effectively introduce 
and market new products (whether variants  
of existing, or newly developed, products),  
and to develop equipment, technology and 
manufacturing processes for our products.  
If we are unable to successfully develop, launch 
and market new products that obtain consumer 
acceptance, in a timely manner, or at all, we 
may be unable to compete and maintain or 
grow our market share. Any new product or 
line extension may not generate sufficient 
consumer interest and sales levels to become a 
profitable product or to cover the costs of its 
60 operating companies in nearly 200 
countries. Consequently, our business and 
results of operations are affected by changes  
in both global economic conditions and the 
individual markets in which we operate.  
Global economic trends continue to pose 
challenges, and in many of our markets, 
austerity measures, constraints on consumer 
lending and slow or no economic growth 
continue to impede consumer purchasing 
power and adversely impact consumer 
confidence. In addition, terrorist acts, civil 
unrest and other similar disturbances, as well  
as natural catastrophes, can impact economic 
conditions and consumer confidence, degrade 
infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and 
otherwise result in business interruption. 
A variety of factors may adversely affect our 
results of operations and financial condition 
during periods of economic uncertainty or 
instability, social or labour unrest or political 
upheaval in the markets in which we operate. 
For example, our operations and supply chains 
may be disrupted. Consumers may purchase 
less or switch to purchasing generic products, 
private label products and economy brands,  
as opposed to branded products, which could 
impact our sales, or result in a shift in our 
product mix from higher margin to lower 
margin product offerings. In addition, we may 
face increased pricing pressure or competing 
promotional activity for lower-priced products 
as competitors seek to maintain sales volumes. 
Periods of economic upheaval may also expose 
us to greater counterparty risks, including with 
customers, suppliers and financial institutions, 
who may become insolvent or otherwise  
unable to perform their obligations. We may 
also experience greater fluctuations in foreign 
currency movements, increased commodity 
prices and increased transportation and  
energy costs. Periods of economic and  
political upheaval may also lead to government 
actions, such as imposition of martial law,  
trade restrictions, foreign ownership 
restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, 
nationalisation or expropriation of property  
or other resources, or changes in legal and 
regulatory requirements, including those 
resulting in potentially adverse tax 
consequences. We may also be unable to 
access credit markets, including the commercial 
paper market, on favourable terms, or at all, 
which could materially adversely affect our 
liquidity and capital resources or significantly 
increase our cost of capital. 
Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a 
significant portion of our revenue, and any 
material adverse change to demand for existing 
Powerbrands or any future products we may 
Relationships
The Group’s key external relationships are 
broadly based. With our customers (retailers) no 
single one accounts for more than 10% of net 
revenue and our top ten customers account for 
less than one quarter of net revenue. Although 
these customers continue to become more 
concentrated in their chosen markets, the 
Group’s wide geographical spread and diversity 
of product lines provides a natural balance.
Equally, the Group sources its raw and 
packaging materials and finished goods from  
a wide variety of predominantly international 
companies and co-packers. No single supplier 
accounts for more than 5% of cost of sales  
and the Group’s global purchasing function 
balances the need for competitive pricing with 
continuity of supply.
The Group’s brand portfolio is also broadly 
based with the most significant Powerbrand 
accounting for approximately 9% of net 
revenue. Each brand in turn is founded on a 
variety of appropriate technology platforms 
which drive a steady stream of product 
development. The individual brands are 
self-supporting and independent of the RB 
corporate brand, and each other. This reduces 
the potential for any brand reputation damage 
to impact across a broader front.
The financial stability of the Group is  
supported by a low level of leverage, as 
borrowings to finance acquisitions are paid 
down through strong cash flows, and a stable 
Shareholder base.
Given the combination of the financial  
strength and geographic spread of the Group, 
its range of brands and products, and its low 
level of reliance on individual key customers 
and suppliers, the Directors consider that its 
exposure to specific events which would 
materially adversely affect the Group’s ability  
to deliver its strategic objectives is low.
Principal Risks
The principal and specific risks that, in the 
opinion of the Directors, pose the most 
significant threat to the delivery of the Group’s 
listed strategic objectives are as listed:
Any of the following, or a combination of such 
factors, could have a material adverse effect on 
our business, prospects, results of operations or 
financial condition.
We could be adversely affected by economic 
conditions in, and political developments 
affecting, the markets in which we operate. 
We are one of the world’s leading 
manufacturers and marketers of branded 
health, hygiene and home products, selling a 
comprehensive range of products through over 
Our Relationships and  
Principal Risks 94 RB Annual Report 2013
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
In addition, our patents relating to the 
Suboxone sublingual Film expire on various 
dates through 2030. We have recently been 
informed of the filing of abbreviated new drug 
applications (‘ANDA’) by Par Pharmaceutical 
Companies, Inc. (‘Par Pharmaceutical’), Watson 
Laboratories, Inc. (‘Watson Laboratories’) and 
Alvogen Pine Brook, Inc. (‘Alvogen’) for generic 
Suboxone sublingual Films in the United States. 
The FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic 
version of a branded drug without requiring  
the applicant to undertake the full clinical 
testing necessary to obtain approval to market 
a new drug. An ANDA applicant usually needs 
to only submit data demonstrating that its 
product has the same active ingredient(s) and  
is bioequivalent to the branded product, in 
addition to any data necessary to establish that 
any difference in strength, dosage form, 
inactive ingredients or delivery mechanism does 
not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, 
as compared to the reference drug. Although 
we have filed a patent infringement lawsuit 
against the ANDA applicants noted above, 
which means that the FDA cannot approve the 
generic entrant until the earlier of 30 months 
or the disposition of the patent infringement 
proceedings, the lawsuit may not be resolved in 
our favour or we may choose to settle due to 
the unpredictable nature and significant costs 
of patent litigation. If any other generic 
company is able to obtain FDA approval of its 
generic Suboxone sublingual Film, it may be 
able to launch its generic version of Suboxone 
sublingual Film prior to the expiration of any  
or all of the applicable patents covering our 
Suboxone sublingual Film. 
Further, pharmacies may discontinue stocking, 
doctors may stop prescribing, and payors may 
reduce the reimbursement on or may stop 
reimbursing, Suboxone sublingual Film, which 
may have an additional adverse impact on  
our revenue. 
Loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone  
and Subutex, whether due to competition from 
generic products or due to decisions not to 
prescribe or stock our drugs, could have a 
material adverse effect on our results of 
operations and our business.
We compete in intensely competitive industries. 
We face vigorous competition worldwide. We 
compete with well-established local, regional, 
national and international companies that 
target the same consumer base as we do, some 
of whom may have more significant resources 
with which to establish and promote their 
products. We also face competition from 
‘private label’ products, and generic non-
branded products, which typically are sold at 
lower prices, by major retail companies, some 
of whom may be our customers. Competition 
from these sources has grown in recent years. 
In the pharmaceutical sector, we also compete 
with big generic manufacturers and smaller 
branded firms, as well as R&D firms, which may 
have more significant resources than we do. 
Consolidation of key trade customers in the 
sectors in which we operate may limit 
opportunities for growth, and increase 
competitive pressures further. 
Similarly, any litigation that we face may subject 
us to increasing negative attention in the press. 
In addition, companies with global operations 
recently have come under criticism for 
corporate tax planning, and criticism of our 
structures or those of our peers could also 
generate negative publicity. Any negative 
publicity could significantly undermine our 
reputation, and current methods of 
dissemination of information (including the 
ability of reports to ‘go viral’ online) mean  
that potential threats to reputation can occur  
in a very short period of time and reach a far 
broader audience than historically was the case, 
making it far more difficult to address. 
Moreover, third parties may sell products that 
are counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our 
brands, or inferior ‘lookalike’ brands that 
resemble ours. Consumers may confuse our 
products with such brands.
We could be materially adversely affected by 
the loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone 
and Subutex.
Our RB Pharmaceuticals business, which 
manufactures and distributes Subutex (a 
buprenorphine-based treatment for opiate 
dependence) and Suboxone (a buprenorphine 
and naloxone-based treatment for opiate 
dependence), generated 8% of our net revenue 
and 16% of our operating profit before 
exceptional items in 2013. 
The introduction of generic products typically 
leads to a loss of sales of the branded product 
and a decrease in the price at which branded 
products can be sold. In the United States, the 
exclusivity afforded to Suboxone by its orphan 
drug status under the regulations of the US 
Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’) ended in 
2009. Suboxone has marketing approval from 
the European Commission for treatment in the 
28 countries of the European Union, Norway 
and Iceland, with data exclusivity until 2016. 
Two manufacturers launched generic Suboxone 
tablets in March 2013, which have gained a 
13% volume (by mg) market share (according 
to	Sour ce	Healthcar e	Analytics’	Pharmaceutical	
Audit Suite Weekly Data as at 27 December 
2013) of the buprenorphine market in the 
United States. 
In March 2013, based on the enhanced 
benefits of our Suboxone sublingual Film  
(which we launched in August 2010) and the 
reduction in unintended paediatric exposure 
due to its unit-dose child resistant packaging, 
we voluntarily withdrew our Suboxone tablets 
from the US market. We expect other 
manufacturers to introduce branded tablets 
that contain buprenorphine.
Orexo has recently introduced branded tablets 
that contain buprenorphine. These tablets  
may capture market share from our Suboxone 
sublingual Film. Although our Suboxone 
sublingual Film has a volume market share of 
68% of the US buprenorphine-based opioid 
addiction treatment market, as of 31 December 
2013, we expect that increased price pressure 
will lead to a material reduction in net revenue 
from this product and adversely affect our 
overall revenues and operating profit.
development or promotion. In addition, if we 
decide to pursue growth opportunities in new 
categories and new category segments or in 
regions in which we have no prior experience 
or limited experience, we may become  
exposed to unexpected or greater risks and 
potential losses.
Product innovation and development generally 
involve considerable costs, and may involve a 
lengthy process. For example, research and 
development (‘R&D’) required to develop health 
products could take a significant period of time, 
from discovery to commercial product launch, 
and given the limited duration of patents,  
the longer we take to develop and launch  
a product, the less time for which we have 
exclusivity, in which we can recoup our 
development costs and seek to profit. We may 
be unable to successfully complete clinical trials 
and obtain applicable regulatory approvals in a 
timely manner, or at all, and may fail to gain 
market approval for our products. Additionally, 
we may encounter infringement claims by 
competitors, which may preclude or delay 
commercialisation of our products. Any delays 
could result in us not being the first to market, 
and could undermine our competitive 
advantage. If any of the products we are 
currently developing, or may develop in future, 
fail to become market-ready or to achieve 
commercial success at expected levels, or at all, 
we may incur substantial losses. If we fail to 
develop or upgrade our equipment, technology 
and manufacturing processes at least in line 
with our competitors, we may be unable to 
compete effectively and lose market share.
Substantial harm to our reputation, or the 
reputation of one or more of our brands, may 
materially adversely affect our business. 
The majority of our brands have worldwide 
recognition. Maintaining our established 
reputation and trust with key stakeholders, 
including consumers, customers and trading 
partners is critical to our business. Various 
factors may adversely impact our reputation, 
including product quality inconsistencies or 
contamination. We have in the past faced 
quality-related issues, which resulted in trade 
and consumer recalls and such recalls may have 
a material adverse impact on our reputation. 
Raw materials that we source for production 
may become contaminated through the supply 
chain, and other product defects may occur 
due to human error or equipment failure, 
among other things. Reputational risks may 
also arise with respect to the methods and 
practices of third parties that are part of our 
supply chain, including labour standards, 
health, safety and environmental standards, 
raw material sourcing, and ethical standards  
in the countries in which we operate. We may 
also be the victim of product tampering. Any 
perceived or actual concerns related to our 
products, our supply chain, or the industry 
more generally, such as the long-term effects  
of household chemicals and OTC (over-the-
counter) drug ingredients on human health and 
the environment, may be widely disseminated 
online, on consumer blogs or other social 
media sites, or via print and broadcast media.  RB Annual Report 2013 95
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
pandemics or other outbreaks of diseases, acts 
of war or terrorism, or otherwise, may affect 
our ability to source raw materials on a more 
global basis, and negatively impact our costs. 
The failure of a number of third party suppliers 
to fulfil their contractual obligations, in a timely 
manner, or at all, may result in delays or 
disruptions to our business. Replacing suppliers 
may require a new supplier to be qualified 
under industry, governmental or our standards, 
which could require investment and may  
take time. 
In addition, a number of our facilities are  
critical to our business and major or prolonged 
disruption at those facilities, whether due  
to accidents, sabotage or otherwise could 
materially adversely affect our operations. 
Moreover, sites in which our products are 
manufactured are subject to supervision by 
regulatory agencies, on both an ongoing and 
ad hoc basis. For example, Suboxone sublingual 
Film is manufactured at a single-source 
production facility in the United States, and 
FDA approval is generally limited to the specific 
approved production facility. If we are unable  
to obtain or produce sufficient quantities of a 
particular product, at specifically approved 
facilities, whether due to disruption to, or 
failure of, our manufacturing processes, or 
otherwise, we may fail to meet customer 
demand on a timely basis, which could 
undermine our sales and result in customer 
dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. 
In addition, any failure to comply with 
applicable legal requirements could lead to 
interruption of production, product recalls, 
seizures and revocation of licenses to operate  
at any of our facilities. 
Any interruption or disruption in our  
supply chain, particularly if significant or 
prolonged, could materially adversely affect  
our business, prospects, results of operations 
and financial condition. 
Volatility in the price of commodities, energy 
and transportation may impact our profitability. 
Certain materials for the production or 
packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related 
commodities, are subject to fluctuating prices. 
Increases in the costs or decreases in the 
availability of these commodities, and  
increases in other costs such as energy and 
transportation, could adversely affect our 
profitability if we are unable to pass on the 
higher costs in the form of price increases or 
otherwise achieve cost efficiencies. Even if we 
were to increase the prices of our products, 
competitors may opt not to adjust their prices 
in response to increasing costs and customers 
may refuse to pay higher prices. Our inability  
to manage this risk effectively, or at all, could 
have a material adverse effect on our results  
of operations. 
We have grown, and may continue to grow, in 
part, through acquisitions, joint ventures and 
business alliances, which involve various risks. 
While we are principally focused on organic 
growth, we have in the past grown, and expect 
in the future to continue to grow, through 
acquisitions. Acquisitions present a range of 
risks and uncertainties. 
prepare our financial statements in pounds 
sterling, and our financial results are affected 
by fluctuations among the relative value  
of Sterling and other functional currencies, 
particularly the US dollar and Euro. For 
example, in FY 2013, we incurred a net 
exchange loss on foreign currency translation, 
net of tax, of £363m in our statement of 
comprehensive income. Further, currency 
translations may make it more difficult for 
investors to understand the relative strengths  
or weaknesses of the underlying business on  
a period-to-period comparative basis. 
We currently hedge some of our currency 
exposures using financial instruments, and  
we try to align our interest costs and operating 
profits of our major currencies where possible, 
which	may	not	be	ef fective.	Hedging	
transactions do not eliminate the exchange  
rate risk entirely, and may not be fully, or at  
all, effective. 
We are subject to the risk that countries in 
which we operate may impose or increase 
exchange controls or devalue their currency. 
We operate in a number of countries, 
particularly emerging markets, which impose 
exchange controls, including, but not limited 
to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia,  
South Africa and Venezuela. Such controls may 
restrict or make it impossible to convert local 
currency into other currencies, restrict our 
ability to repatriate earnings from a country  
(for example, £109m of our cash and cash 
equivalents as at 31 December 2013 were 
restricted for use by us), borrow on the 
international markets to fund operations in  
that country or limit our ability to import raw 
materials or finished products, any or all of 
which could materially adversely affect our 
business, liquidity and results of operations.  
In addition, emerging markets are prone to 
currency devaluations, such as, for example, the 
devaluation by the government of Venezuela of 
its currency in February 2013, which tend to 
make our products more expensive in local 
currency terms.
We face risks of interruptions of our supply 
chain and disruptions in our production 
facilities, which could materially adversely affect 
our results of operations. 
We source our raw and packaging materials 
(including bulk chemicals, plastics, pulp and 
metal cans) and finished goods from a wide 
variety of predominantly international chemical 
and packaging companies and co-packers.  
We also outsource the manufacture of some  
of our products to third parties. Our suppliers 
generally are diversified in terms of geography 
and supplied items, but we may face risks to 
continuity of supply arising from certain 
specialised suppliers, both of raw materials and 
of third party manufactured items, including 
specialty chemicals and components. We may 
also incur higher prices for raw materials than 
we may otherwise have to pay if we adopted  
a more concentrated approach to obtaining 
supplies. More generally, significant disruptions 
to our suppliers’ operations, such as disruptions 
resulting from natural catastrophes (including 
as a result of the effects of climate change), 
Our products generally compete on the basis of 
product quality and performance, promotional 
activities, brand recognition, price, timely 
development and launch, or other benefits to 
consumers. If we are unable to offer products 
that consumers choose over our competitors’ 
products, our business and results of operations 
may be materially adversely affected. In 
addition, our products compete with other 
products for shelf space in retail stores and  
for marketing focus, such as via in-store 
promotional activities of our brands. Our 
competitive position, and consequently sales of 
our products, may be harmed to the extent that 
we are unable to successfully maintain sound 
working relationships with our trade customers, 
who determine access to shelf space and 
product placement on shelf, set retail prices 
and control in-store promotional activities  
of our brands, and can establish pricing 
differentials between similar products on  
shelf. As the retail sector becomes more 
concentrated, retailers could impose downward 
pressure on prices and require commercial 
incentives before agreeing to offer our products 
for sale to consumers. Further, to the extent 
trade customers increase usage of their own 
distribution networks and private label brands, 
the competitive advantage we derive from  
our brand equity could be impaired. In  
addition, new sales channels have emerged, 
and continue to emerge, such as sales made 
through the Internet via online shopping,  
which may affect customer and consumer 
preferences, and competitive dynamics. If  
we are unable to effectively compete in these 
new channels, this could adversely impact our 
results and our prospects. Moreover, increased 
competition means that we need to spend 
more on promotion of our products. 
Any of the foregoing could have a material 
adverse impact on our future sales and 
prospects, consequently adversely impacting 
our results of operations. Competition also 
extends to administrative and legal challenges 
of product claims and advertising. Responding 
to legal challenges and defending our products 
and intellectual property rights could result in 
significant expenses and may divert resources 
away from product and technological 
innovation, which may have a material adverse 
impact on our financial condition and results  
of operations. 
We are exposed to foreign currency exchange 
rate risk. 
We operate on a global basis, and hold assets, 
incur liabilities, earn revenues, pay expenses, 
and make investments in a number of 
currencies, with our non-UK operations 
generating a significant portion of our net 
revenue. In FY 2013, 93% of our net revenue 
was derived from markets outside the United 
Kingdom. The Sterling value of our revenues, 
profits and cash flows from non-UK markets 
may be reduced or our supply costs, as 
measured in Sterling in those markets, may 
increase. Additionally, a number of our 
competitors are based in countries whose 
currencies fluctuate against Sterling, and they 
may benefit from having their costs incurred  
in weaker currencies relative to Sterling. We  96 RB Annual Report 2013
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
A disruption to, or failure of, our information 
technology systems and infrastructure, may 
adversely affect our business. 
We are increasingly dependent on information 
technology systems and infrastructure to 
support a wide variety of key businesses 
processes, including processing and storage of 
confidential data, as well as for international 
and external communications as part of our 
logistics and distribution functions with 
suppliers, customers and consumers. Failures  
or disruptions to our systems or the systems  
of third parties on whom we rely, due to any 
number of causes, particularly if prolonged,  
or if any failure or disruption were to impact 
our backup or disaster recovery plans, could 
result in a loss of key data and/or affect  
our operations. 
The combination of our recently initiated 
strategic business reorganisation and enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) programmes could 
result in sub-optimal implementations and 
reduced focus due to conflicting demands for 
management attention.
Our computer systems, software and networks 
may be vulnerable to unauthorised access (from 
within our organisation or by third parties), 
computer viruses or other malicious code and 
other cyber threats that could have a security 
impact. The occurrence of one or more of these 
events potentially could jeopardise confidential, 
proprietary and other information processed 
and stored in, and transmitted through, our 
computer systems and networks, or otherwise 
cause interruptions or malfunctions in our 
operations, which could result in significant 
losses or reputational damage.
We may be required to expend significant 
additional resources to modify our protective 
measures or to investigate and remediate 
vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may 
be subject to litigation and financial losses  
that are either not insured against or not fully 
covered through any insurance maintained by 
us. Furthermore, we routinely transmit and 
receive personal, confidential and proprietary 
information by email and other electronic 
means. We have discussed and worked with 
customers, suppliers, counterparties and other 
third parties to develop secure transmission 
capabilities, but we do not have, and may be 
unable to put in place, secure capabilities with 
all such third parties and we may not be able to 
ensure that these third parties have appropriate 
controls in place to protect the confidentiality 
of the information. An interception, misuse  
or mishandling of personal, confidential or 
proprietary information being sent to or 
received from a customer, supplier, 
counterparty or other third party could result  
in legal liability, regulatory action and 
reputational harm.
Our business is subject to significant 
governmental regulation. 
Our business and products are heavily regulated 
by governments and other regulatory bodies in 
the countries in which we operate. Regulation 
is imposed in respect of, but not limited to, 
ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour 
and regulatory risks. In addition, acquisitions in 
markets in which we have limited or no prior 
experience may pose a greater risk. Moreover, 
integration of acquired businesses, as well as 
any attendant internal reorganisation, can also 
require significant management attention, 
which may place strain on management 
resources and processes, and otherwise disrupt 
operations. Acquisitions can also place a strain 
on Group-wide internal control systems. 
If we are unable to effectively manage risks 
associated with acquisitions, our business, 
financial condition and results of operations 
may be materially adversely affected. 
In addition, we may choose to enter into joint 
ventures, business alliances or collaboration 
agreements, which could involve the same or 
similar risks and uncertainties as are involved  
in acquisitions. For example, we recently 
entered into a three-year collaboration 
agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb for a 
number of market-leading OTC consumer 
health care brands in Brazil, Mexico and certain 
other parts of Latin America. Joint ventures 
generally involve a lesser degree of control over 
business operations, which have in the past 
presented, and may in the future present, 
greater financial, legal, operational and/or 
compliance risks. 
We may be unable to attract and retain 
qualified personnel, including key senior 
management. 
We invest in recruiting and training personnel 
and senior management. Our business 
depends, in part, on executive officers and 
senior management to provide uninterrupted 
leadership and direction for our business,  
and qualified personnel for product R&D. This 
need is all the more acute in the context of a 
growing business, and the strategic internal 
reorganisations and resource planning 
programmes to promote and manage such 
growth. The market for talent is intensely 
competitive and may become increasingly  
more competitive. We could face challenges  
in sourcing qualified personnel, with the  
requisite training and suitable international 
experience, particularly in countries such as 
China, where the availability of skilled 
employees may be limited. 
Further, variable pay is, and will continue  
to be, the major element of our current 
Executive Directors’ and Senior Executives’  
total compensation package. If we achieve  
our target levels of performance, the variable 
elements will amount to 59%-76% of 
Executive Directors’ total remuneration. If we 
are unable to achieve our performance targets, 
our senior management would not be entitled 
to such variable pay, which may operate as  
a disincentive for them to continue their 
employment with us. 
The loss of key personnel, or our inability  
to recruit qualified personnel to meet our 
operational needs, may delay, or curtail the 
achievement of major strategic objectives,  
and could adversely impact our business.
Historically	we	have	funded	acquisitions	
through short-term borrowings, which we 
repaid through cash flow from our operations. 
In the past three years, we have moved away 
from this model due in part to the size of the 
acquisitions. We expect that future acquisitions 
will be funded through either additional 
borrowings or through equity, or a combination 
of the two. We are shifting our capital structure 
in favour of more medium-term borrowings, in 
part to be able to fund larger acquisitions. This 
in turn could result in an increase in our net 
debt, and will likely increase our level of interest 
expense as we move away from the commercial 
paper market, which has benefited from the 
low interest rate environment following the 
financial crisis. Material or transformative 
acquisitions could require shareholder approval, 
either due to the level of equity funding or due 
to corporate governance requirements. While 
we target a strong investment grade ‘A’ banded 
credit rating for our debt, acquisitions of a 
certain size, to the extent we rely more heavily 
on debt funding, could place pressure on our 
credit rating. 
Our competitors may choose to target the same 
acquisition candidates, and consolidation in the 
industry may limit available opportunities for 
acquisitions. We may also be restricted by 
applicable antitrust laws, foreign investment 
laws, or other laws and regulations, from 
pursuing acquisitions, in which case we may 
bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses 
associated with a failed acquisition. 
We may fail to achieve projected financial 
results of acquisitions, including expected cost 
and revenue synergies. In making acquisitions, 
we make various assessments, including 
expected growth rates which we may fail to 
achieve. To the extent that economic benefits 
associated with our acquisitions diminish in the 
future, we may be required to record 
impairment charges to goodwill or other assets, 
which could affect our financial condition. 
Through our acquisitions, we may also assume 
unknown or undisclosed business, operational, 
tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to 
properly assess known contingent liabilities  
or assume businesses with internal control 
deficiencies. While we seek to mitigate these 
risks in most of our transactions through, 
among other things, due diligence processes 
and indemnification provisions, we cannot be 
certain that the due diligence processes we 
conduct are adequate (particularly with respect 
to acquisitions of privately held companies  
and in countries where legislation and 
transparency make the process more difficult) 
or that the indemnification provisions and  
other risk mitigation measures we put in place 
will be sufficient. 
We could also face significant risks related  
to integration of the acquired businesses into 
the RB Group, particularly if we attempt to 
simultaneously integrate multiple businesses. 
Acquisitions in emerging markets, such as 
China, where we recently completed an 
acquisition, may impose particular risks related 
to integration across different corporate 
cultures, systems, languages and other market  RB Annual Report 2013 97
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
announcement	of	our	HY	2013	r esults,	we	
reported a provision of £225m, principally 
relating to competition matters. 
Our strategy for growth has historically 
included, and continues to include, acquisition 
activities, which are subject to antitrust and 
competition laws. Such laws and regulations 
may impact our ability to pursue, or delay the 
implementation of, strategic transactions. 
We operate in a number of countries in which 
bribery and corruption pose significant risks, 
and we may be exposed to liabilities under 
anti-bribery laws for any violations. Any 
violation of applicable money laundering laws 
could also have a negative impact on us.
We are subject to anti-bribery laws and 
regulations that prohibit us and our 
intermediaries from making improper payments 
or offers of payments to foreign governments, 
their officials and political parties or private 
parties, for the purpose of gaining or retaining 
business, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, 
the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 
as amended, and similar laws worldwide.  
Given our extensive international operations, 
particularly in emerging markets, where bribery 
and corruption may be more commonplace, we 
are exposed to significant risks, particularly with 
respect to parties that are not always subject to 
our control such as agents and joint venture 
partners. These risks may be heightened for us 
due to our operations in the health care sector, 
which in recent years has experienced greater 
compliance risks than other sectors. We may 
also be held liable for successor liability 
violations of such laws, committed by 
companies which we acquire, or in which we 
invest. Acquisitions also expose us to risk of 
ongoing compliance issues until such time as 
we can fully integrate acquired operations  
into our compliance and control frameworks. 
Moreover, due to the significant amounts of 
money involved in global supply contracts, 
there is also potential for suppliers to attempt 
to bribe our employees. Actual or alleged 
violations of anti-bribery laws could result in 
severe consequences, including, but not limited 
to, civil and criminal sanctions, termination of 
contracts by our counterparties, disruptions  
to our business and reputational harm, all of 
which could materially and adversely affect our 
financial condition and results of operations. 
We also deal with significant amounts of  
cash in our operations and are subject to 
various reporting and anti-money laundering 
regulations. Any violation of anti-money 
laundering laws or regulations by us could have 
a negative effect on our results of operations.
Our business is subject to product  
liability claims. 
As a product manufacturer, we are subject, 
from time to time, to certain legal proceedings 
and claims arising out of our products, 
including as a result of unanticipated side 
effects or issues that become evident only after 
products are widely introduced into the 
marketplace. Some of our products present 
inherent dangers, including due to the presence 
of chemicals, which if mishandled or misused, 
by allegations of individual employee 
misconduct in violation of internal policies  
and procedures. 
Regulatory authorities and consumer groups 
may, from time to time, request or conduct 
reviews of the use of certain ingredients that 
are used in manufacturing our products, the 
results of which may have a material adverse 
effect on our business. For example, parabens, 
a family of chemicals commonly used as 
preservatives in personal care, cosmetic and 
pharmaceutical products, underwent a review 
by the European Commission’s Scientific 
Committee on Consumer Safety in May 2013. 
Based on the findings of that review, 
restrictions were introduced to limit the use  
of certain parabens (butyl and propyl) and  
to ban others (iso) in cosmetic products  
sold across Europe. Furthermore, several 
European countries such as Denmark and 
France are considering banning the use of 
parabens altogether.
Ingredient legislation, such as the one related 
to parabens, could have a detrimental impact 
on our business, undermine our reputation and 
goodwill and affect consumer demand for 
products containing such ingredients. We may 
voluntarily remove, or be required to remove, 
certain ingredients from our products or any 
products that we may acquire. We may not be 
able to develop an alternative formulation, 
successfully modify our existing products or 
obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a 
timely basis or at all, which could adversely 
impact our business and results of operations. 
Historical or future violations of antitrust and 
competition laws may have a material adverse 
impact on our business, financial condition and 
results of operations. 
We are subject to antitrust and competition 
laws in the vast majority of countries in which 
we do business. Failure to comply with 
applicable antitrust and competition laws, rules 
and regulations in any jurisdiction in which we 
operate may result in civil and/or criminal legal 
proceedings being brought against us. 
We have in the past been, currently are, and 
may in the future be, subject to investigations 
and legal proceedings with respect to antitrust 
and competition issues. In 2010, we were fined 
£10.2m by the UK Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) 
following our admission that we had infringed 
UK and EU competition rules on abuse of 
dominance in respect of our supply of Gaviscon 
Original Liquid brand alginates/antacids to the 
National	Health	Service.	Based	in	part	on	the	
OFT decision, we have received civil claims for 
damages from the health authorities of 
England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, 
and certain pharmaceutical companies. We are 
also involved in certain competition law-related 
proceedings in other countries. Competition 
and antitrust violations enquiries often continue 
for several years, can be subject to strict 
non-disclosure provisions, and, if laws are 
deemed to have been violated, can result in 
substantial fines and other sanctions, which 
may have a material adverse effect on our 
business, reputation, financial condition and 
results of operations. As part of the 
standards, product safety and quality, 
marketing, packaging, labelling, storage, 
distribution, advertising, imports and exports, 
social and environmental responsibility and 
health and safety. In addition, we are required 
to obtain and maintain licenses in respect  
of certain of our products, which must be 
regularly updated in order to improve our 
products and take into account any variations. 
If we are found by regulators or courts to  
have been non-compliant with applicable laws  
and regulations, we could be subject to civil 
remedies such as fines, injunctions or product 
recalls, and/or criminal sanctions, any of which 
could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, reputation, financial condition and 
results of operations. 
We are subject to the introduction of new 
regulations, modification of existing regulations 
or changes in interpretations of existing or  
new regulations. Changes to the laws and 
regulations to which we and our operations  
are subject, whether as a result of new or  
more stringent requirements, or more stringent 
interpretations of existing requirements,  
could impact the way we conduct our business 
or market our products (for example,  
up-scheduling of an OTC product would result 
in it being moved from on-the-shelf to behind 
the counter) and could impose significant 
compliance costs and have a material adverse 
effect on our results of operations. 
The laws and regulations to which we are 
subject may not be transparent, may be  
difficult to interpret, and/or may be enforced 
inconsistently. 
In our experience, emerging markets can pose 
heightened risks with respect to laws and 
regulations, when compared with countries 
with more developed institutional structures. 
Given our focus on growth in RUMEA and 
LAPAC, we are exposed to heightened 
regulatory risks. For example, in some  
emerging market countries, the laws and 
regulations to which we are subject may not 
always be fully transparent, can be difficult to 
interpret and may be enforced inconsistently. 
The legal systems in such countries may not  
be well-established or reliable. There may be  
a lack of respect for the rule of law, a lack of 
enforcement of property rights, inconsistent  
or insufficient access to remedy through legal 
systems, lack of judicial independence and 
corruption, which could result in greater 
uncertainty in enforcing contracts, difficulties  
in obtaining legal redress, particularly against 
the state or state-owned entities, and higher 
operational costs and risks to our business. 
We could be subject to investigations and 
potential enforcement action, which could have 
a material adverse effect on our business. 
We could be subject to regulatory investigations 
or potential enforcement action that targets  
an industry, a set of business practices or our 
specific operations. These investigations or 
enforcement actions could be in respect of 
specific industry issues or broader business 
conduct issues. Moreover, these investigations 
or enforcement actions could be triggered by 
allegations of general corporate misconduct or  98 RB Annual Report 2013
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions 
around the world. If material challenges were 
to be successful, our effective tax rate may 
increase, we may be required to modify 
structures at significant costs to us, we may 
also be subject to interest and penalty charges 
and we may incur costs in defending litigation 
or reaching a settlement. Any of the foregoing 
could materially and adversely affect our 
business, financial condition and results  
of operations. 
We may be unable to secure and protect our 
intellectual property rights. 
Our business relies on protecting our brands 
and intellectual property rights. We may not  
be able to obtain and perfect our intellectual 
property rights and, even if obtained, these 
rights may be invalidated, circumvented or 
challenged in future. Third parties may infringe 
on, or misappropriate, our rights, by for 
example, asserting rights in, or ownership of, 
our trademarks, trade dress rights, designs, 
patents, copyrights or other intellectual 
property rights. If we fail to discover any 
infringements of our intellectual property 
rights, or are otherwise unable to successfully 
defend and enforce our rights, our business, 
prospects, and results of operations could be 
materially adversely affected. Sales of 
counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our 
brands or inferior ‘lookalike’ brands which 
resemble ours, could result in confusion among 
consumers between our products and such 
other brands. Consequently, our brand equity 
and reputation may be undermined. Any failure 
to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual 
property rights could make us less competitive 
and may have a material adverse effect  
on our business, operating results and  
financial condition. 
In addition, our intellectual property rights  
may be undermined if one of our trademarks  
or brand names were to become a generic 
name for, or synonymous with, a general class 
of product or service. Should any of our 
trademarks become genericised, competitors 
may be allowed to use the genericised 
trademark to describe their similar products  
in certain countries. 
The loss of patent protection, ineffective 
protection, or expiration of our patents may 
impact our financial condition and results of 
operations. 
Intellectual property laws and patent offices  
are still developing, particularly in emerging 
markets. Patent protection varies in different 
countries, and can be substantially weaker  
in emerging markets in which we operate,  
when compared to the United States and the 
European Union. We have in the past faced, 
and may in the future face, significant 
challenges in enforcing or extending our 
current intellectual property protections, or any 
protections we may obtain in future, in the 
same manner as in more developed regions 
such as the United States and European Union. 
We have obtained patent protection for a 
variety of our intellectual property, including the 
composition of some of our products (such as 
coverage we maintain may not cover our losses 
fully, or at all. 
We cannot predict the outcome of individual 
legal actions. We may settle litigation or 
regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment 
or determination of liability. We may do so to 
avoid the cost, management efforts or negative 
business, regulatory or reputational 
consequences of continuing to contest liability, 
even when we believe we have valid defences 
to liability. We may also do so when the 
potential consequences of failing to prevail 
would be disproportionate to the costs of 
settlement. Substantial legal liability could 
materially adversely affect our business, 
financial condition or results of operations  
or could cause significant reputational harm, 
which could seriously harm our business.
Labour disruptions may affect our results  
of operations. 
A substantial portion of our workforce is 
unionised, and our relationship with unions, 
including labour disputes or work stoppages, 
could have an adverse impact on our financial 
results. We are a party to collective bargaining 
agreements covering approximately one-third 
of our direct employees. If, upon the expiration 
of such collective bargaining agreements, we 
are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts 
with labour unions, it could result in strikes by 
the affected workers and thereby significantly 
disrupt our operations. Further, if we are  
unable to control health care and pension  
costs provided for in the collective bargaining 
agreements, we may experience increased 
operating costs and an adverse impact on 
future results of operations.
Changes in tax legislation and other 
circumstances that affect tax calculations could 
adversely affect our financial condition and 
results of operations.
We conduct business operations in a number  
of countries, and are therefore subject to tax 
and intercompany pricing laws in multiple 
jurisdictions, including those relating to the 
flow of funds between RB and its subsidiaries. 
Our effective tax rate in any given financial year 
reflects a variety of factors that may not be 
present in succeeding financial years, and may 
be affected by changes in the tax laws of the 
jurisdictions in which we operate, or the 
interpretation of such tax laws. Certain tax 
positions taken by us are based on industry 
practice, tax advice and drawing similarities 
from our facts and circumstances to those in 
case law. In particular, international transfer 
pricing is an area of taxation that depends 
heavily on the underlying facts and 
circumstances and generally involves a 
significant degree of judgement.
Changes in tax laws, regulations and related 
interpretations and increased enforcement 
actions and penalties may alter the environment 
in which we do business, and tax planning 
arrangements are frequently scrutinised by tax 
authorities worldwide. 
We have in the past faced, and may in the 
future face, audits and challenges brought by 
tax authorities, and we are involved in ongoing 
could result in significant damage. We have 
paid in the past, and may be required in the 
future to pay, compensation for losses or 
injuries that are allegedly caused by our 
products. Product liability claims may arise, 
among other things, from claims that our 
products are defective, contain contaminants, 
provide inadequate warnings or instructions, or 
cause personal injury to persons or damage to 
property. Product liability claims, if resolved 
unfavourably, or if settled, could result in 
injunctions and/or may require us to pay 
substantial damages, and related costs, 
including punitive damages, as well as result in 
the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions. 
If one of our products is found to be defective, 
we could be required to recall it, and/or we  
may be required to alter our trademarks, labels, 
or packaging, which could result in adverse 
publicity, significant expenses, potential 
disruptions in our supply chain and loss of 
revenue. We have in the past voluntarily 
implemented, and may in the future face 
product quality concerns and voluntarily 
implement, product recalls, which could expose 
us to product liability claims. Additionally, 
complaints, investigations and litigation by 
consumers or government authorities relating 
to our products, our competitors’ products or 
individual ingredients may result in judgments 
that affect us and/or the industry in which we 
operate. A recall of a product that is similar to 
ours could result in confusion concerning the 
scope of the recall and/or a decline in consumer 
confidence about our products, which may 
consequently impact our business and results  
of operations. We may not be insured fully, or 
at all, in respect of such risks, and we have in 
the past, and may in the future, face disputes 
with our insurers in the event that they refuse 
to cover a particular claim. In such instances, 
we may be required to bear substantial losses, 
which could adversely impact our capital 
expenditures, expenses and liabilities. Any of 
the foregoing could materially adversely impact 
our business, financial condition and results of 
operations.
Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside 
the product liability area could also adversely 
impact our business, results of operations and 
financial condition. 
Outside the product liability area, we are 
subject to legal proceedings and other claims 
arising out of the ordinary course of business, 
and we may become involved in legal 
proceedings, which include, but are not  
limited to, claims alleging intellectual property 
rights infringement, breach of contract, 
environmental laws and health and safety  
laws. From time to time, we face consumer 
complaints and/or civil or criminal investigations 
in respect of our products and their alleged 
purposes, including in respect of advertising 
claims that we make about our products. 
Significant claims, or a substantial number of 
small claims, may be expensive to defend and 
may divert management time and our resources 
away from our operations. Where appropriate, 
we establish provisions to cover potential 
litigation-related costs. Such provisions may 
turn out to be insufficient, and any insurance  RB Annual Report 2013 99
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Group prepares its financial statements in 
Sterling but conducts business in many foreign 
currencies. As a result, it is subject to foreign 
exchange risk due to the effects that exchange 
rate movements have on the translation of the 
results and the underlying net assets of its 
foreign subsidiaries.
The Group’s policy is to align interest costs  
and operating profit of its major currencies in 
order to provide some protection against the 
translation exposure on foreign currency profits 
after tax. The Group may undertake borrowings 
and other hedging methods in the currencies  
of the countries where most of its assets  
are located.
For transactions, it is the Group’s policy to 
monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its 
foreign currency transaction exposures. These 
transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign 
currency receipts and payments for goods and 
services, and from the remittance of foreign 
currency dividends and loans. The local business 
units enter into forward foreign exchange 
contracts with GT to manage these exposures, 
where practical and allowed by local 
regulations. GT manages the Group exposures, 
and hedges the net position where possible, 
using spot and forward foreign currency 
exchange contracts.
Market Price Risk
Due to the nature of its business the Group is 
exposed to commodity price risk related to the 
production or packaging of finished goods such 
as oil-related, and a diverse range of other,  
raw materials. This risk is, however, managed 
primarily through medium-term contracts with 
certain key suppliers and is not viewed as being 
a material risk. The Group is not exposed to 
equity securities price risk.
Interest Rate Risk
The Group has both interest-bearing and non 
interest-bearing assets and liabilities. The Group 
monitors its interest expense rate exposure on  
a regular basis. The Group manages its interest 
rate exposure on its gross financial assets by 
using fixed rate term deposits.
Credit Risk
The Group has no significant concentrations of 
credit risk. Financial institution counterparties 
are subject to approval under the Group’s 
counterparty risk policy and such approval is 
limited to financial institutions with a BBB 
rating or above. The Group uses BBB and 
higher rated counterparties to manage risk and 
uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.  
The amount of exposure to any individual 
counterparty is subject to a limit defined within 
the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed 
annually by the Board.
Liquidity Risk
The Group has bilateral credit facilities with 
high-quality international banks. All of these 
facilities have similar or equivalent terms and 
conditions, and have a financial covenant, 
which is not expected to restrict the Group’s 
future operations. The committed borrowing 
facilities, together with available uncommitted 
facilities and central cash and investments, are 
Implementation of this strategy will increase 
our levels of interest expense compared to 
recent years that benefited from low interest 
rates since 2008. 
We are subject to risks relating to estimates and 
assumptions that we are required to make, and 
that affect the reported amounts in our 
financial statements. 
The preparation of our financial statements 
requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts 
of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet 
date and revenue and expenses during the 
reporting period. Although estimates are based 
on management’s best knowledge at the time, 
actual amounts may ultimately differ from 
those estimates. For example, measurement  
of intangible assets, both in acquisitions and 
business combinations, requires us to identify 
such assets and any assumptions and estimates 
of future cash flows and appropriate discount 
rates to value identified assets may be impacted 
by various factors, including adverse economic 
conditions, or integration issues. 
Compliance and Routine Risks
In order to manage the more numerous and 
routine risks, the Group maintains a complete 
and robust governance framework. This 
consists of a full set of policies, processes and 
systems covering all aspects of compliance, 
with international and local laws as well as with 
the Group’s stated minimum control standards.
Management provides primary assurance by 
driving risk compliance through their respective 
area, regional or functional responsibility. This  
is done through regular and detailed business 
reviews. Secondary assurance is provided 
independently through a combination of 
internal and external audit covering all aspects 
of the Group’s operations.
Financial Risk Management
The Group’s multinational operations expose  
it to a variety of financial risks that include the 
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates (foreign exchange risk), market prices, 
interest rates, credit risks and liquidity. 
The Group has in place a risk management 
programme that uses foreign currency financial 
instruments, including debt, and other 
instruments, to limit the impact of these risks 
on the financial performance of the Group.
The Group’s financing and financial risk 
management activities are centralised into 
Group Treasury (GT) to achieve benefits of scale 
and control. GT manages financial exposures  
of the Group centrally in a manner consistent 
with underlying business risks. GT manages 
only those risks and flows generated by the 
underlying commercial operations and 
speculative transactions are not undertaken. 
The Board reviews and agrees policies, 
guidelines and authority levels for all areas  
of Treasury activity and individually approves 
significant activities. GT operates under the 
close control of the CFO and is subject to 
periodic independent reviews and audits,  
both internal and external.
detergent), and in respect of our prescription 
drug Suboxone sublingual Film. Infringement  
of our patent-protected intellectual property 
may occur, particularly in emerging market 
countries. Certain countries may adopt 
measures to facilitate competition within their 
markets from generic manufacturers, and 
refuse to recognise patent protection. For 
example, a recent decision in India not to grant 
a new patent to an industry participant for a 
modified form of a drug that holds patent 
protection elsewhere, reflects the heightened 
risk we may face in emerging markets. 
Additionally, expiry of our patents may increase 
competition and pricing pressures, and 
adversely impact our sales revenue, if generic 
products in the same or similar product class 
were to emerge. We could be similarly 
impacted if competitors lose patent protection 
in a product class in which we compete. 
We may face challenges to our intellectual 
property rights, including allegations of 
infringement of others’ rights. 
We may face challenges to our intellectual 
property rights from third parties, who allege 
that we are infringing on their rights. If we  
are unable to successfully defend against 
allegations of infringement, we may face 
various sanctions, including injunctions, 
monetary sanctions for past infringement, 
product recalls, alterations to our intellectual 
property, products, and/or packaging, which 
could result in significant expense and negative 
publicity, and may have a material adverse 
effect on our financial condition and results  
of operations. 
Our business may be adversely affected by our 
funding requirements.
Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to 
generate cash from operations and the level of 
borrowings (and related levels of headroom), 
the level of acquisition, the level of share 
repurchases and dividends, dispositions, target 
ratings for our debt and options available to  
us	in	the	equity	and	debt	markets.	Historically	 
we have obtained our funding from the 
commercial paper market and have benefited 
from the low interest rate environment 
following the financial crisis. 
We maintain committed back-up credit 
facilities, which have remained undrawn since 
FY 2009. At 31 December 2013, we had 
£4,350m in undrawn commitments. If we  
are not able to access the commercial paper 
market to the extent that we require, or at all, 
we may need to drawdown amounts under  
our committed bilateral credit facilities, which 
accrue interest at floating rates based on 
changes in certain published rates such as 
LIBOR. Increases in such rates could result in 
significantly higher interest expense for us, 
which would negatively affect our results  
of operations. 
As part of our strategy to maintain financial 
flexibility, as well as to procure additional 
funding for future acquisitions, including both 
bolt-on acquisitions as well as acquisitions that 
may be more material in size, we are seeking  
to increase the level of medium-term funding.  100 RB Annual Report 2013
Our Relationships and Principal Risks
considered sufficient to meet the Group’s 
projected cash requirements. 
Funds over and above those required for 
short-term working capital purposes by the 
overseas businesses are generally remitted to 
GT. The Group uses the remittances to settle 
obligations, repay borrowings or, in the event 
of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments 
issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.
Capital Management
The Group’s objectives for managing capital  
are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, in order to provide returns 
for Shareholders and benefits for other 
stakeholders, and to maintain an efficient 
capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
In maintaining an appropriate capital structure 
and providing returns for Shareholders, in 2013 
the Company has provided returns to 
Shareholders in the form of dividends, the 
current details of which are included in the 
Financial Review for the year on page 15, and 
share buy backs.
The Group monitors net debt (total borrowings 
less cash and cash equivalents; short-term 
available for sale financial assets and financing 
derivative financial instruments) and at the year 
end the Group had net debt of £2,096m (2012: 
£2,426m). The Group seeks to pay down net 
debt using cash generated by the business to 
maintain an appropriate level of financial 
flexibility.
Details of numerical disclosures relating to the 
Group’s financial risk management are included 
in note 14 to the financial statements on pages 
70 to 73. RB Annual Report 2013 101
Notes 102 RB Annual Report 2013
Notes RB Annual Report 2013 103
Notes 104 RB Annual Report 2013
Shareholder Information
American Depositary Receipts
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are 
traded on the over-the-counter market (OTC) under the symbol RBGLY. 
Five ADRs represent one ordinary share. J.P . Morgan Chase Bank N.A. is 
the Depositary.
If you should have any queries, please contact: 
J.P . Morgan Chase Bank N.A. 
PO Box 64504, St Paul, MN 55164-0504, US 
E-mail: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
Telephone number for general queries: (800) 990 1135 
Telephone number from outside the US: +1 651 453 2128 
Key Dates
Announcement of quarter 1 interim 
 management statement 16 April 2014 
Annual General Meeting 7 May 2014 
Payment of final ordinary dividend 29 May 2014 
Announcement of interim results 28 July 2014 
Payment of interim ordinary dividend September 2014 
Announcement of quarter 3 interim  
 management statement 21 October 2014 
Preliminary announcement of 2014 results 11 February 2015 
Publication of 2014 Annual Report and Accounts April 2015 
Annual General Meeting May 2015
Analysis of Shareholders as at 31 December 2013
 No. of 
Distribution of shares by type of Shareholder holdings Shares 
Nominees and Institutional Investors 9,774 719,378,732 
Individuals 14,368 17,156,447 
Total 24,142 736,535,179
 
 No. of 
Size of shareholding holdings Shares
1 – 500 14,678 3,052,238
501 – 1,000 4,047 2,964,286 
1,000 – 5,000  3,770 7,687,368 
5,001 – 10,000 459 3,250,149 
10,001 – 50,000 558 13,143,965 
50,001 – 100,000 165 11,768,568 
100,001 – 1,000,000 366 114,891,103 
1,000,000 and above 99 579,777,502 
Total 24,142 736,535,179
‘Boiler Room’ Scams
Shareholders who are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted 
shares, a premium price for shares, or free company or research reports, 
should take these steps before handing over any money:
1  Get the name of the person and organisation. 
2  Check the Financial Services Register at www.fsa.gov.uk/register to 
ensure they are authorised.
3  Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
4	 	 Call	the	FCA	Consumer	Helpline	on	0800	111	6768,	if	ther e	ar e	no	
contact details on the Register or if they are out of date.
5  Search the FCA’s list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid 
doing business with at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
6  If you are approached by fraudsters please contact the FCA using their 
helpline, or share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams.
7  Consider getting independent financial advice. 
Using an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments will 
prohibit access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if things go wrong.
Electronic Communications
The Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2008 AGM enabling the 
Company’s website to be used as the primary means of communication 
with them. Shareholders who have positively elected, or are deemed to 
have consented, to receiving electronic communications in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006 will receive written notification whenever 
Shareholder documents are available to view on the Company’s website.
Shareholders who have received a notice of availability of a document  
on the Company’s website are entitled to request a hard copy of any  
such document at any time free of charge from the Company’s Registrar. 
Shareholders can also revoke their consent to receive electronic 
communications at any time by contacting the Registrar.
The Company’s 2013 Annual Report and Notice of the 2014 AGM are 
available to view at www.rb.com/online-annual-report-2013. 
The Investor Relations section of the website contains up-to-date 
information for Shareholders including:
•	 Detailed	shar e	price	information;
•	 Financial	r esults;
•	 Dividend	payment	dates	and	amounts;
•	 Access	to	Shar eholder	documents	including	the	Annual	Report;	and
•	 Shar e	capital	information.
Annual General Meeting 
To be held on Wednesday, 7 May 2014 at 11.15 am at the London 
Heathr ow	Marriott	Hotel,	Bath	Road,	Hayes,	Middlesex	UB3	5AN.
Every Shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.  
The Notice convening the meeting is contained in a separate document 
for Shareholders. Shareholders who have registered for electronic 
communication can:
•	 Receive	an	email	alert	when	Shar eholder	documents	ar e	available;	
•	 	 V iew	the	Annual	Report	and	Notice	of	AGM	on	the	day	they	ar e	
published;
•	 Cast	their	AGM	vote	electr onically;	and
•	 Manage	their	shar eholding	quickly	and	secur ely	online.
Final Dividend for the Year ended 31 December 2013
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 77p per share, for 
the year ended 31 December 2013. Subject to approval at the 2014 
AGM, payment will be on 29 May 2014 to all Shareholders on the 
register as at 21 February 2014.
Company Secretary 
Elizabeth Richardson
Registered Office 
103-105	Bath	Road,	Slough,	Berkshir e	SL1	3UH 
Telephone: 01753 217800  
Facsimile: 01753 217899
Registered and Domiciled in England 
No. 6270876
Company Status
Public Limited Company
Auditors 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Solicitors 
Slaughter and May
Registrar and Transfer Office
The Company’s Registrar, Computershare, is responsible for maintaining 
and updating the Shareholder register and making dividend payments.
If you have any queries relating to your shareholding please write to,  
or telephone, the Company’s Registrar at the following address: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol  BS99 6ZY 
Reckitt Benckiser Shareholder helpline: 0870 703 0118
Website: www.computershare.com/uk
Shareholder Information The following are trademarks of the Reckitt Benckiser group of companies  
or used under license:  
Airborne, Air Wick, Aqua Mist, Bang, Calgon, Cherry Blossom, Clearasil, d-Con, 
Dermicool, Dermodex, Dettol, Digestive Advantage, Durex, Easywax, Filter & Fresh, 
Finish, Flip & Fresh, Frank’s Red Hot, French’s, Freshmatic, Gaviscon, Graneodin, Harpic, 
Harpic Hygienic, Luftal, Lysol, Manyanshuning, MegaRed, Micostatin, Move Free, 
Mortein, Mucinex, Naldecon, No-Touch, Nugget, Nurofen, Our Home Our Planet, 
Performax Intense, Picot, Power Plus, Quantum, Quantumatic, Resolve, Schiff, Schiff 
Vitamins, Scholl, Spray ‘n Wash, Strepsils, Suboxone, Subutex, Tempra, Tiger’s Milk, 
Vanish, Veet, Veja, Woolite as well as Reckitt Benckiser and the RB kite logos. 
Designed and produced by The Workroom www.workroom.co.uk
Cover photo credits: Getty Images, iStock, Save the Children,  
Lucia Zoro / Save the Children
Printed by Leycol Printers Limited
The paper used for this report and the envelope used for postal 
distribution are made from FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)® 
certified sustainable forest stocks.
This report is part of an integrated approach to reporting our total 
performance. Our family of reports also includes the Annual Report 
Highlights, the Sustainability Report on our social and environmental 
responsibilities, and regularly updated corporate responsibility information 
at www.rb.com
Left: Annual Report Highlights 2013
Right: Sustainability Report 2013 (report to be published at www.rb.com) Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 
103-105 Bath Road 
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH 
United Kingdom
www.rb.com
