 www.abacus-group.co.uk
Abacus Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The Abacus Group is one of the leading distributors of electronic components in Europe,
with directly owned companies located in every major European electronics market.
Established in 1972, the Group has local offices in 11 countries across Europe employing
in excess of 1,100 staff.
The Abacus Group offers electronic component distribution, own brand product, specialist
distribution of displays, embedded computing and wireless communications, and value
added services including electromechanical sub contract manufacture. The Group's
philosophy is to offer an alternative approach to its competitors by focusing on highly
personalised local service and strong technical support. This approach provides an efficient
and effective service through the provision of quality products and support from a highly
motivated workforce.
In addition to the 44 local sales offices and five local warehouses across Europe, the Group
has an office in Asia providing its European customers with a robust supply chain to their
manufacturing operations in the Far East.
It is Abacus’ aim to be a strategic supplier in every market in which it operates by offering a
broad and diversified product range that satisfies local market demands.
Contents
Financial and Operational Highlights 1
Abacus Group at a glance 2
Chairman’s Statement 4
Chief Executive’s Review 6
Financial Review 10
The Board of Directors, Secretary and Advisors 13
Directors’ Report 14
Corporate Governance Statements 17
Corporate Social Responsibility 22
Directors’ Remuneration Report 24
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in
relation to the Financial Statements 32
Auditors’ Report 33
Consolidated Income Statement 34
Consolidated Balance Sheet 35
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies 37
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources
of Estimation Uncertainty 43
Notes to the Accounts 44
Five Year Summary 81
Auditors’ Report 82
Company Balance Sheet 83
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies 84
Notes to the Accounts 85
Notice of Annual General Meeting 88
Geographic Coverage IBC
World Class Service,
Local Values Financial and Operational Highlights
1 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Turnover
£m
04 03 02
257.1
147.0
187.8
178.8
Profit before tax, intangibles
and exceptionals
05 04 03 02
8.0
10.0
8.1
Earnings per share before intangibles and
exceptionals
pence
03
Earnings per share after intangibles and
exceptionals (2006:nil)
pence
13.5
12.5
15.9
14.2
05
11.9
06 04 03 05 04 03 05 04 03 06
13.6
6.1
06
13.6
£m
181.6
Existing operations
Aquisitions
The Five Year Summary is shown on page 81
2003 and 2004 results are reported under UK GAAP , 2005 and 2006 under International
Financial Reporting Standards
The Group now has a broader operations base, a wider mix of product and
a greater depth of management. The geographical spread has also changed
radically during the past year. In 2007 the Abacus Group sales will no longer
be dominated by the UK with nearly half the business being overseas. All
these factors considerably enhance the opportunities for Abacus going forward
as well as delivering a more cost effective and higher margin business.
In these circumstances the Board has confidence for the future.
■ Turnover increased by 44% to £257.1 million (2005: £178.8 million)
■ Gross profit increased by 48% to £64.7 million before exceptionals (59% increase to £63.9 million
after exceptionals)
■ Gross margin at 25.2% increased from 24.4%, before exceptionals (24.9% compared to 22.5% in 2005,
after exceptionals) – reflecting Axess and Deltron acquisitions
■ Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptionals increased by 47% to £11.9 million (2005: £8.1 million).
Loss before tax, after amortisation and exceptionals was £0.1 million (2005: profit of £4.0 million)
■ £12.0 million amortisation and exceptional charge, of which £8.0 million integration costs, £1.4 million
Trident restructuring and £2.6 million amortisation of intangibles
■ Earnings per share of 13.6p, same as 2005 pre amortisation and exceptionals (0.0p compared to 6.1p
in 2005, post amortisation and exceptionals)
■ Dividend unchanged at 7.2p per share. Dividend expected to increase in future years as benefits from
integration of recent acquisitions materialise 2 Abacus Group plc
Abacus Group
at a glance
-
Distribution
Abacus has a portfolio of over 180 franchises with 15 trading
operations providing technical distribution services through
locally based sales offices across Europe. The division’s
extensive portfolio covers a vast range of products including
electromechanical components, semiconductors, passives,
batteries, displays, wireless communications, embedded
computing and opto devices.
Abacus is focused on delivering exceptional design-in and
technical support to a full spectrum of customers from the
small entrepreneur to the multinational corporation. By
working in partnership with suppliers, Abacus ensures that
its team of application engineers and product specialists are
fully trained to provide technical support at every stage of the
product development. The Group's diverse product portfolio
is complimented by world class supply chain management
services helping customers improve efficiency and profitability. 3 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Own Brand
Abacus Group’s own brand component businesses
represent an extensive portfolio of high quality, internationally
approved, cost-effective products encompassing passives,
electromechanical components, batteries and switches.
Available throughout Europe, all Abacus own brand products
are supported by extensive locally held inventory and a robust
supply chain. The product range is continually evaluated to
ensure that the changing demands of the electronics market
continue to be supported.
Alpha 3 Manufacturing Group
Alpha 3 Manufacturing Group, created in Sept 2006 as a
separate standalone business, unites Abacus’ three
manufacturing operations, DEM Manufacturing (previously
Deltron Emcon), CTL Manufacturing and CCS Electronics,
in providing ‘Total Customer Satisfaction’ through exceptional
quality products and electromechanical manufacturing
services for low, medium and high volumes. Alpha 3 operates
a lean manufacturing and continuous improvement philosophy
focused on improving efficiency, service, quality, cycle
times and costs in all of its processes in order to pass the
benefits directly on to its customers thereby providing the
most competitive solution. I am pleased to report that Abacus Group plc’s performance
in the year ended 30 September 2006 outperformed
expectations expressed at the time of our Interim Report.
Two acquisitions and their successful integration ahead
of schedule, have been the most significant events in the
year. Turnover amounted to £257.1 million, an increase of
£78.3 million over the previous year, although the annual
comparisons are enhanced by the acquisition of Deltron
Electronics plc in January 2006 and by the subsequent
purchase of Axess Technology Group in April. These new
subsidiaries contributed £75.5 million to the total Group sales
and £6.5 million to the Group operating profit for the year
which totalled £14.7 million, pre amortisation and exceptionals
(£2.7 million, post amortisation and exceptionals). They were
also responsible for the improvement in gross margin (pre
exceptional items) which increased from 24.4% of sales in
2005 to 25.2% in 2006 (post exceptional 24.9% compared to
22.5% in 2005). We expect some further margin enhancement
in 2007 as the result of a full year’s contribution from both
Deltron and Axess. It was anticipated at the time of the
acquisitions that earnings would reduce in the short term but
in the event there was no earnings dilution in 2006 compared
to 2005, with earnings per share (pre exceptionals and
amortisation) remaining at 13.6p per share (post exceptional
and amortisation, 0.0p per share (2005: 6.1p)). At the year
end, net borrowings, at £66.1 million (including £4.6 million
deferred consideration loan notes), were in line with
expectations.
The integration of the Deltron and Axess businesses and the
accompanying reorganisation have been completed ahead
of schedule and have delivered the target of £5.5 million
annualised cost savings. In the 2006 financial year, the benefit
of integration savings was some £1.6 million. In order to
secure these savings, including the reorganisation of Trident
to exit the higher risk finished product business and refocus
on distribution and value added opportunities, a one-off
exceptional cost of £9.4 million has been incurred. However,
as shown above, the benefits going forward will be material.
The dividend will remain unchanged for 2006 with a proposed
final dividend of 3.6p, making a total for the year of 7.2p
(2005: 7.2p). Looking to the future, we intend to return to a
policy of increasing the dividend as cash flow improves and
debt is reduced.
Trading in 2006
The UK market for electronic components was sluggish in
the early months of our financial year but appeared to have
stabilised by March and thereafter an improvement was seen
which continued through the summer months. For Abacus this
resulted in a sales increase of 2% for our total UK business
although the figure would have been higher but for the
decision to withdraw from Trident’s finished product business.
In Italy our team at ECC was successful in growing sales by
4%, but in Nordic, Promax sales fell by 14%, some of which
can be attributed to the decision to close the business in
Chairman's Statement
“
The integration of the Deltron and Axess businesses and the accompanying reorganisation
have been completed ahead of schedule and have delivered the target of £5.5 million annualised
cost savings.
”
4 Abacus Group plc Finland in 2005. However, the 2005 reorganisation of Promax
and its integration with the Deltron businesses in Sweden
and Norway will result in a larger and much more solid
organisation. Indeed the prospects for all the European
territories look promising with the strengthening of the existing
Abacus companies and the additions of France and Germany,
where previously we had no presence. Since the year end
Germany has not only been reorganised but also considerably
enlarged by the recruitment of a high quality team from within
the industry.
In the Far East our operation in Hong Kong has been
reinforced with stronger management and we are seeing the
benefits of maintaining business with customers who move
offshore. We have been successful in growing the value of
shipments to mainland China and other territories in Asia.
Outlook
The Group now has a broader operations base, a wider mix of
product and greater depth of management. The geographical
spread has also changed radically during the past year. In
2007 the Abacus Group sales will no longer be dominated by
the UK with nearly half the business being overseas. All these
factors considerably enhance the opportunities for us going
forward as well as delivering a more cost effective and higher
margin business. In these circumstances the Board has
confidence for the future.
This year I am particularly grateful to the management 
and staff and congratulate them on an outstanding
performance in acquiring and integrating two complex
businesses while maintaining a strong performance from 
the existing businesses. I also welcome our new colleagues
who have also made such a valuable contribution.
A H Westropp
Chairman
30 November 2006
5 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 General review
This year has seen significant positive changes to the Abacus
Group. The acquisition of Deltron Electronics plc in January
and Axess Technology in April gave Abacus a position in
Germany and France, (the 1st and 4th largest markets in
Europe, respectively, according to Europartners report 2005)
and in the smaller markets of Austria and Benelux as well as
a strengthened position in the UK, Scandinavia and Italy.
Axess further strengthened the Group’s position in France
and enhanced the sales of Displays and Wireless Modules,
product areas that are a key part of the growth strategy of
Abacus. The Abacus Group now has a position in all of the
major markets within Europe and according to Europartners
is the 5th largest distributor of electronic components to the
industrial market. Whilst we are delighted to have a presence
in the major markets which we believe will bring, over time,
additional benefits to the Group with regard to customer and
franchise coverage, we do not intend to portray ourselves as
a Pan European distributor. That creates an impression of a
business trying to be the same as our major competitors, the
USA based global distributors, something we are definitely not.
Our strategy is driven by a recognition that the countries in
Europe, and the regions within those countries, have different
languages and cultures and to be successful one must work
with these differences. In order to continue to grow and
increase our penetration of these markets Abacus must
create differences between itself and its competitors that
the customers and suppliers recognise as being of benefit to
them. Abacus will therefore continue with its policy of having
regionally based sales offices supported by regionally based
product experts offering comprehensive technical and design
in support, and local warehouses to fulfil the demands of each
individual market. Our goal is to be seen as the leading strong
local distributor in all the markets in which we operate. The
differences detailed above combined with our approach
of selling to all customers irrespective of their size or their
sector (we have approximately 20,000 trading customers
across Europe), and our broad diversified product range
(approximately 180 different franchises across the Group)
are key to Abacus achieving this and creating a differentiated
platform on which the Group can grow both organically and
through further acquisition.
We are confident that the industry is now recognising our
market position and our differentiated model, and at the recent
European Electronics Industry Awards we were delighted to be
chosen as Distributor of the Year 2006.
We have set ourselves a target of having a minimum 5%
market share in all of the major countries as we believe that
at this level Abacus will be a significant player on the market
whereby customers will wish to consider us as a strategic
supplier and franchisors will want to speak to us because
of our customer coverage.
Review by region
UK & Ireland
We have a very strong presence on this market with,
according to Europartners 2005, a 13.6% market share
putting us firmly in the top 3 distribution businesses. The
Deltron operation was integrated into the Abacus business
at the end of May 2006 and this opened up the opportunity
for the combined company to sell all products. The Abacus
Group product offering covers a very broad range of electronic
Chief Executive’s Review
Abacus Group Stand – Electronica 2006
“
The Abacus Group now has in excess of 3% of the total European component market for distribution
and a position in all the major markets that will create opportunities for organic growth through
cross-selling of products and geographic franchise expansion. However, the top 10 distribution
companies in Europe, of which Abacus is number 5, only take 61% of the market and we believe that
there exists a good opportunity for further consolidation within the distribution market and that the
Abacus Group is well positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
”
6 Abacus Group plc components, wireless modules, displays and software
enabling us to supply a multitude of customers across a
wide range of industrial sectors. We maintain the different
businesses within this market (Abacus, Micromark, TDC,
Trident) to ensure we bring the appropriate level of technical
expertise to the different products but increasingly all
products are being sold by each business creating significant
opportunities for organic growth. We combine this opportunity
with a regular review of technology development within
the electronic component market and within the end user
industrial sectors to ensure our product offering is kept up to
date and meets the needs of existing and future customers.
This applies not only to the UK but to the entire Group.
The acquisition of Deltron also enhanced our existing
manufacturing operations and these have all been combined
into one business unit for sales and marketing purposes and
rebranded Alpha 3 Manufacturing. These businesses and our
own brand businesses, Dubilier (existing Abacus brand), Eledis
and Emcon (Deltron brand), are another part of our strategy to
create differences to our major competitors.
France
The Abacus Group gained a presence in the French market
through the acquisition of Deltron in January 2006. This was
quickly enhanced by the acquisition of Axess Technology
(comprising two companies, Axess and RDI) in April 2006
creating a position of being the 5th largest distribution
business in France with a market share of 5.6% (according
to Europartners 2005).
These three companies have a strong product offering
with Abacus Deltron representing a broad range of
electromechanical products, Abacus RDI being a passive
specialist and Axess supplying an excellent range of display,
wireless modules and niche semiconductors. The Axess
business is very similar in the products it sells and its
approach to the market of the UK based Trident and TDC
businesses and these companies work closely together
with regard to product and industry sector development.
All three businesses in France are now using the same
IT platform and the warehouses have been integrated
into one based on the outskirts of Paris.
During the Quarter ending March 2007, the sales and
marketing teams of RDI and Deltron will be combined,
creating cross-selling opportunities and a stronger business
which, over time, can be enhanced with the addition of a
number of new franchises currently held by the Abacus
Group in other regions.
Customer Sectors
Power 2%
Contract Manufacturing (Global) 3%
Defence 1%
Automotive 3%
Consumer 2%
Lighting 1%
Avionics 1%
Navigation 1%
Thermoregulation 1%
Others 3%
Contract Manufacturing (Local) 28%
Ind Control 18%
Instrumentation 7%
Fire & Security 6%
Printer Peripheral 4%
Comms 5%
Audio Visual 5%
Medical 4%
Distribution 5%
7 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Scandinavia
The acquisition of Deltron in January 2006 had a major
impact on the presence of the existing Abacus business in
Scandinavia, enhancing its product offering with the addition
of a number of leading electro-mechanical manufacturers, and
strengthening its position on the market to the 6th largest
distribution business with a market share across the region
of 4% (according to Europartners 2005).
In Sweden and Norway the two businesses were integrated
in August 2006 under the banner of Abacus Scandinavia,
creating a much wider portfolio of products to be sold to all
customers. The IT system is the same as that utilised in the
UK and Denmark creating efficiencies in support functions
such as purchasing. All Scandinavian warehouses have been
integrated into one facility in Denmark, today the largest sales
region in Scandinavia for Abacus.
In Denmark, the existing Abacus Promax business has also
been re-named Abacus Scandinavia and using the same IT
platform as Sweden and Norway has enhanced its product
offering with access to the Deltron products from those
regions. Today the existing Deltron business, Conelec, has
remained separate to the Abacus Scandinavia companies in
terms of IT and sales and marketing as its approach to the
market is one of selling more customer specific assemblies
rather than single components and we believe this
specialisation is worth maintaining and developing.
We have during the year continued to develop the Trident
business in Scandinavia and our wireless module and software
sales through the Abacus business. Increasingly these
businesses work more closely together and the Trident
personnel are located in the Abacus offices creating, as we
have in other regions, a broad product offering that is available
to all customers giving many opportunities for organic growth.
Italy
The situation in Italy is very similar to that of Scandinavia. The
acquisition of Deltron has improved our position on the market
to that of the 5th largest distribution business with a market
share of 3% (according to Europartners 2005). We have
completed the integration of the Deltron business into the
existing Abacus operation and now have a common sales
and marketing team, IT system and warehouse, creating a
business with a stronger product offering that goes to market
under the brand of Abacus ECC.
We are also continuing to develop the sale of display, wireless
modules and software, and this combined with our stronger
position on the market, will bring opportunities to further
strengthen our product offering, creating a good environment
for organic growth.
Germany
The Europartners 2005 report shows that the German market
for industrial electronic component distribution is the largest
within Europe, being twice the size of the 2nd, the UK, and
representing 27% of the total available market.
The acquisition of Deltron brought us a small presence in this
market with a business that has two offices in Munich and
Stuttgart, and a market share of some 1%.
The products sold by Abacus Deltron are from a small number
of leading electro-mechanical component manufacturers,
some of which have an existing relationship in other countries
with the original Abacus Group, and our primary focus during
the coming year will be to seek opportunities to develop in
this market to move towards our goal of achieving a minimum
5% market share.
Just after the year end Abacus announced that it had
recruited a new General Manager for Abacus Deltron
Germany, and had enhanced the sales and marketing team
with the recruitment of an additional 14 people, all of whom
had previously worked together within the component
distribution industry. These people are located across
Germany and Abacus is in the process of opening an
additional 3 regionally based sales offices, in line with
the Group’s strategy, to give an improved coverage of
the total market.
Abacus Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Abacus Group – Distributor of the Year, Elektra Award 2006
8 It is believed that this wider coverage of the market will create
organic growth opportunities from the existing product offering
but over time, combined with the much improved position 
of the Abacus Group within Europe, will also bring new
franchises to the German market.
Abacus will also continue to seek further acquisition
opportunities in this market.
Austria
Austria is a small but important market within Europe and the
Deltron acquisition brought us a sales and marketing presence
through an office based in Vienna, being served by the
warehouse in Munich.
Abacus has enhanced its team by the recruitment after the
year end of a new General Manager and two additional sales
personnel, all of whom previously worked with the new team
in Germany. This will bring the Company a number of organic
growth opportunities that will improve the approximately 1%
market share that Abacus has today.
Benelux
Benelux is the 8th largest market in Europe and the Abacus
Group had an existing presence with a Trident sales office in
Holland. The acquisition of Deltron brought an additional sales
office in Holland served by the UK warehouse.
The Abacus Deltron office has been converted to use the
same IT platform as that used in the UK and Scandinavia in
June 2006 and during the early part of 2007 Abacus will move
both Trident and Abacus Deltron into the same office and onto
the same IT system creating a wider product portfolio for the
sales team to sell to all customers, giving us the opportunity 
to organically improve the current 1% market share.
Hong Kong
The office in Hong Kong, established at the beginning of 2006,
has been a significant contributor to the success Abacus has
had in continuing to supply components to the customers
who design and purchase in Europe but manufacture in the
Asia Pacific region. We believe this trend will continue albeit 
at a slower rate than previous years and the Company 
remain confident that the European market for component
distribution, estimated in 2005 at €11.4 billion by Europartners,
will continue to be a good market in which to operate.
IT
Our objective is to have all Abacus Group companies, other
than our Alpha 3 Manufacturing division, on the same IT
platform to enable us to take advantage of the efficiencies 
and synergies that this brings. Today this is clearly not the
case and achieving this objective is a major focus for Abacus
senior management.
We will continue with the upgrade of our existing UK system,
so that when the roll out is complete this system will meet all
the needs of the growing business, including operating in the
local language.
Staff
This year has seen a number of positive changes to the
Abacus Group and in recognition of this we have, during the
year, taken the opportunity to strengthen the management
team in all areas of the business creating a structure that is
extremely well positioned to take advantage of the growth
opportunities that we are creating.
Market
We measure on a daily basis the Bookings across the Group
through a long established Management Reporting system, 
as these are a key indicator of what is happening within our
customers and the markets in which we operate. As detailed
in the Chairman’s report, the UK market in 2006 had a
sluggish start but improved as we moved into the 2nd and 3rd
quarters of our year and overall our Book to Bill ratio for the
complete year stood at 1.09.
We start the new year with our Book to Bill ratio remaining
positive and with our daily rate above that of 2005.
The Abacus Group now has in excess of 3% of the total
European component market for distribution and a position in
all the major markets that will create opportunities for organic
growth through cross-selling of products and geographic
franchise expansion.
However, the top 10 distribution companies in Europe, of
which Abacus is number 5, only take 61% of the market
(according to Europartners 2005) and we believe that there
exists a good opportunity for further consolidation within 
the distribution market and that the Abacus Group is well
positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
M Kent
Chief Executive Officer
30 November 2006
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The year has been characterised by the successful integration
of the Deltron and Axess/RDI businesses into the Abacus
Group and the implementation of IFRS.
The integration of the Deltron businesses in the UK, Italy,
Sweden and Norway with the Abacus operations in those
countries took place between January and the end of the
financial year and in each case was completed ahead of
schedule. The integration of Deltron in France into Axess/RDI
took place during the summer and has also been successfully
completed. The acquisition of Deltron gave the Group, for 
the first time, a presence in Germany and this has been
substantially reorganised and enlarged since the year end.
The manufacturing business of Deltron (Deltron Emcon, now
known as DEM) has been combined with the two Abacus
manufacturing divisions, CTL and CCS, and rebranded as
Alpha 3 Manufacturing. Trident has been reorganised, primarily
in the UK, to refocus its activities on distribution and value
added solutions. It is now working closely with Axess in
France to provide a comprehensive European distribution
service for displays and related components.
All of the integration and reorganisation activities have
absorbed a significant amount of management time but 
have been completed ahead of schedule and should 
deliver annualised cost savings of some £5.5 million, in line
with the indications given at the time the acquisitions were
announced. The benefit of integration savings in the period to
30 September 2006 amount to some £1.6 million. The cost of
securing the savings has been £9.4 million, including the cost
of withdrawal of Trident from its finished product business; of
this amount £5.4 million cash outlay has already been incurred
and £1.6 million represents Balance Sheet provisions and write
downs, which will not involve cash outlay.
The IFRS accounts format was initially presented in the 
interim results and the accounting policies used for 2006 
are consistent with those used at that time. The principal
differences between IFRS and GAAP presentation in the
Income statement concern the “share based payment”
treatment of share options which amounts to a charge of 
£0.5 million in 2006 (2005: £0.2 million).
Turnover
The results for the year reflect 12 months’ trading for the
existing Abacus Group, 9 months’ trading for the Deltron
Group and 6 months’ trading for Axess/RDI. For this reason
the 2006 results show an incomplete view of the Group’s
future financial profile, although the second half of 2006
reflects the combination of businesses throughout the period,
albeit with only a small part of the future savings included.
Total turnover for the 12 months amounted to £257.1 million
(2005: £178.8 million). The figures include £55.0 million 
(£35.4 million in the second half) in respect of Deltron and
£20.5 million in respect of Axess. The existing Abacus sales
for the full year of £181.6 million showed an increase of 2%
over 2005, but in the second half of the year the increase was
5% over the same period in 2005. This was notwithstanding
the expected reduction in turnover in 2006 in Abacus Promax,
which operates in Scandinavia, following the closure in
summer 2005 of the Abacus Finnish operation and the
restructuring of the Swedish and Danish activities. This loss 
of turnover was compensated by increased sales by Trident 
in Scandinavia. For the UK and Italy, existing Abacus sales for
the year grew by 2% and 4% respectively and by 5% and
18% respectively in the second half of the year. Deltron sales
for the 12 months to September were £71.4 million, in line
with market forecasts for the Company at the time of the
acquisition by the Abacus Group. With effect from the end of
the financial year, the Deltron activities in Sweden, Italy and UK
have been fully integrated into Abacus’ businesses in these
countries and the transparency of performance will be blurred
going forward as the positive cross-selling opportunities are
exploited. The performance of the finished product business 
in Trident had a detrimental impact on the Abacus turnover 
in the UK for the year, recording turnover of only £0.4 million
(2005: £7.7 million).
Within the above figures, the manufacturing business for 
the year reported turnover of £17.8 million, including a 
9 month contribution of £5.1 million from DEM, Deltron’s 
UK manufacturing division, a small underlying reduction
compared to 2005 (£13.2 million).
Gross margin
The Gross profit for the Group, pre exceptional items, for the
period ended September 2006 improved from £43.7 million 
in 2005 (24.4% of sales) to £64.7 million (25.2% of sales)
(£63.9 million in 2006 compared to £40.2 million, post
exceptional items). The improvement in the margin percentage
was due to the higher margins earned in Axess/RDI and, 
more particularly, Deltron. In the second half, the Gross profit
of the existing Abacus business grew by 7%, more than
compensating for a reduction in the first half. The overall
Abacus Group Gross profit of £37.7 million in the second 
half represented an increase of 75% on the previous year. 
10 Abacus Group plc
Financial Review The Deltron accounting treatment of expenditure has been
aligned to that of Abacus, which has resulted in some costs
being moved from operating expenses to cost of sales. This
has led to a reduction of some 1.5% in the Deltron gross
margin to 29.4% in the 9 months to September 2006.
Notwithstanding this realignment of expenditure, Deltron
Group has a higher margin compared to the existing Abacus
business because it distributes a different mix of products. It is
therefore expected that the margin for Abacus Group for the
full year 2007 with Deltron and Axess/RDI included for the full
12 months is likely to be somewhat higher than in the past.
The great part of the integration savings achieved will in future
affect the operating expenses rather than cost of sales. 
Operating expenses
The Abacus Board maintains a tight discipline over headcount
and expenditure. In 2006, in order to ensure strong
management control over the enlarged Group, certain new
managers were recruited at the Newbury head office. 
Although this has increased costs, the improved control and
management guidance has significantly assisted with the
integration of the acquisitions in the year.
A key element of the Deltron acquisition rationale was the
opportunity to save costs through combining its infrastructure
and support services with those of Abacus. These savings,
which were estimated at £5 million, have been realised quicker
than forecast due to the speed of the integration process. 
In total, £5.5 million annualised savings have been achieved,
including those from the integration of Deltron France with
Axess/RDI. The full year effect of these savings will be
substantially available from the beginning of the 2007 
financial year. The cost of realising these savings has 
totalled £8.0 million.
During the year, the Board took the decision to refocus the
Trident business on distribution and value added activities and
to withdraw from the higher risk profile of its finished product
business. As a consequence, 9 staff were made redundant
and certain provisions were made against inventory and
receivables on the Balance Sheet. The charge associated 
with this reorganisation has amounted to £1.4 million 
which, because of its size and nature, has been treated 
as exceptional in the Income statement.
The Group headcount at 30 September 2006 was 1,147
compared to 762 the previous year. At the date of acquisition,
the Deltron Group had 360 staff and Axess/RDI had 88 staff.
During the integration process there has thus been a net
decrease of 63 in the total number employed by Abacus
Group. The manufacturing business headcount included in
these numbers was 239 at 30 September 2006 (2005: 172),
with 84 included in the Deltron number at the date of
acquisition.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles and 
Exceptional Items
The change to IFRS, from 2006, has necessitated changes to
the treatment of goodwill. In the past, this has been amortised
through the Profit and Loss account together with amortisation
of intangible assets. Under IFRS, goodwill is not amortised 
but rather, is subject to an annual impairment review by
management. No impairment has been identified during this
review in respect of 2006. Also under IFRS, an intangible 
asset should be recognised, for Abacus, in respect of the
measurable value of a short term order book and customer
relationships taken on as the result of an acquisition; this 
is then subject to short term amortisation. The amortisation 
so recognised in 2006 of £2.3 million (nil in 2005) has been
analysed separately on the Income statement to assist with
the identification of the underlying trading performance of
Abacus Group.
Similarly, as previously highlighted, the Board has identified
£9.4 million of exceptional charges including £8.0 million
arising from the acquisition and integration of Deltron and
Axess/RDI and £1.4 million from the restructuring of Trident
following its withdrawal from the finished product business.
These charges are “one off” and not expected to recur.
Net finance Costs and Profit
Net finance costs in 2006 increased from £1.3 million in 2005
to £2.8 million. As explained later in the working capital
section, the principal reason for this was the increase in debt
levels following the two acquisitions in the year. The interest
cover, based on Operating profit before amortisation and
exceptionals (as measured for the Group’s bank covenants),
remained above 5 times in this year of significant change 
(7 times in 2005). The Group has not sought to apply hedge
accounting under IAS39 for its hedging derivatives. Rather
“commercial” forward exchange cover is used that provides
protection and certainty for future exchange rates, even
though under IAS39, a gain or loss on these derivatives 
has to be recognised at the end of the accounting period
(£0.3 million loss at 30 September 2006, £nil in 2005).
The Profit before tax, amortisation and exceptionals of 
£11.9 million (2005: £8.1 million) was after £0.5 million 
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 (2005: £0.2 million) of share based payments. After
amortisation and exceptional charges, the current year 
results before tax show a loss of £0.1 million against 
£4.0 million profit in 2005.
With the Group now profitable in all its major operating
subsidiaries, deferred tax assets can now be recognised. 
This has had the effect of reducing the effective tax rate, 
pre amortisation and exceptionals, in 2006 to 28%, just below
that for 2005. The tax rate is expected to remain at this level
for at least the next year.
The basic earnings per share pre amortisation and
exceptionals has remained at 13.6p, the same as 2005
(post amortisation and exceptionals; 0.0p against 6.1p in
2005). This is a most satisfactory outcome given the major
acquisitions made in the year and the expected benefits that
are still anticipated from 2007.
Cash flow and working capital
The net debt position of Abacus Group was £66.1 million 
at 30 September 2006 (2005: £29.1 million). Included in this
figure was Euro 7 million (£4.6 million) loan notes issued in 
the year to the vendors of Axess Technology Group as part 
of the consideration paid. These are repayable equally in 
April 2007 and April 2008. The net bank debt is £61.4 million
at 30 September 2006; the increase in the year is partly
accounted for by £12.1 million and £1.8 million net debt
acquired with Deltron and Axess Technology respectively and
£6.9 million cash paid as consideration for Axess Technology.
In addition “exceptional” payments to date connected with 
the transaction and integration costs of the acquisitions, as
explained previously, amounted to £5.4 million.
The remaining increase in bank borrowings results from a
significant increase in working capital. The Deltron business, 
in particular, had minimised working capital in the years prior
to acquisition to such an extent that it was unable to fully
satisfy the requirements of customers; stock was not always
available to meet orders and credit terms were uncompetitive.
Since the half year the enlarged Group’s receivables have
increased by £9.1 million and inventory by £2.3 million. This
partly reflects the increased “tempo” of business in the Group
and partly a conscious effort to more fully meet the needs of
former Deltron customers. Because Abacus Group is able to
borrow under its bank “invoice discounting” facilities, which
are based on the total level of debtors, there is reduced
pressure to minimise the trade debtors’ level. The debtors’
days outstanding at September 2006 for the Group were 72
(2005: 69 days) whilst stock turn at 30 September 2006 was
5.9 times (2005: 5.2 times). Both performance indicators show
that working capital movements have been contained within
previous Abacus Group KPI parameters.
Notwithstanding this increase in working capital, the Board is
comfortable with the level of borrowings which are in-line with
expectations and are well within the Group’s bank covenants
(total facilities available to the Group at 30 September 2006
were £82 million). Further, tight control is exercised over
working capital and it is expected to return to lower levels 
in 2007 as the integrated businesses settle down.
Treasury
The Group’s treasury function is managed centrally from
Newbury, providing a service to the operating businesses, 
with regular reporting to the Board. The Group’s treasury
policy is to ensure that adequate financial resources are
available to the Group for its business operations and that 
this is provided in a cost-effective fashion. No speculative
transactions are undertaken, in that all foreign currency
purchases are related to current or projected transactions.
Capital expenditure
As a result of the adoption of IFRS, the investment project to
replace the Abacus business IT system has been recategorised
as an intangible asset. Some £8.1 million has been spent to
date on this project (£6.0 million at 30 September 2005) and it
continues to progress in line with the Board’s expectations.
Following the Deltron and Axess/RDI acquisitions, the need for
such a system is further enhanced although, as a consequence
of the significant increase in business locations, it will not now
be fully operational until 2008.
Dividend
As announced at the Interims in May 2006, the Board is
proposing a final dividend for 2006 of 3.6p per share (the
same as the Interim dividend and the 2005 equivalent),
making 7.2p for the year. This will be paid on 2 February
2007 to shareholders on the register on 5 January 2007.
£4.2 million dividends have been paid in 2006, £5.3 million
dividends have been declared out of 2006 profits.
P Allen, ACA
Chief Financial Officer
30 November 2006
12 Abacus Group plc
Financial Review (continued) Current Board Directors
Martin R Kent, Chief Executive Officer
aged 55, has been CEO of the Group since November 2000.
He has been in the industry since 1969. He joined Abacus 
in 1975, was the Marketing Director for the Group from
December 1987, and was a member of the buy-out team.
Peter V Allen, Chief Financial Officer
aged 50, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Board in 
April 2005. He was previously the Deputy Chief Executive  
and Chief Financial Officer of Celltech Group plc, a UK
listed biotechnology company. He is also a non-executive
director of ProStrakan Group plc and Chairman of Chroma
Therapeutics Limited.
Martin Brooks, Technical Director
aged 37, having started his career as an Electronics Design
Engineer, moved into Distribution in 1994, and joined the
Abacus Group in 1998. Martin was appointed to the Board 
in July 2006. 
Patrick Journo, Executive Director
aged 49, created Axess Technology in 1989, specialists in
Display and Wireless technology. He was appointed to the
Board in July 2006. He is now responsible for the Display 
and Wireless companies in Europe.
Anthony Henry Westropp, Non-executive Chairman
aged 61, has been Chairman of the Company since 1994. 
He is a non-executive director of The Throgmorton Trust Plc
and also a director of a number of other private companies.
Robert E Lambourne, Non-executive Director
aged 54, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Board in June
2004. He is the Chairman of Analyst Investment Management
plc and Chairman of Sokao SA in Belgium. He has held a
number of public company directorships, both in an executive
and non-executive capacity, including appointments as
Finance Director of Foseco plc, Hepworth PLC and RMC
Group Plc.
David Weir, Non-executive Director
aged 59, was Chief Executive of Caird Group plc, a waste
management company from 1993 to 1999. He currently has a
number of non-executive roles, including Dee Valley Group plc
and Property Recycling Group plc. He joined the Board in
January 2006.
Graham McBeth, Managing Director, ECD Europe
aged 44, developed his career within National Semiconductor
for 11 years before moving to Abacus in 1995. He was
appointed to the Board in 1997. He is now responsible 
for the ECD companies in the Group.
The Board of Directors, Secretary and Advisors 
13 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
The Board of Directors
The Board currently comprises three non-executive Directors and five executive Directors. 
Secretary
Andrew Bateman
Registered Office
Abacus House, Bone Lane,
Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 5SF
Stockbrokers and Financial Advisors
Hoare Govett Limited (ABN AMRO)
250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP ,
Chartered Accountants & Registered Auditors,
Apex Plaza, Reading, Berkshire, RG1 1YE
Solicitors
Charles Russell LLP,
7600 The Quorum, Oxford Business Park North,
Oxford, OX4 2JZ
Principal Bankers
HSBC Bank plc,
70 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5ES
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services plc
PO Box 82, The Pavilions,
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH
Website
www.abacus-group.co.uk
Registered Number
2278260
Retirements from the Board during the year
Graham J Grover, Managing Director, Trident
aged 51, joined Trident in 1978 before becoming Sales
Director in 1983. He was appointed Managing Director 
in 1987 and joined the Board in March 2004. He resigned
from the Board on 30 June 2006.
Jerry Vaughan, Executive Director
aged 59, joined Deltron in February 2004 with over 27 years
experience in the electronics industry. He joined the Board 
on 17 January 2006 and resigned on 31 March 2006.
Mrs Margaret Rice-Jones, Non-executive Director
aged 45, joined the Board of Abacus in January 2003 
and retired in January 2006. The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report for the year
ended 30 September 2006.
Principal activities
The Abacus Group distributes and manufactures electronic and electromechanical components.
Business review and future developments
The Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review comment on the results for the year and future
developments. They also refer to performance indicators used by the Directors to monitor the business.
Results and dividends
The results for the year ended 30 September 2006 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 34.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 3.6 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 
3.6 pence, makes a total for the year of 7.2 pence (2005: 7.2 pence). If approved, the Company will pay the final ordinary
dividend on 2 February 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 January 2007. The ex dividend 
date will be 3 January 2007.
Directors
The names of the current Directors, and those who retired during the year, are given on page 13. All the current Board 
Directors served at 30 September 2006 and throughout the year except D Weir, who was appointed on 17 January 2006, 
and P Journo and M Brooks who were appointed on 1 July 2006. The interests of all the Directors who served at any time in 
the year in the share capital of the Company at 30 September 2006, or at the time of their resignation, are given in the Directors’
Remuneration Report. 
H Westropp and R Lambourne, who retire at every Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and every third AGM respectively, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election. D Weir, P Journo and M Brooks, who were appointed by the Board during the year, 
offer themselves for re-appointment at the AGM. All of the executive Directors’ service contracts can be terminated by either 
party giving in writing not less than twelve months’ notice and H Westropp’s, R Lambourne’s and D Weir’s service contracts 
can be terminated by either party giving in writing not less than six months’ notice.
The Group agrees to indemnify the Directors of the Company against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties
subject to the provision of the Companies Act 1985. The indemnity has been in force throughout the year and continues at the
date of this report. The Group maintains Directors’ and Officer’s liability insurance, to mitigate the impact of any such proceedings.
Employee Benefit Trust
The Abacus Group EBT is a discretionary trust established in 2005 for the benefit of staff of the Group. It has a professional
independent trustee, Appleby Trust (Jersey) Limited. The Trust is intended to be financed by loans from the Group and its
administration costs and trustee fees are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement when incurred. The Trust will purchase
the Company’s shares for use in connection with the Group’s Performance Share Plan (PSP). The Remuneration Committee will
make recommendations on behalf of the Board to the Trust regarding grants under the PSP to members of staff. As appropriate,
the Trust will then borrow money to purchase shares in the Company to satisfy such grants.
The EBT did not hold shares in Abacus Group plc at 30 September 2006 but in accordance with best practice, when it does, 
the Trust will waive its right to dividends and has been requested to abstain from voting at any general meeting.
Events since the balance sheet date
There have been no significant events since 30 September 2006.
14 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Report  Substantial shareholdings
The Company has been advised of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the Ordinary shares in issue at 
17 November 2006.
No of Shares
(million) %
Unicorn Asset Management 11.6 15.8
Aberforth Partners 5.7 7.8
Old Mutual Asset Managers 3.9 5.4
Aegon Asset Management 3.4 4.6
Henderson Global Investors 3.2 4.4
JP Morgan Asset Management 3.2 4.4
Capital Group 3.2 4.3
Gartmore Investment Management 2.8 3.9
Topfib Ltd 2.8 3.9
Morley Fund Management 2.3 3.2
Supplier payment policy
Group policy is to set terms of payment when agreeing contracts with suppliers, which clearly explain payment procedures, and
to settle bills within those contract terms. The Group operates systems for promptly advising suppliers of, and resolving, queried
and contested items.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 September 2006 were equivalent to 30 days purchases (2005: 30 days). The Company has
no trade creditors.
Charitable donations
The Group contributed £1,828 (2005: £1,762) to charities, primarily local, during the year.
There were no political donations.
Fixed Assets
In the opinion of the Directors, the current open market value of the Group’s interests in freehold land and buildings is equal 
to its fair value.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors of the
Company for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ Report are listed on page 13. Having
made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Company’s auditors, each of these Directors confirms that:
■ to the best of each Director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which
the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
■ each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
15 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting on 31 January 2007 follows the Report and Accounts, and a Proxy voting form 
is enclosed. 
Ordinary Resolutions 1 to 8 constitute the ordinary business of the meeting: to approve the Financial Statements, appoint
Directors and Auditors and to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Resolutions 9 to 11 constitute special business.
Ordinary Resolution 9 authorises the Directors to issue Ordinary shares up to a nominal value of £1,221,479, being one third 
of the issued share capital as at 30 September 2006.
Special Resolution 10 allows the Directors to issue Ordinary shares for cash without applying the pre-emptive rights set out in
section 89 of the Companies Act 1985. It empowers the Directors to make rights issues and issue shares up to a total nominal
value of £183,222, being 5% of the issued share capital as at 30 September 2006. The authority expires within 15 months or 
at the end of the Annual General Meeting for the year ending 30 September 2007, if earlier.
Special Resolution 11 sets out the framework in which the Company may purchase its own shares. It limits a purchase to 
a maximum of 15 percent of the issued share capital and sets the upper and lower prices to be paid. The Directors intend 
to exercise this power only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that a purchase will increase
earnings per share and be in the best interest of shareholders generally. In reaching their decision, they will consider other
investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Group.
Shareholders may inspect copies of the Directors’ service contracts and the Register of Directors’ interests at any time. 
These documents are held at the Registered Office, which is open during normal business hours. 
By order of the Board
Abacus House, Bone Lane, Newbury, Andrew Bateman
Berkshire, RG14 5SF (Registered Office) Secretary
30 November 2006
16 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Report (continued) Abacus Group plc is committed to business integrity, ethical values and professionalism. As an essential part of this commitment,
the Company develops and maintains high standards of corporate governance. These statements describe how the Company
applies and complies with the principles of the Combined Code, annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority
and for which the Board is accountable to its shareholders. 
Statement of compliance with Code of Best Practice
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, 
as applicable to smaller listed companies, issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The Board of Directors
The Board currently has eight members comprising a non-executive Chairman H Westropp, a Chief Executive Officer M Kent,
four other executive and two other non-executive Directors, including a Senior Independent Director, R Lambourne, to whom
shareholder concerns may be conveyed. During the year, G Grover resigned and P Journo and M Brooks were appointed 
as executive Directors. In addition, J Vaughan was appointed and stepped down as an executive Director and D Weir was
appointed and M Rice-Jones resigned as a non-executive Director.
All non-executive Directors who served during the year were considered by the Board to be independent of management.
Although H Westropp has been a Board member for more than ten years, he is considered to be independent as he has never
had business or personal relationships with the Company, is not a significant shareholder, does not hold cross-directorships,
receives only fixed Directors’ fees, has never been an employee of the Company and is considered to be of sufficient calibre 
and experience that he can exercise judgement free from undue influence of management. 
The Company believes it has a balance of executive and non-executive Directors appropriate for a business of its size. 
Each individual executive Director’s performance is formally appraised at an annual review by the CEO, whose performance 
in turn is appraised by the non-executive Chairman. The Chairman’s performance is appraised by the non-executive Directors,
who in turn are appraised by the Chairman, CEO and Chief Financial Officer. 
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board, in conducting its business, follows its procedures
and best practice whilst complying with applicable rules and regulations. All Directors have access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary.
Conduct of Board Meetings
The Board in general meets each month to consider matters specifically reserved to it for decision (during the year, the Board 
had 10 such monthly meetings, and details of attendance are given on page 19). When required, the Board convenes between
the regular meetings.
At least seven days prior to each meeting all members receive up to date reports on key areas of the business and information 
to support decisions. Where information is insufficient to enable the Board to discharge its duties, Board members may make
further enquiries.
A part of each meeting is devoted to strategy and planning, and in dealing with issues of strategy, risk, performance, resource
allocation, key appointments and standards of conduct, Board members use their independent judgement. In carrying out their
duties, Board members may also take independent professional advice, at the Company’s expense.
Retirement of Directors
The Articles of Association of Abacus Group plc require that:
a) the Directors must submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting after appointment;
b) non-executive Directors who have served nine years or less on the Board and all executive Directors, are required to retire
every three years; and 
c) non-executive Directors who have served more than nine years on the Board, are required to retire annually.
The names of Directors retiring at the next Annual General Meeting are given on page 14, and biographical details of the 
Directors on page 13.
Corporate Governance Statements
17 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The Board has established three committees, namely the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the 
Audit Committee, the terms of reference for which are available from the Company. Details of, and attendees at, each of 
these committees are as follows:
Nominations Committee
Abacus Group plc has developed formal and transparent procedures for appointing new Directors to the Board. These duties are
discharged through the Nominations Committee, which H Westropp chairs. Its other members are M Kent and R Lambourne,
and D Weir from, and M Rice-Jones until, January 2006. If appropriate, the Committee instructs external professional consultants to
ensure a wide range of candidates is put forward. Before appointing suitable candidates, the Board considers the recommendations
of the Committee. The Committee met once during the year to discuss the appointments of M Brooks and P Journo. D Weir 
was appointed as part of the Deltron acquisition and his appointment was considered by the entire Board. In selecting the 
newly appointed candidates, the Committee identified the skills and experience needed for the positions and determined that 
the internal candidates most closely matched these requirements.
Newly appointed Directors undertake appropriate training to enable them to discharge the responsibilities of their office.
Remuneration Committee
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, the Board has delegated responsibility for defining remuneration policy for executive
Directors and senior management to the Remuneration Committee. Its members are R Lambourne (Chairman) and D Weir 
from, and M Rice-Jones until, January 2006. The Committee met seven times during the year to:
a) discuss the terms of the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and bonus arrangements;
b) approve the grant of options under the Sharesave Scheme 2006;
c) approve the LTIP and bonus awards to senior management;
d) approve the severance package of J Vaughan;
e) approve the severance package of G Grover;
f) approve the Directors’ Remuneration for 2006; and
g) approve the new salary of P Journo and pension increase and salary increase of M Brooks.
The Board as a whole is responsible for establishing the fees and responsibilities of the non-executive Directors and takes into
account relevant market information.
The Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 31 describes the Company’s remuneration policy and the procedures for developing 
it and for determining remuneration.
Minutes of the Committee’s proceedings are copied to the Board and discussed by it where appropriate.
Audit Committee and accountability
R Lambourne (Chairman) served on the Committee for the whole year and D Weir from, and M Rice-Jones until, January 2006. 
R Lambourne is a Chartered Accountant, who qualified with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and has previously been Group Finance
Director of three listed companies. The Committee has clear terms of reference, under which the Board gives it authority to
examine matters concerning the financial affairs of the Group, internal and external audit reports, Annual and Interim Financial
Statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies and other matters referred to it by the Board, including
arrangements for whistle-blowing.
Periodically, the Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the Auditors and the level of non-audit services.
In assessing whether the Auditors should be appointed to carry out non-audit services, the Committee will consider whether they
are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the non-audit service and that the service is appropriate for the Auditors
to undertake (e.g. provision of internal audit services or risk management would be excluded). In addition, the Board ensures 
that the level of fees and importance of the work is considered alongside the audit work, in such a way that non-audit services
are provided without detriment to the Auditors’ independence. For the year ending 30 September 2006, the Audit Committee
considered that although the level of non-audit fees was £350,000, principally in respect of due diligence work in connection with
the acquisitions during the year, compared to the audit fee of £320,000, this did not prejudice the independence of the Auditors.
18 Abacus Group plc
Corporate Governance Statements (continued) The Committee met three times during the year to:
a) approve the 2005 Annual Financial Statements and consider the accounting and internal control points in the Management
Letter raised by the Auditors;
b) approve the Interim 2006 Financial Statements, the Auditors’ fees and the 2006 year-end audit plan, including accounting
and judgemental issues which the Auditors believed required its attention; and
c) approve the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and accounting policies adopted by the Group for its Interim
and Annual 2006 Financial Statements.
Minutes of the Committee’s proceedings are copied to the Board and discussed by it where appropriate.
Attendees at Board and Committee Meetings 
Number convened/ Board Nominations Remuneration Audit
attended by Directors Meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number Convened 10 1 7 3
Executive Director
Martin Kent 10 1 N/A N/A
Peter Allen 10 N/A N/A N/A
Graham McBeth 7 N/A N/A N/A
Patrick Journo* 2 N/A N/A N/A
Martin Brooks* 2 N/A N/A N/A
Graham Grover** 6 N/A N/A N/A
Jerry Vaughan*** 1
Non Executive Director
Harry Westropp 9 1 N/A N/A
Robert Lambourne 9 1 7 3
Margaret Rice-Jones** 2 N/A 1 N/A
David Weir* 8 1 6 3
External Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP N/A N/A N/A 3
* P Journo and M Brooks were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2006 and D Weir on 17 January 2006.
** G Grover and M Rice-Jones resigned from the Board on 30 June 2006 and 27 January 2006 respectively.
*** J Vaughan was appointed to the Board on 17 January 2006 and resigned on 31 March 2006.
Maintenance of a sound system of internal control
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the significant risks which the Group faces. The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place
throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Report, and which is in accordance with “Internal Control: Guidance 
for Directors on the Combined Code”, published in September 1999. The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of internal
control and for reviewing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with Provision C.2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s
system of internal control. The Board’s monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management. It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are
identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a
need for more extensive monitoring. In addition, a regular assessment is carried out to identify and evaluate all significant risks
and consider all significant aspects of internal control in place to manage them.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
19 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Managing business risk
Discussed below are the Group’s five major business risks, together with the systems and initiatives in place to address them:
Market
The European electronic component market is subject to fluctuations of demand by customers. These fluctuations are linked
to the economic cycle of each country and also to the migration abroad of manufacturing activity. The Group actively seeks
to manage its exposure to these fluctuations by monitoring stock levels, restricting its dependence on large customers, and
maintaining close working relationships with suppliers.
Operational
This relates to the risk of financial loss and damage to reputation resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and
systems and from the actions of people or external events. The Group manages this risk through appropriate controls and loss
mitigation actions. Examples include:
a) a bespoke business system providing comprehensive management reporting;
b) taking sufficient insurance cover, including for business interruption;
c) maintaining a detailed disaster recovery plan for all major sites;
d) maintaining rigorous data backup procedures;
e) performing regular risk assessments at each of the Group’s locations;
f) carrying out a regular review of the principal suppliers and customers of the Group, and how each impacts on the 
Group’s business;
g) regularly reviewing actual performance against budgets and forecasts;
h) establishing clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of major new investments and commitments.
In addition, specialist support functions provide expertise in ensuring the Group adheres to local regulatory and legal
requirements.
Credit
The Group assesses the creditworthiness of new customers before commencing trade with them. Based on this and the
customer’s capital base, authorised limits of credit are set. A proactive approach to the identification and control of bad and
doubtful debts is maintained and significant credit risks are highlighted to the Board.
Liquidity
This relates to the risk that the Group is unable to fund its requirements either because of insufficient banking facilities or because
it is constrained by the risk of breaching banking covenants. Following the significant reorganisation of borrowings during the
year, the majority of the Group’s bank facilities were and are available on a committed basis rather than as an overdraft.
The Group funds its day to day operations and short term assets through a mixture of retained profits, creditors, and short-term
bank overdraft and invoice discounting facilities, and its long term assets through bank term loans. The Group’s policy on liquidity
is to ensure that there are sufficient medium and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet funding requirements. It is
Group policy not to trade in or enter into speculative transactions. Except for finance leases, loan notes, a Euro loan and 50% of
an £8 million commercial mortgage loan, the Group pays interest on all debt financing arrangements at an agreed margin over
current bank base rates. The remaining £4 million of the commercial mortgage loan is covered by a four year fixed interest rate
swap. The majority of the cash comprises bank balances with HSBC Bank plc, and a number of European banks, institutions
which the Group considers creditworthy. The Group complied with all the relevant bank covenants during the year. 
Foreign currency risk
The Group has significant transactional currency exposures. Such exposures arise from sales and purchases by operating 
units in currencies other than the unit’s functional currency. When appropriate, the Group seeks to cover net foreign exchange
exposures with forward contracts, which are arranged centrally, and by negotiating sales and purchases in the same currency
where appropriate. The Group, however, has not effectively documented its forward exchange contracts and hence any
exchange gains and losses have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
20 Abacus Group plc
Corporate Governance Statements (continued) Key Performance Indicators
The senior management of the Group focus on three key indicators of financial performance: bookings, billings and gross 
profit margin. These are monitored daily across the geographic business units with explanation sought for variances against
expectations (which are based on budget and previous years’ experience).
In addition, on a monthly basis, detailed management accounts are prepared for senior management, including non executive
directors. These provide analysis in detail, by geographic area, of bookings, billings, cost of sales, gross profit, operating
expenses, each measured against budget and prior years.
Working capital is monitored monthly against budget and prior year, with particular focus on Group borrowings to ensure that
bank covenants are fully complied with. Receivables and inventories are also monitored in detail to ensure that credit terms 
are being respected and enforced, and that stock turn is appropriate.
Finally, other non financial indicators monitored on a monthly basis include order processing matrices, delivery times and
accuracy, staff numbers and turnover.
Internal Audit
The Board has formally reviewed the need for an internal audit function. At the current time, a formal internal audit function is
not considered necessary for a number of reasons: the size of the Group, widespread executive involvement in the Group’s 
day to day business, the depth of management reporting from all subsidiary managers to the Board, the level of variance 
analysis during the review of the monthly management accounts by both senior management and the Board Directors and 
robust internal controls. 
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Company and its institutional shareholders. 
The CEO and CFO are the main contacts. In addition, all shareholders have the opportunity to meet with the executive and 
non-executive Directors after the Annual General Meeting to discuss any issues they may have, and are available upon request 
at all other times. Robert Lambourne is the Senior Independent Director, and shareholders at all times may contact him on
matters of concern.
The Company maintains regular dialogue with institutional investors and presents the Interim and Preliminary Results to them.
The Board is regularly briefed on feedback from institutional visits.
Shareholder relations
The Company encourages participation by, and communication with, its shareholders. It welcomes and responds to all contacts
by shareholders on a wide range of issues, and uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors. The
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees attend the Annual General Meeting and are available, along
with operational management, to answer questions from shareholders at the meeting.
The Annual General Meeting is conducted in accordance with the Combined Code. This includes informing members present 
at the Meeting of proxy votes for and against resolutions, once the resolutions have been voted on by a show of hands. The
results of voting by proxy and show of hands on the proposed resolutions are announced on the Company’s website shortly 
after the AGM.
The Group’s annual and interim results are circulated to shareholders and the financial press. The Group’s share price is listed
in the Financial Times. Investor relations information and news releases are made available on the Company’s website 
(address: www.abacus-group.co.uk).
Going concern
On the basis of current financial projections and the facilities available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
21 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 General
Whilst the Board’s primary accountability is to its shareholders, it also tries to maximise value for all its other “stakeholders”
including employees, customers, suppliers and the community at large, as well as considering the impact of its actions on health,
safety and the environment. Overall responsibility for each of these areas ultimately resides with the full Board. However, specific
responsibility for employee-related and environmental issues resides with the CFO, Peter Allen, and external stakeholder issues
with the CEO, Martin Kent. The Group’s social, environmental and ethical risk management procedures are currently being
implemented and will be subject to a process of regular reviews.
Management at all levels in the organisation is committed to taking account of its corporate social responsibility in its actions,
endeavours to show due respect for human rights, and works to high standards of integrity and ethical propriety. As a
multinational organisation, Abacus takes account of cultural differences between the various territories in which it operates.
Through its continuing commitment to corporate social responsibility, Abacus Group is a member of the FTSE4 Good 
Series Index.
Employee consultation
The Group values the involvement of its employees. It has continued to inform employees, through meetings, noticeboards and
the intranet, of matters affecting them and of Group performance. The Group consults employee representatives regularly on a
wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests. All eligible employees in the UK may join the Sharesave Scheme
at periodic intervals.
Employee development
The Group places great importance on the development and retention of staff. It operates a formal appraisal scheme whereby 
the employee and manager provide each other with performance feedback after commencement of employment and at annual
intervals thereafter. At each of these meetings, objectives, against which performance is regularly measured, are set for the
coming period and training needs identified.
Over the last few years, a formal and structured training programme has been established for UK employees, promoting such
areas as communication skills, appraisal training, train the trainer and management development. The Group adopts practices to
encourage promotion from within including notifying employees via e-mail of any vacancies and identifying individuals for certain
positions as part of its formal succession planning. Graham McBeth, Managing Director ECD Europe, holds overall responsibility
for training throughout the Group.
Equal opportunities
Group companies are committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees, irrespective of sex, gender orientation, 
marital status, creed, colour, race, religious belief, ethnic origin or disability. The Group’s philosophy is that all discrimination on
any of the above grounds is abhorrent and it will condone no discrimination whatsoever, whether negative, positive or of any
other nature. The commitment covers recruiting, training, career development, performance appraisal and social interaction, 
both in and outside the workplace. The Group continues to monitor its application of this policy and its compliance with
legislation and codes of best practice.
Disabled Employees
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can
be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Group’s policy to provide continuing employment under normal terms and
conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Ethical Conduct
We expect our staff to act according to the highest standards of ethical behaviour covering such areas as fraud, conflict of
interest, internet abuse, bribery and corruption. This is reinforced through written policies, the inclusion of an anti-harassment
clause in contracts of employment, and the application of disciplinary procedures. The Group does not make corporate political
donations and prohibits the use of bribery and facilitation payments. 
22 Abacus Group plc
Corporate Social Responsibility  Health and safety
The maintenance and improvement of working standards to safeguard the health and well being of staff is a continuing priority.
This is achieved through a documented Health and Safety policy, annual risk assessments carried out at the Group’s main
locations and training staff in areas such as ‘manual handling’, which all warehouse staff receive on their induction, and ‘hotwork
handling’. All sites maintain accident books, the data from which is collected centrally every quarter and reviewed by the Health
and Safety Committee. Any actions identified are implemented wherever possible. The Group complies with all local health and
safety regulations. 
In the interests of staff health, smoking inside company premises is permitted only in designated areas.
Fire Wardens and First Aiders are appointed at each location and receive periodic training.
The Group requires company car drivers to comply with the laws on the use of mobile telephones whilst driving, and pays for 
the cost and installation of hands free kits, informs staff by e-mail of the latest legislation and penalties for contravening it, and
includes guidance on the use of telephones in the Group’s car policy document. 
Suppliers and Customers
The Group believes that long term relationships, founded on trust and mutual advantage, are vital to Abacus’ success. To foster
these relationships, the Group promptly advises suppliers and customers of queries and contested items. It always endeavours 
to resolve any queries through dialogue and adopts a commercial stance in their resolution. Contract terms are clearly explained
and payment terms are only extended with prior agreement. The Group has ISO approval, which covers procedures such as
dealing with customer queries, supplier assessments, customer contract review, sales order entry and logistics. The Group’s
business systems monitor delivery performance and these statistics are studied closely, with corrective action being implemented
where appropriate. Customers and suppliers frequently tour Company warehouses and factories, and conduct their own
competence audits of the Group’s performance in various different areas of its operations. The results of these audits are
discussed with the appropriate management, with a view to continuous improvement in the Group’s performance.
The environment
It is Group policy to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the environment. The Group, wherever possible, uses
recycled and recyclable packaging materials, and it recycles waste paper. 
Examples of current initiatives include:
a) reusing approximately 20% of outer packaging from incoming warehouse deliveries for outbound shipments;
b) segregating, compacting and baling waste cardboard and paper packaging before dispatching to recycling mills;
c) encouraging customers to return empty specialist anti-static packaging for reuse;
d) using durable returnable pallet box containers for inter-company shipments;
e) dispatching empty printer and photocopier cartridges and waste office paper for recycling;
f) disposing of electronics components and waste cable via registered scrap merchants, which recycle the product where possible;
g) encouraging suppliers to send data electronically rather than using paper. 
The Group sets objectives to reduce waste, and engages with its staff, customers and suppliers with the mandate continually to
find ways to minimise the use of resources.
The Group operates a continual review of its energy and resource utilisation with a view to minimising the impact of the Group’s
activities on the environment. An example is the Newbury office, in which the most energy efficient lighting, boilers and air
conditioning units are installed. 
Assisted by the change in emphasis in legislation in the UK to an emissions based tax on company cars, the Group continues
actively to encourage employees to downsize cars. The Board also continues to encourage the use of bicycles as commuter
transport.
Although the Group uses minimal environmentally damaging or hazardous material, it ensures that all personnel receive
appropriate training in its handling and all material is properly disposed of.
23 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Introduction
This Report has been prepared so as to comply with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985. The Report
covers all Directors, both executive and non-executive. 
The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the Company’s members on the ‘auditable part’ of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. The Report has therefore been divided into two separate sections, audited and non-audited information.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the
Company at which the Financial Statements will be approved.
Unaudited Information
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee comprised R Lambourne (Chairman), and D Weir from, and M Rice-Jones 
until, January 2006. None of them had any personal financial interest in decisions (other than as shareholders) and no 
cross-directorships or participation in any incentive schemes.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its operation comply with the Combined Code.
During the year, the Committee consulted the CEO and CFO on its proposals.
Terms of Reference
The Board agrees the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee. Its principal functions are to determine, on behalf 
of the Board and shareholders:
1. remuneration and incentives for the executive Directors, senior managers and other key staff of the Group;
2. targets for performance related bonuses for the executive Directors. The Committee also monitors performance against 
these targets;
3. contractual terms of service agreements, including termination, pension arrangements and other benefits.
Remuneration policy
In framing policy, the Committee seeks and will continue to seek to balance the cost of packages which attract, retain and
motivate Directors, senior managers and key staff of the highest quality, whilst avoiding paying more than is necessary.
The remuneration package of each executive Director reflects the principles of the Combined Code in setting remuneration, 
and takes into account Group objectives and personal achievement.
The Committee seeks to balance the amount of remuneration paid to an individual Director within the overall package. These
packages are aimed to provide a competitive reward, having regard to the remuneration paid by comparable public companies
and relative performance. In determining pay increases, the Committee is sensitive to pay and employment conditions of all 
staff in the Group. Staff pay is determined by market conditions and by both the Group’s and the individual’s performance.
Performance-related elements of the remuneration packages are established as a significant proportion of total pay. These
elements are designed both to motivate executive Directors to perform at the highest levels and to align their interests with 
those of shareholders.
There are no provisions in any of the Directors’ service contracts for compensation on early termination. Compensation payments
for early termination would be tailored, within legal constraints, to avoid rewarding poor performance and to deal equitably with
the Director.
Whilst the Company has stated its current and future remuneration policy of offering competitive and cost effective packages,
which incorporate a significant performance related element, it is conscious that any remuneration policy needs to be flexible.
Any changes to this policy will be stated in subsequent Annual Reports. 
24 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 30 September 2006 In evaluating the remuneration packages for 2006 and beyond, the Committee sought advice in September 2005 from its
independent and appointed advisor, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP , which also acted as the remuneration benchmarking
advisor in 2004 and as consultants on the 2003 Share Option Scheme and 2004 Sharesave Scheme. The main conclusions 
of this review, which are described more fully on the next page, were that:
1. Abacus Group’s current Executive Share Option Scheme should be replaced with a new performance related share incentive 
plan (PSP);
2. The annual bonus maximum should be reduced from 120% of salary to no more than 75%, and that it should not be subject 
to deferral; and 
3. Executive directors should build share ownership worth in aggregate a minimum of 100% of base salary
Components of the policy for executive Directors’ remuneration
1. Basic salary. An executive Director’s basic salary review is carried out by the Committee prior to the beginning of the year 
and when an individual changes position or responsibility. In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee takes into account 
the individual’s responsibilities and performance, and if considered necessary will take external advice. In June 2004 the
Board undertook an extensive bench-marking exercise with the assistance of New Bridge Street Consultants. In addition to
basic salary, the executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind including a car or car allowance, business and private
fuel, permanent health insurance, life assurance and private medical insurance.
2. Annual bonuses. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Managing Director ECD Europe participate 
in the annual bonus scheme.
The CEO and the Executive Directors receive bonuses of 50% and 40% respectively of basic salaries for achievement of
personal objectives. The bonuses are then subject to a further ratchet of 1.25 times if the budgeted EPS (before exceptional
items and amortisation of acquired intangibles and goodwill) is achieved, and 1.5 times if it is exceeded by over 5%. The
CEO’s and other Executive Directors’ maximum bonuses are therefore 75% and 60% of basic salary respectively. The Bonus
Plan is tailored to incentivise management, with less focus on the volatile annual EPS growth and more focus on the net
margin (profit divided by turnover) and meeting targets (both financial and non-financial) set specifically for each director.
3. Long term incentives. The Committee seeks to encourage share ownership by executive Directors and senior staff through
share arrangements. The Committee may consider making awards to individual executive Directors as part of an overall
remuneration and incentive package. In establishing share schemes, the Committee determines the scope of participation 
of the executive Directors and appropriate performance targets.
The Abacus Group Performance Share Plan 2005 (the “PSP”) was approved at the 2006 AGM. Awards ordinarily take the form 
of a nil (or nominal) cost option over a fixed number of Shares, where a participant can decide when to exercise his award during
a period of 12 months after it has vested. All awards are subject to performance conditions based on growth in EPS (before
exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles and goodwill) and are tested on only the third anniversary from date
of grant.
In addition, executive Directors are expected over the next five years to acquire and hold shares (including existing holdings)
worth in aggregate a minimum of 100% of base salary (after allowing for sales of shares to pay the tax or financing costs on 
the vesting or exercise of awards and options).
Following adoption of the PSP, options may no longer be granted under the 2003 scheme, 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme
(approved) and the 1996 Unapproved Share Option Scheme. All schemes, other than the PSP, allow for the grant of two types of
options, those approved by the UK Inland Revenue (approved) and those not (unapproved).
25 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Details of each of the current schemes and the 2005 Performance Share Plan ‘PSP’ scheme are as follows:
Approved Unapproved Executive Share OptionPerformance 
1993 1996 Scheme 2003* Share Plan
Approved & Unapproved 2005
Type of Scheme Share Option Share Option Share Option Nil (or nominal) cost 
option over a fixed 
number of Shares
Vesting period from date 3 or 5 years 3 or 5 years 3 years only 3 years only
of grant
Lapse period from date 10 years 7 years 10 years 4 years
of grant
Maximum award, lower of:
Absolute limit £30,000 None Approved: £30,000 None
Unapproved:   None
Limit as a % of salary The total of options held under grant at any one The total of option grants The total of awards 
time across both Schemes is not to exceed issued in any one year granted in any one year 
400% of salary under the 2003 Scheme is not to exceed 
is not to exceed 200% 100% of salary under 
of salary the ‘PSP’
EPS growth required in 100% of award vests 100% of award vests Options vest on a Awards vest on a 
excess of RPI between on real EPS growth on real EPS growth straight - line basis straight-line basis 
date of grant and vesting exceeding 1% per exceeding 3% per between real EPS between real EPS
annum annum growth of 4% (50% of growth of 3% (33% of 
award vests) and 6% award vests) and 7%
per annum (full vesting) per annum (full vesting)
Re-testing Re-tested from date of grant to any anniversary If targets not met in None
falling between vesting date and lapse date 3 years, re-tested 
on fourth and fifth 
anniversaries of grant*
Period in which option Options can be exercised only in the period in To the extent that the To the extent that the 
can be exercised which EPS growth is met performance condition performance condition 
following EPS criteria has been satisfied, that has been satisfied, that 
being met part of the option that part of the option 
can be exercised may that can be exercised 
be exercised irrespective may be exercised 
of future EPS perform- irrespective of future 
ance until lapse of option EPS performance until
lapse of option
Dilution limits No longer No longer 10% of the ordinary 10% of SC over 10 years 
(the cumulative number applicable applicable share capital (SC) over for all employee share 
of unlapsed options, 10 years for all option schemes; and 
which can be granted employee share option 5% of SC over 10 years 
over a period as schemes (including for the PSP and any 
constrained by set % Sharesave Scheme) other executive share 
limits of issued share plan, only if new shares
capital) issued
Cash alternative No Discretion of Approved: No Discretion of 
Remuneration Unapproved: Discretion Remuneration
Committee of Remuneration Committee, although 
Committee it does not currently
intend to do so
* Share options granted under the 2003 scheme to Peter Allen on 26 May 2005 did not allow for any re-testing.
26 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2006 4. Pensions. The executive Directors participate in personal pension schemes or the Group’s pension plans. All pension
schemes are money purchase pension contributions. Details of the UK based Executive Directors’ pension contributions,
which are based on a % of each executive Director’s basic salary, are summarised below:
Age Company contribution as a Director
% of basic salary
Under 45 15% G McBeth
M Brooks
45 to 50 20% –
Above 50 25% M Kent
P Allen
Should an executive Director’s age cross one of the above thresholds, then the 5% increase in contribution is effective from 
the month following his birthday. P Journo’s pension contribution is nil, and G Grover’s, until his resignation, was 20% of his 
basic salary.
5. Contracts of service. The required notice for terminating an executive Director’s service contract is twelve months. 
The Committee considers this period of notice to be appropriate.
Details of the executive Directors’ contracts are summarised below:
Contract Date Notice Period
M Kent 1 February 2004 One year
P Allen 10 June 2005 One year
G McBeth 1 February 2004 One year
M Brooks 1 July 2006 One year
P Journo 1 July 2006 One year
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration and contracts
The Board has delegated the responsibility for determining the remuneration and services of the non-executive Directors to a
sub-committee, whose members are the CEO and the CFO. 
Details of the non-executive Directors’ contracts, which have no automatic renewal provisions, are summarised below:
Contract
Commencement Date Expiry Date Notice period
H Westropp 1 January 2004 Each AGM 6 months
R Lambourne 1 June 2004 January 2007 AGM 6 months
D Weir 17 January 2006 January 2007 AGM 6 months
The non-executive Directors’ remuneration packages are:
a) set to attract, motivate and retain the appropriate level of non-executive talent;
b) proportional to their contribution towards the interest of the business;
c) consistent with recognised best standards;
d) in the form of cash fees, payable monthly; 
e) never received in the form of share options, in order to maintain independence. 
Details of the remuneration, options and interests of the Directors are given later in this Report.
27 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Performance Graph
The Regulations require this Remuneration Report to contain a graph showing the performance of the Company and a ‘broad
equity index’ over the past five years. The comparative index chosen is the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
as the Company is a constituent of the FTSE Small Cap Index. The Regulations require that performance is measured by total
shareholder return (share price growth with dividends deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date). 
This graph shows the value over the 5 year period ending on 30 September 2006, of £100 invested in Abacus Group plc on 
30 September 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding Investment Trusts).
Audited Information
The total amounts for Directors’ remuneration were as follows:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Emoluments 1,376 814
Pension contributions 200 266
Compensation for loss of office 392 280
1,968 1,360
The 2005 compensation for loss of office related to Mr P Griffith-Jones, who received a pension payment of £280,000 under a
compromise agreement made upon his resignation from the Board on 31 March 2005.
28 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2006
0
50
100
150
200
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Abacus Group
FTSE Small Cap Index (excluding Investment Trusts)
Value £ Emoluments
Details of individual emoluments in respect of qualifying services of each person who served during the year were as follows: 
Compensation
Salary Taxable Expense for loss Total Total
or fees benefit allowances Bonus of office 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current
Executive
M Kent 269 4 14 168 – 455 282
P Allen* 203 6 12 101 – 322 114
G McBeth 167 20 – 84 – 271 164
M Brooks* 27225 – 36 –
P Journo* 24 3––– 27 –
Non-executive
H Westropp (Chairman) 65–––– 65 65
R Lambourne 32–––– 32 25
D Weir* 19–––– 19 –
Retired
P Griffith-Jones (Executive)* ––––– – 282
G Grover (Executive)* 94 1 9 – 174 278 137
J Vaughan (Executive)* 45––– 218 263 –
M Rice-Jones* ––––– – 25
Total 945 36 37 358 392 1,768
2005 totals 754 28 32 – 280 1,094
Pensions and bonuses are calculated in line with the relevant Scheme Rules.
* P Griffith-Jones, M Rice-Jones and G Grover retired from the Board on 31 March 2005, 27 January 2006 and 30 June 2006
respectively. M Brooks and P Journo joined the Board on 1 July 2006 and D Weir on 17 January 2006. J Vaughan joined and
retired from the Board on 17 January 2006 and 31 March 2006 respectively. P Allen joined on 1 April 2005, so the 2005
comparative is for 6 months only.
P Allen received remuneration from his other non-Executive roles for the year totalling £71,000 (2005: £20,300).
M Brooks’ and P Journo’s emoluments, before they were appointed as Directors, were £105,000, and £82,000 respectively.
There were no share options exercised and sold in the year.
Pension contributions
All the executive Directors are members of money purchase pension schemes. Contributions payable by the Company are 
given below.
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Current
M Kent 66 66
P Allen 44 13
G McBeth 28 34
M Brooks 3 –
P Journo – –
Retired
P Griffith-Jones* – 130
J Vaughan – –
G Grover 59 23
200 266
* P Griffith-Jones’ pension in 2005 comprised emoluments sacrifice and £23,000 Company contributions.
29 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Share options and PSP awards
Aggregate emoluments on the previous page do not include the value of options to acquire ordinary shares granted to or held 
by the Directors. These are given in the table below.
1 Oct 30 Sept 
2005 Granted Lapsed 2006 Exercise Earliest date Last date
Number** Number Number Number** price for exercise for exercise
Current
M Kent 100,000 – – 100,000 392.0p 21/12/2003 21/12/2007
M Kent 92,550 – – 92,550 221.5p 20/05/2006 20/05/2013
M Kent 121,871 – – 121,871 228.5p 19/11/2005 19/11/2009
M Kent 13,129 – – 13,129 228.5p 19/11/2005 19/11/2012
M Kent 182,758 – – 182,758 232.0p 01/12/2006 01/12/2013
M Kent
†
– 184,991 – 184,991 0.0p 02/02/2009 02/02/2010
M Kent* – 20,125 – 20,125 80.0p 27/01/2011 27/07/2011
P Allen 219,178 – 219,178 182.5p 26/05/2008 25/05/2015
P Allen
†
– 139,616 – 139,616 0.0p 02/02/2009 02/02/2010
P Allen* – 11,687 – 11,687 80.0p 27/01/2009 27/07/2009
G McBeth 75,000 – (75,000) – 97.5p 04/01/2004 04/01/2006
G McBeth 20,000 – – 20,000 392.0p 21/12/2003 21/12/2007
G McBeth* 1,054 – (1,054) – 320.0p 20/12/2005 20/06/2006
G McBeth 61,850 – – 61,850 221.5p 20/05/2006 20/05/2013
G McBeth 125,000 – – 125,000 232.0p 01/12/2006 01/12/2013
G McBeth* 3,077 – (3,077) – 245.0p 19/02/2007 19/08/2007
G McBeth
†
– 115,183 – 115,183 0.0p 02/02/2009 02/02/2010
G McBeth* – 20,125 – 20,125 80.0p 27/01/2011 27/07/2011
M Brooks
†
– 37,522 – 37,522 0.0p 02/02/2009 02/02/2010
M Brooks*** 27,069 – – 27,069 232.0p 01/12/2003 01/12/2013
M Brooks* – 20,125 – 20,125 80.0p 27/01/2011 27/07/2011
Retired
G Grover* 3,846 – – 3,846 245.0p 19/02/2007 19/08/2007
G Grover
†
– 88,656 – 88,656 0.0p 02/02/2009 02/02/2010
J Vaughan 32,160 – – 32,160 109.6p 06/04/2007 06/04/2014
J Vaughan 32,160 – – 32,160 134.5p 19/11/2007 19/11/2014
J Vaughan 32,160 – – 32,160 84.0p 27/07/2008 27/07/2015
1,142,862 638,030 (79,131) 1,701,761
Details of the share option schemes in which the Directors participate are given earlier in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The market price at 30 September 2006 was 166.5p and the range during the year was 99p to 173p.
None of the Directors, during their tenure of directorship, exercised any share options during the year. However, J Vaughan
exercised all 96,480 of his options at a market price of 160p subsequent to his resignation as a Director.
* These options are held by the Directors under the Sharesave Scheme.
** Options shown are at the dates of appointment or resignation as Board Directors as applicable.
*** These options are phantom options, which are settled in cash.
†
PSP awards under the 2005 Performance Share Plan.
30 Abacus Group plc
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2006 Directors’ interests in shares
2006 2005
Beneficial* Beneficial*
H Westropp 27,000 17,300
P Allen 50,000 50,000
M Kent 53,462 53,462
G McBeth 31,861 31,861
G Grover – –
R Lambourne 5,000 5,000
M Brooks 13,080 –
P Journo 922,486 –
J Vaughan 16,427 –
D Weir 39,587 –
* Interests are shown as at 30 September 2005 and 2006 or as at the dates of resignation as Board Directors, if earlier.
There have been no changes to the interests of the Directors between 30 September 2006 and the date of these 
Financial Statements.
Directors’ interests in contracts
During the year, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract which was of significance in relation to the business
of the Group.
Approval
This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:
Abacus House, Bone Lane, Newbury, R Lambourne
Berkshire, RG14 5SF (registered office) Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
30 November 2006
31 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The Directors have chosen to prepare the Financial Statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union, and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“UK GAAP”).
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end
of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
■ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
■ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
■ state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
■ prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, IAS 1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each financial period
the Group’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful representation of the effects of
transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income
and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for the preparation and presentation of
financial statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to:
■ properly select and apply accounting policies consistently;
■ present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information; and
■ provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and
financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
1985. They are also responsible for the system of internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
32 Abacus Group plc
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in relation to the Financial
Statements Independent Auditors’ Report 
to the shareholders of Abacus Group plc
33 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
We have audited the Group Financial Statements (the “Financial Statements”) of Abacus Group plc for the year ended 
30 September 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related Statement of Significant Accounting
Policies, Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty and the Notes 1 to 28. These Group
Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Statements of Abacus Group plc for the year ended 30 September
2006 and on the information in the Director’s remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union as set out in the
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, the Group Financial
Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
whether the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Financial Statements. The information given in the
Directors’ Report includes that specific information presented in the business review and financial review that is cross referred
from the business review section of the Directors’ Report.
We also report to you, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statements reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the
2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it
does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group 
Financial Statements. The other information comprises only the Chairman’s Statement, Chief Executive’s Review, Financial
Review, Corporate Governance Statements, Corporate Social Responsibility and Directors’ Remuneration Reports. We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group
Financial Statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices
Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial
Statements. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation
of the Group Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 
of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 30 September 2006 and of its result for the year then ended; and
■ the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Reading
30 November 2006 Before Amortisation Before Amortisation
amortisation of acquired amortisation of acquired
of acquired intangibles of acquired intangibles
intangibles and intangibles and
and exceptional and exceptional
exceptional items exceptional items
items 2006* Total items 2005* Total
Notes 2006 (note 5) 2006 2005 (note 5) 2005
Continuing operations £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue
Existing operations 181.6 – 181.6 178.8 – 178.8
Acquisitions 75.5 – 75.5 –––
Continuing operations 1 257.1 – 257.1 178.8 – 178.8
Cost of sales (192.4) (0.8) (193.2) (135.1) (3.5) (138.6)
Gross profit 64.7 (0.8) 63.9 43.7 (3.5) 40.2
Other operating expenses 2 (50.0) (11.2) (61.2) (34.3) (0.6) (34.9)
Operating profit
Existing operations 8.2 (1.4) 6.8 9.4 (4.1) 5.3
Acquisitions 6.5 (10.6) (4.1) –––
Continuing operations 14.7 (12.0) 2.7 9.4 (4.1) 5.3
Finance income 3 0.3 – 0.3 0.1 – 0.1
Finance costs 3 (3.1) – (3.1) (1.4) – (1.4)
Profit (loss) before taxation 4 11.9 (12.0) (0.1) 8.1 (4.1) 4.0
Income tax (expense) credit 7 (3.3) 3.4 0.1 (2.3) 0.9 (1.4)
Profit for the year attributable 
to equity holders of the parent 8.6 (8.6) – 5.8 (3.2) 2.6
Earnings per share (pence) 8
Basic earnings (loss) per share 13.6p (13.6p) 0.0p 13.6p (7.5p) 6.1p
Diluted earnings (loss) per share 13.4p (13.4p) 0.0p 13.6p (7.5p) 6.1p
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 30 September 2006
Note 2006 2005
£’m £’m
Foreign exchange and translation differences (0.3) –
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plans 0.2 –
Net income and expense recognised directly in equity (0.1) –
Profit for the year – 2.6
Total recognised income and expense relating to the year (0.1) 2.6
Effects of changes in accounting policy:
Net loss on cash flow hedges on first time application of IAS 39 (0.3) –
Total recognised income and expense for the year 21 (0.4) 2.6
* Amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items have been disclosed separately in Note 5 in order to give an
indication of the underlying earnings of the Group. Further information is provided within the Statement of Significant Accounting
Policies on pages 37 to 42.
The accompanying Statement of Significant Accounting Policies, Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation
Uncertainty, and Notes to the Financial Statements are an integral part of the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
34 Abacus Group plc
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 30 September 2006 Notes 2006 2005
£’m £’m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 17.6 14.3
Goodwill 11 50.0 10.9
Intangible assets 11 21.4 7.3
Deferred tax assets 7 0.6 –
89.6 32.5
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 13 67.5 36.1
Inventories 14 38.8 26.8
Other financial assets 15 0.1 –
Income tax receivables 1.9 0.2
Cash at bank 22 1.6 1.3
109.9 64.4
Total assets 199.5 96.9
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 43.0 20.1
Financial liabilities 17 47.1 22.7
Income tax payable 0.9 0.6
Provisions 19 0.2 0.2
91.2 43.6
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 17 21.0 7.7
Other payables 0.6 –
Deferred tax liabilities 7 3.2 0.1
Provisions 19 1.9 1.2
Defined benefit pension plan deficit 26 1.4 –
28.1 9.0
Total liabilities 119.3 52.6
Net assets 80.2 44.3
Equity
Called-up share capital 20 3.7 2.1
Share premium account 21 47.6 9.2
Capital redemption reserve 21 0.4 0.4
Merger reserve 21 3.3 3.3
Share option reserve 21 0.8 0.3
Hedging and translation reserve 21 (0.6) –
Retained earnings 21 25.0 29.0
Total equity available to the shareholders of the parent 21 80.2 44.3
The accompanying Statement of Significant Accounting Policies, Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation
Uncertainty, and Notes to the Financial Statements are an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 November 2006 and signed on their behalf by:
M R Kent P V Allen
Director Director
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at 30 September 2006
35 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Notes 2006 2005
£’m £’m
Cash flows from operating activities
Operating profit from continuing operations 2.7 5.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.3
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 0.5 –
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments 0.3 –
Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.5 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.7 0.1
Share-based payment 0.5 0.2
Operating cashflows before changes in working capital 8.3 6.9
(Increase) decrease in inventories (2.3) 8.8
(Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (9.1) 3.6
Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 4.1 (6.1)
Movement in provisions 0.4 0.3
Cash generated from operations 1.4 13.5
Income tax paid (2.4) (3.1)
Operating cash flow (1.0) 10.4
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received – 0.1
Sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking (6.9) –
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (other costs) (1.5) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1.4) (0.5)
Payments to acquire intangible fixed assets (2.1) (3.8)
Net cash flow from investing activities (11.8) (4.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (2.5) (1.4)
Exercise of share options 1.3 0.1
New loan 17.0 8.0
Issue costs of new loan (0.2) –
Repayment of loans (13.3) (7.6)
Repayment of loan notes (0.2) (0.2)
Repayment of capital element of finance leases (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid (4.2) (4.6)
Net cash flow from financing activities (2.3) (5.9)
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (15.1) 0.4
Effects of exchange rates 22 0.1 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 22 (19.5) (20.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 22 (34.5) (19.5)
The accompanying Statement of Significant Accounting Policies, Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of
EstimationUncertainty and Notes to the Financial Statements are an integral part of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
36 Abacus Group plc
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 30 September 2006 1  Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS)
The Group’s Financial Statements of Abacus Group plc (the ‘Company’) for the year ended 30 September 2006 were authorised
for issue by the Board of the Directors on 30 November 2006 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by 
M R Kent and P V Allen. Abacus Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales. The
Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. The principal
accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in the following note.
2  Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
This is the first year in which the Group has prepared its Financial Statements under IFRS and the comparatives have been
restated from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) to comply with IFRS. The Group issued its interim 
Financial Statements in May 2006 incorporating its preliminary IFRS Financial Statements for 31 March 2006 and comparatives.
The reconciliations to IFRS from the previously published UK GAAP Financial Statements are summarised in Note 28.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the Financial Statements for the year 
ended 30 September 2006. Where the Group has applied different policies for part of the period since its transition to IFRS 
on 1 October 2004, this is explained in note 28.
The Group Financial Statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds
(£’m) except where otherwise indicated.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for derivative financial instruments,
which are stated at their fair value.
First time adoption
The standard IFRS 1 “First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards” requires that companies apply IFRS
retrospectively for all periods. The standard does however contain certain transitional provisions exempting full retrospective
application in certain areas. The Group has opted to take the following exemptions:
■ Application of IFRS 3 “Business combinations” has not been applied to those combinations taking place prior to 1 October
2004 as provided by IFRS 1.
■ Application of the provisions of IAS 32 and 39 relating to financial instruments has not been applied to the comparative
periods; instead these provisions are applied from 1 October 2005 as allowed by IFRS 1.
■ Application of IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” has not been applied to grants of equity awards made prior to 7 November
2002 as provided by IFRS 1.
Basis of consolidation
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of Abacus Group plc and the entities it controls 
(its subsidiaries).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue
to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same
reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions,
including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Foreign currency translation
Individual entity accounts. In preparing the Financial Statements of each individual entity, transactions in foreign currencies 
are initially recorded in the entity’s functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange
ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement, except (i) when hedge accounting is applied;
(ii) for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in foreign operations. These
are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies 
30 September 2006
37 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates 
as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using
the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Consolidation. Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange
rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at
the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement,
except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s 
net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time
they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the
balance sheet date. Income and expenses are translated at monthly average exchange rates. The resulting exchange differences
are taken directly to a separate component of equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised
in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Goodwill
Business combinations on or after 1 October 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method. The cost of 
the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fair values (at the completion date) of the consideration paid and equity
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business
combination. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the
acquisition date, except for non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale, which are recognised
and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill. To the extent that the net fair value of the
acquired entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is
recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill recognised as an asset as at 1 October 2004 is recorded at its
carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised. Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted 
entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed
for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be
impaired. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill can never be reversed in a subsequent period. 
The carrying amount of goodwill is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an
operation within it. However, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 remains set off directly against 
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the business is disposed of.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a
business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and
its fair value can be measured reliably. Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is
taken to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred. Development expenditure (including software development) 
is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
All intangible assets have finite lives and are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives, as follows:
■ computer software – 3 years
■ customer relationships and marketing information – 7-12 years
■ commercial system software development expenditure – 8 years
■ order books – 0.25 years
38 Abacus Group plc
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
30 September 2006 The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition, the carrying value of capitalised software development expenditure is reviewed
for impairment annually before being brought into use.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (including land and buildings) are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses. Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land. The rates calculated to write off the cost,
less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful
life are as follows:
Leasehold land and buildings – over the lease term
Freehold buildings – 50 years
Plant and machinery – over 3 to 10 years
Computer equipment – 3 to 4 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Leases
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between 
the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on
the remaining balance of the liability. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful
life of the asset and the lease term.
Leases, where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, are classified as operating
leases and rentals payable are charged in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Financial assets
The Group has two classes of financial assets in the scope of IAS 39, namely (a) financial assets at fair value through profit or
loss, and (b) loans and receivables. The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and
re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair
value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of loans and receivables, directly attributable transaction costs. The Group
has not restated comparative amounts on first applying IAS 32 and IAS 39, as permitted by IFRS 1.
a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives, such as forward exchange contracts, are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Realised and unrealised gains 
or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the derivatives, which are not effectively hedged, are recognised in the income
statement in the period in which they arise.
b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables (trade receivables, other debtors and bank deposits) are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated
as either fair value through profit and loss or available for sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
39 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Impairment of financial assets
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the
amount of the loss is measured as the differences between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future
cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest
rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount
of the loss recognised in other operating costs.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed. Any subsequent reversal 
of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed
its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to 
its present location and condition, as follows:
Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale – purchase cost on a weighted average basis
Work in progress and finished goods – cost of direct materials and labour based on a normal level 
of activity, excluding borrowing costs
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value
and recoverable amount. Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost. Provision is made
when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full. Balances are written off when the
probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with an original
maturity of three months or less. For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of
cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs. After initial recognition,
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in
finance income and finance expense.
Income taxes
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities,
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the Financial Statements, with the following exceptions:
■ where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that
is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
■ in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
foreseeable future; or
■ deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against
which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised:
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply
when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.
40 Abacus Group plc
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
30 September 2006 Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise income
tax is recognised in the income statement.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that
an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability
and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees
incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks
associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. From 1 October 2005, such derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured
at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Before 1 October 2005, the Group complied with FRS 13, under which the fair values of financial instruments were disclosed 
but not recognised.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the
income statement. 
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Contributions to money purchase schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
The Group operates one defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits of which is determined using the Projected
Unit Credit Method. Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or
immediately if the benefits have vested. When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a
curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future
entitlement) occurs the obligation and related plan assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant
gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the
passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking
into account material changes in the obligation during the year. The expected return on plan assets is based on an assessment
made at the beginning of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan
assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year. The difference between the expected return on plan assets
and the interest cost is recognised in the income statement as other finance income or expense.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in equity in the period in which they arise.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation
(using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair
value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and
in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the sum of
any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds 
from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
41 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be
reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and
other sales taxes or duty. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
of the goods have passed to the buyer, usually on the buyer’s receipt of the goods.
Share-based payment
The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-
based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the shares that
will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. For cash-settled share-based payments, a
liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on
management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Exceptional items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense
which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow
shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year. This facilitates comparison with prior 
periods and better trend analysis in financial performance.
New standards and interpretations not applied
During the year, the IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date relating 
to the accounting periods starting on or after the effective dates referred to below:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS) Effective date
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 1 Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures 1 January 2007
IAS 19 Amendment – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Fair Value Option 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendments to IAS 39 – Transition and Initial Recognition 1 January 2006
of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Day 1 profits)
IAS 39 Cash Flow Hedge Accounting 1 January 2006
IAS 39 Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 – Financial Guarantee Contracts 1 January 2006
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease 1 January 2006
IFRIC 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market – Waste Electrical and 
Electronic Equipment 1 December 2005
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives 1 June 2006
IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment 1 November 2006
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 – Group and treasury transactions 1 January 2007
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the
Group’s Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
Upon adoption of IFRS 7, the Group will have to disclose additional information about its financial instruments, their significance
and the nature and extent of risks that they give rise to. More specifically the Group will need to disclose the fair value of its
financial instruments and its risk exposure in greater detail. There is not expected to be any effect on reported income or 
net assets.
42 Abacus Group plc
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
30 September 2006 The following areas are those that the Directors consider to be the main critical accounting judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainty.
Impairment of non-current assets
Determining whether a non-current asset is impaired requires an estimation of the “value in use” and/or the “fair value less costs
to sell” of the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the non-current asset has been allocated. The “value in use” calculation
requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate
present value. The key assumptions for these “value in use” calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and
expected changes to selling prices and direct costs. The Directors estimate discount rates using pre tax rates that reflect current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the individual CGU.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared using the following year’s operating budget approved by the Directors and an appropriate
extrapolation of cash flows for the next twenty years.
The carrying amount of non-current assets at 30 September 2006 was £89.6 million (2005: £32.5 million). 
Post-employment benefits
The Group operates one defined benefit pension scheme. All post-employment benefits associated with this scheme have been
accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 “Employee benefits”. As detailed within the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies
on page 41, and in accordance with IAS 19, all actuarial gains and losses have been recognised immediately through the
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
The pension valuation has been performed using specialist advice obtained from an independent qualified actuary. In performing
this valuation, judgements, assumptions and estimates have been made. These assumptions have been disclosed within Note 26
on page 76.
Impairment of inventories and trade receivables
Using information available at the balance sheet date, the Directors make judgements based on experience on the level of
provision required to account for potential uncollectible receivables, and to account for the potential for unsaleable inventories.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of 
Estimation Uncertainty
30 September 2006
43 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 1 Revenue and segmental reporting
Revenue
All the revenue is derived from the sale of goods by continuing operations. 
Geographical and business segments
The primary segment reporting format is determined to be business segments as the Group’s risks and rates of return are
affected predominantly by differences in the products provided. Secondary segment information is reported geographically. 
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided,
with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products and serves different markets.
The electronic component distribution segment comprises entities which are leading suppliers of electronic components,
electromechanical products, flat-panel displays, printers and related products. The manufacturing segment comprises entities
mainly involved in cable and electromechanical sub-assembly.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment revenues, segment expenses and segment results include transfers between business segments. These transfers are
eliminated in consolidation.
The Group’s geographical segments are based on the location of the Group’s assets. Sales to external customers disclosed in
geographical segments are based on the country of origin, as exports represent less than 10% of each segment.
44 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts
30 September 2006 1 Revenue and segmental reporting (continued)
Primary reporting format – Business segments
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Group’s business
segments for the years ended 30 September 2006 and 2005.
Year ended 30 September 2006 Electronic
component
distribution Manufacturing Unallocated Eliminations Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 244.0 13.1 – – 257.1
Inter-segment sales 4.0 4.7 – (8.7) –
Segment revenue 248.0 17.8 – (8.7) 257.1
Results
Operating profit before amortisation and exceptionals 12.6 1.9 0.2 – 14.7
Exceptionals (9.1) (0.3) – – (9.4)
Operating profit before amortisation 3.5 1.6 0.2 – 5.3
Amortisation of intangibles (2.3) (0.3) – – (2.6)
Operating profit 1.2 1.3 0.2 – 2.7
Net finance costs (2.8)
Loss before taxation (0.1)
Income tax credit 0.1
Net result for the year –
Assets and Liabilities
Segment assets 192.6 6.1 0.8 – 199.5
Segment liabilities (96.4) (2.1) (20.8) – (119.3)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment
– acquisition of subsidiaries 3.5 0.4 – – 3.9
– additions 1.5 0.1 – – 1.6
Intangible assets
– acquisition of subsidiaries 12.1 2.5 – – 14.6
– additions and internal development 2.3 – – – 2.3
Goodwill
– acquisition of subsidiaries 37.1 2.1 – – 39.2
Non-cash expenditure:
Depreciation (1.0) (0.1) – – (1.1)
Impairment loss (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Inventories’ provision (2.9) (0.1) – – (3.0)
Amortisation of intangibles (2.3) (0.4) – – (2.7)
45 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 1 Revenue and segmental reporting (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2005 Electronic
component
distribution Manufacturing Unallocated Elimination Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 170.1 8.7 – – 178.8
Inter-segment sales – 4.5 – (4.5) –
Segment revenue 170.1 13.2 – (4.5) 178.8
Operating profit before amortisation 
and exceptionals 9.7 1.4 (1.7) – 9.4
Exceptionals (4.0) – – (4.0)
Operating profit before amortisation 5.7 1.4 (1.7) – 5.4
Amortisation of intangibles (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Operating profit 5.6 1.4 (1.7) – 5.3
Net finance costs (1.3)
Profit before taxation 4.0
Income tax expense (1.4)
Net profit for the year 2.6
Assets and Liabilities
Segment assets 93.5 3.1 0.3 – 96.9
Segment liabilities (50.2) – (2.4) – (52.6)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 0.9 – – – 0.9
Intangible assets 2.2 – – – 2.2
Non-cash expenditure: –
Depreciation (0.9) (0.1) (0.3) – (1.3)
Amortisation of intangibles (0.1) – – – (0.1)
Inventories’ provision (2.0) – – – (2.0)
46 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 1 Revenue and segmental reporting (continued)
Secondary reporting format – Geographical segments
The following tables present revenue, expenditure and certain asset information regarding the Group’s geographical segments for
the years ended 30 September 2006 and 2005.
Year ended 30 September 2006 Germany Rest of
UK Scandinavia Italy & Austria France Europe Unallocated Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Sales to external customers 150.0 31.9 27.8 17.2 26.7 3.5 – 257.1
Segment assets 111.7 20.4 21.2 11.7 33.5 1.0 – 199.5
Segment liabilities (82.0) (6.7) (14.7) (3.5) (12.1) (0.3) – (119.3)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment
– acquisition of subsidiaries 0.9 0.8 0.2 0.3 1.7 – – 3.9
– additions 1.0 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 – – 1.6
Intangible assets
– acquisition of subsidiaries 3.7 2.0 0.3 1.1 7.5 – – 14.6
– additions and internal development 2.3–––––– 2.3
Goodwill
– acquisition of subsidiaries 12.9 7.6 4.5 5.9 8.0 0.3 – 39.2
Year ended 30 September 2005 Germany Rest of
UK Scandinavia Italy & Austria France Europe Unallocated Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Sales to external customers 134.5 18.8 23.0 – – 2.5 – 178.8
Segment assets 78.1 6.5 12.1 – – 0.2 – 96.9
Segment liabilities (36.5) (4.6) (11.5) –––– (52.6)
Other segment information
Capital expenditure:
Property, plant and equipment 0.7 – 0.2–––– 0.9
Intangible assets 2.2–––––– 2.2
2 Other operating expenses
Other operating expenses are analysed as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Administrative expenses 8.6 5.1
Distribution expenses 41.4 29.2
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions (see note 5) 2.6 0.1
Exceptional items (see note 5) 8.6 0.5
61.2 34.9
47 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3 Finance income and finance costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Finance income
Interest on bank deposits – (0.1)
Expected returns on pension scheme assets (0.2) –
Finance income before hedge ineffectiveness (0.2) (0.1)
Fair value gains on forward exchange contract (hedge ineffectiveness) (0.1) –
Total finance income (0.3) (0.1)
Finance costs
On bank loans, overdrafts and other items 2.5 1.4
Finance charge on pension scheme liabilities 0.2 –
Total finance costs before hedge ineffectiveness 2.7 1.4
Fair value loss on forward exchange contracts (hedge ineffectiveness) 0.4 –
Total finance costs 3.1 1.4
Net finance costs 2.8 1.3
4 Profit before taxation
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Net foreign exchange (gain) loss* 0.3 (0.3)
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 186.8 138.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:
Owned 1.0 1.1
Held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements 0.1 0.2
Impairment loss of property, plant and equipment 0.5 –
Amortisation of acquired intangibles included in operating expenses 2.7 0.1
Share-based payment 0.5 0.2
Operating lease rentals
Land and buildings 1.0 0.6
Plant and machinery 1.1 0.9
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services
Group (excluding Company) 0.3 0.1
Company – –
Non-audit fees 0.4 0.1
Write-down of inventories 0.9 1.9
Increase in debtors provision 0.1
Increase in provision for inventories 3.0 2.0
Staff costs (including share-based payment charge – note 6) 37.5 26.0
* Excludes gains and losses incurred as a result of adopting IAS 39 “Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement”.
48 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 4 Profit before taxation (continued)
A more detailed analysis of the Auditors’ remuneration is provided below:
2006 2005
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Ernst & Other Ernst & Other
Young LLP audit firms Total Young LLP audit firms Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Audit services
Audit of the financial statements* 210 – 210 85 – 85
Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 40 – 40 15 11 26
IFRS implementation 70 – 70 –––
320 – 320 100 11 111
Taxation services ––– 47 11
Corporate finance services 350 – 350 –––
Other services ––– –3737
Total 670 – 670 104 55 159
* £33,000 (2005: £13,000) of this relates to the Company, the remainder to subsidiary audits.
Ernst & Young LLP were appointed sole Group Auditors in 2005, which continued for 2006. The pension schemes are not
audited by Ernst & Young LLP .
5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition of Eurodis marketing information 0.3 0.1
Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions of Deltron and Axess 2.3 –
Provision for excess and obsolete stock in anticipation of the introduction 
of Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) legislation in July 2006* – 3.5
Provision for restructuring Abacus Nordic business – 0.5
Restructuring and other costs following Deltron and Axess acquisitions**
Provision for empty property costs 1.3 –
Assets write down/write offs*** 1.1 –
Redundancy costs 4.0 –
Other costs 1.6 –
Restructuring costs and write downs on inventory and receivables following exit from 
Trident Finished products business****
Provision for empty property costs 0.2 –
Assets write downs/write offs 0.6 –
Redundancy costs 0.5 –
Other costs 0.1 –
12.0 4.1
The above is analysed £0.8 million (2005: £3.5 million) in Cost of Sales and £11.2 million (2005: £0.6 million) in other Operating
Expenses.
* RoHS legislation is an EU directive that took effect on 1July 2006 and states that no electronic equipment may be sold into
the market containing any more than 0.1% of six different hazardous substances, including lead.
** A rationalisation of the Deltron and Axess businesses was carried out following their acquisitions. This resulted in the closure
of a number of locations and a reduction and relocation of headcount due to duplication of activities.
*** Deltron had a policy of capitalising some of its inhouse Group IT development activities. This was written off as a
consequence of the decision taken to move the Deltron businesses on to the Abacus IT systems. In addition fixed assets
such as fixtures and fittings in vacated properties have also been written off.
**** The Directors have decided that Trident will concentrate on its core business, which is the sale and distribution of displays.
As a consequence, the facilities for the design and sub-contract manufacture of bespoke systems were closed with
subsequent redundancy costs and write down of excess and obsolete assets and working capital.
49 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 6 Staff costs and directors’ emoluments
a) Staff costs (including Directors) are shown below: 
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Wages and salaries (excluding share-based payment charge) 30.8 21.4
Social security costs 4.3 2.6
Other pension costs 1.9 1.8
37.0 25.8
The share-based payment charge for the year was £0.5 million (2005: £0.2 million).
The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows:
2006 2005
Number Number
Electronic component distribution 789 584
Manufacturing 244 178
1,033 762
b) Directors’ emoluments:
Details of the individual Director’s emoluments are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 29, extracts of which are
shown below:
2006 2005
£’000 £’000
Directors’ emoluments (excluding share-based payment charge) 1,376 814
Pension contributions 200 266
Compensation for loss of office 392 280
Total 1,968 1,360
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined contribution schemes 5 5
The share-based payment charge for the year was £0.3 million (2005: £0.1 million).
None of the Directors exercised share options or received compensation under long term incentive plans during their tenures of
directorships. J Vaughan exercised all 96,480 options subsequent to his resignation as a Director.
Other than the Directors, no other staff is considered key management personnel.
7 Taxation
a) Tax on Profit on ordinary activities
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Tax (credited) charged in the income statement of continuing operations comprises:
UK corporate tax – 1.8
Foreign tax 1.2 0.2
Current income tax charge 1.2 2.0
Amounts overprovided in previous years (0.7) (0.2)
Total current income tax 0.5 1.8
Deferred tax (0.6) (0.4)
Tax (credit) charge in the income statement (0.1) 1.4
50 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 7 Taxation (continued)
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
2006 2005
£’m £’m
(Loss) profit from continuing operations before taxation (0.1) 4.0
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 30% (2005: 30%) – 1.2
Unprovided deferred taxation – 0.2
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 0.2
Higher taxes on overseas earnings 0.1 –
Unrelieved losses in foreign subsidiaries 0.3 0.2
Utilisation of brought forward losses – (0.2)
Recognition of a deferred tax asset not previously recognised (0.7) –
Tax overprovided in previous years (0.1) (0.2)
Total tax (credit) expense reported (0.1) 1.4
c) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the Consolidated Income Statement is as follows:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Deferred tax in the income statement
Accelerated capital allowances 0.5 0.4
Timing differences 0.2 (0.8)
Tax losses carried forward (1.2) –
Share-based payment (0.1) –
Deferred income tax (credit) (0.6) (0.4)
The deferred tax included in the Balance Sheet is as follows:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Deferred tax asset
Accelerated capital allowances 0.3 –
Timing differences 1.5 0.9
Tax losses carried forward 1.5 –
Share-based payment 0.1 –
Net deferred tax offset (2.8) (0.9)
Deferred tax asset 0.6 –
Deferred tax liability
Accelerated capital allowances 1.7 1.0
Timing differences 4.0 –
Revaluations of land and buildings (arising on acquisition) 0.3 –
Net deferred tax offset (2.8) (0.9)
Deferred tax liability 3.2 0.1
Net deferred tax liability (2.6) (0.1)
51 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 Taxation (continued)
The net deferred tax liability of £2.6 million (2005: £0.1 million), after offset, comprises:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 (0.1)
Timing differences (2.5) –
Revaluation of land and buildings (arising on acquisition) (0.3) –
Share-based payment 0.1 –
Net deferred tax liability (2.6) (0.1)
The movement during the year in the net deferred tax liability was as follows:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Beginning of year (0.1) (0.5)
Arising on acquisition of subsidiaries (3.1) –
Credited to profit and loss 0.6 0.4
End of year (2.6) (0.1)
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of £2.2 million (2005: £0.8 million) comprising: 
i) UK tax losses arising on the acquisition of the Deltron Group of £0.4 million (2005: £Nil), Netherlands of £0.7 million and
Scandinavia of £0.8 million (2005: £0.6 million), which are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of
the companies in which the losses arose. Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as
they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have
historically been loss-making;
ii) £0.3 million (2005: £0.2 million) of capital losses, which cannot be utilised until a capital gain is made.
d) Temporary differences associated with Group investments
At 30 September 2006, there was no recognised deferred tax liability (2005: £nil) for taxes that would be payable on the
unremitted earnings of certain of the Group’s subsidiaries as:
■ the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future; and
■ subsidiaries’ profits cannot be distributed without the consent of the Group. The Parent company does not foresee giving such
consent at the balance sheet date;
There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
8 Earnings per share
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Profit after taxation, exceptionals and amortisation of intangibles – 2.6
Amortisation of intangibles (post taxation) 1.9 0.1
Exceptional items (post taxation) 6.7 3.1
Profit after taxation but before exceptionals and amortisation of intangibles 8.6 5.8
Weighted average number of shares (‘000) 63,267 42,569
Employee share options (‘000) 683 104
Diluted weighted average number of shares (‘000) 63,950 42,673
After exceptionals and amortisation of intangibles:
Basic earnings per share 0.0p 6.1p
Diluted earnings per share 0.0p 6.1p
Before exceptionals and amortisation of intangibles:
Basic earnings per share 13.6p 13.6p
Diluted earnings per share 13.4p 13.6p
52 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 9 Dividends paid and proposed
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amounts recognised in the year: 
Interim dividend for the year ending 30 September 2006 – 3.6p 2.7 –
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2005 – 3.6p 1.5 –
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2004 – 7.0p – 3.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2005 – 3.6p – 1.6
4.2 4.6
Amounts determined after the balance sheet date:
Final dividend for the year ending 30 September 2006 – 3.6p 2.6 –
Final dividend for the year ending 30 September 2005 – 3.6p – 1.5
10 Property, plant and equipment
Land Plant,
and property and
buildings equipment Total
£’m £’m £’m
Cost:
At 1 October 2004 13.4 4.3 17.7
Additions 0.2 0.7 0.9
Disposals – (0.5) (0.5)
At 30 September 2005 13.6 4.5 18.1
Additions 0.1 1.5 1.6
Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.1 1.8 3.9
Disposals – (2.2) (2.2)
At 30 September 2006 15.8 5.6 21.4
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 October 2004 1.4 1.5 2.9
Provided during the year 0.3 1.0 1.3
Disposals – (0.4) (0.4)
At 30 September 2005 1.7 2.1 3.8
Provided during the year 0.3 0.8 1.1
Impairment loss – 0.5 0.5
Disposals – (1.6) (1.6)
At 30 September 2006 2.0 1.8 3.8
Net book values:
At 1 October 2004 12.0 2.8 14.8
At 30 September 2005 11.9 2.4 14.3
At 30 September 2006 13.8 3.8 17.6
The net book value of plant and machinery includes an amount of £0.1 million (2005: £0.1 million) financed by hire purchase
contracts and finance leases. Freehold land at cost amounting to £2.2 million (2005: £1.7 million) has not been depreciated. 
The impairment arose following a review of the Deltron Group’s redundant fixed assets following the closure of certain facilities.
53 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Intangible assets
Order Customer Development Marketing Other
books relationships expenditure information intangibles Goodwill Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost:
At 1 October 2004 – – 3.8 – 0.2 10.9 14.9
Internal development – – 2.2––– 2.2
Acquisition – – – 1.6 – – 1.6
At 30 September 2005 – – 6.0 1.6 0.2 10.9 18.7
Exchange differences – (0.1) – – – (0.1) (0.2)
Internal development – – 2.1––– 2.1
Additions –––– 0.2 – 0.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries 
(note 12) 1.3 13.1 – – 0.2 39.2 53.8
At 30 September 2006 1.3 13.0 8.1 1.6 0.6 50.0 74.6
Depreciation and impairment:
At 1 October 2004 – – 0.3 – 0.1 – 0.4
Amortisation during the year – – – 0.1 – – 0.1
At 30 September 2005 – – 0.3 0.1 0.1 – 0.5
Amortisation during the year 1.3 1.0 – 0.3 0.1 – 2.7
At 30 September 2006 1.3 1.0 0.3 0.4 0.2 – 3.2
Net book values:
1 October 2004 – – 3.5 – 0.1 10.9 14.5
30 September 2005 – – 5.7 1.5 0.1 10.9 18.2
30 September 2006 – 12.0 7.8 1.2 0.4 50.0 71.4
Intangibles
The ‘order book’, ‘customer relationships’ and ‘brands’ are acquired intangibles. These arise as a result of applying IFRS 3,
which requires the separate recognition of acquired intangibles from goodwill. As detailed in the Statement of Significant
Accounting Policies, Abacus Group plc has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions, which took place 
before 1 October 2004. Prior to 1 October 2004, the Group owned purchased intangible assets comprising:
a) Marketing information of Eurodis Electronics UK Limited, which is being written off over 5 years;
b) Internally developed software, which when in operation will be written off over 8 years.
The amortisation period for each category of acquired intangible asset is disclosed in the Statement of Significant Accounting
Policies on page 38.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated for impairment testing purposes to seven cash-generating
units, which are represented by the manufacturing segment and the electronic component distribution (ECD) segment split into
the six geographic reportable segments.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
54 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006
11 11 Intangible assets (continued)
The recoverable amount of each unit has been determined based on a “value in use” calculation using cash flow projections
based on financial budgets covering the year to 30 September 2007 and approved by the Board. The discount rate applied to
cash flow projections is 10% (2005: 10%) and cash flows beyond the budget are extrapolated for a remaining 19 years at 2%.
This rate is based on AFDEC’s view of the UK market for 2007, which is a lower expected growth rate than the historical
average.
Carrying amount of goodwill and intangibles allocated to cash-generating units (CGU’s)
Goodwill Development Costs Other Intangibles Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
United Kingdom (ECD) 21.6 10.9 7.8 5.7 2.4 1.5 31.8 18.1
United Kingdom 
(Manufacturing) 2.2 – – – 2.1 – 4.3 –
Scandinavia 7.6 – – – 1.7 – 9.3 –
Italy 4.5 – – – 0.3 0.1 4.8 0.1
Germany & Austria 5.9 – – – 0.9 – 6.8 –
France 7.9 – – – 6.2 – 14.1 –
Rest of Europe 0.3 – – – – – 0.3 –
50.0 10.9 7.8 5.7 13.6 1.6 71.4 18.2
Key assumptions used in “value in use” calculations
The calculation of “value in use” for both electronics and the manufacturing units is most sensitive to the following assumptions,
which are the same for all CGU’s other than the growth rates:
■ Gross margin;
■ Discount rates;
■ Market share during the budget period; and 
■ Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period
Gross margins are based on the budgeted margins of each CGU. These are in line with the margins attained in the last few years
modified by the increased margins of the Deltron and Axess Groups which have historically achieved higher margins than the
Abacus Group.
Discount rates are based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC). Based on the Group’s borrowing and equity
profile, the Directors do not expect any significant change in WACC.
Market share assumptions are important because, as well as using industry data for growth rates (as noted below), management
assess how the unit’s relative position to its competitors might change over the budget period. Management expects the Group’s
share of each territory to be stable over the projected period.
Growth rate estimates for all countries are based on published industry research for the United Kingdom.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
Management believes that no reasonable potential change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value
of any unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
55 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 12 Business combinations
Principal Group investments
The Company and Group have investments in the ordinary equity share capital or local equivalent of the subsidiary undertakings,
listed below, which principally affected the profits and net assets of the Group. All companies distribute electronic components
except (a) Innovative Electronic Components Group Limited, which provides central administrative support; and (b) Deltron
Emcon Limited, and CTL and CCS divisions of Abacus Electronics Holdings Limited, which manufacture cable assemblies.
Country of incorporation Proportion of shares
and operation held by
Company Group
Existing
Abacus Electronics Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100%
Promax Denmark A/S Denmark 100%
Promax Sweden AB Sweden 100%
Promax Norway A/S Norway 100%
Innovative Electronic Components Group Limited United Kingdom 100%
Trident Microsystems Limited United Kingdom 100%
ECC Elettronica Srl Italy 100%
Acquired
Deltron Electronics Limited (formerly plc) United Kingdom 100%
Deltron France SA France 100%
Deltron Emcon Limited United Kingdom 100%
Deltron Components GmbH Germany 100%
Deltron Conelec AS Denmark 100%
Axess Technology SAS France 100%
Realisations et Diffusion pour l’Industrie SAS France 100%
Voting rights in each of the above subsidiaries are equal to the proportion of Ordinary shares held.
On 16 January 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Deltron Electronics plc, a UK public company distributing
an extensive range of electromechanical products in the UK, Nordic region, Italy, Germany, France and Benelux. Consideration
comprised £34.5 million of Abacus Group plc shares (26.6 million shares at a closing price on 15 January 2006 of 129.5p per
share), £1.4 million of other costs and £0.2 million fair value of Deltron share options exercised or exchanged for Abacus shares
on acquisition.
On 12 April 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Axess Technology S.A.S. and its wholly owned 
subsidiary RDI S.A.S. The Axess Technology Group is a privately owned distributor in France specialising in display and 
wireless communication products and components. The consideration was €23.0 million, satisfied by the immediate issue of
€6.0 million Abacus shares (2.85 million shares based on an average share price for 5 days of 146.35p per share), €10.0 million
in cash, and €7 million in loan notes. The loan notes are redeemable in €3.5 million in cash in April 2007 and €3.5 million in 
cash in April 2008.
A number of the trade, assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries of Deltron Electronics plc have been transferred to existing
subsidiaries during the year. Dormant, holding and smaller subsidiaries have been omitted to avoid a statement of 
excessive length.
56 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 12 Business combinations (continued)
2006 acquisitions summary fair value table is as follows:
Deltron Group Axess Group
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
Book Fair value Fair Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments value value adjustments value Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2.8 (0.3) 2.5 0.6 0.8 1.4 3.9
Intangible assets 0.2 – 0.2––– 0.2
Goodwill 17.3 16.2 33.5 1.0 4.7 5.7 39.2
Deferred taxation – 2.0 2.0 – (0.1) (0.1) 1.9
20.3 17.9 38.2 1.6 5.4 7.0 45.2
Current assets
Inventories 9.5 (2.9) 6.6 3.4 (0.3) 3.1 9.7
Trade and other receivables 13.6 (0.5) 13.1 9.6 (0.1) 9.5 22.6
Cash 2.4 – 2.4 0.4 – 0.4 2.8
Total assets 45.8 14.5 60.3 15.0 5.0 20.0 80.3
Liabilities
Bank overdrafts 2.8 – 2.8––– 2.8
Corporation tax 0.3 – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3 0.6
Deferred taxation 0.3 – 0.3––– 0.3
Pension deficit – 1.6 1.6––– 1.6
Other liabilities 23.9 0.6 24.5 8.4 – 8.4 32.9
Total liabilities 27.3 2.2 29.5 8.7 – 8.7 38.2
Net assets 18.5 12.3 30.8 6.3 5.0 11.3 42.1
Intangible assets
Customer relationships 7.1 6.0 13.1
Order books 0.6 0.7 1.3
Deferred taxation on intangible assets (2.4) (2.2) (4.6)
Total consideration 36.1 15.8 51.9
Represented by:
Fair value of shares issued 34.5 4.2 38.7
Fair value of share options exercised or exchanged 0.2 – 0.2
Cash consideration – 6.9 6.9
Loan notes – 4.6 4.6
Other costs of acquisitions, settled in cash 1.4 0.1 1.5
Total consideration 36.1 15.8 51.9
Acquisition cash flows during the year:
Cash paid for acquisitions during the year 1.4 7.0 8.4
Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.4 (0.4) –
Net cash outflow from acquisitions 1.8 6.6 8.4
Total consideration including assumed debt net 
of cash and cash equivalents acquired:
Total consideration (as above) 36.1 15.8 51.9
Debt acquired 11.7 2.2 13.9
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.4 (0.4) –
Total consideration (including assumed debt) 48.2 17.6 65.8
57 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 12 Business combinations (continued)
Due to the proximity of the timing of some of the integration activity close to the year end, the Directors have made a provisional
assessment of the fair value of Axess net assets acquired. Any further adjustments, relating to conditions which existed at the
acquisition date, arising will be accounted for in 2007.
Included within goodwill are the following assets which are specially excluded by IFRS 2 in the identification of intangible assets
on acquisition:
■ Assembled workforce: and
■ Strategic acquisition synergies.
Consolidation of the Deltron Group and the Axess Group
The three months’ pre-acquisition revenue and operating profit for the Deltron Group amounted to £16.4 million and £0.2 million
respectively. The 2006 Consolidated Income Statement includes the following amounts in respect of the Deltron Group: revenue
£55.0 million; costs of sales £38.9 million; and operating expenses £11.7 million giving an operating profit of £4.4 million. After
exceptionals and amortisation (see note 5) operating expenses were £21.0 million, giving an operating loss of £4.9 million.
The six months’ pre-acquisition revenue and operating profit for the Axess Group amounted to £15.6 million and £1.1 million
respectively. The 2006 Consolidated Income Statement includes the following amounts in respect of the Axess Group: revenue
£20.5 million; cost of sales £15.6 million; and operating expenses £2.8 million giving an operating profit of £2.1 million. After
exceptionals and amortisation (see note 5) operating expenses were £3.8 million, giving an operating profit of £1.1 million.
13 Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors 65.8 35.6
Prepayments and accrued income 1.7 0.5
67.5 36.1
The write down in the trade receivables during the year was £0.3 million (2005: £0.1 million).
14 Inventories
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Raw materials 1.0 0.9
Work in progress 0.6 0.5
Finished goods and goods for resale 37.2 25.4
38.8 26.8
The value of inventories is shown net of inventory provisions. Inventories with a carrying amount of £29.4 million have been
pledged as security for certain of the Group’s bank overdraft and loan facilities.
15 Other financial assets
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Forward currency contracts 0.1 –
An explanation of this financial asset is given in note 24.
58 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 16 Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Trade payables 28.2 13.6
VAT and payroll taxes 4.8 3.0
Accruals and deferred income 10.0 3.5
43.0 20.1
17 Financial liabilities
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Current
Bank overdrafts 15.0 9.9
Invoice discounting 21.1 10.9
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase agreements 0.1 0.1
Current instalments due on bank loans 8.1 1.6
Loan notes 2.4 0.2
Forward currency contracts 0.4 –
47.1 22.7
Non-current
Non-current instalments due on bank loans 18.8 7.7
Loan notes 2.2 –
21.0 7.7
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents at year end comprise:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Cash at bank and in hand 1.6 1.3
Bank overdrafts (15.0) (9.9)
Invoice discounting (21.1) (10.9)
(34.5) (19.5)
Bank loans comprise the following:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
£17.0 million variable rate loan 2006-2010 16.7 –
£8.0 million variable rate loan 2006-2020 7.7 8.0
€1.2 million 3.7% loan 2006-2009 0.6 –
€1.2 million variable rate loan 2006-2009 0.8 –
€0.8 million variable rate loan 2006 0.6 –
DKR 2.0 million variable rate loan 2006-2008 0.1 0.2
SKR 6.0 million 3.4% loan repayable on demand 0.4 –
€1.0 million variable loan 2006 – 0.6
£0.5 million variable loan 2006 – 0.5
26.9 9.3
Less current instalments due on bank loans (8.1) (1.6)
18.8 7.7
59 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Financial liabilities (continued)
£17.0 million variable loan
The loan can be drawn in multiple currencies, secured against the assets or shares of the Group companies and is repayable 
in instalments of £2.4 million in April 2007 and £3.7 million annually thereafter from September 2007 to September 2010. 
Interest is payable at between 1% and 1.5% over LIBOR depending on covenant ratios.
£8.0 million variable loan
This commercial mortgage loan is secured against the UK freehold property (market value £10.0 million), and is repayable in
equal quarterly instalments until 2020, and bears interest at UK LIBOR plus 0.9%.
€1.2 million 3.7% loan
The loan is secured against the assets of the Axess Group, is repayable in monthly instalments between February 2006 and
January 2009 and is at a fixed rate of 3.7%. The fair value of the loan approximates to €1.2 million.
€1.2 million variable rate loan 2006-2009
The loan is secured against the assets of the Axess Group, is repayable in annual instalments of €0.4 million between 
January 2007 and January 2009 and bears interest at EURIBOR 3 months plus 0.85%.
€0.8 million variable rate loan 2006-2009
The loan is secured against the assets of the Axess Group, is repayable in full in December 2006 and bears interest at 
EURIBOR 3 months plus 0.85%.
DKR 2.0 million variable rate loan 2006-2008
The loan, which is repayable in equal instalments of DKR60,000 until June 2008, attracts interest at a variable rate of daily 
Danish LIBOR rate plus 0.7%.
SKR 6.0 million variable rate loan
The loan, which is repayable at Abacus’s instigation, is secured against a freehold building and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.4%. 
€1.0 million variable rate loan
This comprised two loans, one of €0.5 million, which was repayable in equal instalments of €0.25 million until May 2006, the
other of €0.5 million repaid in full in May 2006, both of which attracted interest based on the daily EURIBOR rate.
£0.5 million variable loan 2006
The loan was unsecured and was repaid in full in June 2006 and attracted interest based on the daily UK LIBOR rate plus 0.75%.
Within each country, all bank accounts of the same currency are pooled, which practice the Group actively utilises to minimise
interest charges. The Group has entered into a 5 year interest rate swap fixed at 4.73% based on the value of 50% of its
commercial mortgage loan outstanding at any one time.
Loan notes are guaranteed and denominated in Euros. Only the current loan notes, which mature on 17 April 2007, bear 
interest at 3.5% per annum plus 1% guarantee charge. Non-current loan notes, which mature on 17 April 2008 do not bear
interest and fair valuing these resulted in a £0.2 million credit to the Consolidated Income Statement.
The UK Group operating companies have granted fixed and floating charges over their assets to secure bank loans 
and overdrafts totalling £49.2 million (2005: £22.5 million). In addition, Abacus Group plc has guaranteed £3.1 million 
(2005: £3.7 million) of bank loans and overdrafts to overseas subsidiary companies. Finance leases are secured against 
specific assets. 
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of current and non-current liabilities approximate to their fair values other than the
non-current loan notes.
18 Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts
The Group leases a small number of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases, with the right by the lessee to purchase at
the end of the contract. Further minimum lease payments, all of which fall due within one year, are as follows:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Within one year 0.1 0.1
There is no material difference between the minimum lease payments and their present value.
60 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 19 Provision for liabilities and charges
Employment
and agency Maintenance 2006 2005
termination Warranties Other Total Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Beginning of year 1.2 0.2 – 1.4 1.1
Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings – – 0.2 0.2 –
Charged to profit and loss 0.2 – 0.4 0.6 0.4
Utilised in the year (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.1)
End of year 1.3 0.2 0.6 2.1 1.4
Analysed as:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Current 0.2 0.2
Non-current 1.9 1.2
2.1 1.4
Employment and agency termination
The termination provisions related to ECC Elettronica Srl and are payable by law on the termination of employment or agency
contracts. During the year £0.1 million (2005: £0.1 million) was paid in connection with the former.
Maintenance warranties
A warranty provision was recognised for Trident’s systems sold during the years ending 30 September 2005 and 2006. It is
expected that all costs will be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date. 
Contingent liabilities
IQ Group (“IQ”)
Trident Microsystems Limited (“Trident”) supplied touch screens and associated PC’s for installation in hairdressing salons.
Failures occurred in some of the products, and IQ refused to pay Trident’s invoices. Trident has issued proceedings against IQ to
recover the amounts outstanding. IQ has counterclaimed against Trident in respect of its damages and costs allegedly incurred 
in rectifying products supplied. Trident is vigorously resisting IQ’s counterclaim, which the Board believes is without merit.
International Rectifier Corporation (“IR”)
Abacus Electronics Holdings Limited (“Abacus”) has made a claim against IR’s UK trading entity to recover a trading debt. 
IR has indicated that it intends to defend the claim, but the Board does not believe that the defence will have any merit.
Abacus also has a dispute with IR over termination of its Distribution Agreement with Abacus. This Agreement is governed by US
law, and is subject to US arbitration. The Board believes (and has been so advised by US counsel) that Abacus is validly entitled
to return certain stock under the terms of the Agreement, and to set this off against amounts owing to IR. IR disputes this, both
as to the entitlement and quantum.
61 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 20 Called-up share capital
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Authorised share capital:
100,000,000 (2005: 70,000,000) Ordinary shares of 5p each 5.0 3.5
Allotted, called-up and fully-paid:
73,288,744 (2005: 42,583,507) Ordinary shares at 5p each 3.7 2.1
During the year, 30,705,237 shares were allotted with a nominal value of £1.6 million (2005: £nil) for a consideration of 
£40.0 million (2005: £0.1 million).
The movement in the number of Ordinary shares of the share capital is analysed as follows:
2006 2005
Number Number
Opening share capital 42,583,507 42,536,007
Issued on acquisitions of the Deltron Group and Axess Group 29,484,615 –
Deltron options exercised on acquisition 679,044 –
Other options exercised 541,578 47,500
73,288,744 42,583,507
During the year 30,705,237 Ordinary shares of 5p each were issued for a total consideration of £40.0 million. The following options
were outstanding at 30 September 2006 and 30 September 2005:
Number of Number Number of Exercise
options at granted/ Number Number options at Exercise price per 
Option scheme 1 Oct 2005 acquired exercised lapsed 30 Sept 2006 Period share
Existing schemes
2003 25,862 – – – 25,862 2006-2013 232.0p
Approved 16,438 – – – 16,438 2008-2015 182.5p
2003 233,400 – – – 233,400 2006-2013 221.5p
Unapproved 462,930 – – – 462,930 2006-2013 232.0p
202,740 – – – 202,740 2008-2015 182.5p
1996 11,429 – –(11,429) – 2001-2005 105.0p
Unapproved 75,000 – – (75,000) – 2002-2006 120.5p
75,000 – – (75,000) – 2002-2006 97.5p
370,000 – – (10,000) 360,000 2003-2007 389.0p
240,000 – – (20,000) 220,000 2003-2007 392.0p
263,492 – – – 263,492 2005-2012 228.5p
1993 20,000 – – (20,000) – 1998-2005 200.0p
Approved 11,000 – – (11,000) – 1999-2006 271.0p
26,258 – – – 26,258 2005-2012 228.5p
38,571 – (8,571) – 30,000 2001-2008 105.0p
2005 PSP – 793,827 – (102,007) 691,820 2009-2010 0.0p
Sharesave 21,398 – – (21,398) – 2003-2006 320.0p
267,757 – – (230,133) 37,624 2007-2009 245.0p
– 1,271,348 – (118,386) 1,152,962 2009-2011 80.0p
Phantom options 220,000 – – – 220,000 2005-2012 303.0p
54,138 – – – 54,138 2006-2013 232.0p
2,635,413 2,065,175 (8,571) (694,353) 3,997,664
62 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 20 Called-up share capital (continued)
Number of Number Number of Exercise
options at granted/ Number Number options at Exercise price per 
1 Oct 2005 acquired exercised lapsed 30 Sept 2006 Period share
Acquired schemes*
1996 –536,650(330,565) – 206,085 2005-2012 114.3p
Share Option Scheme – 32,160 (32,160) – – 2007-2014 109.6p
– 302,304 (115,776) – 186,528 2007-2014 134.5p
– 180,096 (32,160) – 147,936 2007-2014 110.4p
– 32,160 (32,160) – – 2007-2014 110.4p
– 339,478 (300,680) (2,042) 36,756 2008-2015 98.0p
– 287,123 (255,347) – 31,776 2005-2012 104.2p
– 32,160 (32,160) – – 2005-2012 119.7p
– 16,077 – (6,432) 9,645 2002-2009 171.0p
– 33,438 – (567) 32,871 2001-2008 176.5p
– 28,272 – (7,206) 21,066 2002-2009 180.3p
– 51,607 – (3,213) 48,394 2004-2011 217.7p
– 10,933 – (10,933) – 1999-2006 98.0p
1993
Share Option Scheme – 81,043 (81,043) – – 1999-2006 77.1p
– 1,963,501 (1,212,051) (30,393) 721,057
Total 2,635,413 4,028,676 (1,220,622) (724,746) 4,718,721
* Deltron share options were exchanged for Abacus options in the ratio of 1:0.6432, with an equivalent adjustment to the option
price. In accordance with IFRS “Share-based payment”, all options were fair valued as at the date of acquisition. The acquisition
consideration was adjusted by any pre acquisition expense, with any post acquisition expense being recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement. 
Details of the above option schemes may be found in the ‘Share Options’ section of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and in
Note 23. 
21 Consolidated statement of change in equity
Hedging
Called up Share Capital Share and
share premium redemption Merger option translation Retained Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve profits Equity
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 October 2004 – 
UK GAAP 2.1 9.1 0.4 3.3 – – 29.3 44.2
IFRS adjustments 
(see note 28)
Reverse proposed dividend – – –––– 3.0 3.0
Other – – –––– (0.2) (0.2)
Deferred tax – – –––– 0.2 0.2
Employee benefits – – –––– 0.1 0.1
Goodwill impairment – – –––– (1.5) (1.5)
IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” – – – – 0.1 – 0.1 0.2
At 1 October 2004 – IFRS 2.1 9.1 0.4 3.3 0.1 – 31.0 46.0
63 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 21 Consolidated statement of change in equity (continued)
Hedging
Called up Share Capital Share and
share premium redemption Merger option translation Retained Total
capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve profits Equity
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Total recognised income and
expense for the year – – – – – 2.6 2.6
Dividends – – –––– (4.6) (4.6)
New share capital issued – 0.1 ––––– 0.1
Share-based payment – – – – 0.2 – – 0.2
At 30 September 2005 – IFRS 2.1 9.2 0.4 3.3 0.3 – 29.0 44.3
Total recognised income and 
expense for the year – – – – – (0.6) 0.2 (0.4)
Dividends – – –––– (4.2) (4.2)
New share capital issued 1.6 38.4 ––––– 40.0
Share-based payment – – – – 0.5 – – 0.5
At 30 September 2006 3.7 47.6 0.4 3.3 0.8 (0.6) 25.0 80.2
The share option reserve represents the cumulative share option charge under IFRS 2 less the value of any share options that
have been exercised.
The hedging and translation reserve represents movements in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a result of movements in
exchange rates which are taken directly to reserves as detailed in the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies on page 38.
22 Analysis and reconciliation of net debt
Debt Other
1 October Cash acquired with non-cash Exchanges 30 September
2005 flow acquisitions* changes differences 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cash at bank 1.3 (2.5) 2.8 – – 1.6
Bank overdrafts and invoice 
discounting (20.8) (12.6) (2.8) – 0.1 (36.1)
(19.5) (15.1) – – 0.1 (34.5)
Debt due after 1 year (7.7) (11.4) (1.7) (0.2) (21.0)
Debt due within 1 year (1.8) (0.2) (7.1) (1.4) – (10.5)
Finance leases due within 1 year (0.1) 0.2 – (0.2) – (0.1)
(29.1) (15.1) (18.5) (3.3) (0.1) (66.1)
* including loan notes issued
64 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 22 Analysis and reconciliation of net debt (continued)
Increase of net debt
2006 2005
£’m £’m
(Reduction) increase in net debt resulting from cashflows (15.1) 0.4
Translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1
Movement in net debt resulting from cashflows (15.0) 0.5
Movement in loan balances (3.3) –
Loans and finance leases acquired with subsidiary (13.9) –
Issue of new loan notes to purchase subsidiary undertaking (4.6) –
New finance leases (0.2) –
Non-cash movements 0.2 (0.2)
Translation differences on loan balances (0.2) –
Net debt at the beginning of the period (29.1) (29.4)
Net debt at the end of the period (66.1) (29.1)
Exceptional items
Net cash outflow from operating activities of £5.4 million in 2006 are in respect of restructuring and other costs (2005: £0.5 million).
23 Share-based payment
The Group had six share-based payment schemes in existence during the year ended 30 September 2006. The Group
recognised a charge of £0.1 million (2005: £nil) in the year relating to cash-settled (only the Phantom Option Scheme in (f) on
page 69), and £0.4 million (2005: £0.2 million) relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions (the latter for only
those issued after 7 November 2002) with corresponding entries to other payables or the share option reserve. No market
conditions apply to any of the schemes. For all schemes, the expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical
volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three years. The expected percentage of total options exercised is based
upon the Directors’ best estimate for effects of behavioural conditions and, if applicable, the probability that the performance
criteria will be met. All of the options are equity settled other than as indicated below. Details of each of the schemes are
provided below:
a) Save As You Earn (“SAYE”) Scheme
The Company operates a SAYE scheme within the UK which is open to all UK employees and is linked to monthly savings
contracts over three and five-year periods. Options have been granted to scheme participants at 80% of the prevailing market
price. The market price is taken approximately one month prior to the official grant date. There are no performance conditions
attached to the exercise of these options. These options may be exercised within a fixed six-month period, three or five years
from the date of grant.
SAYE options – as at 30 September 2006
Weighted
average exercise 
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 289,155 250.5
Granted during the year 1,271,348 80.0
Lapsed during the year (369,917) 196.5
Outstanding at end of year 1,190,586 85.2
None of the above share options outstanding at the end of the year are exercisable at 30 September 2006.
65 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23 Share-based payment (continued)
The SAYE options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average exercise price of 85.2p, and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 3.7 years (the Directors have assumed all shares will vest at the earliest available date).
The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
SAYE 2004 2006
Share price (on date of official grant) 306.5p (19 February 2004) 100p (27 January 2006)
Exercise price 245p 80p
Expected volatility 34% 34%
Expected life (years) 3 and 5 3 and 5
Risk free rate 4.6% 4.3%
Dividend yield 2.8% 2.8%
Expected percentage of options exercised versus granted
– 3 years 100% 85%
– 5 years 100% 80%
b) Executive Share Option Schemes (“ESOS”)
Under the 2003 ESOS (for which the last options were granted in 2005), executives can be awarded an annual grant of share
options at market price, provided that the total amount granted under the ESOS in any one year does not exceed twice the 
base salary.
Share options under the ESOS are exercisable between three and ten years. The options vest on a straight-line basis if the
Group’s EPS growth exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index by between 4% (50% of awards vest) and 6%
(100% vest) per annum. The target is tested on the third anniversary from date of grant and, if not met, re-tested on the fourth
and fifth anniversaries.
ESOS – as at 30 September 2006
Weighted
average exercise 
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning and end of year 941,370 217.9
None of the above share options outstanding at the end of the year are exercisable at 30 September 2006.
No ESOS options were granted in 2006. The options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average remaining
contractual life of 4.5 years (the Directors have assumed all shares vest 18 months after the earliest available date).
The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
21 May 1 December 25 May
2003 ESOS 2003 2003 2005
Share price on date of official grant 221.5 232.0p 182.5p
Exercise price 221.5 232.0p 182.5p
Expected volatility 34% 34% 34%
Expected life (years) 10 6.5 5.0
Risk free rate 4.2 4.7 4.4
Dividend yield 2.8 2.8 2.8
Expected percentage of options exercised versus granted 10% 100% 100%
66 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 23 Share-based payment (continued)
c) 1993 and 1996 Executive Share Option Plan (“ESOP”)
Under the existing ESOP (for which the last options granted were in 2002), Executives can be awarded an annual grant of share
options at market price, provided that the total amount granted under the ESOP does not exceed four times base salary.
Share options under ESOP are exercisable between three and ten years and five and ten years for the HM Revenue and Customs
“approved” scheme and between three and seven years and five and seven years for the “unapproved” scheme from the date of
grant. The award would vest in full if, between date of grant and exercise, the growth in the Group’s EPS is 1% and 3% higher
than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index for the approved and unapproved schemes respectively. Testing of the
condition can be performed between three years from date of grant and the lapse date.
ESOP – as at 30 September 2006 Weighted
average exercise 
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year 1,130,750 294.3
Lapsed during the year (222,429) 163.0
Exercised during the year (8,571) 105.0
Outstanding at end of year 899,750 328.6
None of the above share options outstanding at the end of the year are exercisable at 30 September 2006. The share price at the
date of exercise was 160.5p. 
The options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.7 years (the Directors have
assumed all shares will vest 18 months after the earliest available date).
20 November 20 November
2002 2002
ESOP Unapproved Approved
Share price on 20 November 2002 228.5 228.5
Exercise price 228.5 228.5
Expected volatility 34% 34%
Expected life (years) 7 4.5
Risk free rate 4.5% 4.4%
Dividend yield 2.8% 2.8%
Expected percentage of options exercised 20% 100%
d) Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Under the PSP, Executives can be awarded an annual grant of nil cost options over a fixed number of shares provided that the
total amount granted under the PSP does not exceed base salary.
Share options under PSP are exercisable between three and four years. The awards vest on a straight-line basis if the Group’s 
EPS growth exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index by between 3% (33% of awards vest) and 7% (100% vest)
per annum. The target is tested on the third anniversary from date of grant only. Any shares awarded are acquired by the Trustee
of the Plan (see page 14) in the open market with funds provided by the Abacus Group.
PSP – as at 30 September 2006 Weighted
average exercise
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year – –
Granted during the year 793,827 0.0
Lapsed during the year (102,007) 0.0
Outstanding at end of year 691,820 0.0
None of the above share options outstanding at the end of the year are exercisable at 30 September 2006.
67 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 23 Share-based payment (continued)
The options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.7 years (the Directors
have assumed 439,790 shares vest 18 months after the earliest available date, the remainder at the earliest available date).
The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
PSP 2 May 2005
Share price on date of official grant 143.25
Exercise price 0.0
Expected volatility 34%
Expected life 3 - 4 years
Risk free rate 4.3%
Dividend yield 2.8%
Expected percentage of options exercised versus granted 100%
e) Deltron Share Option Schemes
Under the terms of the Deltron acquisition, options over Deltron shares were either exercised or exchanged for those over
Abacus shares in the ratio of 1:0.6432 and the new option prices were derived by multiplying the Deltron share option price 
by 1.5547. The rules of the Deltron shares scheme remained unchanged, being the options can be exercised between three 
and five years from date of grant. There are no exercise conditions.
Deltron Share Option Schemes – as at 30 September 2006
Weighted 
average exercise
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning of year – –
Acquired during the year 1,963,501 116.3
Lapsed during the year (30,393) 147.1
Exercised during the year (1,212,051) 107.4
Outstanding at end of year 721,057 129.9
349,837 of the above share options outstanding at the end of the year are exercisable at 30 September 2006. The weighted
average share price at the date of exercise was 143.1p. 
The options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.6 years (the Directors
have assumed 501,696 shares relating to former Directors of Deltron Electronics plc vest between 6 months and one year after
the earliest available date, the remainder vest at the earliest available date).
The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
Deltron Share Option Schemes
Share price on date of official grant (after scaling up by 1.5547) 98.0-217.7p
Exercise price 98.0-217.7p
Expected volatility 34%
Expected life 3-4 years
Risk free rate 4.3%
Dividend yield 2.8%
Expected percentage of options exercised versus granted 100%
68 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 23 Share-based payment (continued)
f) Phantom Option Scheme (cash-settled transaction)
Under the scheme (for which the last options were granted in 2003), Executives can be awarded an annual grant of share options
at market price.
Share options under the Scheme are exercisable between after three and ten years or five and ten years from the date of grant.
The awards vest in full if the growth in the Group’s EPS is 5% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
Phantom Options – as at 30 September 2006
Weighted 
average exercise
Options price (p)
Outstanding at beginning and end of year 274,138 289
The options outstanding at 30 September 2006 had a weighted average exercise price of 289p, and a weighted average
remaining contractual life of 5.8 years (the Directors have assumed all shares will vest at the earliest available date).
The assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model are as follows:
2003 Phantom Options 1 December 2003 8 March 2002
Share price on date of official grant 232p 303p
Exercise price 232p 303p
Expected volatility 34% 34%
Expected life 4 years 10 years
Risk free rate 4.7% 4.6%-5.2%
Dividend yield 2.8% 2.8
Expected percentage of options exercised versus granted 100% 0%
The expected lives of 10 years and 4 years above are based on the best estimate of the EPS criteria being met.
The liability of cash-settled options is remeasured at each reporting date with changes in the fair value recognised in the profit
or loss.
24 Financial instruments
An explanation of the Group’s financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies is set out in the Corporate
Governance Statements. The 2006 figures have been presented in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, whilst the 2005
comparatives with FRS 13.
Interest rate and currency and borrowing profiles
The interest rate and currency profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 30 September, after taking account of interest rate and
currency derivative financial instruments (with the exception of the short term currency swaps noted after the table), were as below.
The other financial assets and liabilities of the Group which are not included in the tables below are non-interest bearing and are
therefore subject to interest rate risk.
In both 2006 and 2005, the interest rates on the main floating rate financial liabilities are linked to UK, European, US$, Japanese or
Danish daily base rates for overdrafts and LIBOR or EURIBOR rates for loans.
69 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 24 Financial instruments (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2006
Weighted
Effective average
fixed time for
Floating Fixed interest which rate Amount Amount
Total rate rate rate is fixed secured unsecured
Currency £’m £’m £’m % Years £’m £’m
Assets
Cash Euro 1.5 1.5 –––– 1.5
Cash Other 0.1 0.1 –––– 0.1
Total assets 1.6 1.6 –––– 1.6
Liabilities
Commercial mortgage loan Sterling 7.7 3.8 3.9 4.7% 3.9 7.7 –
– Other loan Sterling 16.7 16.7 – – – 16.7 –
Other loans Euro 2.0 1.4 0.6 3.7% 1.2 2.0 –
Other loans DKR 0.1 0.1 –––– 0.1
Other loans SKR 0.4 – 0.4 3.4% – 0.4 –
Finance lease Sterling 0.1 – 0.1 0.0% – 0.1 –
Loan notes Euro 4.6 – 4.6 1.9% 0.25 – 4.6
Other borrowings Sterling 24.7 24.7 – – – 24.7 –
Other borrowings Euro 10.5 10.5 – – – 10.5 –
Other borrowings Yen 0.2 0.2 – – – 0.2 –
Other borrowings US$/Other 0.7 0.7 – – – 0.7 –
Total liabilities 67.7 58.1 9.6 3.2% 2.1 63.0 4.7
In addition to the currency exposures above, the Group has entered into $24 million and €27.6 million short term currency
derivative contracts amounting to an asset value of £0.1 million and liability value of £0.4 million. These contracts are deemed
to have a net book value and fair value of £0.3 million. All the contracts will expire by September 2007.
Cash and bank earns interest of floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. All cash facilities fall for review within one year.
Year ended 30 September 2005 Weighted
Effective average
fixed time for
Floating Fixed interest which rate Amount Amount
Total rate rate rate is fixed secured unsecured
Currency £’m £’m £’m % Years £’m £’m
Assets
Cash Euro 0.7 0.7 –––– 0.7
Cash Other 0.6 0.6 –––– 0.6
Total assets 1.3 1.3 –––– 1.3
Liabilities
Commercial mortgage loan Sterling 8.0 4.0 4.0 4.7% 4.9 8.0 –
Other borrowings Sterling 12.2 12.2 – – – 11.7 0.5
Finance lease Sterling 0.1 – 0.1 5.6% 0.6 0.1 –
Loan notes Sterling 0.2 – 0.2 4.0% – – 0.2
Other borrowings Euro 9.1 9.1 – – – 1.9 7.2
Other borrowings Yen 0.4 0.4 – – – 0.4 –
Other borrowings Other 0.4 0.4 – – – 0.4 –
Total liabilities 30.4 26.1 4.3 4.6% 4.9 22.5 7.9
70 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 24 Financial instruments (continued)
Credit risk
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial
assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Floating rate liabilities comprise:
■ £4.0 million of a £8.0 million commercial mortgage loan, not hedged by an interest rate swap but bearing interest 
based on the daily UK LIBOR rate and fixed in advance for periods of between one and three months;
■ Euro, Sterling and Danish Kroner bank loans of £0.7 million (Euro 1.0 million), £0.5 million and £0.2 million 
(DKR 2.0 million) respectively, all being interest based on daily base rates; and 
■ Overdraft in multiple currencies totaling £20.7 million bearing interest based on daily base rates.
Fixed rate liabilities comprise:
■ £4.0 million of the £8.0 million Sterling mortgage loans hedged by an interest rate swap;
■ £0.2 million of Sterling loan notes; and
■ £0.1 million outstanding obligations on finance leases.
Interest rates on floating rate assets and liabilities are based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
The table below shows the Group’s currency exposures for 2005. These exposures give rise to currency gains and losses
recognised in the profit and loss account, and arise from monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional
currency of the operating unit.
Net foreign currency monetary assets (liabilities)
Functional Currency Sterling Euro US Dollar Yen Other Total
Group operation £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Sterling – 3.2 12.6 (1.2) 0.1 14.7
Danish Kroner (0.2) (1.7) – – 1.2 (0.7)
Euro – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Total (0.2) 1.5 12.2 (1.2) 1.3 13.6
Short term debtors and creditors have been included in the above disclosure. As at 30 September 2005, the Group had
outstanding commitments for forward exchange contracts of £12.6 million.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities as at 30 September 2005 was as follows:
2005
£’m
On demand or within one year 22.7
Between one and two years 0.7
Between two and five years 7.0
30.4
71 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 24 Financial instruments (continued)
Borrowing facilities
The Group had £47.6 million (2004: £43.9 million) of borrowing facilities at 30 September 2005 of which £17.5 million were
undrawn and £31.3 million were committed.
The maturity of the borrowing facilities, both drawn and undrawn, at 30 September was as follows:
2005
£’m
On demand or within one year 39.9
Between one and two years 0.7
Between two and five years 7.0
47.6
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Group’s financial instruments, which are
carried in the Financial Statements, other than short term receivables and payables, the book values of which are regarded as
reasonable approximations to their fair values.
Book value Fair value
2006 2005 2006 2005
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Financial assets
Cash 1.6 1.3 1.6 1.3
Forward currency contracts 0.1 – 0.1 0.3
1.7 1.3 1.7 1.6
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (15.0) (9.9) (15.0) (9.9)
Invoice discounting (21.1) (10.9) (21.1) (10.9)
Loan notes (4.6) (0.2) (4.6) (0.2)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Finance lease and hire purchase obligations (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Floating rate borrowings (25.9) (9.3) (25.9) (9.3)
Fixed rate borrowings (1.0) – (1.0) –
Forward currency contracts (see hedging relationships) (0.4) – (0.4) –
(68.1) (30.4) (68.1) (30.4)
72 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 24 Financial instruments (continued)
The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing
interest rates. The fair value of loan notes and other financial assets has been calculated using the market interest rates
The numbers as reported in the 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet and their 2005 comparatives were as follows: 
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Financial assets
Cash 1.6 1.3
Forward currency contracts (see hedging relationships) 0.1 –
1.7 1.3
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (15.0) (9.9)
Invoice discounting (21.1) (10.9)
Loan notes (4.6) (0.2)
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings:
Finance lease and hire purchase obligations (0.1) (0.1)
Floating rate borrowings (25.9) (9.3)
Fixed rate borrowings (1.0) –
Currency option contracts (see hedging relationships) (0.4) –
(68.1) (30.4)
The Abacus Group has sales contracts in Scandinavia and Italy, which allow the sales price to increase or decrease depending
on the foreign exchange movement of the currency of inventory purchase. These types of contracts meet the definition 
of ‘embedded derivatives’, but are not considered as effective hedges. Any foreign exchange gain or loss on sales orders
outstanding at year end, arising from converting the sales order values to functional currencies at (a) the rates on the date 
of the orders; and (b) forward rates to date of deliveries, is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. The value 
of these contracts was £nil (2005: £nil).
Hedging relationships
The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Where the Group can demonstrate 
an effective hedge relationship for cash flow hedges under the rules of IAS 32 and IAS 39, movements in the fair values 
of these derivative financial instruments will be recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Where the Group does not meet these rules, movements in the fair value will be deemed as hedge ineffectiveness and will be
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. The Group marks to market its financial instruments throughout the year.
In order to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rate and exchange rate changes, the Group utilises both currency 
and interest rate hedges.
a) Cash flow hedges
Forward currency contracts. The main criteria for effective economic and accounting hedging of forward foreign currency
contracts are:
■ the instrument must be related to a firm foreign currency commitment;
■ it must involve the same currency as the hedged item;
■ appropriate documentation of designation must be maintained;
■ it must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Group’s operations; and
■ the effectiveness of the hedge must be regularly tested.
73 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 24 Financial instruments (continued)
At 30 September 2006, the Group held forward currency contracts designated as hedges of expected future purchases from
suppliers in Euros and US$. For all the contracts, including 2005, each amount below comprises twelve equal monthly contracts.
The first contract is for currency purchase in October, the last in September. The terms of these contracts are as follows:
2006 2005
Average Average
exchange exchange
Amount rate Amount rate
Buy
US $ $12 million 1.88 $9 million 1.83 
Euro €9.6 million 1.47 €6 million 1.46 
None of the above were designated as effective cash flow hedges. 
Interest rate swap. The criteria for effective hedging of interest rate swaps are:
■ the instrument must be related to an asset or a liability;
■ the effectiveness of the hedge must be regularly tested;
■ appropriate documentation of designation must be maintained; and
■ it must change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate.
At 30 September 2006, the Group had entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of £3.8 million 
(2005: £4.0 million) (being 50% of the Commercial Mortgage Loan) whereby it pays a fixed rate of interest of 4.73% 
and receives a variable rate based on LIBOR on the notional amount. The swap is being used to hedge the cash flow
exposure of 50% of the interest payments on the Commercial Loan, which has the same critical terms as the swap. 
However, the swap is deemed ineffective and therefore any fair value movement (2006 and 2005: £nil) has been recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement. The swap expires in 2010 and the Commercial Mortgage Loan in 2020.
b) Fair value hedges
Currency option contracts. At 30 September 2006, the Group held currency option contracts to hedge expected future
purchases in € and US$ for the period October 2006 to September 2007. Each amount shown below is further divided 
into twelve equal monthly contracts (for example, the €6 million contract comprises twelve monthly contracts, the first being
for the purchase of €0.5 million in October 2006, the last for €0.5 million in September 2007). Each option contract, as it
matures, is tested between two predetermined foreign exchange rates, the lower exchange rate being the ‘Base’ and the
higher the ‘Limit’. Each monthly option will be effective if the spot rate, which is tested monthly, falls below the “Base”, at
which point the Group purchases currency at the “Base” rate. The option lapses if the spot rate lies between the “Base” 
and “Limit” rates. If the spot rate is higher than the “Limit”, the monthly tranche is purchased at the “Base” rate. The options
have been deemed ineffective and the fair value losses of the options below have been recognised in the Consolidated
Income Statement.
Amount Fair value
Currency Base Limit m £’m
€ 1.405 1.495 6 (0.1)
€ 1.41 1.491 3 (0.1)
€ 1.41 1.4777 6 (0.1)
€ 1.40 1.5033 3 (0.1)
US$ 1.84 1.99 12 –
(0.4)
At 30 September 2005, the Group held a currency option for US$6 million, comprising twelve monthly contracts of $0.5 million,
with a “Base” of $1.81 and a “Limit” of $1.891. 
74 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 25 Financial commitments
Capital commitments
The Group had capital expenditure commitments of £nil (2005: £0.2 million) at 30 September 2006.
Lease commitments 
Finance lease
The Group has entered into £0.1 million (2005: £0.1 million) of finance lease commitments as at 30 September 2006. 
Operating lease
The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain purchases and motor vehicles. The former expire between 2006 and
2017, and the latter between 2006 and 2009. Only certain property agreements contain an option for renewal at rental prices
based on market prices at the time of exercise.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and buildings Other
2006 2005 2006 2005
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Operating leases which expire:
Within one year 1.2 0.4 0.7 0.2
Between two and five years 3.0 1.4 1.7 1.2
After more than five years 0.7 0.3 – –
4.9 2.1 2.4 1.4
26 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
Defined benefits pension scheme
The Group operates one final salary defined benefits pension scheme in the United Kingdom, Stanplan F, following the Deltron
acquisition. The scheme is funded by the payment of contributions to separately administered trust funds. The Deltron Group
results were consolidated from 16 January 2006.
30 September
2006 16 January 2006
Fair value Book value Adjustments Fair value
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Scheme assets
Equities 2.5 – 2.4 2.4
Bonds 0.6 – 0.5 0.5
Other 0.2 – 0.1 0.1
Scheme assets 3.3 – 3.0 3.0
Present value of scheme liabilities (4.7) – (4.6) (4.6)
Unrecognised past service cost – –– –
Net pension liability (1.4) – (1.6) (1.6)
Book value is the amounts recognised in the Deltron Group’s Accounts as at 15 January 2006.
75 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 26 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and
Expenses, all of which arose for the 9 months since consolidation of the Deltron Group results, are as follows:
Year ended
30 September 
2006
£’m
Recognised in the Income Statement
Current service cost 0.1
Recognised in arriving at operating profit 0.1
Expected return on scheme assets (0.2)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities 0.2
Net finance costs –
Taken to the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
Actual return on scheme assets 0.2
Less: expected return on scheme assets (0.2)
–
Other actuarial gains and losses 0.2
Actuarial gain recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 0.2
Pensions
Pension contributions are determined with the advice of an independent qualified actuary, JLT Benefits Solutions Limited, on the
basis of valuations using the projected unit credit method. The last full actuarial valuation was at 1 December 2004, and updated
on an approximate basis to 16 January 2006 and 30 September 2006. Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the
respective balance sheet dates. The expected long term return on cash is equal to bank base rates at the balance sheet date.
The expected return on bonds is determined by reference to UK long dated gilt and bond yields at the balance sheet date. The
expected rate of return on equities and property have been determined by setting an appropriate risk premium above gilt/bond
yields having regard to market conditions at the balance sheet date.
30 September 16 January
2006 2006
%%
Main assumptions:
Rate of salary increases 5.25 5.0
Allowance for pension in payment increases of RPI or 2.5% p.a. if less 2.5 2.5
Discount rate 4.85 4.55
Expected rates of return on scheme assets
Equities 7.5 7.5
Bonds 4.75 4.25
Other 5.2 5.5
Inflation assumption 3.25 3.0
The post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on the PA92 tables with the medium cohort mortality improvement rates
and as applicable to each individual’s year of birth.
The employer contributions being paid to the scheme are 18.2% of pensionable earnings plus £6,147 per month plus levies 
to the Pension Protection Fund. These are aimed at covering the cost of accruing benefits and expenses and to remove the
deficit on the scheme’s funding basis by 2015. The total employer contributions to the defined benefit plans in the year ending
30 September 2007 are estimated to be £108,000, excluding Pension Protection Fund levies. The acquisition of the Axess Group
does not have an effect on the position of the Group’s pension schemes as it only provides money purchase pensions benefits.
76 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 26 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (continued)
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows:
£’m
Opening balance –
Acquisition 4.6
As at 16 January 2006 – Fair value 4.6
Current service cost 0.1
Interest cost 0.2
Benefits paid –
Contributions by employees –
Actuarial gains and losses (0.2)
As at 30 September 2006 – Fair value 4.7
The defined benefits obligation comprises £4.7 million arising only from plans that are wholly or partly funded. Changes in the value
of plan assets are analysed as follows:
£’m
Opening balance –
Acquisition 3.0
As at 16 January 2006 – Fair value 3.0
Expected return on plan assets 0.2
Employer contributions 0.1
Contributions by employees –
Benefits paid –
Actuarial gains and losses –
As at 30 September 2006 – Fair value 3.3
The history of experience gains and losses, all of which related to pre-acquisition, is as follows:
16 January
2006
£’m
Fair value of scheme assets 3.0
Present value of defined benefit obligation (4.6)
(Deficit) in the scheme (1.6)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 0.1
Effect of changes in assumptions (1.0)
Total (0.9)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 16 January 2006 in the Statement of Recognised Income
and Expense is a £0.2 million gain.
Defined contribution pension schemes
In addition to the defined benefit pension scheme, the Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes. 
The total contributions for the year were £1.9 million (2005: £1.8 million) of which £nil (2005: £0.1 million) was outstanding at
30 September 2006. Following the acquisition of the Deltron Group, the Group operates an insured pension scheme for certain
employees in Germany. The amount charged to the profit and loss, based on the insurer’s assessment was £nil (2005: £nil).
77 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27 Related party transactions
Other than inter-company transactions and the remuneration of the Directors, which is disclosed in Note 6 and shown in more
detail in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, there were no significant transactions with related parties during the year.
28 Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the first year that the Group has presented its Annual Report and Accounts under IFRS. The Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 30 September 2005 were under UK GAAP and the date of transition was therefore 1 October 2004. The
Group’s Interim Report 2006, which can be found on Abacus’ website www.abacus-group.co.uk, provides analysis of the effect
of moving from UK GAAP to IFRS and specifically contains:
■ the restatement of 2005 comparative financial information from UK GAAP to IFRS, including a reconciliation of the balance
sheet from UK GAAP to IFRS at the date of transition and 30 September 2005; and
■ a summary of significant accounting policies and a description of all IFRS adjustments made.
A number of summary disclosures are provided in this Note.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 October 2004 (date of transition) and 30 September 2005:
30 September 1 October 
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Total equity under UK GAAP 43.4 44.2
IFRS adjustments (see explanation further in this note)
Share-based payment 0.1 0.2
Employee benefits 0.1 0.1
Goodwill impairment (1.5) (1.5)
Goodwill amortisation 0.7 –
Dividends 1.5 3.0
Deferred tax – 0.2
Other – (0.2)
Total equity under IFRS at 1 October 2005 44.3 46.0
Reconciliation of profit after tax for the year ended 30 September 2005:
30 September
2005
£’m
Total profit after tax for the year under UK GAAP 2.2
IFRS adjustments
Share-based payment (0.2)
Other 0.2
Goodwill amortisation 0.7
Income tax expense (0.3)
Profit after tax for the year under IFRS 2.6
Under IAS 7 ‘Cash flow statements’, movements in cash and cash equivalents are reconciled, whereas under UK GAAP that
statement reconciles cash only. The change in presentation of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement under IAS 7 makes no
difference to the cash flows of the Group.
78 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Explanations of IFRS adjustments
IFRS 1 “First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”
IFRS 1 requires that companies apply IFRS retrospectively for all periods. The standard does however contain certain transitional
provisions exempting full retrospective application in certain areas. The Group has opted to take the following exemptions:
■ Application of IFRS 3 “Business combinations” has not been applied to those combinations taking place prior to 
1 October 2004 as provided by IFRS 1
■ Application of the provisions of IAS 32 and 39 relating to financial instruments have not been applied to the comparative
periods; these are applied from 1 October 2005 as allowed by IFRS 1.
■ Application of IFRS 2 “Share-based payment” has not been applied to grants of equity awards made prior to 
7 November 2002 as provided by IFRS 1.
IFRS 2 “Share-based payment”
In accordance with IFRS 2, Abacus has recognised an expense representing the fair value of outstanding employee share options
spread over their vesting periods. As permitted by the transitional provisions, Abacus has taken the option to apply IFRS 2 only
to those equity-settled share options granted after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as at 1 October 2005.
Abacus issues equity-settled share-based payment options in respect of which, a charge is required to be made in the
Consolidated Income Statement. At the date of grant, these options are measured at fair value by using the Black-Scholes 
option pricing model. The fair value of each option is then applied to the number of options which are expected to vest. The
estimate of the number of options that might vest is adjusted over the vesting period to reflect actual experience. The fair value
determined at the grant date is then expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
IAS 19 “Employee benefits”
IAS 19 provides rules for the recognition of the expense/liability relating to short term benefits, including holiday pay. As a result
holiday pay (including salaries and social security taxes) has been accrued under IFRS, which was not accrued under UK GAAP .
IFRS 3 “Business combinations”
The method of accounting for business combinations under IFRS is different to that applied under UK GAAP. The key differences
applicable to the Group are the cessation of goodwill amortisation and the recognition and amortisation of intangible assets 
within acquired businesses, which were previously subsumed within goodwill under UK GAAP.
Under the transitional arrangement of IFRS 1, the Group has taken the option to apply IFRS 3 to business combinations from 
the transition date only (i.e. 1 October 2004), and therefore has not restated acquisitions prior to this date.
IAS 36 “Impairment of assets”
UK GAAP requires goodwill to be amortised over its estimated useful life, which Abacus had determined to be 20 years in
respect of business acquisitions where goodwill has been capitalised. Under IFRS, goodwill is considered to have an indefinite 
life and so is not amortised. Instead it is subject to an annual test for impairment. Thus, goodwill amortisation under UK GAAP
for the year ended 30 September 2005 of £0.7 million has been reversed. The annual impairment test under IFRS resulted 
in a reduction in carrying value of goodwill by £1.5 million as at 1 October 2004.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 79 28 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
IAS 10 “Events after the balance sheet date”
Under UK GAAP, the Group accrued for dividends recommended by the Directors in respect of each accounting year. Under
IFRS, a dividend is only recognised when it has been declared. As a result, proposed dividends are not recognised in the
Financial Statements.
IAS 12 “Income taxes”
Because IFRS define deferred tax in relation to temporary differences (being differences between carrying values and their 
related tax base) rather than timing differences (being the difference between accounting profit and taxable profit), adjustments
are required to recognise a number of items for which no deferred tax was recognised under UK GAAP.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 “Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation” and “Financial instruments: recognition 
and measurement”
These standards address the accounting for, and disclosure of, financial instruments. The general principle is that all financial
assets and liabilities be initially recognised at fair value, with financial liabilities being subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Unless hedge accounting is achieved, IFRS require movements in the fair value to be recognised directly in the Consolidated
Income Statement.
The Group has taken the option available under IFRS 1 that permits UK GAAP to be applied in 2005, with IAS 32 and IAS 39
being adopted for the first time on 1 October 2005.
IAS 36 “Intangible assets”
Under UK GAAP , all capitalised computer software is included within tangible fixed assets as plant and equipment. Under 
IFRS, only computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware should be included as plant and equipment. 
All other computer software should be recorded as an intangible asset. There is no profit and loss account impact as a result 
of this reclassification since, under both UK GAAP and IFRS, computer software is written down over its estimated useful life.
80 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006 UK GAAP IFRS
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Income Statement
Sales 155.0 147.0 187.8 178.8 257.1
Profit before tax,exceptional items and amortisation 
of acquired intangibles, and goodwill 9.5 8.0 10.0 8.1 11.9
Amortisation of acquired intangibles and goodwill (2.9) (0.4) (0.7) (0.1) (2.6)
Profit before tax and exceptional items 6.6 7.6 9.3 8.0 9.3
Exceptional Items (pre taxation) – – – (4.0) (9.4)
Tax (expense) credit (2.5) (2.3) (3.3) (1.4) 0.1
Profit after tax 4.1 5.3 6.0 2.6 –
Assets employed
Fixed assets 25.2 25.1 30.2 32.5 89.0
Other net assets 34.1 36.0 43.4 40.9 57.3
Capital employed 59.3 61.1 73.6 73.4 146.3
Net debt (18.5) (18.7) (29.4) (29.1) (66.1)
40.8 42.4 44.2 44.3 80.2
Financed by
Shareholders’ funds 40.8 42.4 44.2 44.3 80.2
Cash flow
Operating cash flow 16.9 2.5 13.1 13.5 1.4
Free cash flow 10.8 2.5 7.3 6.4 (7.0)
Dividends (3.8) (4.2) (4.4) (4.6) (4.2)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 0.1
Acquisitions and investments – 1.4 (14.0) (1.6) (26.9)
Equity financing 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.1 1.3
New finance leases – – (0.1) (0.2) (0.2)
Foreign exchange – (0.2) 0.1 0.1 (0.1)
Movement in net debt 7.5 (0.2) (10.7) 0.3 (37.0)
Net debt (18.5) (18.7) (29.4) (29.1) (66.1)
Statistics
Average no. of shares (‘000) 41,816 42,035 42,426 42,569 63,267
Earnings per share (Basic pre excep. & intangibles) 16.6p 13.5p 15.9p 13.6p 13.6p
Free cash flow per share 25.9p 5.8p 17.3p 15.0p (11.1p)
Dividends per share 9.7p 10.2p 10.5p 7.2p 7.2p
Dividend cover (pre excep. & intangibles) 1.7 1.3 1.5 1.9 1.6
Gross profit (pre excep. & intangibles) 24.7% 23.2% 22.9% 24.4% 25.2%
Return on sales (pre excep. & intangibles) 6.1% 5.5% 5.3% 4.5% 4.6%
Effective tax rate (pre goodwill) 26.6% 29.4% 32.7% 28.1% 27.7%
Net gearing* 45.3% 44.0% 66.5% 65.7% 76.7%
Return on capital employed** 17.5% 14.1% 14.8% 12.8% 10.0%
*Net gearing is defined as net borrowings excluding earnout consideration divided by shareholders’ funds and minority interests.
**Return on capital is defined as profit before exceptional items, interest, tax and intangibles divided by shareholders’ funds,
minority interest and net debt.
Five Year Summary
81 Annual Report & Accounts 2006  Company
Accounts
(Prepared in accordance with UK GAAP) 84 Abacus Group plc
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Abacus Group plc
82
We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Abacus Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2006 which
comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Significant Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 11. These parent
Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Abacus Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent Company
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in 
the parent Company Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report
includes that specific information presented in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review
that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent 
Company financial statements. The other information comprises only the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Review, the Financial Review, Corporate Social Responsibility 
and the Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing 
Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent
Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
■ the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30 September 2006; 
■ the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
■ the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered Auditor
Reading
30 November 2006 83
Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 September 2006
Notes 2006 2005
Restated
£’m £’m
Fixed assets
Investments 3 56.7 5.6
Current assets
Debtors (amounts falling due after more than one year) 4 10.5 12.7
Cash at bank and in hand 2.7 1.6
13.2 14.3
Creditors (amounts falling due within one year) 5 (3.2) (0.5)
Net current assets 10.0 13.8
Total assets less current liabilities 66.7 19.4
Creditors (amounts falling due after more than one year) 6 (6.3) (2.4)
Net assets 60.4 17.0
Capital and reserves
Equity share capital 7 3.7 2.1
Share premium in respect of equity share capital 8 47.6 9.2
Capital redemption reserve 8 0.4 0.4
Share option reserve 8 0.5 0.2
Profit and loss account 8 8.2 5.1
60.4 17.0
The accompanying Statement of Significant Accounting Policies and notes are an integral part of the Balance Sheet.
The Financial Statements on pages 83 to 87 (inclusive) were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 November 2006 and
signed on their behalf by:
M Kent
P Allen Directors 86 Abacus Group plc
Basis of accounting
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. They have been
prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(UK GAAP) and Law.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and 
the preceding year with the exception of FRS 20, FRS 21, FRS 25 and FRS 26 (see below).
Change in accounting policy in respect of new accounting standards
The Company has adopted the following accounting standards in these Financial Statements:
FRS 20 – Share-based payment;
FRS 21 – Events after the balance sheet date;
FRS 23 – The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates;
FRS 25 – Financial instruments: Disclosure and presentation; and 
FRS 26 – Financial instruments: Measurement
The adoption of these standards represents a change in accounting policy. As such, the comparative information has been
restated to comply with these new accounting standards, of which only FRS 20 and FRS 21 resulted in adjustments. 
The impact of adopting these new accounting standards had the following impact on the retained profit of the Company Balance
Sheet as at 1 October 2004 (date of transition) and 30 September 2005:
30 September 1 October 
2005 2004
£’m £’m
Total retained profit under UK GAAP 3.8 0.5
IFRS adjustments (see explanation further in this note)
Share-based payment (0.3) (0.1)
Deferred tax on share-based payment 0.1 –
Dividends 1.5 3.0
Total retained profit under IFRS 5.1 3.4
Financial instruments
The accounting policy for financial instruments mirrors that of the Group’s accounting policy under IAS 32 and IAS 39 as detailed
on page 41.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Foreign currency
In preparing the Financial Statements, transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the Company’s functional currency
(Sterling) by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are
taken to the income statement, except (i) when hedge accounting is applied; (ii) for differences on monetary assets and liabilities
that form part of the Company’s net investment in foreign operations. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the
net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates 
as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using
the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Other
The Company’s accounting policies mirror those of the Group’s for share-based payment (page 42), money purchase pension schemes
(page 41), cash and cash equivalents (page 40), income taxes (page 40) and interest bearing loans and borrowings (page 40).
Statement of Significant Accounting Policies
30 September 2006
84 1 Profit for the year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company has elected not to present its own Profit and Loss
Account for the year. Abacus Group plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 30 September 2006 of £7.3 million 
(2005: £6.3 million). The Auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company was £33,000 (2005: £13,000).
Dividends for the year and preceding year are shown below:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amounts recognised in the year: 
Interim dividend for the year ending 30 September 2006 – 3.6p 2.7 –
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2005 – 3.6p 1.5 –
Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2004 – 7.0p – 3.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2005 – 3.6p – 1.6
4.2 4.6
Amounts determined after the balance sheet date:
Final dividend for the year ending 30 September 2006 – 3.6p 2.6 –
Final dividend for the year ending 30 September 2005 – 3.6p – 1.5
2 Share-based payment
The Company had six share-based payment schemes (including the Deltron option scheme) in existence during the year ended 
30 September 2006. The Company recognised a total charge of £0.3 million (2005: £0.1 million) in the year relating to equity-settled
share-based payment transactions, for only those issued after 7 November 2002. Share-based payment charges of £0.2 million
(2005: £0.1 million) were transferred to subsidiary undertakings of the Company. The total amount transferred to the share option
reserve in the year amounted to £0.3 million (2005: £0.1 million). Details of the valuations of each of the six share-based payment
schemes can be found in Note 23 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 65 to 69.
Details of the options held by employees of the Company at either year end and during the year are as follows:
Option scheme Number of Number of Exercise
options at Number Number Number options at Exercise price per
1 Oct 2005 granted exercised lapsed 30 Sept 2006 period share
Existing schemes
2003 13,129 – – – 13,129 2005-2012 228.5p
Approved 16,438 – – – 16,438 2008-2015 182.5p
2003 121,871 – – – 121,871 2005-2012 228.5p
Unapproved 154,400 – – – 154,400 2006-2013 221.5p
307,758 – – – 307,758 2006-2013 232.0p
202,740 – – – 202,740 2008-2015 182.5p
1996 75,000 – –(75,000) –2002-2006 97.5p
Unapproved 120,000 – – – 120,000 2003-2007 392.0p
2005 PSP – 439,790 – – 439,790 2009-2010 0.0p
Sharesave 1,054 – – (1,054) – 2003-2006 320.0p
3,077 – – (3,077) – 2007-2009 245.0p
– 51,937 – – 51,937 2009-2011 80.0p
Total 1,015,467 491,727 – (79,131) 1,428,063
Weighted average
exercise price 228.4p 8.4p – 106.2p 159.4p
85
Notes to the Accounts 
30 September 2006 88 Abacus Group plc
Notes to the Accounts (continued)
30 September 2006
2 Share-based payment (continued)
None of the Company’s share options outstanding at the end of the year is exercisable at 30 September 2006. The weighted
average remaining contractual life of all the Company’s options at 30 September 2006 was 3.8 years. For the 491,727 options
granted during the year, the weighted average fair value at the measurement date was 116.6p per share.
3 Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments comprise investments in subsidiary undertakings, as follows:
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Cost
Beginning of year 5.6 5.6
Additions 51.1 –
End of year 56.7 5.6
Provisions at the beginning and end of year – –
Net book value, beginning of year 5.6 5.6
Net book value, end of year 56.7 5.6
In January 2006 and April 2006, the Company acquired 100% of the shares of Deltron Electronics plc and Axess Technology
SAS for £36.1 million and €23.0 million respectively. Further details and details of the Company’s principal trading subsidiaries
may be found on page 56.
4 Debtors
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertaking 10.4 12.7
Deferred tax asset (share-based payment) 0.1 –
10.5 12.7
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Loan Notes 2.4 0.2
Accruals and deferred income 0.8 0.3
3.2 0.5
The 2005 loan notes were non-guaranteed, attracted interest at 4% per annum, were redeemable at par and were repaid in 2006.
The 2006 loan notes are guaranteed, denominated in Euros, redeemable at par and attract interest at 3.5% plus 1% guarantee 
fee per annum. The 2006 loan notes are repayable in April 2007. Other than loan notes (total book value £4.8 million and fair 
value £4.6 million), the fair and book values of all financial liabilities were the same.
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 4.1 2.4
Loan notes 2.2 –
6.3 2.4
The non-current loan notes are not guaranteed, do not carry interest and are redeemable at par. They are repayable in 2008.
86 7 Called-up share capital
2006 2005
£’m £’m
Authorised share capital:
100,000,000 (2005: 70,000,000) Ordinary shares of 5p each 5.0 3.5
Allotted, called-up and fully-paid:
73,288,744 (2005: 42,583,507) Ordinary shares of 5p each 3.7 2.1
During the year, 30,705,237 shares were allotted with a nominal value of £1.5 million for a consideration of £40.0 million, of which
£38.7 million represented consideration for the acquisitions of the Deltron and Axess Groups.
8 Reconciliation of movements on reserves and shareholders’ funds
Non-distributable Distributable Total
Called-up Share Capital Shares Profit
Share premium redemption option and loss Shareholders’
Capital account reserve reserve account funds
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At beginning of year as previously stated 2.1 9.2 0.4 – 3.8 15.5
Transitional adjustment to adopt FRS 20 
and FRS 21 – – – 0.2 1.3 1.5
At beginning of year as restated 2.1 9.2 0.4 0.2 5.1 17.0
Proceeds on allotments 1.6 38.4 – – – 40.0
Share-based payment – – – 0.3 – 0.3
Profit for the year – – – – 7.3 7.3
Dividends – – – – (4.2) (4.2)
3.7 47.6 0.4 0.5 8.2 60.4
Details of the Company’s share capital can be found in Note 20 of the Group Financial Statements on page 62.
9 Guarantees and other financial commitments
a) Guarantees
The Company has cross guaranteed bank loans and overdrafts of subsidiary undertakings amounting to £3.1million 
(2005: £3.7 million).
b) Commitments
The Company has no capital expenditure or operating lease commitments as at 30 September 2006 (2005: £nil).
c) Committed borrowing facilities
The Company is a member of the UK borrowing facility arrangement, which comprised overdraft and short term loan facilities
of £56.1 million (2005: £32.4 million)
10 Directors’ Emoluments
Details of the emoluments, share options and LTIP interests of the Directors are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
on pages 24 to 31. All of the Directors are members of defined contribution pension schemes only. There were nil (2005: £nil)
outstanding or prepaid contributions at year end.
11 Related Party Disclosures
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 3b of FRS 8, not to disclose transactions with 
other Group companies.
87 90 Abacus Group plc
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Abacus Group plc (“the Company”) will be held at Abacus
House, Bone Lane, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 5SF on Wednesday 31 January 2007 at 10.00 am. The Meeting will consider 
and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, which are to be proposed, in the case of Resolutions 1 to 9, as Ordinary
Resolutions, and in the case of Resolutions 10 and 11 as Special Resolutions of the Company: 
Resolutions
1. To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2006 and the Auditors’
Report thereon.
2. To re-elect as a Director A H Westropp, who now retires every year. The Board proposes this re-election following the Chief
Executive Officer’s formal performance evaluation, with input from the Board, which concludes that Mr Westropp continues to
provide sufficient commitment and effective contribution to his role as non-executive Chairman of the Board and Chairman of
the Nominations Committee. He attended nine out of ten Board meetings and a number of other ad hoc meetings throughout
the year. Aided by his directorships of other companies, Mr Westropp provides effective input in determining the policies of
the Group, monitoring the Group’s performance and contributing to the formulation of its strategy. Mr Westropp is considered
to be independent by the Board for the reasons outlined in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
3. To re-elect as a Director R Lambourne, who retires from the Board every third year.
4. To elect as a Director P Journo, following his appointment to the Board on 1 July 2006.
5. To elect as a Director M Brooks, following his appointment to the Board on 1 July 2006.
6. To elect as a Director D Weir, following his appointment to the Board on 17 January 2006.
7. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
8. To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. 
9. THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the
Company to allot relevant securities (within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”)) up to an
aggregate nominal amount of £1,221,479 one third of the issued share capital at 30 September 2006, provided that such
authority shall expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this
Resolution or fifteen months after the passing of this Resolution save that the Company may before such expiry or the expiry
of any renewal of this authority make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted
after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority
had not expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede and revoke any other such authorities. 
10. THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 9, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the
Act to allot equity securities (as defined for the purposes of sections 89 to 96 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the general
authority conferred on them by Resolution 9 for the purposes of section 80 of the Act as if section 89(1) of the Act did not
apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited:
(i) to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue or offer by way of rights in favour of holders of Ordinary
shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders of Ordinary shares on a fixed
record date are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of shares held by them but subject to such
exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any legal or practical
problems under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any other stock
exchange in any territory or in relation to fractional entitlements; and
(ii) to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (i) of this Resolution) of equity securities having in the case of
relevant shares, a nominal amount or, in the case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for or convert
relevant shares having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate the sum of £183,222, 5% of the issued share
capital at 30 September 2006,
and shall expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution
or fifteen months after the passing of this Resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
88 11. THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (as defined in Section 163(3) of
the Act) of its Ordinary shares provided that:
(i) the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 10,993,311, 15% of the issued share
capital at 30 September 2006;
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary shares is 5 pence;
(iii) the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent. of the average
middle market quotations for an Ordinary share according to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five
business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased; and
(iv) this authority shall expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the date
hereof; but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly
thereafter and a purchase of Ordinary shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board
Andrew Bateman 21 December 2006
Abacus Group plc, Registered Office: Abacus House, Bone Lane, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 5SF
NOTES
1. Any member entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting may appoint a Proxy to attend, and on a poll only, vote on
his/her behalf. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2. To be valid, the enclosed reply-paid Form of Proxy, together, if appropriate, with the Power of Attorney or other authority 
(if any) under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of
Computershare Investor Services plc, Registrar’s Department, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH
at least forty-eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
3. Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not preclude ordinary shareholders from attending the Meeting and voting in
person if they wish to do so.
4. Documents for inspection - Copies of the Directors’ service contracts, and register of Directors’ interests will be available for
inspection at the registered office of the Company, Abacus House, Bone Lane, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 5SF during normal
business hours on any weekday (excluding public holidays) from the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting until
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment thereof. 
5. As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders who are registered
on the Company’s share register at 6 p.m. on 29 January 2007 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to vote in respect
of the number of shares registered in their names at that time. Changes to entries on the share register after 6 p.m. on 
29 January 2007 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and/or vote at the Meeting.
89 90 Abacus Group plc
Shareholder Notes CHINA
Distribution Centre
Sales Office
Sales Office/
Distribution Centre
Local Offices
Abacus Group
UK and Ireland
Basingstoke
Bolton
Boston Spa
Cambridge
Dunmow
Leighton Buzzard
Limerick
Livingston
Maidenhead
Newbury
Newcastle-under-Lyme
Redhill
Runcorn
Scunthorpe
Southampton
Stroud
Austria
Vienna
Denmark
Arhus
Copenhagen
Them
Finland
Helsinki
France
Lyon
Paris (3)
Rennes
Germany
Dortmund
Hamburg
Holzmaden
Munich
Stuttgart
Hong Kong
Italy
Ascoli Piceno
Florence
Milan (2)
Parma
Rome
Venice
Netherlands
Amsterdam (2)
Norway
Oslo
Sweden
Gothenburg
Malmo
Stockholm
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 www.abacus-group.co.uk
Abacus House, Bone Lane, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 5SF
