 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
View more online at www.regus.com
Growth
Driving  Driving Growth
Regus is the major player in the fast developing 
industry of ﬂexible work provision – the platform  
of choice from which businesses of all sizes operate. 
Over a million customers a day beneﬁt from our 
locations spread across almost 100 countries. With 
our ever expanding range of innovative products 
and services we enable people to work their way, 
whether it’s from home, on the road or from  
an ofﬁce.
Contents
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Financial highlights 1
Regus today 2
Chairman’s statement 4
Chief Executive’s review 5
Driving growth  
– Building our Third Place business 12
– Developing our Mature Centres 14
Financial review 16
Corporate responsibility 20
 
Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement  40
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income  41
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 42
Consolidated balance sheet 43
Consolidated cash flow statement 44
Notes to the accounts 45
Parent company accounts 88
Shareholder and Other Information
Segmental analysis 90
Five year summary 92
Shareholder information 93
Directors’ Report: Corporate Governance
Board of directors 21
Other statutory information 22
Corporate governance 24
Directors’ statements 31
Remuneration report 32
Auditors’ report 39  www.regus.com/investors 1
Business Review
Financial highlights
Mature operating proﬁt
£107.7m
107.7
64.6
97.2
167.8
09 08 10* 11
Mature free cash ﬂow 
£117.1m
117.1
70.3
55.1
137.6
09 08 10* 11
Net investment in growth
£86.4m
09 08 10 11
86.4
71.4
18.2
26.2
Mature operating margin
10.4%
10.4
6.6
10.3
19.2
09 08 10* 11
Mature earnings per share 
8.7p
8.7
5.4
8.1
14.1
09 08 10* 11
No. of centres, split mature and new
1,203
09 08 10* 11
255 948
Mature
New
  
920
855
758
164
128
220
*  These ﬁgures are prepared on a consistent basis, i.e. 2010 Mature Centres  
are those that were open on or before 31 December 2008. 2 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Regus today
A clear market leader
We do this on a global basis with some 1,200 locations across  
550 cities in 94 countries serving more than a million customers.
The distinctive features of our business can be identiﬁed as follows:
 A well-established and consistently strong performing Mature Centres 
business: Cash generation is strong and continues to demonstrate 
robust year-on-year improvements. This part of our business is 
actively managed to deliver high occupancy and usage and support 
stronger pricing which, when coupled with lower overheads, results  
in improved margins.
 An exciting and fast growing New Centres business. The larger our 
network, globally and nationally, the more compelling a proposition we 
become to our customers – from the very largest corporates to lone 
entrepreneurs. We remain committed to achieving a global network of 
2,000 locations by 2014. We expect these new centres to eventually 
achieve similar levels of revenue and earnings as the mature estate 
and we tightly manage them to ensure that this happens. 
 Third Place locations creating new avenues for growth. Third place work 
locations are deﬁned as not the ofﬁce (ﬁrst place) and not the home 
(second place). So a third place could be the library or a railway station, 
a cafe or the park bench. What these places share is an increased use 
by mobile workers. The Group is currently working with a number of 
large organisations, including Shell and SNCF , to develop their third 
place work locations as well as exploring a wide variety of other 
opportunities. Whilst early in its development, this opening is exciting 
and has signiﬁcant potential. We anticipate that the investment required 
and returns generated will be comparable with our existing business.
 Our network is truly global; its scale, breadth and depth are 
compelling to organisations of all sizes and in all market sectors.
 We make a signiﬁcant investment in new product development which 
enables us to continually develop innovative services for our customers. 
 Our industry knowledge is unique – we live and breathe our subject, 
conducting signiﬁcant levels of in-house research, partly to ensure 
innovation is customer need driven, but also through commissioning 
respected academics and industry thought-leaders.
 Our income streams are highly diversiﬁed; our end user base is 
diverse, with all sectors represented, from the very largest to the  
very smallest companies, with more than a million members.
 We are able to address any type of requirement: from a start-up 
entrepreneur requiring a place to meet new customers for an hour  
or a mobile worker downloading emails in-between meetings to 
supporting Fortune 500 companies across multiple geographies.
In developing these features, Regus has become the pre-eminent leader 
in the provision of ﬂexible work space. We have earned a formidable 
reputation and built a strong, well-known brand. The quality of our 
people is outstanding and customer relationships are strong. As we 
continue to grow, these attributes will only be enhanced as will our ability 
to leverage the beneﬁts of increased scale. The outcome of this will be 
improved shareholder returns through the provision of the best service 
and value creation for our customers.
Regus helps businesses work by providing them and their people 
with a wide range of physical and virtual work locations and 
associated products and services.
#
1 for ﬂexible work
The 
#
1 choice for businesses 
 
#
1in ﬂexible ofﬁces 
 
 
#
1for business lounges 
 
#
1provider of public VC 
 
 
#
1for business meetings  www.regus.com/investors 3
Uganda
Since the late 1980s  
Uganda has become  
relatively peaceful, stable  
and prosperous with solid 
economic growth and falls  
in inﬂation. GDP growth is 
forecast to be 6.4% and 
whilst coffee and tea remain 
key to the economy recent oil 
discoveries have signiﬁcantly 
boosted prospects.
Madagascar
The world’s fourth largest 
island, Madagascar has 
strong economic and 
cultural links with France 
and French-speaking West 
Africa. Whilst still a relatively 
underdeveloped country 
several major projects are 
underway in the mining  
and oil and gas sectors  
that are anticipated to give  
a signiﬁcant boost to the 
Malagasy economy. 
Uruguay
Uruguay has traditionally 
been more prosperous 
than many other 
countries in South 
America and is  
known for its advanced 
education and social 
security systems and 
liberal laws. Major 
industries include food 
processing and electrical 
machinery and GDP 
growth is forecast to  
be 6% in 2012.
Croatia
With its EU accession treaty signed  
in December 2011 Croatia is set  
to enjoy the beneﬁts which full 
membership provides. The service 
sector dominates the economy and 
tourism is a signiﬁcant source of 
revenue. In the last few years the 
country has invested heavily in 
infrastructure, especially along 
pan-European routes.
Kuwait
One of the world’s leading  
oil producers and per capita, the ﬁfth 
richest country in the world, Kuwait  
is expected to enjoy growth in the 
region of 5.5-6% in 2012. According  
to the Index of Economic Freedom it 
has the second most free economy in 
the Middle East. Aside from oil, other 
major industries include shipping, 
construction and ﬁnancial services, 
with the country having a well-
developed banking system.
Business Review
1,203
locations 
 
550
cities
94
countries 
 
1 million
customers 4 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that Regus has 
produced a strong set of results in line  
with the Board’s expectations. 
Group sales grew 11.8% to £1,162.6m (2010: £1040.4m), 
operating proﬁts more than doubled to £50.6m (2010: 
£23.9m) excluding exceptional items, and on the same basis 
earnings per share increased from 1.9p to 4.0p largely as a 
result of the increased EBIT in the year. It was also pleasing 
to witness our 2010 openings move into proﬁtability in the 
second half of the year. 
On a like-for-like basis our Mature business increased 
its operating proﬁt by 65.7% to £107.7m (2010: £65.0m);  
gross margins to 26.6% (2010: 22.3%); and sales increased 
by 3.8% to £1,035.1m (2010: £997m). Additionally, it remains 
highly cash generative, with a free cash ﬂow (after notional 
tax, ﬁnance costs and maintenance capital expenditure) of 
£117.1m (2010: £76.5m). 
Over the year we invested £86.4m in growth (2010: £79.0m), 
opening 139 new locations and entering nine new markets. 
This assured progress gives the Board the conﬁdence to 
increase the ﬁnal dividend by 14% to 2.0p making a total 
increase for the year of 12% to 2.9p (2010: 2.6p).
Our business
There are three parts to our business – Mature, New and 
Third Place. They are closely interlinked, contribute to each 
other’s success and can be accessed by every one of our 
million strong members. 
 Mature – our ﬁrst thousand locations 
A well established and consistently high performing 
business. Cash generation is strong and continues to 
demonstrate robust year-on-year improvement. It is 
actively managed to deliver high occupancy and usage 
and support stronger pricing which, when coupled with 
lower overheads, results in improved margins.
 New – the next thousand locations 
The larger our network, globally and nationally, the more 
compelling a proposition we become to our customers 
– from the very largest corporates to lone entrepreneurs. 
We remain committed to achieving a global network of 
2,000 locations by 2014 and by end of February 2012 
had already opened a further 19 locations since the year 
end. Our new centres are performing well and achieving 
their target return-on-investment hurdles. We remain 
conﬁdent in our growth strategy, however we are mindful 
of the continued global economic uncertainty and the 
management team carefully monitors key metrics, 
remaining ready to adapt our growth plans accordingly.
 Third Place – new avenues for growth 
The business has been exploring a number of new 
growth opportunities, especially related to expanding our 
network into third places. These are locations from which 
people are increasingly likely to work when on the move. 
Railway stations and motorway service stations are 
examples, and the Group is also exploring a wide variety 
of other potential third place locations. Whilst early in its 
development, this is an exciting opportunity and has 
signiﬁcant potential. We anticipate that the investment 
required and returns generated will be comparable with 
our existing businesses.
A strong management team focussed on delivery
Our management team is strong and many of our leaders 
have more than 20 years’ industry experience including 
managing through challenging macro-economic conditions. 
They have directed our business during the current economic 
challenges with vigour, increasing returns from our mature 
business whilst executing controlled, yet aggressive growth 
and exploring exciting new opportunities. During 2011 strong 
progress was made in key business areas, including the 
strengthening of our management team both centrally and  
at the country level; business development and product 
innovation; improving our revenue mix and diversiﬁcation; 
operational efﬁciencies; and people management.  
Delivery in these areas contributed signiﬁcantly to our 
improved performance. 
Strategy
Following the execution of a range of strategic initiatives, 
Regus’ strategy is clear: to serve and proﬁt from the move 
toward ﬂexible work by being the platform of choice from 
which business operates. 
To deliver this, we will:
 Continue to broaden our appeal through accelerated 
product and service innovation  www.regus.com/investors 5
Business Review
 Grow mature revenues through improved sophistication 
and diversity
 Be in as many new and different locations as we can, 
expanding our footprint according to opportunity, risk 
and return
 Maximise the strengths of our growing network,  
brand position and awareness
 Strengthen and decentralise management
 Control overheads through operational excellence,  
scale and innovation
Board changes
On 1 September 2011 Dominique Yates joined the Board  
as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer. He replaced Stephen Gleadle who, 
in August 2011, announced that after six years with the 
business he was stepping down from his position. I would 
like to thank Stephen for the contribution he made to the 
establishment of our business as the clear leader in its ﬁeld.
The Board notes the publication of the Davies Review on 
Women on Boards. The Board aims to be reﬂective of a 
broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience. While  
we follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best 
people for the relevant roles, we recognise the beneﬁts  
of diversity, including gender, and will continue to take this 
into account when considering any new appointment.
Dividend
It remains the intention of the Board to pay dividends at a 
level which it believes is sustainable throughout the economic 
cycle and is in line with its progressive payment policy. 
Reﬂecting the Group’s improved trading performance, strong 
cash generation, healthy cash position and optimism about 
the Group’s long-term prospects, the Board is recommending 
a ﬁnal dividend for 2011 of 2.0p (2010: 1.75p). This will be 
paid on Friday 25 May, 2012 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on Thursday 26 April, 2012. This 
represents an increase in the full year dividend of 12% to  
2.9p (2010: 2.6p).
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
20 March 2012
Chief Executive’s review
The business has delivered a robust  
set of numbers and I am pleased with  
our performance. 
At a time of great economic uncertainty and low growth,  
we have made excellent progress and grown both our 
Mature and New Centre businesses. 
In our mature business operating proﬁts rose by 66% to 
£107.7m, with free cash-ﬂow (after notional tax, ﬁnance 
costs and maintenance capital expenditure) improving by 
53% to £117.1m, on the back of revenues up 3.8% to 
£1,035.1m. We also had a very encouraging year of growth: 
customer numbers up 8.7%; new locations up 10.9%; and 
new countries on the network up by nine to 94. This is 
testimony to the strength of our business and attractiveness 
of our offer to companies of all sizes, in all sectors regardless 
of the economic cycle.
The year saw the Group make important progress across a 
number of key business areas, including, but not limited to, 
further strengthening and decentralisation of our senior 
management team; business development and product 
innovation; cost control; operational efﬁciencies; and people 
management and development. Delivery in these areas 
played a key role in our improved performance. The business 
also began to accelerate changes to its revenue mix, a 
process which began a number of years ago. As we continue 
to widen and deepen our network, develop new and 
innovative products and services and forge more strategic 
alliances, so this trend is expected to continue.
Whilst 2011 saw an extended period of macroeconomic 
uncertainty, particularly in the second half, we continued to 
extend our global reach and strengthen in-country networks 
on the back of the mega trend of ﬂexible, mobile work.  
Partly as a result of the strong interest from other large 
organisations looking to Regus to help them develop their 
third place work locations for their customers, but also from 
the experience gained from Businessworld and our million 
strong membership, we have established a Third Place 
business. Blue chip organisations we are currently working  6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
with include Shell, SNCF and, since the year end, NS Trains 
(the Dutch railway operator). Interest has also come from 
areas as diverse as retailers and local government. Whilst still 
very early days, this fast growing opportunity, which has been 
thoroughly market tested, plays to our skills and unrivalled 
industry knowledge.
In a world of some one billion mobile workers and growing, 
the opportunity available to our business remains signiﬁcant. 
The advances in mobile technology, worker demand to 
satisfy ever more complex work-life balance needs and 
organisations of all sizes looking to reduce cost and increase 
corporate ﬂexibility mean that this target market will only 
increase. The larger our network, both globally and nationally 
within countries, and the more innovative our product offering 
so the more attractive and compelling we become. This is 
especially relevant as Regus is the only truly global company 
in this sector.
Our Mature Centres business
Our Mature Centres business is well established, with many 
locations in existence for more than 20 years. We have seen 
years of consistent performance and again in 2011 the same 
can be said; cash generation was strong and, despite the 
challenging macro economy, has shown robust year-on-year 
improvement. Our mature centres are well maintained, 
through a planned and rigorous series of maintenance capital 
expenditure improvements. This means we always look our 
best and provide customers with excellent facilities and 
services. There is also a degree of network modiﬁcation as 
demand may change over time. This natural process ensures 
that our mature estate is always in an optimal condition, in 
optimal locations – city centre, suburban, transport 
interchanges amongst others. The absolute aim is to ensure 
that the business achieves its targeted returns regardless of 
the state of the global economy. We then endeavour to 
enhance these through a comprehensive programme of 
product and business development. 
The four key facets of our Mature Centres business are 
decreasing cyclicality, maximising yield and diversifying 
revenue, reducing cost and network optimisation:
 Decreasing cyclicality 
We are constantly increasing the number of users across 
all sizes of companies in all sectors. This is driven by the 
general trend toward mobile work, especially as more 
companies look to outsource workplace provision and 
become more ﬂexible but also by our offering a wider 
range of products and services. Over time we will steadily 
increase the revenue that we generate from our million 
plus members especially as we drive more global use, in 
part through increased use by large global corporates, but 
also into better serving those workers whose permanent 
base is the home. 
 Maximising yield and diversifying revenue 
Our mature centres are constantly refreshed and 
reconﬁgured, changing to meet demand, be that in the 
short, medium or long term. This may lead to a short-term 
Chief Executive’s review continued
“The great benefit of being with Regus is it’s so easy to 
expand. They increased the size of our workspace by 
giving us another room and taking down a wall – doing 
everything over a weekend. Every day they evolve their 
service as they learn more about how we do things 
differently in Google.”
Dr Paul Barreto, Country Manager, Google Portugal
Google uses Regus worldwide for convenience. It provides everything 
needed to set up a business from scratch, with centres that are the  
same quality anywhere in the world.
“We founded the new Heinz office in Regus because the 
services, from reception to facilities management, allow 
us to concentrate on the business and on growth. We 
also like the atmosphere in the town centre offices and 
the friendly Regus staff, who help us with small-scale 
administrative services.”
Matthias Wilberg, Commercial Director of Heinz in Switzerland
Regus offered Heinz an established infrastructure that included facilities 
management and was by far the best quality solution in the right location.
“Regus is very flexible to our needs – as well as the 
attraction of being able to grow or get smaller; it provides 
us with a low-cost and fast set-up. In Spain, I toured 
three centres and moved into one that afternoon.”
Dave McCarthy, Chief Commercial Ofﬁcer – Europe, Molson Coors
In six months, the Molson Coors European team has grown to 16 people 
and they continue to hire and expand the business, with staff based in a 
Regus centre in Kiev recently coming on board as well.
Why companies use Regus
“The Regus solution allows us to enter new markets 
quickly without taking on the costs and risk of 
establishing our own infrastructure. It also makes  
our real estate operation more efficient, since we  
only have to deal with one company to get set up...”
Fred Franz, Senior Director of Worldwide Real Estate  
and Facilities Polycom, Inc
Polycom currently relies on Regus for ﬂexible full-time ofﬁces in ﬁve 
countries: Mexico, Peru, Spain, Canada, and the United States.
6 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  www.regus.com/investors 7
Business Review
increase in mature maintenance capital expenditure  
(in 2011 we installed or refreshed some 500 lounges at a 
cost of approximately £4 million) but contributes to the 
generation of improved returns. Developing and diversifying 
new sources of revenue is also a key priority within the 
mature business; for example in the UK we provide a 
location package to Avis at more than 37 Regus locations. 
This enables them to cost effectively increase their reach 
with more drop-off and pick-up points. In return, we are 
able to offer our customers preferential rates and an Avis 
service on their doorstep. 
 Reducing cost 
Just as we can reconﬁgure the physical layout so we can 
actively manage our leases. Paying the fair market rate  
for our leases is critical for the success of the business  
and over the year we continued to make great strides in 
increasing the ﬂexibility of our lease portfolio and improving 
terms. Our aim is, where practicable, to have all leases 
either ﬂexible (but with built in breaks or structural ﬂexibility) 
or variable (where the rent is linked to the proﬁtability of the 
centre). These combined equate to 80% of our mature 
group estate. Consequently, the business is able to ensure 
that over the economic cycle our rents track current market 
rates. The business also remains mindful of the need to 
control costs in the wider sense and that the current 
economic environment presents good opportunities  
to identify savings. 
 Network optimisation 
Our mature network locations are broadly ﬁxed but we 
maintain the ﬂexibility to adapt where required. On rare 
occasions, centres become uneconomical: the rent 
becomes too high; the location is no longer as attractive 
as it once was; or, the building becomes tired and requires 
signiﬁcant investment. Our response to these and other 
factors is usually one of the following:
 – Consolidate the centre into another one nearby;
 –  Stay in the location and refurbish the centre working 
jointly with the building owner;
 – Move to a better location in the immediate vicinity; or,
 –  Re-negotiate – either lower the rent or reduce the size  
of the centre.
The focus for our mature estate is, therefore, constant and 
active management to deliver continued high occupancy 
and usage. This will achieve stronger pricing which, coupled 
with lower relative overheads and input costs, will lead to 
margin improvement. 
“We’ve been working with Regus for more than  
10 years...Flexibility is at the heart of Regus, which 
means we can enter a new country or region without 
significant cost and risk to our business.”
Craig Youst, Senior Director, Global Facilities & Real Estate, Red Hat
Regus provides Red Hat with a stepping stone approach into new markets 
and territories. At any one time, Regus workspace represents nearly 10% 
of Red Hat’s real estate portfolio and is sometimes higher when needed.
“Any company that is looking for ways to be highly 
productive has to look at their real estate costs. Real 
estate has been so rigid for the last century that creating 
a flexible model takes on a new kind of creative thought. 
Before Regus we just rented out offices and had to pay 
for them then they sat empty.”
John Challenger, CEO of Challenger, Gray & Christmas
For nearly 20 years, Challenger has partnered with Regus to create a real 
estate programme that is completely aligned with its business needs and 
objectives – one that eliminates any excess leases from the balance sheet.
“Every time we open a local operation we start with 
Regus because it’s easy. Instead of the complexities of 
starting a business in a new country, such as managing 
the facilities, you just start working.”
Pankaj Parshotam, Marketing Manager, Consumer, TomTom Portugal
With everything in TomTom centralised in Amsterdam, Regus offers the ability 
for their small team to act like any start-up and get down to business straight 
away. TomTom also uses Regus space in Prague, Istanbul and Zurich.
“With a more agile model, we are no longer on the real 
estate roller coaster...We can now acquire just what we 
need, when we need it for as long as we need it without 
risk or excessive costs.”
Coleen Hurley, Director of Corporate Real Estate, Juniper Networks
For more than 10 years, the collaborative partnership between Juniper 
Networks and Regus has resulted in a strategic and ﬂuid workplace model 
accommodating the changing needs of Juniper’s global workforce and 
diverse customer base.
 www.regus.com/investors 7 8 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review continued
Continued improvements to the  
Mature Centres business model
We strive to improve the margins in our Mature Centres 
business through a continued focus on key strategic 
initiatives. Outlined below are some which played a  
key role in our strong 2011 performance:
Strengthened and decentralised management
I wrote last year that strengthening in-country management 
was of critical importance to the Group. The considerable 
progress that we have made during the year has come about 
as a direct result of the continual improvements we are 
making to our management team, especially at a country 
level. As our organisation continues to grow, day-to-day 
responsibility is being moved from our regional headquarters 
to the ﬁeld; pushing decision making down into the countries 
and therefore nearer to the customer improves the speed 
with which we can respond to our customers and the quality 
and accuracy of outcomes. Whilst this has increased our 
overheads in the short term, our business has to have 
strong, experienced local leaders to manage growth and 
ensure the appropriate level of returns are generated, and  
we are already seeing the return on this investment coming 
through as we achieve the desired de-layering.
Innovation remains a core competitive differentiator
Our ability to attract new customers and increase spend from 
existing ones is highly dependent upon the strength of our 
new product and service offers, an approach we call “Only at 
Regus”. Key highlights from this year include the launch of 
businessLink, a networking platform for Regus customers 
which aims to replicate in an online environment some of the 
physical beneﬁts of being in a Regus location, such as 
serendipitous meetings in communal areas that lead to 
business opportunities. One of the main ways it is currently 
being used by our customers is to ﬁnd new business and 
suppliers. MyRegus, our customer group purchasing portal, 
also underwent a major refresh, one element of which now 
allows customers to self-serve and transact with us 100% 
online. As such, online bookings are at an all-time high and 
we expect this to continue to increase in 2012. 
Strong operational progress
Devolving responsibility and decision making to the operations 
and especially in-centre teams, moved apace over the year. 
Our approach to operations is also focussed on reducing 
centre workload through a process of back ofﬁce 
consolidation and workﬂow simpliﬁcation. By the end of the 
year we had automated online more than 90% of in-centre 
processes (up from 70% at the end of 2010). In doing so we 
freed up signiﬁcant amounts of front-line team members’ time 
to spend on customer facing and revenue generating activities. 
A strong and dedicated global team
Our people are the most important part of our business.  
We are making signiﬁcant improvements to the way that we 
develop and retain our people. In any growing organisation 
there is much opportunity and that remains one of the major 
attractions to working for our business.
As I have demonstrated above, we have gone to great 
lengths to ﬁnd and empower management within key Group 
functions and at a country/local level. But to support our 
accelerated growth programme we need great people at all 
levels of the business. As a management team we are 
focussed on ensuring we are able to attract the best new 
talent but also retain key team members in the business. 
Over the year we have invested in our human resources team 
and created dedicated in-market resource. Training and team 
member career development remain central to our approach 
to retention. The business continues to invest heavily in 
training, especially of lower management and centre team 
members. We are also increasing the ease with which team 
members can move to new countries to help our growth. As 
such, we are conﬁdent that with the signiﬁcant opportunities 
arising from growth, staff turnover will continue to reduce.
Our New Centres business – capacity expansion
The larger our network, both globally and nationally within 
countries, so the more attractive and compelling we become. 
As has been previously stated, the business is aiming for a 
network in the region of 2,000 locations by 2014. We opened 
139 locations in 2011 and plan to open a further 200 by the 
end of 2012. We expect these to achieve similar levels of 
revenue and earnings as the mature estate in due course, 
and we tightly manage them to ensure that this happens.  
It is important to state that whilst we remain optimistic and 
conﬁdent in our growth strategy, the management team 
remain mindful of the continued global economic uncertainty 
in the near term. We carefully monitor key metrics and are 
able to temporarily slow down the growth if we determine 
that conditions have become too uncertain or challenging.
Looking at our 2010 and 2011 openings we ﬁnd that:
 Our 2010 centres have performed well. Totalling  
116 locations, these generated £100.0m of revenue  
and made a centre contribution of £15.0m and an 
EBITDA of £3.8m.
 Our 2011 centres, some of which are only a few months 
old and totalling 139 locations, generated revenues of 
£20.2m and, as expected, made a negative centre 
contribution of £13.4m. 
In 2012 we plan to open somewhere in the region of 200 
new locations and enter 6-8 new countries. We have already 
opened in Madagascar and others will include Iceland, Nepal 
and Fiji. It is crucial for us to continue to enter new countries. 
This is primarily in response to demand from global (but also 
medium and small) companies as they look to us and our 
expertise to help them expand and enter new markets.  
The classic example is how we helped Google expand in  
New Centres business growth
670
789
916
978
983
1,084
1,203
1,400
1,650
2,000
09 08 07 06 05 10 11 12 13 14 Third place
First place
( (Offi Office) ce)
Second place
( (Hom Home) e)
Mt Motorway 
service stations
Lib Librari ies Ht Hot l els
Ai Airport ts Cf Cafes
B Busi iness
centres
Ot Out id side
spaces
Ri Rail l 
stations
S Sup li pliers’ ’
locations
Business Review
the early part of the last decade and continue to support 
them in some 32 countries. 
To support our accelerated growth programme and leverage 
the beneﬁts and efﬁciencies of scale, we have recently 
strengthened the development team. It is vital that we 
automate and simplify as much of this expansion activity  
as possible and also ensure that we achieve the optimal 
return from our investment capital. Additionally, the current 
state of the global economy could well present us with a 
good opportunity to acquire a signiﬁcant number of excellent 
locations at competitive rates. 
There is a clear programme of development to ensure that 
growth is sustainable, achievable and in the places where 
there will be strong demand. Speciﬁcally:
 National networks – customers are today more likely to 
need access to complete national networks and not just 
individual centres. We believe there is signiﬁcant latent 
demand as we open up more of these. 
 Neighbourhood locations – we are increasingly opening 
in suburban and residential areas.
 Infrastructure locations – major motorway junctions, 
railway stations and other transport interchanges.  
Where people travel, they will increasingly work and  
will look to Regus for support.
 www.regus.com/investors 9
 Missing city locations – we refer to this as ﬁlling in the 
“gaps on the map”.
 Growth accelerating – in response to demand from end 
users but also as we react to requests from building 
owners and developers.
Third Place 
In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business  
has been exploring a number of new avenues especially in 
expanding our network into more third places. Indeed, a 
commercial offer is emerging which has the potential to be  
a major third leg of our business. 
Third place is deﬁned as not the ofﬁce (ﬁrst place) nor the 
home (second place) – see diagram below. So a third place 
could be the library or a cafe or railway station, it might be 
the park bench or a supplier’s premises. Work in the third 
place is increasingly the norm as technological advances 
mean that anyone can work anywhere. Our Third Place 
business is creating better quality work locations where 
people are increasingly likely to work when on the move or 
when away from the home or ofﬁce, railway stations and 
motorway service stations for example, but the Group is 
exploring a wide variety of other third place locations.
This new Third Place business is being built on the 
experience we have gained from Businessworld where we 
have created a base of more than a million members in a little 
Third place work locations 10 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review continued
over three years. Whilst third place remains at an early 
stage, progress has been rapid – in the second half of 2011 
the Group signed a landmark deal with SNCF , the French 
national railway operator, and since the year end a similar 
deal with NS Trains, the Dutch national railway operator,  
has been agreed. Both will result in multiple Regus locations 
within these organisations’ networks, serving a signiﬁcant 
number of their mobile worker customers. The Group is 
also in discussions with a number of other similar transport 
infrastructure organisations from around the world, which 
includes a pilot with Shell at their motorway service stations 
in France and facilities set up and trading within airports 
(currently Schiphol (Netherlands) and Zaventem (Belgium)). 
Additionally we are soon to open a community based 
business centre which, in addition to the standard Regus 
offering, will house the local ofﬁce of economic 
development and be put to a variety of different  
uses at evenings and weekends.
The potential of third place is signiﬁcant and fast growing.  
It plays to our skill sets – our systems and process, 
business development expertise and long history of 
partnerships, our intuitive understanding of work and the 
needs of ﬂexible workers. We expect to sign many more  
of these agreements in 2012 with increasingly diverse 
partners in many more locations.
Use of third spaces is different to traditional Regus centres 
and is more akin to how people interact with our business 
lounges. They are in effect drop-in locations for short-term, 
but frequent use. Convenience is key and that is why the 
experience has to be seamless, especially if using several 
locations over a week or even a day. They are ideally  
suited to the needs of the mobile worker: highly accessible; 
welcoming and comfortable; local and easy to use; 
professional with high quality wi-ﬁ and refreshments; good 
value with other services available on a pay-as-you-need 
basis; and, where you are surrounded by other like-minded 
individuals. Membership is key – we have recently passed 
the million mark and expect strong and accelerating growth 
over the coming years; from large corporates such as Yell 
which take membership cards numbered in their thousands 
to entrepreneurs who will take just one, possibly purchased  
via a high street outlet.
With regards to the investment required and expected 
returns, we anticipate both to be comparable with our 
existing model. Our approach is global so we expect  
to beneﬁt early from scale. The concept has been 
comprehensively demand tested, and being heavily 
underpinned by technology, is expected to develop  
rapidly. We intend to provide more information on key 
developments in this market in the future. 
Operational Review 
The momentum of growth achieved in Q4 2010 continued 
throughout 2011. Over the year the Group opened 139 new 
centres (2010: 125) with the total number as of 31 December 
2011 standing at 1,203 (2010: 1,084). Over the period 
customer numbers increased by 8.7% to 983,360 and have 
since the year end passed the million mark. Taken together, 
this growth resulted in an increase in total workstation 
capacity of 8.2% to 204,043.
To properly review our business, I will concentrate on our 
mature business performance development, which 
represents like-for-like business:
Americas 
Our Americas business posted a strong performance, 
especially in the USA and I offer my congratulations to them 
on a job well done. Mature revenues were up 2.3% on 2010 
to £431.8 million with average mature occupancy of 88.6% 
during the period (2010: 82.8%). Mature gross margins 
improved strongly to 29.3% (2010: 24.0%). During the year, 
we added 62 centres, including our ﬁrst in Omaha, 
Nebraska, which contributed to the increase in the average 
number of workstations from 74,265 in 2010 to 80,064  
in 2011. The robust nature of our Mature Centres business  
is underpinned by the solidity of this business. Latin America 
has a number of exciting opportunities for us, not least  
in Mexico and Brazil where we see tremendous growth 
potential. We continue to experience healthy levels  
of demand across all geographies in the region and  
in H2 opened our ﬁrst location in Uruguay.
On a regional basis, mature revenues and contribution can be analysed as follows:
 Revenue Gross proﬁt Mature gross margin (%)
£ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Americas 431.8 422.3 126.6 100.5 29.3 23.8
EMEA 274.3 266.3 73.5 66.1 26.8 24.8
Asia Paciﬁc 139.7 132.5 41.7 40.2 29.8 30.3
UK 187.6 174.8 29.7 14.5 15.8 8.3
Other 1.7 1.7 3.4 1.4 – –
Total 1,035.1 997.6 274.9 222.7 26.6 22.3
* The mature business is deﬁned as the performance from centres owned and operated at 31 December 2009. Business Review
EMEA
Contrary to what might have been expected, our EMEA 
business had a good year, especially in H2. The region 
delivered mature revenues of £274.3m, up 3.0% on 2010 
and achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.3% (2010: 
79.6%). Mature gross margins improved over the period to 
26.7% (2010: 24.9%). During the year, we added 45 centres 
which contributed to the increase in the average number  
of workstations from 36,120 in 2010 to 38,473 in 2011.  
Eight countries were added to the network including Croatia, 
Uganda and Madagascar. Although the macro economy 
across much of this region is challenging, we continue to 
seek and ﬁnd good growth opportunities in many markets. 
Additionally, much of the initial interest and subsequent 
development and implementation of our Third Place activity 
has originated here.
Asia Pacific
Our Asia Paciﬁc business performed well. This dynamic 
region continues to present tremendous opportunities for 
growth, especially in India and China, but also in every 
market where we are present. Currently operating 108 
mature centres across 16 countries, the region delivered 
mature revenues of £139.7m, up 5.4% on 2010 and 
achieved an average mature occupancy of 85.7% (2010: 
81.4%). Mature gross margins stayed broadly ﬂat at 30.0% 
(2010: 30.6%). During the year we added 29 centres which 
contributed to the increase in the average number of 
workstations from 23,437 in 2010 to 27,757 in 2011.
UK
The UK remains a tough market but nevertheless, the 
business, which numbers 135 mature centres, continued to 
improve and delivered mature revenues of £187.6m, up 
7.3% on 2010. This was on the back of mature gross 
margins almost doubling to 15.8% (2010: 8.3%), a clear 
demonstration of the progress made in turning this business 
around during the year. We remain vigilant as the average 
mature occupancy has not moved much beyond 80%  
(2011: 80.5% vs 2010: 80.8%). Property and associated 
on-costs remain high – consequently only three centres were 
added. Over the period the average number of workstations 
increased from 34,851 in 2010 to 38,346 in 2011. We have 
also focussed on refreshing the management team to give  
the business renewed vigour and focus.
Outlook 
Regus has delivered a strong set of results. After executing 
various strategic initiatives over the last two years, Regus is 
now a more resilient business and our strong growth reﬂects 
this. The current trend toward ﬂexible working means that we 
anticipate continued strong momentum in 2012 and current 
trading reﬂects this. As such, despite an uncertain economic 
backdrop we are cautiously optimistic. 
 Our Mature Centres have signiﬁcant and fundamental 
strengths; strong cash generation, solid like-for-like 
revenue growth and improving margins, performances 
which we are focussed on maintaining.
 Our New Centres are performing well, and the locations 
we have opened are expected to reach our target  
return on investment hurdle in the expected timeframe. 
We anticipate margins in these locations will continue  
to improve.
 Whilst the overall Group performance will always be 
impacted by the pace of openings within our New 
Centres business, the Board is comfortable with the 
progress being made and expects that the strong 
momentum in our Mature Centres business will  
continue into 2012.
 Regus’ unique, market leading position provides us with 
excellent potential to grow further through our Third Place 
business due to the burgeoning ﬂexible work market and 
we look forward to this delivering additional returns over 
the medium to long term. 
Whilst we foresee the general business environment  
remaining challenging at a macro level in the near term, we 
remain optimistic about the long-term growth prospects  
and strategy of the business. As such, we are ready and 
capable to invest further to accelerate growth but scale  
back if macro-economic conditions deteriorate.
Fundamentally, the achievement of our goals rests on our 
energetic, passionate and dedicated team members 
providing our rapidly growing number of customers and 
partners with absolutely the best possible service. It is a 
pleasure to lead such a team and it is only right that I end  
by thanking them for their efforts in 2011 and look forward  
to sharing further success with them in 2012.
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
20 March 2012
 www.regus.com/investors 11 12 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Driving growth
Building our  
Third Place Business
In pursuing additional growth opportunities, the business  
has been exploring a number of new avenues, especially  
in expanding its network into more third places. 
Third place is deﬁned as not the ofﬁce (ﬁrst place) nor  
the home (second place). So a third place could be the 
library or a cafe, or railway station, it might be the park  
bench or a supplier’s premises. It could also be a Regus 
business centre. Work in the third place is increasingly  
the norm as technological advances mean that anyone  
can work anywhere. As the illustration demonstrates  
our Third Place business is creating better quality work  
locations where people are increasingly likely to work  
when on the move or when away from the home or  
ofﬁce; railway stations and motorway service stations  
for example, but the Group is also exploring a wide  
variety of other third place locations. 
MR A SAMPLE
100 123456 7890 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 1 1234 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 34 3456 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 56 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 789 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 890 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
businessworld
gold
R Ret tail il
Our products and services 
hav haveb e been een av avail ailabl ableo e ont n the he 
hi high h st tre t et f for more th than a 
yea y r, , enabli bling g a conv i enient 
access point.
Pa Part rtne ners rshi hips ps
Reg Regus us has has bu built ilt a a wid widev e vari ariety ety
of partnerships with many of 
the world’s larges g t brands, , 
i incld ludi ing 60 60% % ofl f l d eadi ing 
airway ays, s, hotel gro goups ups, ,
business organisations 
and and ot other hersw s whic hiche h exis xistt t to o 
sup suppor porta t and nd ser serve ve mob mobile ile,
ﬂex ﬂexibl iblew e work orkers ers.
R Rail ilway t st t ati ions
Rec Recent ent de deals als wi with th SNC SNCFa F and nd 
NS NS Tra Trains ins (D (Dutc utchr h rail ailway ways) s) 
will result in Regus opening 
bus busine iness ss lou lounge ngesw s with ithin in 
i rail lway stt tati ions, ft often it with h 
pla platfo tform rm acc access ess.  www.regus.com/investors 13
Business Review
Mobile workers
Wit Witha h ana n arra rrayo y ofa f appl pplica icatio tions ns, 
mob mobile ile se servi rvices ces,s , such uch as as ca call ll 
handling, and self-serve tools 
our net two k rk can b be ea il sily y
d and qu q ik ickl ly y access d ed b by y
those for whom, work is 
something that happens 
on the move.
Ai Airport ts
An increasing number of airports 
are are no nows w serv erved ed by by Reg Regus us and and
th the b bu i siness i is acti tiv l ely ex l plo i ring 
way ys in which it can deepen p its
presence and service to support 
the vast majority of business
travellersthat no longerﬂy travellers that no longer ﬂy 
bus busine iness ss cla class ss. business class. 
B Bu i siness cent tres
The core of the Regus network is
its its bu busin siness ess ce centr ntres es whi which ch off offer er 
our f full ll range f of prod duct ts d and 
ser i vices. O Ou l r loca i tions range g
from premium addresses in 
central business districts, to key 
transport infrastructure nodes transport infrastructure nodes 
and and su subur burban ban co commu mmutin tingh g hubs ubs. and suburban commuting hubs.
M Mot torway 
service stations
Reg Regus us has has re recen cently tly 
ope opened ned a a pil pilot ot wit within hin a a She Shell ll 
motorway service station.
Ho Home me w wor orke kers rs
With a wide array of 
non-residential products 
d and se i rvices i incre i asi l ngl g y y
available on a self-serve
basis, Regus is able to 
fully y sup ppor p t any y home
bas based ed wor worker ker w , wher hereve ever r 
the theya y are re in in the the wo world rld. 14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Driving growth
Developing our  
Mature Centres
Administrative support
Available to anyone on a pay-as-you-
need basis from as little as 15 minutes 
from photocopying or collation through 
to booking travel or accommodation.
Day ofﬁces
Sometimes all that is required is a 
quite private space for a few hours 
or possibly a full day. All Regus 
centres have private ofﬁces, with  
all the services that go with that, 
available on an hourly basis. 
Virtual Ofﬁce
All the beneﬁts of an ofﬁce,  
without the ofﬁce – an impressive 
business address and phone 
number anywhere in the world,  
as well as a private ofﬁce for a few 
days each month if required.
Branch ofﬁces
The ideal way to expand into new 
markets. We provide our customers 
with space to work, business 
support, local knowledge and a 
customer base, all on their doorstep.
Thinkpods
A stylish new thinking and working  
space with room for a laptop and a 
comfortable, adjustable chair, 
Thinkpods are dedicated to 
productivity and unique to Regus. 
Designed to be used for any length  
of time from one hour to a whole day, 
providing privacy in the shared space 
of our business lounges.
Disaster recovery
A variety of ﬁxed and virtual spaces 
to help organisations of any size 
resume operations following a 
workplace disaster.
Coworking
Most Regus centres have open plan 
space which different businesses 
share. Popular with a wide variety  
of organisations these spaces are a 
low cost alternative for businesses 
which are starting to grow.
Training rooms
Regus are able to provide  
a suite of training room 
environments at all locations 
to suit a wide variety of 
learning styles. All are 
served by a dedicated 
support team.
Our business centres are the heart of our network and 
the place from where all our products and services can 
be accessed. The assumption is that they are mainly 
places of ﬁxed working but this couldn’t be further from 
the truth – with a wide variety of ﬁxed and ﬂexible work 
products and services they are thriving hubs of 
entrepreneurial and business activity, engines of  
their local and indeed national economies. Business Review
 www.regus.com/investors 15
Document and  
print management
Our fully self-service cloud  
printing solution. Customers  
can print from anywhere to 
anywhere on the network. This 
then facilitates other activities  
such as low cost couriering.
Serviced ofﬁces
Our workspaces are highly adaptable and fully equipped  
with all the furniture, IT and communications technology  
our customers need to move in today and start working. 
Collaboration spaces
Regus is able to provide a wide 
range of spaces for teams of all  
sizes to meet and collaborate.
Video  
communication
We have the world’s  
largest network of video 
communication suites, including 
state of the art Teleprescence 
studios, which enable face-to-
face meetings without the usual 
travel expense and downtime.
Business lounges
Our business lounges are the 
perfect place to work when  
on the move, convenient 
work-ready environments 
providing peace, support  
and dedicated resources. 
Meeting rooms
With more than 4,000 meeting 
rooms we provide the very  
best in ﬂexible meeting space 
bookable by the day, half day  
or even the hour. Financial review
Improved profitability and strong underlying 
cash generation in spite of continued 
challenging market conditions. 
It is only possible to understand properly Regus’ ﬁnancial 
statements by looking at mature business performance and 
new business performance separately. The reason for this is 
that, while our new centres (deﬁned as centres that opened 
on or after 1 January 2010) develop rapidly and contribute  
in line with our mature centres (those opened on or before  
31 December 2009) over time, the resources that we apply 
to opening and developing a new centre, as well as the 
relative underperformance before the centre has fully 
matured, create a drag on our overall income statement.  
The overall weight of this drag depends on the pace of our 
opening programme, as well as the mix of property deals 
across the centres. With the capital expenditure invested in 
our centres, new centre openings have, therefore, a 
signiﬁcant impact on the Group’s cash ﬂow, with the majority 
of the free cash ﬂow generated from the mature business 
being reinvested in growing the business. This will be 
covered in greater detail below.
Mature Centres business (centres open on  
or before 31 December, 2009)
At the end of 2011, we had 948 mature centres, constituting 
79% of the total Group workstations. The table below shows 
the development of Mature Centres’ ﬁnancial performance 
from 2010 to 2011:
£m 2011 2010 % increase
Turnover 1,035.1 997.6 3.8
Gross proﬁt (centre 
contribution) 274.9 222.7 23
Gross margin  26.6% 22.3%
Overheads (167.3) (159.0) 5
Joint ventures 0.1 1.3 –
Operating proﬁt 107.7 65.0 66
Operating margin 10.4%  6.5%
EBITDA 168.3 133.9  26
EBITDA margin 16.3% 13.4%
Our mature portfolio achieved like-for-like sales growth of 
3.8% over the full year, accelerating from 2% in the ﬁrst half 
to over 5% in the second half, reﬂecting the carry-over from 
improving performance in the ﬁrst half. The historic high levels 
of occupancy achieved in the ﬁrst half were carried forward 
into the second half and ofﬁce pricing also advanced slightly 
from its low point in the ﬁrst half of the year. In light of the 
negative global economic climate through the second half  
of 2011, this performance provides management with 
conﬁdence that we are on the right strategic path.
The strong top-line performance converted into a 23% 
improvement in gross proﬁt (27% in the second half), while 
the gross margin rose to 26.6% for the full year (27.8% in  
the second half), with the beneﬁt of the leverage impact from 
higher turnover, tight control of centre costs, and relentless 
focus on our rental costs.
Overheads allocated to the mature estate increased by 5% 
on last year from £159.0m to £167.3m. This was driven by 
an increase in marketing spend from £26.9m to £30.2m, 
largely reﬂecting the increased effort in the ﬁrst half to drive 
occupancy levels higher, as well as the investment made in 
strengthening the Group’s operational management structure 
and some central functions. In the second half, overheads 
allocated to the mature business were up only marginally on 
2010 overheads, at £77.0m compared with £76.5m, and 
signiﬁcantly lower than the £90.3m cost in the ﬁrst half, 
beneﬁting from economies of scale and some productivity 
gains. As a result, while overheads as a percentage of 
revenue increased marginally from 15.9% of revenue in 2010, 
to 16.2% of revenue in 2011, second half overheads as a 
percentage of revenues fell to 14.7%. We are conﬁdent, 
therefore, that we are making signiﬁcant progress towards 
our target of 12% on the mature estate.
As a result, our mature operating proﬁt increased 66%, 
taking our operating margin from 6.5% in 2010 to 10.4%  
in 2011 and our EBITDA margin increased from 13.4% to 
16.3%. For the second half of 2011 the operating proﬁt 
increase was even better, increasing by 79% from £38.5m  
in H2 2010 to £68.8m with an operating margin in H2 2011 
of 13.2% (H1 2011: 7.6%).
We set out below a notional EPS calculation on our mature 
business, which, in management’s view, provides a better 
insight into the operating performance of this business:
£m 2011 2010 % increase
Mature operating proﬁt 107.7 65.0 66
Net ﬁnance charge (5.1) (0.3)
Tax at 20% (20.5) (12.9) 59
Notional mature proﬁt after 
tax 82.151.8
Notional mature EPS 8.7p 5.5p 58
Accordingly, notional mature EPS has grown 58% from 5.5p 
in 2010 to 8.7p in 2011. In line with operating proﬁt, the H2 
2011 mature EPS was correspondingly stronger, increasing 
65% from 3.4p in H2 2010 to 5.6p in H2 2011.
16 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  www.regus.com/investors 17
Business Review
As heralded at the publication of our half year results, the 
pace of openings increased signiﬁcantly in the second half  
of 2011, with 91 new centres opened during this 6-month 
period, bringing the total for the year to 139 new centres.
The 2010 openings continued their progression to maturity, 
achieving a 15.0% gross margin in 2011, with 19.0% being 
achieved in the second half.
As expected, there was a negative gross proﬁt on 2011 
openings, which cost £13.4m. So far, these new 2011 
centres are performing to plan and we anticipate seeing  
the normal improving performance as we go through 2012.
The allocation of central overheads to support the new centres 
increased signiﬁcantly in 2011 as the overall number of new 
centres increased and the pace of openings accelerated. 
As a result, new centres created a drag of £54.7m on the 
income statement in 2011, up from £39.5m in 2010. The 
second half drag in 2011 accelerated to £31.5m as a result 
of the pace of openings during this period. However, it 
should be noted that, if when we apply the same overhead 
allocation methodology purely for the 2010 openings, these 
became contributors to operating proﬁt during the second 
half of 2011, with a positive operating proﬁt of £1.4m.
We set out below the cash ﬂow impact of this investment  
in growth:
£m 2011 2010
EBITDA (42.4) (36.6)
Growth capital expenditure (93.6) (61.1)
Working capital (estimated) 39.7 18.7
Tax 9.9 –
Net investment in growth (86.4) (79.0)
Accordingly, the Group invested £86.4m in growing the 
business, representing a continued commitment to growth, 
subject to the investment cases clearing the Group’s 
stringent ﬁnancial hurdles. As previously highlighted, we are 
conﬁdent that these new centres will contribute to the 
Group’s cash ﬂows as they mature and it is clear that new 
2010 centres were already beginning to make a contribution 
to cash ﬂow in the second half of 2011.
Closures
From time to time, as part of our everyday business we close 
centres, in most cases either because they are loss-making 
and the lease is not renewed by ourselves, or we wish to 
close and relocate to a better property or, occasionally, 
because the landlord does not wish to extend the lease.
Accordingly, we closed 20 centres during 2011, which 
contributed an operating loss of £2.4m in 2011, against  
a loss of £1.6m in the corresponding period.
The mature EPS of 5.6p in H2 2011, which yields an 
annualised 11.2p per share, was achieved in spite of the 
negative macroeconomic backdrop of the second half of 
2011. If the economy continues to improve through 2012,  
we would expect to gradually drive sales and margins  
further forward and improve on this EPS achievement.
The improved EPS result is also reﬂected in an increased 
cash ﬂow from our mature business, which is set out below:
£m 2011 2010 % increase
EBITDA 168.3 133.9 26
Maintenance capital 
expenditure (39.4)(31.8)
Working capital (estimated) 11.0 (8.1)
Other items (allocated) (1.4) (2.1)
Finance costs (all allocated 
to mature) (0.9) 0.1
Tax (at 20% or cash 
outﬂow if higher) (20.5) (15.5)
Mature free  
cash ﬂow 117.1 76.5 53
This mature free cash ﬂow increased 53% to £117.1m, 
underlining the cash generative nature of our mature 
business. This is equivalent to 12.4p per share.
New centres (open on or after 1 January 2010)
At the year end, we had 255 new centres, comprising 21% 
of the total number of workstations.
As highlighted above, these centres represent a drag on  
the income statement, as they require heavy investment in 
central overheads to locate, negotiate, man, market and ﬁll. 
On top of this, the centres make a negative gross margin 
during their ﬁll phase before the revenues rise to a level where 
the centre starts to make a positive contribution.
The table below shows the impact on the income statement 
from these new centres:
£m 2011 2010
2010 Openings 100.0 22.9
2011 Openings 20.2 –
Turnover 120.2 22.9
2010 Openings 15.0 (7.1)
2011 Openings (13.4) –
Gross proﬁt (centre contribution) 1.6 (7.1)
Overheads (56.3) (32.4)
Operating proﬁt (54.7) (39.5) 
EBITDA (42.4) (36.6)
Turnover from new openings has increased signiﬁcantly as 
we have opened more centres throughout 2010 and 2011. 18 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial Review continued
Overheads 
Total Group overheads increased 16% from £193.3m in 
2010 to £224.7m in 2011. This increase reﬂected a 
signiﬁcant increase in marketing costs (up from £33.3m to 
£41.3m) to support occupancy growth and the increased 
centre base, as well as increased investment in operational 
management, procurement, the property team and our 
dedicated product development function. In addition, some 
increases in other administrative functions’ costs were 
required to support our growing business.
In ﬁnance, we continue to work toward simplifying and 
standardising where possible, and the elimination of 
duplication of effort. This has required investment in time  
and effort up front. We will begin to reap some of the beneﬁts 
in 2012 and these will build over the next couple of years as 
we move towards our goal of a lean and cost-efﬁcient 
ﬁnance function.
Total overheads as a percentage of sales rose from 18.6%  
in 2010 to 19.3% in 2011, while second half 2011 costs 
represented 18.3% of sales. This increase is largely a result 
of the accelerated pace of growth, because new centres are 
more overheads intensive than mature centres.
Overheads allocation methodology 
The allocation of overheads to the various elements of  
our business is based on the activity drivers in each part  
of the business.
For sales & marketing costs, the principle is that allocation  
is made on the basis of new workstation sales (since the 
marketing effort is spent on driving enquiries and the sales 
effort is spent on converting these enquiries into sales). 
Renewals are excluded, as these are handled by the centre 
staff, who form part of our cost of sales.
For all other overheads (apart from the speciﬁc allocations for 
new centres outlined below), we follow the principle of allocating 
the costs pro rata by reference to workstation numbers.
There are two speciﬁc allocations made. Firstly, it is currently 
estimated that 90% of the property teams’ costs are spent 
on supporting our growth programme – ﬁnding and 
negotiating new centre deals and managing the ﬁt-out phase 
up to opening. Secondly, we estimate that each new centre 
costs £130,000 to get to the stage of opening, built up from 
management time, sales and marketing set-up costs (these 
costs are deducted before the allocation outlined above is 
made), human resources recruitment and training costs,  
and administrative and ﬁnance set-up costs.
Group operating proﬁt reconciliation
The following tables reconcile the elements of our business to the Group consolidated income statement down to operating proﬁt:
£m
Mature centres 
2011
New centres 
2011
Closed centres 
2011
Total  
2011
Revenue 1,035.1 120.2 7.3 1,162.6
Cost of sales (760.2) (118.6) (8.6) (887.4)
Gross proﬁt (centre contribution) 274.9 1.6 (1.3) 275.2
Administration expenses (167.3) (56.3) (1.1) (224.7)
Share of proﬁt on joint venture 0.1 – – 0.1
Operating proﬁt (before exceptional items) 107.7 (54.7) (2.4) 50.6
Mature centres 
2010
New centres  
2010
Closed centres 
2010
Total  
2010
Revenue 997.6 22.9 19.9 1,040.4
Cost of sales (774.9) (30.0) (19.6) (824.5)
Gross proﬁt (centre contribution) 222.7 (7.1) 0.3 215.9
Administration expenses (159.0) (32.4) (1.9) (193.3)
Share of proﬁt on joint venture 1.3 – – 1.3
Operating proﬁt (before exceptional items) 65.0 (39.5) (1.6) 23.9  www.regus.com/investors 19
Business Review
Net ﬁnance costs
Despite our healthy net cash position, the Group incurred a 
net ﬁnance charge of £5.1m in 2011. This mainly relates to 
two items. Firstly, the Group income statement is exposed  
to foreign exchange movements on some inter-company 
transactions and transaction exchange losses were £2.6m in 
2011. Secondly, we incur a notional interest charge (£2.0m) 
relating to the accounting treatment of a fair value adjustment 
on an acquisition in 2006. This second item will disappear 
after 2013 when the fair value adjustment has unwound fully.
Tax 
The tax charge for the year was 19.6%, in line with the 
long-term Group tax rate of 20%. 
Earnings per Share
The Group earnings per share increased from 1.9p in 2010 
(before exceptional items) to 4.0p per share in 2011. However, 
as previously highlighted, our new centres create a signiﬁcant 
drag on proﬁt, which impacts the earnings per share. 
Cash Flow
The table below reﬂects the Group’s cash ﬂow:
£m 2011 2010
Mature free cash ﬂow 117.1 76.5
Net investment in growth (86.4) (79.0)
Closed centres cash ﬂow (3.4) 0.1
Exceptional items (1.9) (13.7)
Total net cash ﬂow  
from operations 25.4 (16.1)
Dividends (25.0) (23.2)
Corporate ﬁnancing activities – (7.2)
Opening net cash 191.5 237.0
Exchange movements (3.6) 1.0
Closing net cash 188.3 191.5
The above table clearly highlights the underlying cash 
generation of our mature business, with mature free cash 
ﬂow increasing from £76.5m in 2010 to £117.1m in 2011. 
We have also increased our investment in growth, from 
£79.0m in 2010 to £86.4m in 2011, with 125 and 139 
centres opened in 2010 and 2011 respectively. 
The Group’s balance sheet remains healthy, with net cash 
broadly stable on last year at £188.3m in spite of the growth 
investment and the healthy return to shareholders via 
dividend payments.
During the year, we strengthened our Treasury function and 
are in the process of rationalising and deepening our banking 
relationships. We are also in the process of upgrading our 
cash management to ensure the maximum level of available 
cash at the centre.
Risk management
The Group has a very diverse revenue base, given its global 
reach, extensive range of products, and increasing numbers 
of customers engaged in all manner of different industries.  
As such, its exposure to localised economic issues or the 
health of individual industries is manageable.
On top of this, the Group has done much over the years to 
manage its cost base, most obviously through risk mitigation 
of its lease obligations. In 2011, our rental costs were 
£414.9m and the minimum contractual lease commitments 
at 31 December 2011, totalled £1,779.7m, as disclosed in 
note 29 of our audited annual accounts. It should be noted 
however, that the Group’s Forward Order Book gives us 
good visibility of our sales in the near term and covers almost 
two years of rental costs. On top of this, over 80% of the 
Group’s leases are ﬂexible or fully variable in nature. Taking 
into account these commercial realities and based on  
past experience, management does not believe that this 
outstanding obligation represents a signiﬁcant risk to the 
business. We have consistently demonstrated our ability to 
renegotiate leases with landlords to ensure that we are not 
paying rent ahead of the market rate (albeit with a lag) and 
we know from experience that, where we have centres that 
are well managed, in the right location, and where we are 
paying market rent, we earn good returns. The evidence for 
this is demonstrated through the development of our mature 
proﬁtability over the last few years. No one would deny  
that the period since 2008 has been difﬁcult for the world 
economy in general and property markets in particular  
and yet, throughout this period, our mature business has 
maintained good proﬁtability and very healthy cash ﬂows.
Many readers will be aware of the ongoing attempts by the 
International Accounting Standards Board to ﬁnd a solution 
to the perennial debate on lease accounting. This has 
resulted in the unusual decision to release a second 
Exposure Draft. There are likely to be signiﬁcant changes in 
the second Exposure Draft and it remains unclear how this 
debate will conclude. In any event, it seems unlikely that any 
resulting Standard would be applicable to accounts before 
the year ended 31 December 2014 at the earliest. Whatever 
the outcome, it will have no impact on the underlying 
commercial dynamics of our business, described above. 
Dividends
In line with Regus’ progressive dividend policy, it is proposed, 
subject to shareholder approval, to increase the ﬁnal dividend 
for 2011 to 2.0p (2010: 1.75p). This will be paid on Friday  
25 May 2012, to shareholders on the register at the close  
of business on Thursday 26 April 2012. 
This represents an increase in the full year dividend of 12%, 
taking it from 2.6p for 2010 to 2.9p for 2011.
Dominique Yates
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer 
20 March 2011 20 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility
Carbon reduction
Regus UK continues to make excellent progress in its 
environmental performance. The strategy outlined in last year’ s 
annual report targeted a 10% reduction in carbon footprint in 
2010 based on our 2007 baseline. We are delighted to report 
that we actually achieved a 10.28% reduction and this 
coupled with our successful Carbon Trust Accreditation in  
May 2010 clearly demonstrates that we are taking our 
environmental impact and performance seriously. The 
emissions metric we are using to measure and track our 
carbon footprint is that of kg of CO
2
 per occupied workstation. 
This metric follows very closely one of our important business 
performance metrics and has been accepted by the carbon 
trust as a unique measure which not only encourages carbon 
reduction but displays performance in business too.
We recognise that to maintain sustainable year-on-year 
reductions in energy, waste and water a combination of 
behaviour change and physical interventions would be 
necessary and in June 2010 introduced a behavioural 
change programme to encourage Greener Working. This 
campaign includes a variety of behavioural changes coupled 
with a series of energy and carbon saving practices across 
the estate. Each centre now has an appointed Greener 
Working Champion whose primary role is to reduce energy 
and water consumption, encourage recycling and promote 
greener working amongst customers and suppliers. Dry 
Mixed recycling was also introduced in 2010 and is being 
successfully adopted by our team members and customers.
With energy spend in excess of £8m we are full participants 
in the UK government’s CRC Energy Efﬁciency Scheme.  
We recognise that this comprehensive legislation is currently 
under review, however the reputational league table will 
remain and Regus expects to be favourably placed as it  
has both Carbon Trust Accreditation and Automatic Meter 
Readers in all its centres where required (a requirement of  
the legislation for a high position on the table).
Charitable activities
Regus is a great supporter of charities local to the 
communities we serve and in 2011 many of our efforts were 
linked to the record number of natural disasters that occurred.
Most notable was the support we gave to people in Japan 
affected by the terrible earthquake and tsunami. Our centre 
in Sendai was particularly badly affected. As well as the 
company donating £25,000, our employees from around the 
world held local fundraising events and also donated through 
payroll giving. 
During the ﬂoods in Bangkok, team members showed 
unwavering commitment to supporting the business 
community even though many of their own homes were 
ﬂooded. Some commuted for hours a day just to set up 
emergency ofﬁces in unaffected centres.
In the United States, team members delivered blankets, 
water and other essentials to victims of two tornados.  
The Regus Life Savers team of walkers and runners took  
part in the Dallas Race for the Cure half marathon and  
raised more than $55,000 for the breast cancer charity  
Susan G Komen.
Our UK business continued to fundraise for Macmillan 
Cancer Support and DeBra (a charity for people with a 
genetic skin blistering condition) through its annual rafﬂe, 
raising more than £17,000. 
And in South Africa we continued our involvement with  
Santa Cause where we sponsored 300 children – at R150 
each – so they could enjoy the ultimate Christmas party.  
In 2012 we plan to take this worthwhile cause global.
Our targets for next year
Recycle at least 
35% 
of the waste generated from our UK locations by using 
approved dry mixed recycling bins installed in all ofﬁces 
where we have control. 
Reduce the carbon footprint  
of our UK business by a further 
5% 
based on the measured 2007 levels. By the end of 2012 
Regus will have reduced its carbon footprint by at least  
20% and be on track for a 50% reduction by 2020. 
20 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Actual reduction Original target reduction Revised target reduction
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
180
190
Regus UK YTD Rolling kg CO 2 pa per  
Occupied Workstation 
2008
Actual reduction of 10.3% by Dec 2010
kg CO 2 pa per Occupied Workstation
Actual reduction of 29.3% by Dec 2011 (21.1%  in 2011) 
Predicted reduction of 32.8% by Dec 2012 (5% in 2012)
2009 2010 2011 2013  www.regus.com/investors 21
Corporate Governance
Douglas Sutherland (N)
Chairman
Douglas Sutherland was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on 
27 August 2008 and was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 18 May 
2010; he also serves as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. Douglas 
was Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Skype during its acquisition by eBay in 
October 2005 and was also Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at SecureWave during 
its acquisition by PatchLink in July 2007. Prior to this, Douglas enjoyed a 
career with Arthur Andersen, serving as a Partner with management 
responsibilities for over a decade. Douglas is currently also a Director  
of HosCo Kliniken S.à r.l. and HosCo Gruppe S.à r.l.
Mark Dixon
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive and founder, Mark Dixon is one of Europe’s best known 
entrepreneurs. Since founding Regus in Brussels, Belgium in 1989, he has 
achieved a formidable reputation for leadership and innovation. Prior to 
Regus he established businesses in the retail and wholesale food industry. 
A recipient of several awards for enterprise, Mark has revolutionised the 
way business approaches its property needs with his vision of the  
future of work.
Dominique Yates 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Dominique Yates was appointed Chief Financial Ofﬁcer of Regus on  
1 September 2011. Previously he served as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer at  
both LM Windpower, the Netherlands-headquartered renewable energy 
company and Symrise AG, the MDAX listed speciality chemicals 
company. He also held senior positions at Imperial Tobacco Group plc, 
including Group Financial Controller, General Manager of France, 
Switzerland, Italy and Malta, and Group Business Development Director. 
He is a qualiﬁed chartered accountant.
Lance Browne (A, N, R)
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Lance Browne was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus  
on 27 August 2008 and became Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director on 18 May 2010. Lance is Chairman of Travelex (China),  
Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited and  
Non-Executive Director of G3. He was previously China Senior Advisor  
to the City of London, Chairman of China Goldmines plc, Non-Executive 
Director of IMI plc and Director of Business Development at Powergen 
International (HK).
Elmar Heggen (A, N, R)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Elmar Heggen was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on  
1 June 2010 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 
24 November 2010. Elmar has extensive management experience and is 
currently Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and Head of the Corporate Centre at RTL 
Group, the leading European entertainment network, where he has held 
various roles since 2000. Elmar began his career at the Felix Schoeller 
Group, becoming Vice President & General Manager of Felix Schoeller 
Digital Imaging in the UK in 1999.
Alex Sulkowski (A, N, R)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Alex Sulkowski was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on  
1 June 2010; he also serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Alex 
has over 30 years of experience in international ﬁnance structures, private 
equity, tax advice and real estate. He is currently the Managing Director of 
Third Millennium Investments SA and serves on the board of Taxand, the 
largest global network of independent tax advisers. Prior to this Alex 
enjoyed a career with Arthur Andersen, responsible for the Belgium and 
Luxembourg tax practices, prior to joining Ernst and Young in 2002 as the 
Partner responsible for the Luxembourg tax practice and then serving as 
the Managing Partner of Atoz Tax Advisors from 2004 through 2009.
The role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial 
leadership and to review the overall strategic 
development of the Group.
Board of directors
Notes
(A) Member of the Audit Committee
(N) Member of the Nomination Committee
(R) Member of the Remuneration Committee 22 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Other statutory information 
 
The Directors of Regus plc (société anonyme)  
(the “Company”) present their Annual Report and the  
audited financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries (together the “Group”) for the year ended  
31 December 2011.  
Directors 
The Directors of the Company who held office during  
the financial year were:  
Executive Directors 
Mark Dixon  
Stephen Gleadle (resigned 31 August 2011) 
Dominique Yates (appointed 1 September 2011) 
Non-executive Directors  
Douglas Sutherland  
Lance Browne 
Elmar Heggen  
Alex Sulkowski 
Biographical details for the Directors are shown on  
page 21. 
Details of the Directors’ interests and shareholdings are 
given in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38.  
The Corporate Responsibility Statement, Corporate 
Governance Statement, Remuneration Report and Director 
Statements on pages 20 to 38 all form part of this report. 
Principal activity 
The Company is the world’s leading provider of global office 
outsourcing services.  
Business review 
The Directors have presented a business review as follows: 
The Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review on 
pages 5 to 19 respectively address: 
 review of the Company’s business (pages 5 to 11); 
 trends and factors likely to affect the future development, 
performance and position of the business (pages 5  
to 11); 
 development and performance during the financial year 
(pages 16 to 19); and 
 position of the business at the end of the year (page 19). 
The Corporate Responsibility Report, on page 20,  
includes the sections of the Business Review in respect of: 
 environmental matters; 
 employees; and 
 social and community issues. 
The Corporate Governance Statement, on pages 24 to 30, 
includes a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Company.  
The Directors’ Statements on page 31 includes the 
statutory statement in respect of disclosure to auditors.  
The Directors do not consider any contractual or other 
relationships with external parties to be essential to the 
business of the Group. 
Results and dividends 
Profit before taxation for the year was £45.5 million  
(2010: £7.8 million).  
The Directors are pleased to recommend a final dividend  
for 2011 of £18.8 million (2010: £16.5 million), being  
2.0 pence per share (2010: 1.75 pence per share). The total 
dividend for the year will therefore be 2.9 pence per share, 
made up of the interim dividend of 0.9 pence per share 
paid in October 2011 (2010: 0.85 pence per share) and, 
assuming the final dividend is approved by shareholders at 
the forthcoming AGM, an additional 2.0 pence per share 
(2010: 1.75 pence per share) which is expected to be paid 
on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 26 April 2012.  
Policy and practice on payment of creditors  
The Group does not follow a universal code dealing 
specifically with payments to suppliers but, where 
appropriate, our practice is to: 
 agree the terms of payment upfront with the supplier; 
 ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms  
of payment; and 
 pay in accordance with contractual and other  
legal obligations. 
At 31 December 2011, the number of creditor days 
outstanding for the Group was 30 days (2010: 25 days)  
and for the Company was 34 days (2010: 1 day). 
Going concern  
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they 
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing  
the Accounts on pages 40 to 87. 
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the 
financial statements, the Directors have considered the 
further information included in the business activities 
commentary as set out on pages 10 to 11 as well as  
the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties as set out  
on pages 26 and 27. Based on the performance of  
the Group, its financial position and cash flows, the  
Board is satisfied that the Group is well placed to  
manage its business risks successfully. 
Further details on the going concern basis of preparation 
can be found in note 24 to the notes to the accounts on 
page 68. 
Employees 
The Group treats applicants for employment with disabilities 
with full and fair consideration according to their skills and 
capabilities. Should an employee become disabled during 
their employment, efforts are made to retain them in their 
current employment or to explore opportunities for their 
retraining or redeployment elsewhere within the Group.   www.regus.com/investors 23
Corporate Governance
 
 
Political and charitable donations  
It is the Group’s policy not to make political donations either 
in the UK or overseas. The Group made charitable donations 
of £30,000 during the year (2010: £50,000). 
Capital structure 
The Company’s share capital comprises 950,969,822 
issued and fully paid up ordinary shares of 1p nominal  
value in Regus plc (2010: 950,969,822). All ordinary shares 
have the same rights to vote at general meetings of the 
Company and to participate in distributions. There are no 
securities in issue that carry special rights in relation to the 
control of the Company. The Company’s shares are traded 
on the London Stock Exchange.  
Details of the role of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) 
and the process for the appointment of directors can be 
found on pages 24 to 25. 
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on  
17 May 2011 the shareholders of the Company approved  
a resolution giving authority for the Company to purchase in 
the market up to 94,189,892 ordinary shares representing 
approximately 10% of the issued share capital (excluding 
treasury shares) as at 13 April 2011. No shares were 
purchased pursuant to this authority during the year.  
Details of the Company’s employee share schemes can  
be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee on 
pages 32 to 38. The outstanding awards and options  
do not carry any rights in relation to the control of  
the Company. 
Substantial interests 
At 20 March 2012, the Company has been notified of  
the following interests held in the issued share capital of  
the Company. 
 
Number of 
ordinary shares 
% of issued 
share capital 
Estorn Limited * 322,028,792 34.19% 
Prudential plc 158,450,222 16.82% 
Standard Life Group 46,538,104 4.93% 
Ameriprise Financial Inc 46,441,761 4.93% 
BlackRock Inc 46,064,455 4.85% 
Tree Top Asset  
Management SA 45,167,670 4.75% 
Norges Bank 28,266,242 3.00% 
* Mark Dixon indirectly owns 100% of Estorn Limited 
 
Auditors 
In accordance with Luxembourg law, a resolution for the 
reappointment of KPMG Luxembourg  S.à.r.l. as auditors  
of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.  
Approval 
This report was approved by the Board on 14 March 2012.  
On behalf of the Board 
Tim Regan 
Company Secretary  
20 March 2012 24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance 
 
The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate 
governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (formerly the Combined Code) published in May 2010 
(the “Code”) for financial periods beginning after 29 June 
2010. The Code is available at www.frc.org.uk. The Board 
is accountable to the Company’s shareholders and this 
report describes how the Board applied the principles of 
good governance. In its prospectus dated 8 September 
2008, the Company stated its intention to voluntarily 
comply with the then Combined Code so far as it is 
practical for a Luxembourg company to do so. There is  
no similar corporate governance regime in Luxembourg.  
The Board 
At 31 December 2011, the Board of Directors was made 
up of six members comprising the Chairman, two Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. Biographical 
details of the Directors are set out on page 21. 
Role of the Board 
The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial 
leadership and to review the overall strategic development 
of the Group. The Board approves the corporate plan and 
the annual budget and reviews performance against targets 
at every meeting. Through the Audit Committee, the 
Directors ensure the integrity of financial information and  
the effectiveness of financial controls and the internal 
control and risk management system. The Board has 
delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to  
set the remuneration policy for Directors and senior 
management. The Nomination Committee recommends  
the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility 
for succession planning at Board level. The various Board 
Committees (the “Committees”) have authority to make 
decisions in their areas of expertise.  
Frequency of meetings 
There were seven main board meetings during 2011.  
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and 
individual attendance by the Directors are shown below. 
 
Main 
Board 
Audit 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Nomination 
Committee 
Total meetings 7 4 4 5 
Douglas 
Sutherland 7   5 
Mark Dixon 7    
Stephen 
Gleadle 
(a)
  4    
Dominique 
Yates 
(b)
 2    
Lance Browne 7 4 4 5 
Elmar Heggen 7 4 4 5 
Alex Sulkowski 7 4 4 5 
(a) Resigned 31 August 2011 
(b) Appointed 1 September 2011 
Matters reserved for the Board 
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved  
to it for its decision, to ensure that no one individual has 
unfettered powers of decision. These include: 
 approval of regulatory announcements including  
the interim and annual financial statements; 
 terms of reference and membership of the Board  
and its Committees; 
 changes to the Group’s capital structure; 
 changes to the Group’s management and  
control structure; 
 capital investment in excess of £5 million; and 
 material contracts (annual value in excess of £5 million). 
Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and 
all Directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any 
unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.  
Roles of Board members 
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive.  
The Chairman 
Douglas Sutherland is responsible for leadership of the 
Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness. 
He ensures effective communication with shareholders and 
that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders. 
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive 
Directors and constructive relations between the executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is 
responsible for ensuring all Directors are properly briefed  
on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have  
full and timely access to relevant information. 
The Chairman is considered by the Board to be 
independent in character and judgement. 
The Chief Executive 
Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and  
for its delivery once agreed by the Board. He creates a 
framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives 
to ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and 
allocates decision-making and responsibilities accordingly.  
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors each bring their own senior level 
of experience and objectivity to the Board. The independent 
counsel brought to the group by the Non-Executive Directors 
enhances the overall decision making of the Board. Non-
Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term, 
subject to election by shareholders at each Annual General 
Meeting (“AGM”) after their appointment. 
Company Secretary  
The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible  
for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all 
governance matters and for ensuring that appropriate 
minutes are taken of all Board meetings and discussions. 
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary  
is a matter reserved for the Board.   www.regus.com/investors 25
Corporate Governance
 
 
Board Committees 
The Board has delegated certain of its governance 
responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to 
all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are 
circulated to all Board members.  
The terms of reference of the Committees have been 
documented and approved by the Board and are available 
on the Company’s website www.regus.com. A brief 
summary of the members, activities and terms of reference 
of the Committees is provided below.  
Audit Committee 
Alex Sulkowski (Chairman)  
Lance Browne 
Elmar Heggen  
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the 
responsibility for applying an effective system of internal 
control and compliance, accurate external financial 
reporting, fulfilling its obligations under law and the Code; 
and managing the relationship with the Company’s external 
auditors. The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive 
Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be 
independent in character and judgement and are 
competent in accounting and / or auditing. 
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year. At the 
request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive 
Directors, the Company Secretary and the Group Head of 
Internal Audit and Risk Management attend each meeting. 
Summary terms of reference: 
 Financial Reporting – provide support to the Board by 
monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and ensuring 
that the published financial statements of the Group and 
any formal announcements relating to the Company’s 
financial performance comply fully with the relevant 
statutes and accounting standards. 
 Internal control and risk systems – review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems. 
 Internal audit – monitor and review the annual internal 
audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function 
is adequately resourced and free from management 
restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings 
and recommendations of the internal auditors. 
 External audit – advise the Board on the appointment, 
reappointment, remuneration and removal of the  
external auditors. 
 Employee concerns – review the Company’s 
arrangements under which employees may in confidence 
raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in 
financial reporting or other matters. The Audit Committee  
ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and 
independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action. 
The Audit Committee also meets independently with the 
Company’s auditors and with the Group Head of Internal 
Audit and Risk Management to informally discuss matters 
of interest. 
External auditors: 
KPMG Luxembourg S.à r.l. were the Company’s auditors 
for the year ended 31 December 2011. For 2012, the  
Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a 
resolution to reappoint KPMG Luxembourg S.à r.l. as  
the Company’s auditors be proposed at the AGM. The 
Audit Committee will continue to keep under review the 
independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the 
effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the 
lead audit partner. 
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by  
the Company’s external auditors is monitored by and, 
above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the 
Audit Committee to ensure that the provision of non-audit 
services does not impair their independence or objectivity. 
During the year, KPMG performed due diligence work on 
certain acquisitions. KPMG is prohibited from providing 
services that would be considered to jeopardise their 
independence such as book keeping services, valuations 
and system design.  
Remuneration Committee 
Elmar Heggen (Chairman)  
Lance Browne 
Alex Sulkowski  
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in  
the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38.  
Nomination Committee 
Douglas Sutherland (Chairman)  
Lance Browne 
Elmar Heggen 
Alex Sulkowski 
The Nomination Committee meets as required during the 
year to consider matters delegated to it under its terms of 
reference. Board effectiveness, performance and leadership 
were discussed informally by the Board as a whole.  
Summary terms of reference: 
 Board appointment and composition – to regularly review 
the structure, size and composition of the Board and 
make recommendations on the role and nomination  
of Directors for appointment and re-appointment to  
the Board for the purpose of ensuring a balanced Board 
in respect of skills, knowledge and experience.  
 Board Committees – to make recommendations to  
the Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for 
membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
The appointment and removal of Directors are matters 
reserved for the full Board.  
 Board effectiveness – to assess the role of Chairman and 
Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations 
to the Board. 
 Board performance – to assist the Chairman with  
the annual performance evaluation to assess the 
performance and effectiveness of the overall Board  
and individual Directors.  
 Leadership – to remain fully informed about strategic 
issues and commercial matters affecting the Company 
and to keep under review the leadership needs of the 
organisation to enable it to compete effectively.  26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance continued 
 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could 
have an impact on the Group’s long-term performance.  
The Group has a risk management structure in place 
designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risks. 
Risk assessment and evaluation is an essential part of  
the annual planning, budgeting and forecasting cycle. 
The Directors have identified the following principal risks 
and uncertainties affecting the Company. These do  
not constitute all of the risks facing the Group.  
Economic downturn in significant markets 
The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in  
the Americas (predominantly the USA) and Europe. An 
economic downturn in these markets could adversely affect 
the Group’s operating revenues thereby reducing operating 
performance or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in 
operating losses. 
Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues 
from customers and pays its suppliers (principally landlords) 
are matched to reduce working capital needs. However,  
a reduction in revenues, with no immediate decline in the 
cost base, could result in significant funding shortfalls in  
the business. Any funding shortfall may require the Group 
to seek external funding or sell assets in the longer term. 
In addition, competition may increase as a result of 
landlords offering surplus space at discounted prices and 
companies seeking to reduce their costs by sub-letting 
space. These factors could result in reduced revenue for 
the Group as the prices it is able to charge customers 
would be reduced. 
The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate  
this risk: 
 the Group has entered into performance-based leases 
with landlords where rent costs vary with revenues 
earned by the centre;  
 building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic 
intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they 
become onerous. In cities with a number of centres  
this allows the Group to stagger leases such that an  
orderly reduction in exposure to the location may be 
facilitated; and  
 the profile of clients in a centre is continually reviewed  
to avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients  
in a particular industry group. 
Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has a 
number of options for mitigating losses, for example by 
closing centres at lease break points. 
The Group’s strategy also focuses its growth into emerging 
markets that will reduce the proportion of the Group’s 
revenue generated from the USA and Europe over time and 
provide better protection to the Group from an economic 
downturn in a single market. 
Exposure to movements in property markets 
A number of the Group’s lease contracts contain market rent 
review clauses. This means that the costs of these leases 
may vary as a result of external movements in the property 
market. In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically 
contain ‘upward only’ rent reviews which means that should 
open market rents decrease, then Regus could be exposed 
to paying higher than market rent in these locations.  
If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to 
customers due to local property market conditions then  
this could result in reduced profitability or operating losses 
in these markets.  
Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent 
review clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below 
market rent in a market with increasing open market rents. 
This may allow the Group to improve profitability if the 
movements in open market rents are passed on to clients. 
The length of the Group’s leases (or the period after which 
the Group can exercise any break option in the leases) is 
usually significantly longer than the duration of the Group’s 
contracts with its customers. If demand falls, the Group 
may be unable to increase or maintain occupancy or price 
levels and if revenue declines the Group may be unable  
to reduce the lease cost base. Additional costs could be 
incurred if the Group disposes of unprofitable centres.  
Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value  
of certain Group assets could result in impairment 
Regus completes a review of the carrying value of its assets 
annually to assess whether those carrying values can be 
supported by the net present value of future cash flows 
derived from such assets. This review examines the 
continued appropriateness of the assumptions in respect  
of which the carrying values of certain of the Group’s assets 
are based. This includes an assessment of discount rates 
and long-term growth rates, and timing and quantum of 
future capital expenditure. Due to the Group’s substantial 
carrying value of goodwill under IFRS, the revision of any of 
these assumptions to reflect current or anticipated changes 
in operations or the financial condition of the Group could 
lead to an impairment in the carrying value of certain assets 
in the Group. While impairment does not impact reported 
cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge in the 
consolidated income statement and thus no assurance can 
be given that any future impairments would not affect the 
Company’s reported distributable reserves and therefore  
its ability to make distributions to its shareholders or 
repurchase its shares.   www.regus.com/investors 27
Corporate Governance
 
 
The Group’s geographic expansion may increase 
exposure to unpredictable economic, political and  
legal risks 
Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets 
have historically been less predictable than in countries  
with more developed institutional structures. As the Group 
increasingly enters into emerging markets, the value of the 
Group’s investments may be adversely affected by political, 
economic and legal developments which are beyond the 
Group’s control. 
Exposure to movements in exchange rates 
The Group has significant overseas operations whose 
businesses are generally conducted in the currency of  
the country in which they operate. The principal exposures 
of the Group are to the US dollar and the euro with 
approximately 32% of the Group’s revenues being 
attributable to the US dollar and 16% to the euro.  
Given that transactions generally take place in the functional 
currency of Group companies, the Group’s exposure to 
transactional foreign exchange risk is limited. However, the 
translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets 
will be affected by prevailing exchange rates. In the event 
that either the US dollar or euro were to significantly 
depreciate or appreciate against sterling, this would have 
an adverse or beneficial impact to the Group’s reported 
performance and position respectively. 
The financial risk management objectives and policies of  
the Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to 
such risks, are set out in note 24 of the Accounts. 
Wherever possible, the Group attempts to create natural 
hedges against currency exposures through matching 
income and expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the 
same currency.  
Given the continued volatility in exchange rates in January 
2009 the Board approved a policy which allows the  
Group to hedge, subject to strict limits, the rates at which 
overseas earnings are translated. This will enable the  
Group to have more certainty over the sterling value of 
these earnings. 
Group Structure 
As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of 
central administration (head office) in Luxembourg and being 
tax resident in Luxembourg, the Company is required to 
comply with both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where 
applicable. In addition, the Company’s ordinary shares are 
listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock 
Exchange. It is possible that conflicts may arise between the 
obligations of the Company under the laws of each of these 
jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and the Listing 
Rules. If an irreconcilable conflict were to occur then the 
Company may not be able to maintain its status as a 
company tax resident in Luxembourg. 
The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability 
could arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying  
out the Group reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.  
In addition, the Group believes that under current laws and 
regulations the risk of irreconcilable conflicts between current 
laws and regulations impacting Regus plc is also low. 
All shareholders are paid dividends directly from Regus plc 
SA (“plc”). All such dividends should be payable by plc 
without deduction of Luxembourg withholding tax, 
regardless of the residence of the recipient. 
In general terms, UK resident shareholders receiving 
dividends from plc should be taxed in the same way  
as if they had received a dividend from a UK company.  
Tax outcomes do, however, depend on the specific 
circumstances of shareholders and any shareholder in 
doubt about their tax position (including in particular UK 
resident but non-UK-domiciled individuals who have 
elected to be taxed on a remittance basis) should  
consult their own professional adviser. 
Centrally managed applications and systems 
The Group has moved to a centrally managed applications 
and systems environment with the resultant effect that  
all systems and applications are housed in a central data 
centre. Should the data centre be impacted as a result of 
circumstances outside of the Group’s control there could 
be an adverse impact on the Group’s operations and 
therefore its financial results. This risk is managed through  
a detailed service arrangement with our external data  
centre provider which incorporates appropriate back-up 
procedures and controls. 
Internal controls 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining  
a sound system of internal control and for periodically 
reviewing its effectiveness.  
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull 
Report “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on  
the Combined Code”, an ongoing process has been 
established for identifying, managing and evaluating the 
risks faced by the Group. The Group’s system of internal 
controls is designed to: 
 facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks 
which might affect the achievement of the Group’s 
objectives; 
 safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss  
or fraud; 
 help ensure the quality of internal and external financial 
reporting; and 
 help ensure compliance with applicable laws  
and regulations.  28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance continued 
 
No system of internal control can provide absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The 
Group’s system of controls helps to manage, rather than 
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable assurance that potential 
problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in  
a timely manner for appropriate action. 
Strategy and risk management 
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Group’s 
strategic direction. Country and regional strategic 
objectives, quarterly plans and performance targets for 
2012 have been set by the Executive Directors and are 
regularly reviewed by the Board in the context of the 
Group’s overall objectives. 
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the risks faced by the Group. Major business  
risks and their financial implications are appraised by the 
responsible executives as a part of the budget process  
and are endorsed by regional management. Key risks  
are reported to the Board and the Audit Committee. The 
appropriateness of controls is considered by the executives, 
having regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the likelihood 
of risks crystallising. Key risks and actions to mitigate those 
risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally 
reviewed and approved by the Board annually.  
Control environment 
High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at  
all levels in the Group. The following procedures are in 
place to support this: 
 the induction process is used to educate new team 
members on the standards required from them in  
their role, including business ethics and compliance, 
regulations and internal policies; 
 all team members are provided with a copy of the  
‘Team Member Handbook’ which contains detailed 
guidance on employee policies and the standards of 
behaviour required of staff; 
 policies and procedure manuals and guidelines are 
readily accessible through the Group’s intranet site; and 
 operational audit and self-certification tools which require 
individual centre managers to confirm their adherence  
to Group policies and procedures.  
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Group’s 
policy to recruit and develop appropriately skilled 
management and staff of high calibre, integrity and with 
appropriate disciplines.  
The Group has also established an externally hosted 
whistle-blowing channel which is open to all staff to  
report issues and concerns in confidence. 
Control processes 
The Company has had procedures in place throughout  
the year and up to 20 March 2012, the date of approval  
of this Annual Report, which accord with the Internal 
Control Guidance for Directors in the Code. These  
include the following: 
 the Board normally meets with regional executives every 
six months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group 
and regional financial performance, business 
development opportunities, Group infrastructure and 
general Group management issues; 
 the annual budget process is driven from senior 
management meetings. Budgets are prepared at a 
detailed level by business centre and roll-up at country 
and regional level. The Executive Directors review 
regional budgets to ensure consistency with regional 
strategic objectives and the final budget is reviewed and 
approved by the Board. The approved budget forms the 
basis of business management throughout the year; 
 operational reports and financial reports are prepared 
and distributed to the Board on a monthly basis. Actual 
results are reviewed against budget and forecast and 
explanations are received for all material movements; 
 key policies and control procedures (including finance, 
operations, and health and safety) are documented in 
manuals having Group-wide application. These are 
available to all staff on the Group’s intranet system; 
 the Board has formal procedures in place for the review 
and approval of investment and acquisition projects. The 
Group Investment Committee (comprising the Executive 
Directors) review all investments prior to approval by the 
Board. Additionally the form and content of investment 
proposals is standardised to facilitate the review process; 
 the Group has clearly delegated authority limits with 
regard to the approval of transactions. Purchase orders 
must be obtained in advance for all purchases in excess 
of £1,000; and 
 numerous reports are generated from the Group’s sales 
and operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly 
basis to provide management at all levels with 
performance data for their area of responsibility which 
helps them to focus on operational issues that may 
require their input.   www.regus.com/investors 29
Corporate Governance
 
 
Information and communications processes 
The senior management team are integrally involved in the 
business and to this extent regularly discuss and address 
issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams. 
Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, 
are held with the regional teams and functional heads on  
a monthly basis. 
Regular staff communications include general information on 
the business from senior management as well as operational 
guidance on changes in policies and procedures.  
Sales staff and operational management periodically  
attend regional sales or management conferences at which 
information on operational issues is shared. Delegates present 
the key messages to employees who did not attend the event.  
Monitoring effectiveness 
The following key mechanisms were available to the Board 
at various times during the year in the conduct of its review 
of internal controls: 
 review of the Group’s monthly management accounts 
which contain detailed analysis of financial performance 
for the Group and each of the Group’s geographic 
reporting segments; 
 an ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, 
senior management meetings and divisional reviews as 
well as other management meetings, for the formal 
identification of significant operational risks and mitigating 
control processes; 
 internal audit reviews of key risk areas. The findings and 
recommendations of each review are reported to 
management and the Audit Committee; 
 quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the 
Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness  
of investment activity; and 
 a bi-annual internal control self-assessment and 
management certification exercise covering the 
effectiveness of financial and operational controls. This is 
based on a comprehensive internal control questionnaire 
collated and reviewed by Internal Audit. Results and any 
necessary mitigating action plans are presented to senior 
management and the Board. 
Other matters 
Board performance evaluation 
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board was 
carried out by the Chairman. The aim was to ensure 
continuous improvement in the functioning of the Board. 
Training and resources  
Appropriate training is made available for all new Directors 
to assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities. 
Training is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular 
needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting 
developments. 
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, 
provided updates to the Board on relevant governance 
matters, whilst the Audit Committee regularly considers  
new accounting developments through presentations from 
management, internal audit and the external auditors. The 
Board programme includes presentations from management 
which, together with site visits, increase the Non-Executive 
Directors understanding of the business and sector. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory 
compliance are followed and complied with. Should a 
Director request independent professional advice to  
carry out his duties, such advice is available to him at  
the Company’s expense. 
Directors and officers insurance 
The Group’s insurance programme is reviewed annually 
and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the 
Directors and senior management in the event of a claim 
being brought against any of them in their capacity as 
Directors and officers of the Company. 
Dialogue with shareholders  
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, 
with the half year results announced in August or September 
and the final results announced normally in March. There are 
programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer to give presentations of these results to the 
Company’s institutional investors, analysts and media in 
London and other locations. The Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer maintain a close dialogue with institutional 
investors on the Company’s performance, governance, 
plans and objectives. These meetings also serve to develop 
an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns  
of the Company’s major shareholders. 
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates  
as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the 
Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders  
on request. The principal communication with private 
shareholders is through the Annual Report, the half year 
results and the AGM. 
The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick  
as their investor relations adviser.  30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance continued 
 
AGM 
The AGM each year is held in May in Luxembourg and is 
attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all 
members of the Board. In addition to the formal business  
of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and 
shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given  
the opportunity to meet the Directors informally afterwards. 
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents 
are required to be mailed to shareholders at least 30 clear 
days before the meeting and separate resolutions are 
proposed on each issue. The voting in respect of all 
resolutions to be put to the AGM will be conducted by 
means of a poll vote. 
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and 
against each resolution, together with the level of 
abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting  
following voting on a poll.  
Financial and other information is made available on  
the Company’s website: www.regus.com. 
Re-election of the Board  
As required by the Code, all Directors submit themselves  
for re-election by shareholders annually and Directors 
appointed during the period since the last AGM are 
required to seek election at the next AGM under the 
Company’s articles of association. 
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the re-election 
requirements and serve the Company under letters of 
appointment, which have an initial three year term. 
Compliance statement 
The Company has complied with the provisions set out  
in section E of the Code throughout the year ended  
31 December 2011, with the exception of the following: 
 Provision E.1.1 – The Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director Lance Browne does not have regular meetings 
with major external shareholders.  
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to  
be the main conduit with investors, rather than the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. The Chairman 
participates in investor meetings and makes himself available 
for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements. 
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results 
of his meetings and the opinions of investors. On this basis, 
the Board considers that the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues 
and concerns of major shareholders. Notwithstanding this 
policy, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate  
in meetings with investors.  www.regus.com/investors 31
Corporate Governance
Directors’ statements 
 
 
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  
in respect of the annual report and  
financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.  
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with 
Luxembourg Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and 
applicable law.  
Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
parent company and their profit or loss for the period.  
In preparing each of the Group and parent company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to:  
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently; 
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent; 
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU; 
 for the parent company financial statements, state 
whether applicable Luxembourg accounting standards 
have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the parent company financial 
statements; and 
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and which disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of  
the parent company and to enable them to ensure that  
its financial statements comply with applicable law and 
regulations. They have general responsibility for taking  
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard 
the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud  
and other irregularities.  
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors  
are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report,  
a Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s websites. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  
Statutory statement as to disclosure to auditor 
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of  
this Directors’ Report confirm that: 
 so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; 
and 
 each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to 
have taken as a director in order to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. 
These annual accounts have been approved by the 
Directors of the Company. The Directors confirm that the 
annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations and that they include a  
fair review of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the parent company and  
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face. 
We, the Directors of the Company, confirm that to the  
best of our knowledge: 
 the financial statements prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation as a whole; and 
 the Directors’ Report, including content contained by 
reference, includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of  
the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties  
that they face.  
By order of the Board 
Mark Dixon  Dominique Yates 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer  32 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Remuneration report 
 
 
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration 
Committee (the “Committee”) of Regus plc (société 
anonyme) (the “Company”) and approved by the Company’s 
Board of Directors (the “Board”). The report complies with 
the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008 and, in compliance with such regulations, 
a separate resolution approving this report will be put to 
shareholders at this year’s Annual General Meeting.  
This report sets out the Company’s policy on Directors’ 
remuneration for the forthcoming year as well as information 
on remuneration paid to Directors during the year. 
Information relating to the emoluments and pension 
contributions of the Directors, and Directors‘ interests in  
the Company‘s shares and under Employee Share Plans 
has been audited. 
Unaudited Information 
Membership and responsibilities of the Committee  
The Committee, which met four times during the year,  
is made up of Independent Non-Executive Directors and 
chaired by Elmar Heggen. During the year the members  
of the Committee were: 
 Elmar Heggen  
 Lance Browne 
 Alex Sulkowski 
The Committee has responsibility for determining, in 
consultation with the Chairman and / or Chief Executive  
as appropriate, the total remuneration package of the 
Executive Directors and senior managers, including 
bonuses, incentive payments and share options or  
other share awards. 
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to: 
 determine and agree with the Board the remuneration 
policy for the Executive Directors and other senior 
management positions within the Regus Group  
(the “Group”); and 
 approve the design of, and determine targets for, any 
performance-related pay schemes operated by the 
Company and approve the total annual payments  
made under such schemes.  
The Committee received ad-hoc advice on executive 
remuneration from Deloitte. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website: www.regus.com. The members of the 
Committee attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
and are available to answer shareholders’ questions about 
Directors’ remuneration.  
Compliance with the best practice provisions 
In accordance with the Board’s commitment to maintaining 
high standards of Corporate Governance, the Committee 
has complied with all remuneration-related aspects of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code during the year.  
Remuneration policy  
The principal objectives of the Committee’s remuneration 
policy are: 
 to focus on rewarding exceptional pay for exceptional 
performance: executives should be focused on delivering 
exceptional returns to shareholders over both the short 
and long-term and be given the opportunity to receive 
exceptional levels of reward if such performance is 
delivered. Conversely if returns are conservative, 
compensation levels should be conservative; and  
 to provide remuneration packages that will attract, retain 
and motivate people of the highest calibre and 
experience needed to shape and execute the Company’s 
strategy and to deliver exceptional shareholder value.  
The guiding principles which the Committee has regard to 
and balances, as far as practicable, in determining policy 
and objectives for 2012 and future years are: 
 to maintain a competitive package of total compensation, 
commensurate with comparable packages available with 
similar companies operating in similar markets; 
 to make a significant percentage of potential maximum 
reward conditional on short and long-term performance; 
 to ensure that the interests of the executives are closely 
aligned with those of the Company’s shareholders 
through the provision of share-based incentives; 
 to link reward to the satisfaction of targeted objectives 
which are the main drivers of shareholder value; and 
 to be sensitive in determining Executive Directors’ 
remuneration to pay and employment conditions 
throughout the Group. 
During 2011, the Committee reviewed the long-term 
incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors. It was 
decided that the Company’s share incentive arrangement, 
the Regus plc Co-Investment Plan (the “CIP”), which had 
first been approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual 
General Meeting and subsequently reapproved in 2008,  
be reintroduced. Further details relating to the CIP are set 
out on page 34. 
The table below illustrates the balance between fixed  
and performance-related (variable) compensation for the 
Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011:  
 
Mark Dixon 
Chief Executive Officer 
Dominique Yates 
Chief Financial Officer  
Fixed 51% 31% 
Variable 49% 69% 
Fixed compensation comprises salary, benefits and pension 
contributions. Variable compensation only comprises the 
total fair value of share awards granted in the year and the 
annual cash bonus payable in relation to the year ended  
31 December 2011.    www.regus.com/investors 33
Corporate Governance
 
 
 
The main elements of the packages and the performance 
conditions are described below.  
Service contracts 
Details of contracts currently in place for Directors are  
as follows: 
 
Effective  
date of contract  Term 
Notice period 
and maximum 
provision for 
compensation 
Executive    
Mark Dixon 14.10.08 – 12 months 
Dominique Yates 01.09.11 – 12 months 
Non Executive    
Elmar Heggen 01.06.10 3 yrs 6 months 
Lance Browne 27.08.08 3 yrs 6 months 
Alex Sulkowski 01.06.10 3 yrs 6 months 
Douglas Sutherland 27.08.08 3 yrs 6 months 
Remuneration packages  
The remuneration for the Executive Directors during the 
year comprised a basic salary, a benefit package and 
participation in the annual bonus scheme. As disclosed  
in last year‘s Directors Remuneration Report, Executive 
Directors did not participate in the CIP during 2011 pending 
review of the Company’s long-term incentive arrangements 
for Executive Directors during 2011. 
For 2012, following the review of the long-term incentive 
arrangements of the Executive Directors, to ensure that the 
interests of the Executive Directors continue to be closely 
aligned with those of the Company‘s shareholders the 
Committee agreed to continue the CIP. The first grant 
under the CIP will not be made until 2013. 
Basic salary and benefits  
The Committee reviewed the overall structure of the  
Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration package. It was 
noted that the level of his personal shareholding in the 
business created a significant alignment of interests  
with the performance of the business. As a result, it was 
concluded that at the current time it was appropriate to  
re-balance the package by increasing the level of fixed 
remuneration, whilst maintaining a reduced but sufficient 
performance-related element. In addition, the Committee 
noted that the Chief Executive Officer had received no 
salary increase since 2009, as well as considering 
comparative benchmarks, the continued development  
of the Group through the economic challenges of the last 
few years, and the evolution of inflation. As a result, for 
2012, the Chief Executive Officer’s salary will be increased 
to £565,000 and the maximum annual bonus opportunity  
will be reduced to 100% of salary. 
The Chief Financial Officer, who joined the Board in 
September 2011, was appointed on an annual base salary 
of CHF 495,000. This will remain unchanged for 2012 
except if the Swiss Franc / Pound Sterling exchange rate 
materially changes, in which event there is an ongoing 
adjustment mechanism in the employment contract. 
Benefits include a company car or allowance, fuel 
allowance, housing allowance and private health insurance.  
Annual bonus scheme 
The Committee believes firmly in the financial effectiveness 
of short-term incentives. Accordingly, incentive schemes 
are widely used across the business.  
The Committee sets bonus targets and eligibility each year.  
The maximum bonus potential, for the Executive Directors, 
for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 200% of salary, 
consisting of a standard bonus (100% of salary) and a 
discretionary bonus (100% of salary) for exceptional 
performance. 
The Committee has determined that the financial measures 
and targets required for the discretionary bonus were not 
achieved and therefore no bonus will be paid in respect of 
this element. The Committee has determined that there 
was a full achievement of the criteria for the standard  
bonus and, as such, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer will each receive a cash bonus equal to 
100% of salary (equivalent to 50% of the maximum bonus 
potential). The Committee believes that this level of payout 
reflects the Company’s performance during the year. 
The bonus payable to the Chief Financial Officer will be  
pro-rated to reflect the fact that he started his employment 
on 1 September 2011. 
For the year ending 31 December 2012, the maximum 
bonus potential for Executive Directors will be reduced to 
100% of annual salary. Half of any standard bonus paid will 
be paid in cash and half will be paid in “Investment Shares” 
in the Company. The purchase of the Investment Shares 
will be deferred for three years under the rules of the CIP. 
For further details on the CIP, please see page 34. 
No awards were made to the Executive Directors under  
the CIP in 2011. 
Bonuses are non-pensionable.  
Non-Executive Directors do not receive a bonus.  
Pension benefits 
The Executive Directors participate in the Company’s 
Money Purchase (Personal Pension) Scheme. The 
Company matches contributions up to a maximum of 7% 
of basic salary. The Committee considers that the pension 
benefits of the Executive Directors are low compared with 
comparative companies but prefers to offer enhanced 
variable compensation (rather than a fixed additional 
pension contribution). 
The Group does not operate a group-wide defined benefit 
pension scheme (with the exception of Switzerland, where 
such schemes are required by law), and has no plans to 
introduce such a scheme.  34 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Remuneration report continued 
 
Long-Term Incentives 
Overview 
The Company operates three long-term incentive plans:  
the CIP, the Regus plc Share Option Scheme and the 
Regus plc 2008 Value Creation Plan.  
Co-Investment plan (“CIP”) 
The Committee is keen to encourage Executive Directors  
to build significant shareholdings in relation to their 
remuneration and as such, following a review of the 
operation of the CIP in 2011, the Committee has  
decided to re-introduce the CIP. 
As a condition of participation in the CIP, it is expected  
that members will, over time, build up a shareholding 
equivalent to two times their salary using shares acquired 
from the scheme.  
There are two elements to the CIP: 
The first element operates in conjunction with the annual 
bonus whereby a gross bonus of up to 50% of basic  
annual salary will be taken as a deferred amount of shares 
(“Investment Shares”) to be released at the end of a defined 
period of not less than three years, with the balance paid  
in cash.  
Awards of Matching Shares are linked to the number of 
Investment Shares awarded and will vest depending on the 
Company’s future performance. In line with previous years, 
the Committee expects to place stretching performance 
targets based on earnings per share and total shareholder 
return in order to vest any Matching Share. No awards will 
be made under the CIP until 2013. 
The maximum number of Matching Shares which can be 
awarded to a participant in any calendar year under the  
CIP is 200% of salary. As such the maximum number  
of Matching Shares which can be awarded, based on 
Investment Shares awarded, is in the ratio of 4:1.  
The second element of the CIP provides for the Committee 
to make stand-alone long-term incentive awards (“LTIPs”) 
without reference to annual bonus up to a maximum of 
100% of salary per calendar year. An LTIP is a conditional 
right over a specified number of shares with the release 
being dependent on the extent to which (if at all) the 
challenging performance conditions set by the Committee 
at the time of the LTIP award are satisfied. There is no 
intention to make any LTIP awards in 2012. 
Regus plc Share Option Plan (the “SOP”) 
The SOP was introduced in 2008 in order to assist in the 
recruitment and retention of key employees and directors. 
Under the SOP, participants are granted options to buy 
shares in the Company at no less than the market value  
of the shares at the grant date. Such options may be either 
options to subscribe for new shares or options to purchase 
existing shares to be satisfied from an employee trust. 
Options may also be granted subject to a performance 
target which must then, in normal circumstances, be met 
before the option may be exercised.  
The options granted to the Executive Directors prior to  
the introduction of the CIP are set out below. As long as 
Executive Directors participate in the CIP (which was  
re-introduced in 2012), they will not be eligible to receive 
any share option awards.  
To aid the recruitment of the Chief Financial Officer, he 
received an option award (under the SOP) on joining the 
Company of over 1 million shares. These options will 
become exercisable in equal tranches in 2013, 2014 and 
2015, subject to the satisfaction of a pre-determined 
operating profit target in 2012. The Committee believes that 
this award of share options was the most appropriate way  
to facilitate recruitment in a way which was aligned to 
shareholder value creation over the next few years. 
Regus plc 2008 Value Creation Plan (the “VCP”)  
The VCP was introduced in 2008 as a one-off award  
with the objective of delivering exceptional rewards to 
participants provided absolute returns to shareholders  
are exceptional.  
The VCP operates over a five year period from May 2008  
to March 2013. Participants in the VCP are granted 
entitlements (“VCP Entitlements”) to receive a maximum 
number of shares which shall be earned by the conversion 
of the VCP Entitlements into an option or series of options 
(the “VCP Options”) which may be granted on certain dates 
(the “Measurement Dates”) based on the Company’s share 
price performance. The exercise price for VCP Options will 
be the closing share price on the date of the Company’s 
2008 AGM. 
VCP Entitlements granted in 2008: 
 Mark Dixon 
Number of shares subject to 
VCP Entitlement*  3.5m 
* VCP Entitlements hold no value. 
The share price of the Company will be calculated at each 
Measurement Date and compared against a matrix of 
extremely stretching fixed share price targets to determine 
the number of shares subject to the VCP Entitlement which 
a VCP Option will be granted over. If a lower share price 
target is achieved a VCP Option shall be granted over a 
lesser number of shares with the ability for the balance to 
be received at a subsequent measurement date subject  
to relevant share price targets being achieved.   www.regus.com/investors 35
Corporate Governance
 
 
 
The share price targets for the VCP Entitlements granted in 
2008 are as set out in the following table: 
 Measurement date 
 31/03/2010 31/03/2011 31/03/2012 31/03/2013 
 {Shares awarded less shares already earned} 
Share price 
less than 
£2.60 – – – – 
Share price 
is more 
than £2.60 
but less 
than £3.50 2.5m 1.8m 1.2m 0.6m 
Share price 
is more 
than £3.50 
but less 
than £4.50 3.5m 2.5m 1.8m 1.2m 
Share price 
is £4.50 or 
more – 3.5m 2.5m 1.8m 
In respect of the first and second Measurement Dates  
(31 March 2010 and 2011 respectively), the Company’s 
share price was below the target and no VCP Entitlements 
vested. It is expected that the Company’s share price  
will be below the target on the third Measurement Date  
(31 March 2012) as well and no VCP Entitlements will vest. 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
255 948
 Regus FTSE All Share FTSE 250
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
(20%)
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
 
The above graph shows the Company’s performance, 
measured by TSR; for the Group compared with the 
performance of the FTSE 250 Index and the All Share 
Index. The Committee consider the FTSE 250 Index 
relevant since it is an index of companies of similar size to 
the Company. As detailed earlier in the report the Company 
considers its TSR performance for share awards under  
the CIP in comparison to that of the All Share Index. 
External appointments 
As at 31 December 2011, the Executive Directors did not 
hold any external positions for which they received fees. 
Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments 
on external boards or committees so long as these are  
not deemed to interfere with the business of the Group.  
Any fees received in respect of these appointments would 
be retained directly by the relevant Executive Director.  
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee and the fees for the Non-
Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman  
and the Executive Directors.  
Fees are set at levels that are sufficient to attract and  
retain individuals with the required skills, experience and 
knowledge to allow the Board to effectively carry out its 
duties. The fees recognise the responsibility of the role  
and the time commitments required.  
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not receive 
any pension or other benefits, other than appropriate 
expenses, nor do they participate in any bonus or share 
option schemes. 
A review of Non-Executive Director fees was carried out  
in May 2011. This was the first review of fees since 2008. 
Following this review, and taking into account appropriate 
market data, the fees were increased. The fee policy with 
effect from 1 June 2011 is as follows: 
Chairman fee £165,000 
Non-Executive Director basic fee £42,000 
Additional fees:  
Senior Independent Director £6,000 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee £8,000 
Chair of the Audit Committee £8,000 
The fees paid during the year to each Non-Executive 
Director are shown in the table on page 36.  
Former Directors 
Stephen Gleadle stepped down from the Board in August 
2011. He was employed under a service contract dated  
18 August 2008 under which he was entitled to receive one 
year’s salary (£300,000) as compensation on termination.  
In addition to this, he was eligible for an annual bonus for 
2011 based on the achievement of bonus targets and  
the period of service during the year. The Committee 
considered the bonus at the same time as for other 
Executive Directors and concluded, based on the same 
criteria (and in recognition of Mr Gleadle’s contribution to 
the handover of the finance director role), that a bonus of 
£150,000 should be awarded. This was paid in cash 
following the year end. 
With regards to long-term incentives, his entitlements under 
the CIP, LTIP, SOP and VCP lapsed in full other than in 
respect of 229,007 Investment Shares awarded under the 
CIP, which were exercised following termination in 
accordance with the rules of that plan. 
  36 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Directors’ emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments, excluding pensions, of the Directors were as follows: 
  2011 
 
Salary 
£’000 
Fees
£’000
Benefits
£’000
Compensation 
for loss of 
office
£’000
Bonus
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Chairman   
Douglas Sutherland – 152.5 – – – 152.5 
Executive   
Mark Dixon 522.8 – 48.1 – 522.8 1,093.7 
Dominique Yates 
(a)
 110.0 – 42.0 – 110.0 262.0 
Stephen Gleadle 
(b)
 200.0 – 26.2 300.0 150.0 676.2 
Non-Executive    
Lance Brown – 54.7 – – – 54.7 
Elmar Heggen – 48.3 – – – 48.3 
Alex Sulkowski – 48.3 – – – 48.3 
 832.8 303.8 116.3 300.0 782.8 2,335.7 
 
  2010 
 
Salary 
£’000 
Fees
£’000
Benefits
£’000
Compensation 
for loss of office
£’000
Bonus
£’000
Total 
£’000 
Chairman   
Douglas Sutherland – 101.3 – – – 101.3 
Executive   
Mark Dixon 522.8 – 40.0 – 196.0 758.8 
Stephen Gleadle 
(b)
 300.0 –47.7 –112.5460.2 
Non-Executive    
Lance Brown – 51.2 – – – 51.2 
Elmar Heggen – 23.8 – – – 23.8 
John Matthews
 (c)
 – 97.7–––97.7 
Ulrich Ogiermann
 (d)
 – 43.7– ––43.7 
Martin Robinson
 (e)
 – 27.6– ––27.6 
Alex Sulkowski
 
 – 26.8–––26.8 
 822.8 372.187.7 308.51,591.1 
(a) Dominique Yates joined the Board with effect from 1 September 2011. 
(b) Stephen Gleadle stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 August 2011. 
(c) John Matthews stepped down from the Board with effect from 18 May 2010. 
(d) Ulrich Ogiermann stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 December 2010. 
(e) Martin Robinson stepped down from the Board with effect from 18 May 2010. 
Mark Dixon was the highest paid Director in both 2011 and 2010. Benefits include car and fuel allowance, medical insurance 
and life assurance.   www.regus.com/investors 37
Corporate Governance
 
 
 
Pension contributions 
£’000 2011 2010 
Mark Dixon 36.6 36.6 
Stephen Gleadle 12.1 21.0 
Dominique Yates – n/a 
 48.7 57.6 
Directors’ share interests  
The following Directors held beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2010,  
31 December 2011 and 20 March 2012. 
Executive 
20 March
2012
Ordinary 
Shares of 1p
31 December 
2011
Ordinary 
Shares of 1p 
31 December 
2010 
Ordinary 
Shares of 1p  
Mark Dixon (a) 322,028,792 322,028,792 322,028,792 
Stephen Gleadle n/a n/a 326,387 
Dominique Yates 641,989 641,989 n/a 
Non-Executive  
Lance Browne –– – 
Elmar Heggen –– – 
Ulrich Ogiermann n/a n/a 71,134 
Alex Sulkowski –– – 
Douglas Sutherland 400,000 400,000 350,000 
(a) The interests of Mark Dixon are held indirectly through Estorn Limited, an entity in which Mark Dixon controls 100% of the share capital.  
Directors’ share options 
As at 31 December 2011, the beneficial interest of the Directors in options granted under the Regus plc Share Option Plan 
are shown below.  
    Share Options 
 
At 1 
January 
2011 
Awards 
Granted 
2011 
Awards 
Exercised 
2011 
Awards 
Lapsed
2011
At 31 
December 
2011
Average 
option 
price 
(p)
Average 
exercise 
price 
(p) Expiry date 
Mark Dixon – – – – – – – – 
Stephen Gleadle – – – – – – – – 
Dominique Yates – 1,000,000 – –1,000,000 22.7674.3502/09/2021 
Directors’ interests under the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) 
Details of awards over ordinary shares in the Company granted to the Directors under the LTIP, as nil cost options, are  
as follows:  
 LTIP 
 
At 1
January
2011
Awards 
Granted
2011
Awards
Lapsed
2011
Awards 
Exercised
2011
At 31 
December 
2011 
Mark Dixon 520,149 – – – 520,149 
Stephen Gleadle 298,507 – 298,507 – – 
Dominique Yates –– –––  38 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Remuneration report continued 
 
Directors’ interests under the CIP 
Details of awards over ordinary shares in the Company granted to the Directors under the CIP, all for nil consideration,  
are as follows: 
   CIP 
Investment Shares 
At 1 
January 
2011 
Investment 
Awards 
released 
March  
2011 
Awards 
exercised
2011
Awards lapsed 
2011
2011
 Matching 
Awards 
exercised
2011
Awards made 
2011
At 31 
December 
2011 
Mark Dixon 715,815 – –––– 715,815 
Stephen Gleadle 384,286 155,279 229,007 –––– 
Matching shares    
Mark Dixon 2,863,260 n/a ––––2,863,260 
Stephen Gleadle 1,537,144 n/a – 1,537,144 – – – 
Dominique Yates – n/a ––––– 
During the year the CIP Investment Shares awarded in March 2008 were released. All of the Matching Shares awarded  
in March 2008 (normal vesting date March 2011) failed to meet the related performance conditions and therefore lapsed. 
The market price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 30 December 2011, the last dealing day of 2011, was 84.5p  
and the range during the year was 64p to 119p. 
None of the Directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the business of the  
Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year. 
Annual resolution 
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to approve the Remuneration Report at the AGM on 15 May 2012. 
Audit requirement  
Under Luxembourg law and regulations there is no requirement for the sections on Directors’ remuneration, shareholdings 
and pension benefits on pages 36 to 38 inclusive to be audited; therefore all sections of the Remuneration Report are  
un-audited. 
On behalf of the Board 
Elmar Heggen 
Chairman, 
Remuneration Committee  
20 March 2012   www.regus.com/investors 39
Financial Statements
Auditors’ report 
 
 
To the Shareholders of  
Regus plc (société anonyme) 
26, Boulevard Royal 
L-2449 Luxembourg 
REPORT OF THE RÉVISEUR  
D’ENTREPRISES AGRÉÉ 
Report on the consolidated  
financial statements 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Regus plc (société anonyme), which 
comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at  
31 December 2011 and the consolidated statements  
of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity  
and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information as set out on pages 40 to 87. 
Board of Directors’ responsibility for  
the consolidated financial statements  
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation 
and fair presentation of these consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, 
and for such internal control as the Board of Directors 
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements that are free from  
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
Responsibility of the Réviseur  
d’Entreprises agréé 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
consolidated financial statements based on our audit.  
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by  
the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier. 
Those standards require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated 
financial statements are free from material misstatement. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the 
consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected 
depend on the judgement of the Réviseur d’Entreprises 
agréé, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk 
assessments, the Réviseur d’Entreprises agréé considers 
internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements in 
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in  
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing 
an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal 
control. An audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the 
Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements.  
 
 
 
 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained  
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our  
audit opinion. 
Opinion 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements, as  
set out on pages 40 to 87, give a true and fair view of  
the consolidated financial position of Regus plc (société 
anonyme) as of 31 December 2011, and of its consolidated 
financial performance and its consolidated cash flows  
for the year then ended in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  
European Union. 
Report on other legal and regulatory 
requirements 
The consolidated Directors’ report, which is the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent  
with the consolidated financial statements.  
KPMG Luxembourg S.à r.l. 
Cabinet de révision agréé 
Thierry Ravasio 
Luxembourg, 20 March 2012  40 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Consolidated income statement 
 
 
  
Before 
exceptional 
items 
Exceptional 
items
note 6 
Year ended
31 Dec
2011 
Before 
exceptional 
 items 
Exceptional
 items
note 6
Year ended
31 Dec 
2010
Continuing operations notes 
Total
£m 
Total
£m 
Total
£m 
Total 
£m 
Total
£m
Total
£m
Revenue  3 1,162.6 – 1,162.6 1,040.4  – 1,040.4
Cost of sales  (887.4) – (887.4) (824.5) (11.9) (836.4)
Gross profit (centre contribution)  275.2 – 275.2 215.9 (11.9) 204.0
Administration expenses   (224.7) – (224.7) (193.3) (3.9) (197.2)
Share of profit on joint ventures  21 0.1 – 0.1 1.3 – 1.3 
Operating profit 5 50.6 – 50.6 23.9 (15.8) 8.1
Finance expense 8 (3.4) – (3.4) (2.0) – (2.0)
Finance income 8 1.3 – 1.3 1.8 – 1.8 
Other finance costs 9 (3.0) – (3.0) (0.1) – (0.1) 
Profit before tax for the year  45.5 – 45.5 23.6 (15.8) 7.8
Tax charge  10 (8.9) – (8.9) (5.6) (0.3) (5.9)
Profit after tax for the year  36.6 – 36.6 18.0 (16.1) 1.9
Attributable to:   
Equity shareholders of the parent  37.9 – 37.9 17.6 (16.1) 1.5 
Non-controlling interests  (1.3) – (1.3) 0.4 – 0.4 
Profit for the year  36.6 – 36.6 18.0 (16.1) 1.9
Earnings per ordinary share (EPS) 
after exceptional items:   
Basic (p) 11 4.0  0.2
Diluted (p) 11 4.0  0.2  www.regus.com/investors 41
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
 
 
 notes 
Year ended
31 Dec 2011
£m 
Year ended
31 Dec 2010
£m
Profit for the year  36.6 1.9
Other comprehensive income:  
Retirement benefit obligations 26 (0.1) –
Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations, net of income tax  (4.1) 15.5
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax  (4.2) 15.5
Total comprehensive income for the year  32.4 17.4
  
Total comprehensive income attributable to:  
Equity shareholders of the parent  33.7 17.0
Non-controlling interests  (1.3) 0.4 
  32.4 17.4 42 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
 
 Attributable to equity holders of the parent 
(a)
 
 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Treasury 
shares
£m
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Other
£m
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders 
£m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2010 9.5  (0.4) 37.1 10.5 15.3 427.5  499.5  – 499.5 
Profit for the year –  – – – – 1.5 1.5 0.4 1.9
Other comprehensive income –  – 15.5 – – – 15.5 – 15.5
Total comprehensive income for  
the year –  – 15.5 – – 1.5 17.0 0.4  17.4
Transactions with owners, recorded 
directly in equity:    
Share-based payments –  – – – –  1.2  1.2 –  1.2
Ordinary dividend paid –  – – – – (23.2) (23.2) – (23.2)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interest –  – – – – –  –  (0.3) (0.3)
Purchase of treasury shares in Regus plc – (7.3) – – – – (7.3) – (7.3)
Deferred tax effect of share options –  – – – –  (0.8)  (0.8) –  (0.8)
Settlement of share awards –  0.6 – – – (1.3) (0.7) – (0.7)
Balance at 31 December 2010 9.5  (7.1) 52.6 10.5 15.3 404.9 485.7 0.1 485.8
Profit for the year – – – – – 37.9 37.9 (1.3) 36.6
Other comprehensive income – – (4.1) – – (0.1) (4.2) – (4.2)
Total comprehensive income for  
the year – – (4.1) – – 37.8 33.7 (1.3) 32.4
    
Transactions with owners, recorded 
directly in equity:    
Share-based payments –  – – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Ordinary dividend paid –  – – – – (25.0) (25.0) – (25.0)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest –  – – – –(5.1) (5.1) 1.2(3.9)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interest –  – – – – – – – –
Purchase of treasury shares in Regus plc – – – – – – – – –
Deferred tax effect of share options –  – – – – – – – –
Settlement of share awards – – – – – (1.2) (1.2) – (1.2)
Balance at 31 December 2011 9.5 (7.1) 48.5 10.5 15.3 412.0 488.7 – 488.7
(a) Total reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 Share capital represents the net proceeds (the nominal value) on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital. 
 At 31 December 2011 Treasury shares represent 9,070,906 (2010: 9,070,906) ordinary shares of the Group that were acquired for the  
purposes of the Group’s employee share option plans and the share buy back programme. During the period, nil shares were purchased in the 
open market and nil treasury shares held by the Group were utilised to satisfy the exercise of share awards by employees. As at 20 March 2012, 
9,070,906 treasury shares were held. 
 The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of  
foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.  
 The revaluation reserve arose on the restatement of the assets and liabilities of the UK associate from historic to fair value at the time of  
the acquisition of the outstanding 58% interest on 19 April 2006. 
 Other reserves include £37.9 million arising from the Scheme of Arrangement undertaken on 14 October 2008, £6.5 million relating to merger 
reserves and £0.1 million to the redemption of preference shares partly offset by £29.2 million arising from the Scheme of Arrangement 
undertaken in 2003.  www.regus.com/investors 43
Financial Statements
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
 
 notes 
As at 
31 Dec 2011
£m 
As at
31 Dec 2010
£m
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 13 285.4 282.4 
Other intangible assets 14 45.9 48.4 
Property, plant and equipment 15 320.9 270.8 
Deferred tax assets 10 32.8 37.1
Other long-term receivables 16 37.9 34.0 
Investments in joint ventures  21 2.6 3.9 
  725.5 676.6
Current assets  
Trade and other receivables 17 271.3 248.7
Corporation tax receivable 10 7.4 13.3
Liquid investments  23 – 10.4
Cash and cash equivalents 23 197.5 194.2 
  476.2 466.6 
Total assets  1,201.7 1,143.2 
Current liabilities  
Trade and other payables 18 (425.1) (388.4)
Deferred income  (141.6) (125.8)
Corporation tax payable  (6.3) (17.0)
Obligations under finance leases 19 (1.5) (2.3)
Bank and other loans 19 (0.9) (5.5)
Provisions  20 (3.0) (2.8)
  (578.4) (541.8)
Net current liabilities  (102.2) (75.2)
Total assets less current liabilities  623.3 601.4
Non-current liabilities  
Other payables 18 (117.8) (99.1)
Obligations under finance leases 19 (0.8) (1.9)
Bank and other loans 19 (6.0) (3.4) 
Deferred tax liability 10 (0.5) (0.1)
Provisions  20 (8.2) (9.8)
Provision for deficit on joint ventures 21 (1.2) (1.3)
Retirement benefit obligations 26 (0.1) –
  (134.6) (115.6)
Total liabilities   (713.0) (657.4)
Total assets less liabilities  488.7 485.8
Total equity  
Issued share capital 22 9.5 9.5 
Treasury shares  (7.1) (7.1)
Foreign currency translation reserve  48.5 52.6
Revaluation reserve  10.5 10.5
Other reserves  15.3 15.3
Retained earnings  412.0 404.9
Total shareholders’ equity  488.7 485.7 
Non-controlling interests  – 0.1
Total equity  488.7 485.8
Total equity and liabilities  1,201.7 1,143.2
Approved by the Board on 20 March 2012 
Mark Dixon   Dominique Yates 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer  44 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Consolidated cash flow statement 
 
 notes 
Year ended
31 Dec 2011
£m 
Year ended
31 Dec 2010
£m
Profit before tax for the year  45.5 7.8
Adjustments for:  
Net finance costs 8, 9 5.1 0.2 
Share of profit after tax on joint ventures 21 (0.1) (1.3)
Depreciation charge 5, 15 66.8 67.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  1.2 1.6 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5, 14 6.7 6.2 
(Decrease)/increase in provisions 20 (1.4) 0.4 
Other non-cash movements – share-based payments  0.6 1.2 
Other non-cash movements – unrealised foreign currency loss/(gain)  (2.0) –
Exceptional costs/(net income) 6 – 15.8
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital  122.4 99.1 
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables  (29.1) (30.1) 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  79.9 40.7
Cash generated from operations (before exceptional items)  173.2 109.7
Cash (outflow)/inflow from exceptional items  (1.9) (13.7) 
Cash generated from operations (after exceptional items)  171.3 96.0
Interest paid on finance leases  (0.2) (0.1)
Interest paid on credit facilities  (1.9) (1.6)
Tax paid  (10.6) (15.5)
Net cash inflow from operating activities  158.6 78.8
Investing activities  
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash acquired) 27 (6.2) (17.0) 
Disposal of subsidiary undertakings (net of cash disposed of)  (1.8) –
Dividends received from joint ventures 21 1.4 1.6 
Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment  – 0.3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 15 (118.9) (73.5)
Purchase of intangible assets 14 (3.9) (2.4)
Interest received 8 1.2 1.8
Decrease in liquid investments 23 10.4 29.6
Net cash outflow from investing activities  (117.8) (59.6)
Financing activities  
Net proceeds from issue of loans 8 0.2 2.9
Repayment of loans  (1.3) (1.4)
Repayment of capital elements of finance leases  (2.0) (2.1)
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests 27 (3.9) –
Purchase of treasury shares 22 – (7.3)
Settlement of share awards  (1.2) (0.7)
Payment of ordinary dividend 12 (25.0) (23.2)
Payment of dividend to non-controlling interest  – (0.3)
Net cash outflow from financing activities  (33.2) (32.1)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  7.6 (12.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  194.2 205.1 
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  (4.3) 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 23 197.5 194.2  www.regus.com/investors 45
Financial Statements
Notes to the accounts 
 
 
 
1. Authorisation of financial statements 
The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 March 
2012 and the balance sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Mark Dixon and Dominique Yates. Regus plc S.A. is a public limited company 
incorporated in Jersey and registered and domiciled in Luxembourg. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRSs’). The Company prepares its parent company financial statements in accordance with Luxembourg GAAP; 
extracts from these are presented on page 88. 
2. Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the parent company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and equity 
account the Group’s interest in the associate and jointly controlled entities. The extract from the parent company financial statements presents 
information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group. 
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements. Amendments to 
adopted IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
(IFRIC) with an effective date from 1 January 2011 did not have a material effect on the Group financial statements. 
IAS 24 Related Party transactions (Amendment) clarifies the definitions of a related party. The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of 
related party relationships as well as clarifying in which circumstances persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of 
an entity. The amendment also introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements for transactions with a government 
and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity. The adoption of this 
amendment has no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. 
IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation (Amendment) alters the definition of a financial liability in IAS 32 to enable entities to classify rights issues 
and certain options or warrants as equity instruments. The amendment is applicable if the rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of  
the same class of an entity’s non-derivative equity instruments, to acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount  
in any currency. The adoption of this amendment has no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group. 
IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a Minimum Funding Requirement (Amendment) removes an unintended consequence when an entity is subject to minimum 
funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements. The amendment permits a prepayment of future 
service cost by the entity to be recognised as a pension asset. The amendment to the interpretation has no impact on the financial position or 
performance of the Group. 
Improvements to IFRSs (issued in May 2010); the International Accounting Standards Board issued its third omnibus of amendments to its 
standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact  
on the financial position or performance of the Group. 
The following interpretation and amendments to interpretations did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group: 
 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 
 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and 
estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 33. 
The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, with the exception of certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured at  
fair value.  
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources  
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements on pages 40 to 87.   46 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
2. Accounting policies continued 
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the further information included in the 
business activities commentary as set out on pages 5 to 11 as well as the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 26 and 27.  
Further details on the going concern basis of preparation can be found in note 24 to the notes to the accounts on page 68. 
These Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (£), which is Regus plc’s functional currency, and all values are in million pounds, 
rounded to one decimal place, except where indicated otherwise. 
The attributable results of those companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the periods of ownership. 
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies. The consolidated 
financial statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the 
date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases or the associate qualifies as a disposal group at which  
point the investment is carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value.  
Joint ventures include jointly controlled entities that are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual 
agreement. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the total recognised gains and losses of jointly controlled entities on 
an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases or the jointly controlled entity qualifies 
as a disposal group at which point the investment is carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value.  
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in a joint venture, the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses  
is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of a joint venture. 
On 19 April 2006 the Group acquired the remaining 58% of the shares of the UK business that were not already owned by the Group. As a  
result the Group fully consolidated the UK business from that date. The acquisition was accounted for through the purchase method and as a 
consequence the entire assets and liabilities of the UK business were revalued to fair value. The effect of these adjustments on the 42% of the  
UK business already owned was reflected in the revaluation reserve. 
On 14 October 2008, Regus plc acquired the entire share capital of Regus Group plc in exchange for the issue of new shares of Regus plc on  
the basis of one share in Regus plc for one share held previously in Regus Group plc. At the date of the transaction, Regus plc had nominal assets 
and liabilities and therefore the transaction was accounted for as a reverse acquisition of Regus plc by Regus Group plc. Consequently no fair value 
acquisition adjustments were required and the aggregate of the Group reserves have been attributed to Regus plc. 
IFRSs not yet effective 
The following IFRSs have been issued but have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements as they are effective for years beginning 
on or after 1 January 2012. Their adoption is not expected to have a material effect on the financial statements unless otherwise indicated: 
IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation introduces amendments to improve the presentation of the components of other comprehensive income. 
This statement is effective for years beginning on or after 1 July 2012. 
IAS 12 Income Taxes (Amendment) introduces a rebuttable assumption that deferred tax on investment properties measured at fair value will  
be recognised on a sale basis, unless an entity has a business model that would indicate the investment property will be consumed in business.  
This statement is effective for years beginning on or after 1 July 2011. 
IFRS 7 Financial instruments – Disclosures (Amendment) requires additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures relating to the transfer of assets, 
when financial assets are derecognised in their entirety, but the entity has a continuing involvement in them, and when financial assets are not 
derecognised in their entirety. These amendments are effective for years beginning on or after 1 July 2011. 
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Classification and Measurement addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities  
as defined in IAS 39. This statement will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2015. 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements by changing whether an entity is 
consolidated by revising the definition of control. The statement also provided a number of clarifications on applying this new definition of control. 
This statement will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements established principles for the financial reporting by parties to a joint arrangement. Joint control is defined as the 
contractually agreed sharing on control of an arrangement, which exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control. This statement will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities combines, enhances and replaces the disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, joint arrangements, 
associated and unconsolidated structured entities. This statement will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an entity  
is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted. This 
statement will be effective for years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. 
The Group did not adopt any standards, interpretations and amendments to standards which were available for optional early adoption and relevant 
to the Group. 
The Group will adopt the above standards or amendments in the year in which they become effective.   www.regus.com/investors 47
Financial Statements
 
 
 
Basis of consolidation 
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable  
or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date  
that control commences. The results are consolidated until the date control ceases or the subsidiary qualifies as a disposal group at which point  
the assets and liabilities are carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value. 
Impairment of non-financial assets 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets other than deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there  
is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. 
For goodwill, and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount 
was estimated at 31 October 2011 and updated at 31 December 2011. 
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment 
losses are recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the 
cash-generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. A cash-generating unit is the smallest 
identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. 
Calculation of recoverable amount 
The recoverable amount of relevant assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
Goodwill 
All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition over  
the share of the fair value of identifiable assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate, asset deal 
acquisition or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition. 
Positive goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value. An impairment test is carried out annually and, in addition, whenever 
indicators exist that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Positive goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of 
impairment testing.  
Business combinations that took place prior to the Group’s transition date to IFRS on 1 January 2004 have not been restated under the 
requirements of IFRS. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired separately from the business are capitalised at cost. Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business  
are capitalised separately from goodwill if their fair value can be identified and measured reliably on initial recognition. 
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets as follows: 
Brand – Regus brand Indefinite life
Brand – Other acquired brands 20 years
Computer software 3 – 5 years
Customer lists 1 – 2 years
Management agreements Minimum duration of the contract
Amortisation of intangible assets is expensed through administration expenses in the income statement. 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests 
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is 
recognised as a result. Adjustments to non-controlling interests arising from transactions that do not involve the loss of control are based on a 
proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.  48 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
2. Accounting policies continued 
Leases 
Plant and equipment leases for which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.  
All other leases, including all of the Group’s property leases, are categorised as operating leases. 
Finance leases 
Plant and equipment acquired by way of a finance lease is capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of its fair value and the 
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception. Future payments under finance leases are included in creditors, net of any future finance 
charges. Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. Finance charges are 
recognised in the income statement over the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. 
Operating leases 
Minimum lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Lease 
incentives and rent free periods are included in the calculation of minimum lease payments. The commencement of the lease term is the date from 
which the Group is entitled to use the leased asset. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, together with any further periods for 
which the Group has the option to continue to lease the asset and when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the Group will 
exercise that option. 
Contingent rentals include rent increases based on future inflation indices or non-guaranteed rental payments based on centre turnover or 
profitability and are excluded from the calculation of minimum lease payments. Contingent rentals are recognised in the income statement as  
they are incurred. 
Onerous lease provisions are an estimate of the net amounts payable under the terms of the lease to the first break point, discounted at an 
appropriate weighted average cost of capital. 
Exceptional Items 
Exceptional items are those items which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance. Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are separately disclosed either in  
the notes to the consolidated financial statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.  
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Depreciation is calculated on a  
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets as follows: 
Buildings 20 years
Fixtures and fittings Over the shorter of the lease term and 10 years
Furniture 10 years
Office equipment and telephones 5 – 10 years
Motor vehicles 4 years
Computer hardware 3 – 5 years
Revenue 
Revenue from the provision of services to customers is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable (excluding sales taxes). 
Where rent free periods are granted to customers, rental income is spread on a straight-line basis over the length of the customer contract. 
Workstations 
Workstation revenue is recognised when the provision of the service is rendered. Amounts invoiced in advance are deferred and recognised as 
revenue upon provision of the service. 
Customer service income 
Service income (including the rental of meeting rooms) is recognised as services are rendered. In circumstances where Regus acts as an agent  
for the sale and purchase of goods to customers, only the commission fee earned is recognised as revenue. 
Management and franchise fees 
Fees received for the provision of initial and subsequent services are recognised as revenue as the services are rendered. Fees charged for the  
use of continuing rights granted by the agreement, or for other services provided during the period of the agreement, are recognised as revenue  
as the services are provided or the rights used. 
Membership card income 
Revenue from the sale of membership cards is deferred and recognised over the period that the benefits of the membership card are expected  
to be provided. 
These categories represent all material sources of revenue earned from the provision of global workplace solutions. 
Employee benefits 
The Group’s major pension plans are of the defined contribution type. For these plans the Group’s contribution and other paid and unpaid  
benefits earned by the employees are charged to the income statement as incurred.   www.regus.com/investors 49
Financial Statements
 
 
 
For the defined benefit obligation plans, the employer’s portion of past and current services cost is charged to operating profit, with the interest  
cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance costs. Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full, directly in  
other comprehensive income such that the balance sheet reflects the plan’s deficits as at the balance sheet date. 
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future 
salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long-term 
nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using an appropriate discount rate.  
In determining this discount rate, management considers the interest rates of corporate bonds in the respective currency with at least AA rating, with 
extrapolated maturities corresponding to the expected duration of the defined benefit obligation. The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality 
tables for the specific country. Future salary increases and pension increases are based on expected future inflation rates for the respective country. 
Further details about the assumptions used are given in note 26. 
Share-based payments 
The share option programme entitles certain employees and Directors to acquire shares of the ultimate parent company; these awards are granted 
by the ultimate parent. 
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is measured at grant 
date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted  
is measured using the Black-Scholes valuation model or the Monte Carlo method, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the 
options were granted. 
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to  
share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Share appreciation rights (CIP) are also granted by the Company to certain employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is 
recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is initially recognised at grant date and spread over the period 
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share appreciation rights is measured based on  
the Monte Carlo valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.  
The Group also operates a Value Creation Plan which awards entitlements to certain employees and Directors of the Group. These entitlements  
are convertible into options over ordinary shares subject to the Group’s share price reaching certain targets.  
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is initially 
recognised at the date of the award of the entitlements and spread over the period during which the entitlements are convertible into ordinary shares. 
The fair value of the entitlements is based on the Monte Carlo valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the 
instruments were granted. 
Taxation 
Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates  
to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. 
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition 
of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination; and differences relating to investments 
in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the 
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at  
the balance sheet date. 
A deferred tax asset is recognised for all unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
Provisions 
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event that can  
be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 
Restructuring provisions are made for direct expenditures of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced 
and where the appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date. 
Provision is made for onerous contracts to the extent that the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic 
benefits expected to be delivered, discounted using an appropriate weighted average cost of capital.  50 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
2. Accounting policies continued 
Net finance expenses 
Interest charges and income are accounted for in the income statement on an accruals basis. Financing transaction costs that relate to financial 
liabilities are charged to interest expense using the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial 
liability on the balance sheet. Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised as a prepayment and recognised through the finance 
expense over the term of the facility. In the event of a facility being drawn the relevant unamortised portion of the fee is recognised within the  
carrying value of the financial liability and charged to the interest expense using the effective interest rate method. 
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the discount  
is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate. 
Costs arising on bank guarantees & letters of credit and foreign exchange gains or losses have been classified separately as other finance costs  
in the income statement. 
Interest bearing borrowings and other financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities, including interest bearing borrowings, are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income 
statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis. 
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire. 
Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss where the liability is either held for trading or is designated  
as held at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value with any 
resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement. 
Financial assets 
Financial assets are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss, held to maturity investments, available for sale financial assets or loans  
and receivables. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined on initial recognition. 
Trade and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and 
receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment. Interest income  
is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when recognition would be immaterial. 
Liquid investments consist of held to maturity bonds and deposits. 
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the closing rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation 
are taken to the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. The results and cash flows of overseas operations are translated using the average 
rate for the period. Assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments, of foreign operations are translated using the closing rate with 
all exchange differences arising on consolidation being recognised other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign currency translation 
reserve in equity. Exchange differences are released to the income statement on disposal. Under the transition requirements of IFRS, cumulative 
translation differences for all foreign operations have been set to zero at 1 January 2004. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s policy on the use of derivative financial instruments can be found in note 24. Derivative financial instruments are measured initially at  
fair value and changes in the fair value are recognised through profit or loss unless the derivative financial instrument has been designated as a  
cash flow hedge whereby the effective portion of changes in the fair value are deferred in equity. 
Foreign currency translation rates 
At 31 December Annual average 
 2011 2010 2011 2010
US dollar 1.55 1.55  1.61 1.54
Euro 1.20 1.16  1.15 1.17 
Japanese yen 120 126 128 135 
   www.regus.com/investors 51
Financial Statements
 
 
 
3. Segmental analysis – statutory basis 
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, 
including those that relate to transactions with other operating segments. An operating segment’s results are reviewed regularly by the chief 
operating decision maker (the Board of Directors of the Group) to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess  
its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. 
The business is run on a worldwide basis but managed through four principal geographical segments: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA); Asia Pacific; and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom segment does not include the Group’s non-trading holding and corporate 
management companies that are based in the UK and the EMEA segment does not include the Group’s non-trading head office and holding 
companies that are based in Luxembourg and Switzerland. The results of business centres in each of these regions form the basis for reporting 
geographical results to the chief operating decision maker. All reportable segments are involved in the provision of global workplace solutions. 
The Group’s reportable segments operate in different markets and are managed separately because of the different economic characteristics  
that exist in each of those markets. Each reportable segment has its own discrete senior management team responsible for the performance of  
the segment. 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the Annual Report and Accounts for Regus plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2010. The performance of each segment is assessed on the basis of the segment operating profit which excludes certain non-
recurring items (including provisions for onerous contracts and asset write-downs), exceptional gains and losses, internal management charges and 
foreign exchange gains and losses arising on transactions with other operating segments. 
 Americas EMEA Asia Pacific United Kingdom 
All other operating 
segments Total 
 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010
£m
2011
£m 
2010
£m
2011
£m 
2010
£m
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Revenues from external 
customers 477.5 436.9 301.7 281.2 169.1 141.7 212.6 178.9 1.7 1.7  1,162.6 1,040.4 
Revenues from internal 
customers – – 0.7 1.1 – – 1.5 0.9 – – 2.2 2.0
Segment revenues 477.5 436.9 302.4 282.3 169.1 141.7 214.1 179.8 1.7  1.7 1,164.8 1,042.4 
Gross profit  
(centre contribution)  128.5  99.1  68.3 65.8  43.2 36.4  31.8 13.2  1.4 1.4   273.2 215.9 
Reportable segment 
profit 51.4 32.5 17.5 17.3 21.5 18.7 3.8 (12.2) (0.3) 0.8  93.9 57.1
Share of profit of  
joint ventures – – 1.0 1.3 – – (0.9) – – – 0.1 1.3 
Finance expense (0.2) – (0.2) (0.2) (0.7) (0.5) (2.3) (1.5) – – (3.4) (2.2)
Finance income – – 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 – – – 0.8 0.5 
Depreciation and 
amortisation 31.6 32.6 14.6  14.7 12.3 11.1 13.1 14.0 0.7 – 72.3 72.4 
Taxation (income)/charge  (1.2) 26.1 (2.1) 3.4 9.2 3.9 1.6 (28.6) 1.4 1.1 8.9 5.9
Assets 588.5 524.7  285.2 247.9 171.9 162.5 299.7 306.4 1.6 1.3 1,346.8
 
1,242.8
Liabilities (323.0) (251.5) (310.0) (256.6) (165.7) (143.4) (285.7) (276.6) (0.6) (0.6) (1,085.0) (928.7)
Net assets/(liabilities) 265.5 273.2  (24.9) (8.7) 6.2 19.1 14.0 29.8 1.0 0.7 261.8 314.1 
Non-current asset additions 72.3  27.8  21.2   12.9 18.3 13.7 9.4 20.1 –  – 121.2 74.5
Revenue in the other segmental category is generated from services related to the provision of workplace solutions including fees earned from 
franchise agreements and commissions earned from the sale of outsourced workplace solution products. Revenue from internal customers is 
determined by reference to current market prices.  52 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
3. Segmental analysis – statutory basis continued 
       2011 
£m Revenue 
Gross  
profit (centre 
contribution) 
Operating 
profit
Share of JV 
profit
Finance 
expense
Finance 
income
Other 
finance 
costs 
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Profit before 
tax
Reportable segment 
results 1,164.8 273.2 93.9 0.1 (3.4) 0.8 – 72.3 91.4
Exclude: Internal revenue (2.2) (2.2) – – – – – – –
Corporate overheads – 4.2 (43.2) – – 0.5 (0.4) 1.2 (43.1)
Foreign exchange gains 
and losses – – (0.2) – – – (2.6) – (2.8)
Exceptional items:    
2010 Restructuring Plan – – – – – – – – –
Published Group total 1,162.6 275.2 50.5 0.1 (3.4) 1.3 (3.0) 73.5 45.5
 
    2010
£m Revenue 
Gross  
profit (centre 
contribution) 
Operating 
profit
Share of JV 
profit
Finance 
expense
Finance 
income
Other finance 
costs 
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
Profit before 
tax
Reportable segment 
results 1,042.4 215.9  57.1 1.3(2.2)0.5 – 72.4 56.7 
Exclude: Internal revenue (2.0) (2.0) – – – – – – –
Corporate overheads – 2.0 (34.5) – 0.2 1.3 – 1.0 (33.0)
Foreign exchange gains 
and losses – – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Exceptional items:    
2010 Restructuring Plan – (11.9) (15.8) – – – – – (15.8)
Published Group total 1,040.4 204.0  6.8 1.3 (2.0) 1.8 (0.1) 73.4 7.8 
The 2010 exceptional charge of £15.8 million is split between the reportable segments and central costs. As set out in note 6, they constitute 
respectively part of a re-organisation plan and a formal restructuring plan and therefore, in the Group’s view, are differentiated from other ongoing 
charges within the operations of the business.    www.regus.com/investors 53
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
  2011 
£m Assets Liabilities
Net assets / 
(liabilities) 
Reportable segment results 1,346.8 (1,085.0) 261.8
Exclude: Segmental inter-company amounts (291.4) 382.8 91.4
Corporate overheads assets and liabilities (excluding amounts due to/from reportable segments)  
Cash 113.4 – 113.4
Deferred Taxation 19.7 – 19.7
Other 13.2 (10.8) 2.4
Published Group total 1,201.7 (713.0) 488.7
 
 2010
£m Assets Liabilities
Net assets/ 
(liabilities)
Reportable segment results 1,242.8 (928.7) 314.1 
Exclude: Segmental inter-company amounts (265.5) 309.7 44.2
Corporate overheads assets and liabilities (excluding amounts due to/from reportable segments)  
Cash 109.9 – 109.9
Deferred Taxation 27.3 – 27.3
Other 28.7 (38.4) (9.7)
Published Group total 1,143.2  (657.4) 485.8
4. Segmental analysis – entity-wide disclosures 
The Group’s primary activity and only business segment is the provision of global workplace solutions and therefore all revenue is attributed to a 
single group of similar products and services. It is not meaningful to separate this group into further categories of products. Revenue is recognised 
where the service is provided. 
The Group has a diversified customer base and no single customer contributes a material percentage of the Group’s revenue. 
The Group’s revenue from external customers and non-current assets analysed by foreign country is as follows: 
 2011  2010 
£m 
External 
revenue 
Non-current   
assets
(a)
 External revenue
Non-current  
assets
(a)
Country of domicile – Luxembourg 3.4 0.6   4.0 0.4 
United States of America 365.1 315.7  350.7 285.2  
United Kingdom 213.0 164.4  180.4 168.5  
All other countries 581.1 212.0  505.3 185.4  
 1,162.6 692.7  1,040.4 639.5 
(a) Excluding deferred tax assets  54 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
5. Operating profit 
Operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting): 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 
Owned assets 64.9 65.8
Finance leases 1.9 1.4 
Amortisation of intangibles 6.7 6.2 
Provision for bad debts  5.1 4.1
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  1.2 1.6 
Exchange differences recognised in the income statement – loss/(gain) 0.4 0.4
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments – 0.5
Rents payable in respect of operating leases 
Property  414.9 393.2
Equipment  1.5 1.8
Contingent rents paid  14.9 10.0
Amortisation of UK acquisition fair value adjustments (4.6) (4.4)
Staff costs (see note 7) 232.7 201.5 
 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor for the audit of the Group accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Group’s auditor and its associates for other services: 
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  1.3 1.4
Other services pursuant to legislation 
Tax services 0.1 0.1
Other services 0.1 0.4
6. Exceptional items 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Administration expenses: 
2011 Restructuring plan (charge) (2.5) –
2010 Restructuring plan release / (charge) 2.5 (15.8)
 – (15.8) 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group completed the restructuring of specific entities within the Group at a net cost of £2.5m.  
This balance consists of expenditure arising on the following categories: asset write down, reorganisation costs and other costs. There is no 
provision recognised at year end. 
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group undertook a UK restructuring programme at a net cost of £15.8 million. This balance consists 
of expenditure arising on the following categories: asset write down, reorganisation costs, space reduction costs, centre closure costs and other 
costs. An onerous lease and other property related provisions, which were identified during the restructure as being no longer required, were 
released. £2.5m of the remaining provision was released during the year ended 31 December 2011. 
The above items have been reported as exceptional items and are disclosed separately as they are relevant to the understanding of the Group’s 
financial performance.    www.regus.com/investors 55
Financial Statements
 
 
 
7. Staff costs  
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
The aggregate payroll costs were as follows: 
Wages and salaries 194.1 168.6
Social security 35.2 30.3
Pension costs 2.8 1.4
Share-based payments 0.6 1.2
 232.7 201.5
 
 
2011
Average full 
time 
equivalents 
2010
Average full time 
equivalents
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including executive directors),  
analysed by category and geography, was as follows: 
Centre staff 3,984 3,577
Sales staff 871 780 
Finance staff 774 668 
Other staff 823 662 
 6,452 5,687 
 
Americas 2,483 2,246 
EMEA 1,610 1,466 
Asia Pacific 960 832 
United Kingdom 976 896 
Corporate functions 423 247 
 6,452 5,687 
Details of Directors’ emoluments and interests are given on pages 36 to 38 in the Remuneration Report.  
8. Net finance expense 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Interest payable and similar charges on bank loans  (1.2) (0.5)
Interest payable and similar charges of finance leases (0.2) (0.1)
Total interest expense (1.4) (0.6)
Unwinding of discount rates (2.0) (1.4)
Total finance expense (3.4) (2.0)
Total interest income 1.2 1.8
Unwinding of discount rates 0.1 –
Total finance income 1.3 1.8
Net finance expense (2.1) (0.2)
9. Other finance costs 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Foreign exchange net gains or losses  (2.6) (0.1)
Bank guarantees & letters of credit (0.4) –
Other finance costs (3.0) (0.1)
Foreign exchange gains or losses were reclassified from administration expenses to other finance costs. There is no impact on profit before tax  
for the year.  56 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
10. Taxation 
(a) Analysis of charge in the year 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Current taxation 
Corporate income tax (13.5) (10.3)
Previously unrecognised tax losses and temporary differences 1.5 0.9 
Over provision in respect of prior years 7.4 31.9
Total current taxation (4.6) 22.5
Deferred taxation 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (7.2) (28.9)
Previously unrecognised tax losses and temporary differences 4.4 –
(Under) / over provision in respect of prior years (1.5) 0.5
Total deferred taxation (4.3) (28.4)
Tax charge on profit (8.9) (5.9)
(b) Reconciliation of taxation charge 
 2011 2010
£m % £m %
Profit before tax 45.5  7.8
Tax on profit at 28.8% (2010: 28.6%) (13.1) (28.8) (2.2) (28.6)
Tax effects of:  
Exceptional items not deductible for tax purposes – – (4.2) (53.8)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (6.4) (14.1) (9.0) (115.4)
Items not chargeable for tax purposes 20.4 44.8  14.2 182.1
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets   5.9 13.0  0.9 11.5
Movements in temporary differences in the year not recognised  
in deferred tax (14.2) (31.2) (45.3) (580.8)
Other movements in temporary differences  (7.1) (15.6)  6.6 84.6
Adjustment to tax charge in respect of previous years  5.9 13.0  32.4 415.4
Differences in tax rates on overseas earnings  (0.3) (0.7)  0.7 9.0
 (8.9) (19.6) (5.9) (75.6)
The applicable tax rate is determined based on the tax rate in Luxembourg which was the statutory tax rate applicable in the country of domicile  
of the parent company of the Group for the financial year. 
The Group has benefitted from a credit in relation to the settlement of a number of tax audits in respect of previous years.   www.regus.com/investors 57
Financial Statements
 
 
 
(c) Factors that may affect the future tax charge 
Unrecognised tax losses to carry forward against certain future overseas corporation tax liabilities have the following expiration dates: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
2011  – 0.9
2012 2.3 4.1
2013  1.3 1.6
2014  3.7 3.6
2015 0.5 3.8
2016 3.7 1.2
2017 4.2 3.1
2018 3.6 –
2019 and later  100.9 95.4
  120.2 113.7
Available indefinitely  144.2 120.5
Tax losses available to carry forward  264.4 234.2
Amount of tax losses recognised in the deferred tax asset  94.8 52.7
Total tax losses available to carry forward  359.2 286.9
The following deferred tax assets have not been recognised due to uncertainties over recoverability. 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Intangibles 44.9 328.9
Accelerated capital allowances  12.0 5.5
Tax losses  80.4 77.1
Rent 0.3 0.8
Short term timing differences  8.3 7.5
  145.9 419.8
Estimates relating to deferred tax assets, including assumptions about future profitability, are re-evaluated at the end of each reporting period.  
In considering current facts and circumstances, the Group has amended the calculation of deferred tax assets relating to certain intangible assets. 
This has given rise to a total decrease in the unrecognised deferred tax assets of £273.9 million. 
(d) Corporation tax 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Corporation tax payable (6.3) (17.0)
Corporation tax receivable 7.4 13.3
  58 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
10. Taxation continued 
(e) Deferred taxation 
The movement in deferred tax is analysed below: 
 
Intangibles
£m
Property,
 plant and 
equipment
£m
Tax losses
£m
Rent 
£m 
Short term 
temporary 
differences
£m
Total
£m
Deferred tax asset  
At 1 January 2010 (13.5) 28.8 13.9 20.2  15.7 65.1 
Current year movement (6.5) (3.0) 1.7 (1.1) (20.0) (28.9)
Prior year movement 0.1 1.6 (1.1) (0.8)  0.6 0.4
Direct reserves movement ––––  (0.8) (0.8)
Acquisitions – – – – – – 
Transfers 0.1 (0.7) 0.3 (0.2)  – (0.5)
Exchange movement  (1.3) 1.4 0.2 0.7 0.8 1.8
At 1 January 2011 (21.1) 28.1 15.0 18.8  (3.7) 37.1
Current year movement (13.1) (0.4) (4.2) 3.8 11.0 (2.9)
Prior year movement (0.3) 0.4 15.9 0.4 (18.1) (1.7)
Direct reserves movement – – – – – – 
Acquisitions – – – – – – 
Transfers 0.1–0.10.3 0.20.7
Exchange movement 0.6 (0.6) (0.3) (0.4) 0.3 (0.4)
At 31 December 2011 (33.8) 27.5 26.5 22.9 (10.3) 32.8
Deferred tax liability  
At 1 January 2010 (0.1) (1.0) 0.4 – – (0.7)
Current year movement – 0.2 – –  (0.2) –
Prior year movement – 0.1 (0.1) – 0.1 0.1
Acquisitions –––– ––
Transfers (0.1) 0.7 (0.3) 0.2 –  0.5
Exchange movement –––– ––
At 1 January 2011 (0.2) –  – 0.2 (0.1) (0.1)
Current year movement – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Prior year movement – – 0.1 – 0.1 0.2
Acquisitions –––– ––
Transfers (0.1)–(0.1)(0.3) (0.2)(0.7)
Exchange movement –––– ––
At 31 December 2011 (0.3) – – – (0.2) (0.5)
The movement in deferred taxes included above are after the offset of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities where there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. 
Deferred tax assets recognised on short term temporary differences consist predominantly of provisions deductible when paid and share based 
payments. Deferred tax assets have been recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities on the basis that there are forecast taxable profits in  
the entities concerned. 
At the balance sheet date, the temporary difference arising from unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries was £51.3 million (2010: £64.3 million). 
The only tax that would arise on these reserves would be non-creditable withholding tax.   www.regus.com/investors 59
Financial Statements
 
 
 
11. Earnings per ordinary share (basic and diluted) 
 2011 2010
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the parent (£m) 37.9  1.5
Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 941,898,916 947,462,881
Average market price of one share during the year 94.79p 86.61p
Weighted average number of shares under option during the year 3,674,249 4,228,848
Exercise price for shares under option during the year 58.23p 58.84p
 
Profit Earnings per share
2011
£m
2010 
£m 
2011  
pence 
2010 
pence
Basic and diluted profit for the year attributable to shareholders and  
basic earnings per share 37.9 1.5   4.0  0.2
Diluted earnings per share   4.0  0.2
Weighted average number of shares for basic EPS (number)  941,898,916 947,462,881
Weighted average number of shares under option during the year  3,674,249  4,228,848
Weighted average number of shares that would have been issued at 
average market price  (2,286,139) (2,872,755)
Weighted average number of awards under the CIP and LTIP  2,465,389  4,513,161
Weighted average number of shares for diluted EPS (number)  945,752,415 953,332,135
Options are considered dilutive when they would result in the issue of ordinary shares for less than the market price of ordinary shares in the period. 
The amount of the dilution is taken to be the average market price of shares during the period minus the issue price.  
12. Dividends 
 2011 2010
Dividends per ordinary share proposed  2.0p 1.75p 
Interim dividends per ordinary share declared and paid during the year  0.9p 0.85p
Dividends of £25.0 million were paid during the year (2010: £23.2 million). The Company has proposed to shareholders that a final dividend of  
2.0p per share will be paid (2010: 1.75p). Subject to shareholder approval it is expected that the dividend will be paid on 25 May 2012.  60 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
13. Goodwill 
 £m
Cost 
At 1 January 2010 259.1 
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 15.2
Exchange differences 8.1
At 1 January 2011 282.4
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 4.6
Exchange differences (1.6)
At 31 December 2011 285.4
Net book value 
At 1 January 2011 282.4
At 31 December 2011 285.4
Cash generating units (CGUs), comprising individual business centres, are grouped by country of operation for the purpose of carrying out 
impairment reviews of non-current assets as this is the lowest level at which goodwill can be assessed. Goodwill acquired through business 
combinations is held at a country level and is subject to impairment reviews based on the cash flows of these CGUs. 
The goodwill attributable to the reportable business segments is as follows: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Carrying amount of goodwill included within the Americas business segment 171.3 168.8
Carrying amount of goodwill included within the EMEA business segment 5.9 6.6
Carrying amount of goodwill included within the Asia Pacific business segment 11.9 11.1
Carrying amount of goodwill included within the UK business segment 96.3 95.9
 285.4 282.4
The carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles allocated to two CGUs, the USA and UK, is material relative to the total carrying value 
comprising 87% of the total. The remaining 13% of the carrying value is allocated to a further 24 countries (24 cash generating units). The goodwill 
and indefinite life intangibles allocated to the USA and the UK cash generating units are set out below: 
Goodwill
£m
Intangible  
assets 
£m 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
USA 149.5 – 149.5 148.1
UK 96.3 11.2 107.5 107.1
Other cash generating units 39.6 – 39.6 38.4
 285.4 11.2 296.6 293.6
The indefinite lived intangible asset relates to the brand value arising from the acquisition of the remaining 58% of the UK business in the year ended 
31 December 2006 (see note 14). 
The recoverable amount of each of the CGUs above has been determined based on their value in use, calculated as the present value of future  
cash flows attributable to the unit. 
The value in use for each CGU has been determined using a model which derives the individual value in use for each unit from the value in use of  
the Group as a whole. Although the model includes budgets and forecasts prepared by management it also reflects external factors, such as  
capital market risk pricing as reflected in the market capitalisation of the Group and prevailing tax rates, which have been used to determine the risk 
adjusted discount rate for the Group. Management believe that the projected cash flows are a reasonable reflection of the likely outcomes over the 
medium to long term. In the event that trading conditions deteriorate beyond the assumptions used in the projected cash flows, it is also possible 
that impairment charges could arise in future periods.   www.regus.com/investors 61
Financial Statements
 
 
 
The following key assumptions have been used in calculating value in use for each group of CGUs: 
 Future cash flows are based on budget for 2012 approved by the Board. The model excludes cost savings and restructurings that are anticipated 
but had not been committed to at the date of the determination of the value in use. Thereafter forecasts have been prepared by management for 
a further four years from 2013 that reflect an average annual growth rate of 3-5.6% (2010: 3-5.4%).  
 These forecasts exclude the impact of both organic and acquisitive growth expected to take place in future periods. Management consider  
these projections to be a reasonable projection of margins expected at the mid-cycle position reflecting the current uncertain global economic 
conditions. Cash flows beyond 2016 have been extrapolated using a 2% growth rate which management believe is a reasonable long-term 
growth rate for any of the markets in which the relevant CGUs operate. A terminal value is included in the assessment reflecting the Group’s 
expectation that it will continue to operate in these markets and the long-term nature of the businesses. 
 The Group applies a country specific pre-tax discount rate to the pre-tax cash flows for each CGU. The country specific discount rate is based on 
the underlying weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the Group. The Group WACC is then adjusted for each CGU to reflect the assessed 
market risk specific to that country. The Group WACC increased to 13% in 2011 (2010: 12%). The market risk adjustments remain unchanged 
from 2010 giving a risk adjusted range of 13% to 19% (2010: 12% to 17%). 
The trading conditions in which the Group operates are subject to competitive and economic pressures that can have a material effect on the 
operating performance of the business. Current market conditions remain challenging for the Group and the current global conditions make 
forecasting medium-term cash flows more difficult than is traditionally the case. The forecast cash flows used to derive the value in use are  
sensitive to changes in revenues (driven by changes in prices, occupancy or a combination of both), costs and discount rates (including the market 
assessment of the risks of the Group reflected in the Group’s market capitalisation). Actual conditions could result in either better or worse cash 
flows than included in the value in use calculation. Should current economic conditions prove to be more prolonged or to deteriorate greater than 
currently expected this would adversely impact the forecast cash flows and could result in impairments to goodwill and indefinite lived intangible 
assets in future periods. 
The amount by which the value in use exceeds the carrying amount of the CGUs are sufficiently large to enable the Directors to conclude that a 
reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not result in an impairment charge in any of the CGUs. Foreseeable events are unlikely  
to result in a change in the projections of such a significant nature as to result in the cash-generating units carrying amount exceeding their 
recoverable amount. 
The key assumptions used in the US model are that in 2012 the forecast centre contribution rises to 29% from 24%. Revenue and costs grow at  
3% per annum from 2011 maintaining a terminal 2016 centre gross margin of 29%. Thereafter a 2% long-term growth rate is assumed on revenue 
and cost into perpetuity. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 14% (2010:12%). 
The UK model assumes an ongoing recovery reverting to mid-cycle revenue and occupancy being achieved in 2016 prior to the application of  
the long-run growth rate and discount rates used. This model forecasts a 2012 centre contribution of 13%, rising to 22%, before reverting to a  
mid-cycle centre contribution of 16%. Thereafter a 2% long-term growth rate is assumed on revenue and cost into perpetuity. The cash flows  
have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 13% (2010:12%).  
Management has considered the following sensitivities: 
Market growth and WIPOW – Management has considered the impact of a variance in market growth and WIPOW. The value in use calculation 
shows that if the long-term growth rate was reduced to nil, the recoverable amount of the US and UK CGUs would still be greater than their carrying 
value. 
Discount rate – Management has considered the impact of an increase in the discount rate applied to the calculation. The value-in-use calculation 
shows that for the recoverable amount of the CGU to be less than its carrying value, the pre-tax discount rate would have to be increased to 25% 
for the US CGU and 17% for the UK CGU. 
There is no goodwill relating to the Group’s joint ventures.  62 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
14. Other intangible assets 
 
Brand 
£m
Customer  
lists 
£m 
Software 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2010 52.2 19.2  13.6 85.0 
Additions at cost – – 2.4 2.4 
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 2.2 – 2.2 
Disposals –– – –
Exchange rate movements 1.6 0.7 0.3 2.6
At 1 January 2011 53.8 22.1 16.3 92.2 
Additions at cost – 0.1 3.8 3.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 0.4 – 0.4
Disposals –– – –
Exchange rate movements – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2011 53.8 22.6 19.9 96.3
Amortisation  
At 1 January 2010 11.2 14.6  10.9 36.7 
Charge for the year 2.1 2.2 1.9 6.2 
Disposals –– – –
Exchange rate movements 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.9
At 1 January 2011 13.8 17.0 13 .0 43.8
Charge for year 2.0 2.6 2.1 6.7
Disposals –– – –
Exchange rate movements – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2011 15.8 19.6 15.0 50.4
  
Net book value  
At 31 December 2011 38.0 3.0 4.9 45.9
At 31 December 2010 40.0 5.1 3.3 48.4 
Included with the brand value is £11.2 million relating to the acquisition of the remaining 58% of the UK business in the year ended 31 December 
2006. The Regus brand acquired in this transaction is assumed to have an indefinite useful life due to the fact that the value of the brand is 
intrinsically linked to the continuing operation of the Group. 
As a result of the Regus brand acquired with the UK business having an indefinite useful life no amortisation is charged but the carrying value is 
assessed for impairment on an annual basis. The brand was tested at the balance sheet date against the recoverable amount of the UK business 
segment at the same time as the goodwill arising on the acquisition of the UK business (see note 13). 
The remaining amortisation life for non-indefinite life brands is 13 years.   www.regus.com/investors 63
Financial Statements
 
 
 
15. Property, plant and equipment  
Land and 
buildings
£m
Furniture,  
fittings and  
motor vehicles 
£m 
Computer 
hardware
£m
Total
£m
Cost  
At 1 January 2010 – 577.1  37.6 614.7 
Additions 5.6 66.6 5.0 77.2 
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 12.3  0.2 12.5 
Disposals – (4.5) (1.7) (6.2)
Exchange rate movements – 21.2 1.4 22.6
At 1 January 2011 5.6 672.7  42.5 720.8 
Additions – 112.6 6.3 118.9
Acquisition of subsidiaries – 2.5 – 2.5
Disposals – (8.1) (1.4) (9.5)
Exchange rate movements – (9.5) (0.4) (9.9)
At 31 December 2011 5.6 770.2 47.0 822.8
Accumulated depreciation  
At 1 January 2010 – 345.5  28.3 373.8 
Charge for the year – 61.0  6.2 67.2
Disposals – (2.5) (1.7) (4.2)
Exchange rate movements – 12.1 1.1 13.2
At 1 January 2011 – 416.1 33.9 450.0
Charge for the year 0.3 61.0 5.5 66.8
Disposals – (6.8) (1.4) (8.2)
Exchange rate movements – (6.0) (0.7) (6.7)
At 31 December 2011 0.3 464.3 37.3 501.9
  
Net book value  
At 31 December 2011 5.3 305.9 9.7 320.9
At 31 December 2010 5.6 256.6  8.6 270.8
  64 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
15. Property, plant and equipment continued 
Additions include £nil million in respect of assets acquired under finance leases (2010: £3.8 million).  
The net book value of furniture, fittings and motor vehicles includes amounts held under finance leases as follows: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Cost 24.4 23.9 
Accumulated depreciation (18.4) (16.5)
Net book value 6.0 7.4 
16. Other long-term receivables 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Deposits held by landlords against rent obligations 34.3 29.9 
Amounts owed by joint ventures 1.9 0.8 
Prepayments and accrued income 1.7 3.3 
 37.9 34.0
17. Trade and other receivables 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Trade receivables 105.7 102.6 
Amounts owed by joint ventures  4.0 4.0
Other receivables 28.4 18.1 
Deposits held by landlords against rent obligations 15.4 20.2 
Prepayments and accrued income 91.2 84.2
VAT recoverable 26.6 19.6 
 271.3 248.7
18. Trade and other payables 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Trade payables 61.6 50.7 
Other tax and social security 31.9 26.1
Customer deposits 184.3 163.2
Deferred landlord contributions 16.4 13.0 
Amounts owed to joint ventures 0.7 1.6 
Rent accruals 43.1 37.3 
Other accruals 69.6 74.7 
Other payables 17.5 21.8 
Total current 425.1 388.4
 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Accruals and deferred income 58.8 45.6 
Rent accruals 56.5 51.1 
Other payables 2.5 2.4 
Total non-current 117.8 99.1 
   www.regus.com/investors 65
Financial Statements
 
 
 
19. Borrowings 
The Group’s total loan and borrowing position at 31 December 2011 and at 31 December 2010 had the following maturity profiles: 
Bank and other loans 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Repayments falling due as follows: 
Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
In more than one year but not more than two years 3.4 –
In more than two years but not more than five years 2.6 3.4
In more than five years  – –
Total non-current 6.0 3.4
Total current 0.9 5.5
Total bank and other loans 6.9 8.9 
Obligations under finance leases  
The maturity of the Group’s finance obligations is as follows: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Amounts payable 
Within one year or on demand 1.5 2.3
In more than one year but not more than two years 0.9 1.4
In more than two years but not more than five years – 0.6
 2.4 4.3 
Less: finance charges allocated to future periods (0.1) (0.1)
Present value of future minimum lease payments 2.3 4.2
Total current 1.5 2.3
Total non-current 0.8 1.9
 2.3 4.2
  66 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
20. Provisions 
  2011  2010
 
Onerous 
leases and 
closures 
£m 
Restructuring
£m
Other
£m 
Total
£m
Onerous 
leases and 
closures
£m
Restructuring 
£m 
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 10.7 0.7 1.2 12.6 8.8 2.1 1.2 12.1
Provided in the period 0.4 0.3 0.7 1.4 5.5 – – 5.5
Utilised in the period (2.0) (0.1) (0.1) (2.2) (1.1) (0.4) – (1.5)
Provisions released (0.5) – – (0.5) (2.5) (0.9) – (3.4)
Exchange differences (0.1) – – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 31 December 8.5 0.9 1.8 11.2 10.7 0.7  1.2 12.6
Analysed between:   
Current 1.4 0.9 0.7 3.0 2.1 0.7   – 2.8 
Non-current 7.1 – 1.1 8.2 8.6 – 1.2 9.8 
At 31 December 8.5 0.9 1.8 11.2 10.7 0.7  1.2 12.6 
Onerous leases and closures 
Provisions for onerous leases and closures costs relate to the estimated future costs on centre closures and onerous property leases. The maximum 
period over which the provisions are expected to be utilised expires by 31 December 2022. 
Restructuring  
The restructuring provision of £0.9 million (2010: £0.7 million) is expected to be utilised during the next financial year. 
Other  
Other provisions include the estimated costs of claims against the Group outstanding at the year end, of which, due to their nature, the maximum 
period over which they are expected to be utilised is uncertain.  
21. Investments in joint ventures  
Investments  
in joint ventures 
£m 
Provision for 
deficit in joint 
ventures
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2010 4.4  (1.1) 3.3 
Dividends paid  (1.6) – (1.6)
Share of profit/(losses) 1.5  (0.2) 1.3 
Acquisition –  – – 
Exchange rate movements (0.4) – (0.4)
At 1 January 2011 3.9  (1.3) 2.6 
Dividends paid  (1.4) – (1.4)
Share of profit/(losses) 0.1 – 0.1
Acquisition – – –
Exchange rate movements – 0.1 0.1
At 31 December 2011 2.6 (1.2) 1.4
   www.regus.com/investors 67
Financial Statements
 
 
 
The results of the joint ventures below are the full results of the joint ventures and do not represent the effective share: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Income statement 
Revenue 20.0 23.6
Expenses (17.5) (20.2)
Profit before tax for the year 2.5 3.4 
Tax charge (0.3) (0.5)
Profit after tax for the year 2.2 2.9
Net assets/(liabilities) 
Fixed assets 7.3 7.3 
Current assets 16.0 14.7 
Current liabilities (17.7) (16.6)
Non-current liabilities (5.0) (3.0)
Net assets 0.6 2.4
22. Share capital 
Ordinary equity share capital 
2011  2010
Number 
Nominal value
£m Number  
Nominal value
£m
Authorised  
Ordinary 1p shares at 1 January & 31 December 8,000,000,000 80.0 8,000,000,000  80.0 
 
Issued and fully paid up  
Ordinary 1p shares at 1 January & 31 December  950,969,822 9.5 950,969,822  9.5 
Treasury share transactions involving Regus plc shares 
As at 1 January 2011, 9,070,906 (2010: 1,576,498) shares were held as treasury shares. During the year ended 31 December 2011, Regus plc 
repurchased nil (2010: 9,385,000) of its own shares in the open market and utilised nil (2010: 1,890,592) treasury shares held by the Group to 
satisfy the exercise of share awards by employees.  
The holders of ordinary shares in Regus Group plc were entitled to receive dividends as were declared by the Company and were entitled to  
one vote per share at meetings of the Company. Treasury shares do not carry such rights until reissued.  68 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
23. Analysis of financial assets 
 
At 1 Jan 2011
£m 
Cash flow
£m
Non-cash  
changes 
£m 
Exchange 
movements
£m
At 31 Dec 2011
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 194.2 7.6 – (4.3) 197.5
Liquid investments 10.4 (10.4) – – –
Gross cash 204.6 (2.8) – (4.3) 197.5
Debt due within one year (5.5) 0.7 3.6 0.3 (0.9)
Debt due after one year (3.4) 0.4 (3.6) 0.6 (6.0)
Finance leases due within one year (2.3) 0.7 0.3 (0.2) (1.5)
Finance leases due after one year (1.9) 1.4 (0.3) – (0.8)
 (13.1) 3.2 – 0.7 (9.2)
Net financial assets  191.5 0.4 – (3.6) 188.3
Cash and cash equivalent balances held by the Group that are not available for use amounted to £25.5 million at 31 December 2011  
(2010: £32.6 million).  
Of this balance, £19.8 million (2010: £23.4 million) is pledged as security against outstanding bank guarantees and a further £5.7 million  
(2010: £9.2 million) is pledged against various other commitments of the Group.  
Liquid investments represent corporate bonds and cash placed on deposit by the Group with a maturity over three months. Non-cash changes 
comprise the amortisation of debt issue costs, new finance leases entered into and movements in debt maturity. 
24. Financial instruments and financial risk management 
The objectives, policies and strategies applied by the Group with respect to financial instruments and the management of capital are determined at 
Group level. The Group’s Board maintains responsibility for the risk management strategy of the Group and the Chief Financial Officer is responsible 
for policy on a day to day basis. The Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer review the Group’s risk management strategy and policies on an 
ongoing basis. The Board has delegated to the Group Audit Committee the responsibility for applying an effective system of internal control and 
compliance with the Group’s risk management policies. The Audit Committee is supported by the Head of Risk Management in performing this role. 
Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arise in the normal course of business. 
Going concern 
The Business Review on pages 5 to 11 of the Report and Accounts sets out the Group’s strategy and the factors that are likely to affect the future 
performance and position of the business. The financial review on pages 16 to 19 within the Business Review reviews the trading performance, 
financial position and cash flows of the Group. A feature of the Group has been its strong cash flows, and during the year ended 31 December 
2011, while making significant investment in growth, the Group has maintained its cash levels at comparable levels to the position at the start of  
the financial year. While many countries where the Group operates continue to experience difficult economic conditions, the Directors believe that 
the Group is taking the necessary actions to strengthen the current market leading position of the Group.  
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence  
for the foreseeable future and accordingly, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk could occur where a customer or counterparty defaults under the contractual terms of a financial instrument and arises principally in 
relation to customer contracts and the Group’s cash deposits. 
A diversified customer base and requirement for customer deposits and payments in advance on workstation contracts, which contribute the 
majority of the Group’s revenue, minimise the Group’s exposure to customer credit risk. No single customer contributes a material percentage of  
the Group’s revenue. The Group’s policy is to provide against trade receivables when specific debts are judged to be irrecoverable or where formal 
recovery procedures have commenced. A provision is created where debts are more than three months overdue which reflects the Group’s 
historical experience of the likelihood of recoverability of these trade receivables. These provisions are reviewed on an ongoing basis to assess 
changes in the likelihood of recoverability.   www.regus.com/investors 69
Financial Statements
 
 
 
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date, analysed by geographic region, is summarised below. 
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Americas 21.9 18.9
EMEA 41.7 42.9 
Asia Pacific 17.5 16.6
UK 24.6 24.2 
 105.7 102.6 
All of the Group’s trade receivables relate to customers purchasing workplace solutions and no individual customer has a material balance owing  
as a trade receivable.  
The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: 
 
Gross
2011
£m
Provision 
2011 
£m 
Gross
2010
£m
Provision
2010
£m
Not overdue 98.0 – 94.3 (0.6)
Past due 0 – 30 days 4.9 (0.2) 6.6 (0.3)
Past due 31 – 60 days 2.2 (0.2) 2.3 (0.4)
More than 60 days 12.4 (11.4) 11.2 (10.5)
 117.5 (11.8) 114.4 (11.8)
At the year end 31 December 2011, the Group maintained a provision of £11.8 million against potential bad debts (2010: £11.8 million) arising from 
trade receivables. The Group had provided £5.1 million (2010: £4.1 million) in the year and utilised £5.0 million (2010: £7.0 million). Customer 
deposits of £184.3 million (2010: £163.2 million) are held by the Group, mitigating the risk of default. 
The Group believes no provision is generally required for trade receivables that are not overdue as the Group collects the majority of its revenue  
in advance of the provision of office services and requires deposits from its customers.  
Cash investments and derivative financial instruments are only transacted with counterparties of sound credit ratings, and management does not 
expect any of these counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.  
Liquidity risk 
The Group manages liquidity risk by reviewing its global cash position on a weekly basis and expects to have sufficient liquidity to meet its financial 
obligations as they fall due. The Group has free cash and liquid investments (excluding blocked cash) of £172.0 million (2010: £172.0 million) which 
the Directors consider adequate to meet the Group’s day to day requirements. 
The three year unsecured Bank Guarantee & Letter of Credit facility, entered into in November 2010 with Lloyds TSB bank, was increased to  
£100 million in the current year. The facility is subject to financial covenants covering operating cash flows, the ratio of Gross Debt to consolidated 
tangible net worth and the ratio of EBITDAR to net interest and rental charges. The Group is in compliance with all covenant requirements. 
Although the Group has net current liabilities of £102.2 million (2010: £75.2 million), the Group does not consider that this gives rise to a liquidity risk. 
A large proportion of the net current liabilities comprise non-cash liabilities such as deferred income which will be recognised in future periods 
through the income statement. Although the Group holds customer deposits of £184.3 million (2010: £163.2 million) these are spread across a  
large number of customers and no deposit held for an individual customer is material. Therefore the Group does not believe the balance represents 
a liquidity risk. 
The net current assets, excluding deferred income, were £39.5 million at 31 December 2011 (2010: £50.6 million). It is considered appropriate  
to exclude deferred income in assessing the liquidity of the Group as it reflects the future non-refundable contractual revenue of the Group to  
be recognised as revenue in future periods.  70 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
24. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
Market risk 
The Group is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and the market value of our investments  
in financial assets. These exposures are actively managed by the Regus treasury in accordance with a written policy approved by the Board of 
Directors and subject to internal controls. We do not use financial derivatives for trading or speculative reasons. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group manage its exposure to interest rate risk through the relative proportions of fixed rate debt and floating rate debt, as well as investment  
in financial assets. Our surplus cash balances are invested short term, and at the end of 2011 no cash was invested for a period exceeding 
three months. The Board of Directors believes that the Group has no material exposure to interest rate fluctuations as the Group does not have  
any significant interest bearing loans or long-term financial investments. 
Foreign currency risk 
The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in GBP. As a consequence the Group is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate 
movements. The majority of day to day transactions of overseas subsidiaries are carried out in local currency and the underlying exposure is small. 
Transactional exposures do arise in some countries where it is local market practice for a proportion of the payables or receivables to be in other 
than the functional currency of the affiliate. Intercompany charging, funding and cash management activity may also lead to foreign exchange 
exposures. It is the policy of the Group to seek to minimise such transactional exposures through careful management of non-local currency assets 
and liabilities, thereby minimising the potential volatility in the income statement. Net investments in Regus affiliates with a functional currency other 
than GBP are of a long-term nature and we do not normally hedge such foreign currency translation exposures. 
Historically the Group has occasionally used derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, although natural 
hedges limit the exposure to these risks. In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group used derivative financial instruments to manage the 
translation risk of certain foreign currencies on the reported profits of the Group. As of 31 December 2011 all such instruments had matured. 
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken. 
Other market risks 
The Group does not hold any available-for-sale equity securities and is therefore not subject to risks of changes in equity prices in the  
income statement. 
Capital management 
The Group’s parent company is listed on the UK stock exchange and the Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base. The Chief Financial 
Officer monitors the diversity of the Group’s major shareholders and further details of the Group’s communication with key investors can be found  
in the corporate governance report on pages 24 to 30. In 2006, the Board approved the commencement of a progressive dividend policy to 
enhance the total return to shareholders. 
The Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Mark Dixon, is the major shareholder of the Company and all executive members of the Board hold shares in 
the Company. Details of the Directors’ shareholdings can be found in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 32 to 38. In addition the 
Group operates various share option plans for key management and other senior employees. 
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved a resolution for the Group to re-purchase up to 10% of its issued share capital in the 
market. In June 2007, the Group commenced a share buyback programme to meet both the need to issue shares under the Group’s share option 
programme and, more generally, as a means of returning cash to shareholders. 
In the year ended 31 December 2011 Regus plc purchased 1,212,797 (2010: 1,353,188) of its own shares in the open market and utilised these to 
satisfy employee share awards. Regus plc did not re-purchase any of its own shares in the open market to hold as treasury shares. As at 20 March 
2012, 9,070,906 shares were held as treasury shares. 
The Company declared an interim dividend of 0.9p per share (2010: 0.85p) during the year ended 31 December 2011 and proposed a final dividend 
of 2.0p per share (2010: 1.75p per share), a 12% increase on the 2010 dividend.  
The Group’s objective when managing capital (equity and borrowings) is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and to 
maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The Group holds minimal debt and is in a strong cash position therefore it is 
majority equity funded. The Board balances the higher returns possible with higher levels of borrowings with the stability and security afforded by  
a sound capital position as well as the strategy of accelerated organic growth. 
Effective interest rates  
In respect of financial assets and financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and  
the periods in which they mature. Interest payments are excluded from the table. 
The undiscounted cash flow of these instruments is not materially different from the carrying value.   www.regus.com/investors 71
Financial Statements
 
 
 
As at 31 December 2011 
 
Effective   
interest rate  
%
(a)
 
Carrying value
£m 
Contractual 
cash flow
£m 
Less than 
1 year
£m 
1-2 years 
£m 
2-5 years
£m 
More than 
5 years
£m 
Cash and cash equivalents 0.6  197.5 197.5 197.5 – – –
Liquid investments – corporate 
bonds –  – – – – – –
Other liquid investments –  – – – – – –
Trade and other receivables –  216.4 228.1 191.9 17.3 18.9 –
Financial assets 
(b)
 –  413.9 425.6 389.4 17.3 18.9 –
   
Finance lease liabilities 3.1  (2.3) (2.3) (1.5) (0.7) (0.1) –
Secured bank loans 8.1  (6.3) (6.6) (0.3) (3.5) (2.8) –
Other loans  5.5  (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) – – –
Customer deposits –  (184.4) (184.4) (184.4) – – –
Trade and other payables  –  (188.8) (188.8) (186.3) (2.5) – –
Foreign currency swaps –  – (2.2) (2.2) – – –
Financial liabilities –  (382.5) (385.0) (375.4) (6.7) (2.9) –
As at 31 December 2010 
 
Effective   
interest rate  
%
(a)
 
Carrying value
£m
Contractual 
cash flow
£m
Less than 
1 year
£m
1-2 years 
£m 
2-5 years
£m
More than 
5 years
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 0.9  194.2 194.2 194.2 – – –
Liquid investments – corporate 
bonds 2.1  10.410.410.4– ––
Other liquid investments –  –––– ––
Trade and other receivables –  190.0 201.8 171.8 15.0 15.0 –
Financial assets 
(b)
 –  394.6406.4376.415.0 15.0 –
   
Finance lease liabilities 3.9  (4.2) (4.2) (2.3) (1.3) (0.6) –
Secured bank loans 2.4  (3.7) (3.7) (0.4) – (3.3) –
Other loans  7.3  (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) – – –
Customer deposits –  (163.2) (163.2) (163.2) – – –
Trade and other payables  –  (176.3) (176.3) (173.8) (2.5) – –
Foreign currency swaps –  – – – – – –
Financial liabilities –  (352.6) (352.6) (344.9) (3.8) (3.9) –
(a) All financial instruments are classified as variable rate instruments 
(b) Financial assets are all held at amortised cost 
Sensitivity analysis 
At 31 December 2011 it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would increase the Group’s profit before tax  
by approximately £1.7 million (2010: £1.4 million) with a corresponding increase in total equity. 
It is estimated that a five percentage point weakening in the value of the US dollar against pounds sterling would have decreased the Group’s profit 
before tax by approximately £1.2 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £0.3 million). It is estimated that a five percentage point 
weakening in the value of the euro against sterling would have decreased the Group’s profit before tax by approximately £0.5 million for the year 
ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £0.4 million). 
It is estimated that a five percentage point weakening in the value of the US dollar against pounds sterling would have decreased the Group’s  
total equity by approximately £7.3 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £7.9 million). It is estimated that a five percentage point 
weakening in the value of the euro against pounds sterling would have increased the Group’s total equity by approximately £0.4 million for the  
year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: £0.6 million).  72 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
24. Financial instruments and financial risk management continued 
Fair value disclosures 
The fair values together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: 
2011 2010
Carrying 
amount
£m 
Fair value 
£m 
Carrying 
amount
£m
Fair value
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 197.5 197.5 194.2 194.2
Liquid investments – corporate bonds – – 10.4 10.4 
Other liquid investments – –  ––
Trade and other receivables 216.4 216.4 190.3 190.3 
Finance lease liabilities (2.3) (2.0) (4.2) (3.9)
Secured bank loans (6.3) (6.3) (3.7) (3.7)
Other loans  (0.7) (0.7) (5.2) (5.2)
Customer deposits (184.4) (184.4) (163.2) (163.2)
Trade and other payables (188.8) (188.8) (176.3) (176.3)
 31.4 31.7 42.3 42.6
Unrecognised gain 0.3  0.3
Summary of methods and assumptions: 
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables/payables and customer deposits 
For cash and cash equivalents, receivables/payables with a remaining life of less than one year and customer deposits, the book value approximates 
the fair value because of their short-term nature. 
Finance lease liabilities 
The fair value of finance leases has been calculated by discounting future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate which reflects current market 
assessments and the risks specific to such liabilities. 
Loans and overdrafts 
The fair value of bank loans, overdrafts and other loans approximates to the carrying value because interest rates are at floating rates where 
payments are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year. 
Derivative financial instruments  
The Group held several foreign currency swaps in the year in relation to the hedging of Group profits mentioned above, with the following table 
summarising the open swaps as at 31 December 2011: 
 
2011
CHF m
2011 
EUR m 
2010 
CHF m 
2010
EUR m
Foreign currency swaps 2.9 0.2 – – 
Committed borrowing facilities 
 
Principal 
£m 
Available
£m
At 31 December 2011 – – 
At 31 December 2010 – – 
The three-year unsecured Bank Guarantee & Letter of Credit facility, entered into in November 2010 with Lloyds TSB bank, was increased to  
£100 million in the current year. The facility is subject to financial covenants covering operating cash flows, the ratio of Gross Debt to consolidated 
tangible net worth and the ratio of EBITDAR to net interest and rental charges. The Group is in compliance with all covenant requirements.   www.regus.com/investors 73
Financial Statements
 
 
 
25. Share-based payment 
Regus Group Share Option Plan 
During 2004 the Group established the Regus Group Share Option Plan which entitles Executive Directors and certain employees to share options  
in Regus plc (previously Regus Group plc). 
The table below presents the options outstanding and their exercise price together with an analysis of the movements in the number of options 
during the year.  
2011 2010
Number of 
share options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per share 
Number of 
share options
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per share
At 1 January 7,814,746 80.19 10,059,700 67.95 
Granted during the year 13,867,539 106.00 4,764,607 96.13
Lapsed during the year (950,379) 107.09 (3,823,075) 81.27 
Exercised during the year – – (3,186,486) 64.26
Outstanding at 31 December 20,731,906 96.22 7,814,746 80.19 
Exercisable at 31 December 3,170,139 57.00  3,170,139 57.00 
 
Date of grant Numbers granted 
Weighted 
average exercise 
price per share Lapsed Exercised At 31 Dec 2011 Exercisable from Expiry date
23/07/2004 4,106,981  57.00 – (936,842) 3,170,139  23/07/2007 23/07/2014
18/03/2008 4,331,641  80.50 (4,331,641) – – 18/03/2011 18/03/2018
18/05/2010 3,986,000 100.50(345,000) –3,641,000 18/05/201523/03/2020
28/06/2010 617,961 75.00(54,751) –563,210 28/06/201328/06/2020
01/09/2010 160,646 69.10 – –160,646 01/09/201301/09/2020
01/04/2011 (Grant 1) 2,100,000 114.90 – – 2,100,000 01/04/2014 01/04/2021
01/04/2011 (Grant 2) 300,000 114.90 (300,000) – – 01/04/2014 01/04/2021
30/06/2011 9,867,539 109.50(370,628) – 9,496,911 30/06/201430/06/2021
31/08/2011 300,000 67.00 – – 300,000 31/08/201431/08/2021
02/09/2011 1,000,000 74.35 – – 1,000,000 01/09/201402/09/2021
06/10/2011 300,000 64.10 – – 300,000 01/10/201401/10/2021
Total 27,070,768 92.75(5,402,020)(936,842)20,731,906 
  74 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
25. Share-based payment continued 
The Regus Group also operates the Regus Group Share Option Plan (France) which is included within the numbers for the Regus Share Option  
Plan disclosed above. The terms of the Regus Share Option Plan (France) are materially the same as the Regus Group Share Option Plan with the 
exception that they are only exercisable from the fourth anniversary of the date of grant assuming the performance conditions have been met. 
404,015 options awarded under the Regus Group Share Option Plan (France) are included in the above table (2010: 447,773), 353,186 lapsed 
during the year (2010: 416,146) and none were exercised during the year (2010: nil).  
Performance conditions for share options 
The options awarded in 2004 included certain performance criteria that needed to be met in order for the share options to vest. The share options 
vested based on the basic earnings per share (adjusted for non-recurring items and goodwill and intangible amortisation) that exceeded the targets 
linked to the Retail Price Index. The basic earnings per share for performance purposes was 1p. 100% of the options awarded in July and 
September 2004 vested during 2007. 
The awards of options made in March 2008 failed to meet the related performance conditions and lapsed in the year ended 31 December 2010. 
The options awarded in April, June and September 2010 contain the following performance conditions. 
50% of the options will be eligible to vest if the Regus Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) % achieved relative to FTSE All Share Total Return index is  
at least at the median over the performance period. 50% of the options will be eligible to vest subject to the EPS conditions in the table below: 
Vesting Scale EPS Target Y/E 2012
25% 15p
50% 16p
75% 17p
100% 18p
Once performance conditions are satisfied those options that are eligible to vest will vest as follows: 
Proportion to Vest
March 2013 1/3
March 2014 1/3
March 2015 1/3
The options awarded in April 2011 (Grant 1) are subject to a performance target based on the pre-growth profit for the year ending 31 December 
2011, such that the number of shares vesting will be determined as follows: 
Vesting Scale Pre-growth profit
60% £65m
80% £77.5 m
100% £90m
Once performance conditions are satisfied those options that are eligible to vest will vest as follows: 
Proportion to Vest
April 2014 1/3
April 2015 1/3
April 2016 1/3
The options awarded in June 2011 are subject to both Group and regional performance targets based on pre-growth profit for the year ending  
31 December 2011. When determining the number of shares to vest, both the Group and the regional performance target must be achieved,  
such that the number of shares vesting will be determined as follows: 
Vesting Scale Pre-growth profit (a)
Group performance target £65m
Regional performance target 
50% Good
75% Better
100% Best
(a) The regional pre-growth profit performance target differs from region to region, with a consistent vesting scale assigned to the pre-defined good, better,  
best performance.   www.regus.com/investors 75
Financial Statements
 
 
 
Once performance conditions are satisfied those options that are eligible to vest will vest as follows: 
Proportion to Vest
April 2014 1/3
April 2015 1/3
April 2016 1/3
The options awarded in April (Grant 2), August and October 2011 are conditional on the ongoing employment of the related employees for  
a specified period of time. Once this condition is satisfied those options that are eligible to vest will vest as follows: 
Proportion to Vest
April 2014 1/3
April 2015 1/3
April 2016 1/3
The options awarded in September 2011 are subject to a performance target based on the consensus operating profit for the year ending  
31 December 2012, such that the number of shares vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of a pre-determined operating profit target in 2012. 
Once performance conditions are satisfied those options that are eligible to vest will vest as follows: 
Proportion to Vest
April 2014 1/3
April 2015 1/3
April 2016 1/3
The share options awarded were valued using the Monte Carlo or the Black-Scholes method.  
The inputs to the model are as follows: 
 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 June 2011 
April 2011 
(Grant 2) 
     
Share price on grant date 68.30p 72.50p 75.90p 110.70p 110.70p
Exercise price 64.10p 74.35p 67.00p 109.50p 114.90p
Expected volatility 53.26% – 46.55% 52.59% – 46.08% 52.61% – 46.13% 51.55% – 44.99% 52.18% – 45.41%
Number of simulations 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000
Number of companies – – – – –
Option life 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years  3 – 5 years
Expected dividend 3.88% 3.66% 3.49% 2.35% 2.35%
Fair value of option at time of grant 23.04p – 22.43p 22.89p – 22.71p 27.32p – 27.01p 39.41p – 40.96p 38.27p – 39.80p
Risk free interest rate 1.15 – 1.67% 1.16 – 1.75% 1.29 – 1.91% 1.81 – 2.57% 1.70 – 2.48% 76 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
25. Share-based payment continued 
 
April 2011 
(Grant 1) September 2010 June 2010 March 2010
  EPS TSR EPS TSR EPS TSR
Share price on grant date 116.30p 70.60p 70.60p 73.20p 73.20p 94.00p 94.00p
Exercise price 114.90p 69.10p 69.10p 75.00p 75.00p 100.50p 100.50p
Expected volatility 51.23% – 
45.54% 
50.28% –
45.61%
50.28% –
45.61%
46.18% –
54.32%
46.99% –
56.36% 
47.02% – 
64.82%
46.74% – 
55.98%
Number of simulations 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000
Number of companies 
– 
FTSE All 
Share Index
FTSE All 
Share Index
FTSE All 
Share Index
FTSE All 
Share Index 
FTSE All 
Share Index
FTSE All 
Share Index
Option life 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years 3 – 5 years
Expected dividend 2.24% 3.40% 3.40% 3.28% 3.28% 2.55% 2.55%
Fair value of option at time of grant 42.19p – 
44.80p 
22.80p –
23.60p
21.51p –
21.51p
35.20p – 
42.70p
12.40p –
17.40p 
45.49p –
61.77p
19.50p –
26.30p
Risk free interest rate 2.33% –
3.04% 
1.51% –
2.17%
1.51% –
2.17%
2.76% – 
3.05%
2.76% – 
3.05% 
3.07% – 
3.38%
3.07% – 
3.38%
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility adjusted for any abnormal movement in share prices. 
Regus plc Co-Investment Plan (CIP) and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
 
2011 
Number of 
awards 
2010
Number of 
awards
At 1 January 21,114,781 19,724,642 
CIP awards granted during the year – –
LTIP awards granted during the year – 2,900,472 
Lapsed during the year (3,304,502) –
Exercised during the year (1,212,797) (1,510,333)
Outstanding at 31 December 16,597,482 21,114,781 
Exercisable at 31 December  654,497  167,852
1,212,797 options or conditional share awards were exercised during the year ended 31 December 2011 (2010: 1,510,333). The weighted average 
share price at the date of exercise for share awards and options exercised during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 77.67p (2010: 96.06p). 
Plan Date of grant
Numbers 
granted Lapsed Exercised At 31 Dec 2011 Release date
LTIP 03/11/20053,723,235 (1,092,819)(2,462,564) 167,852 03/11/2008
LTIP 23/03/20102,900,472(515,415) –  2,385,05723/03/2013
 6,623,707 (1,608,234)(2,462,564) 2,552,909 
 
Plan Date of grant
Numbers 
granted Lapsed Exercised At 31 Dec 2011 Release date
CIP: Investment shares 18/03/2008 1,557,391 (86,956) (983,790) 486,645 18/03/2011
CIP: Matching shares 18/03/2008 5,922,916 (1,182,796) –  4,740,120 * See below
CIP: Investment shares 23/03/2009 2,212,734 (172,835) (229,007) 1,810,892 23/03/2012
CIP: Matching shares 23/03/2009 8,614,284 (1,607,368) –  7,006,916 * See below
 18,307,325 (3,049,955)(1,212,797) 14,044,573 
* As indicated in the Remuneration Report in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2009, the Remuneration Committee felt it inappropriate to set specific 
performance conditions for Matching Shares under the CIP which were awarded in March 2008 and March 2009. Further details of the release dates and performance 
conditions set for 2010 can be found below. 
The fair value of services received in return for share-based payments is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.  
Of the awards of investment and matching shares under the LTIP on 23 March 2010, 1,028,539 were conditional share awards and 1,871,933  
were nil cost options.    www.regus.com/investors 77
Financial Statements
 
 
 
The LTIP/CIP awards are valued using the Monte Carlo method.  
The inputs to the model are as follows:  
23/03/2010 23/03/2009 18/03/2008 03/11/2005
LTIP(a) CIP (b) CIP (b) LTIP (c)
Share price on grant date 108.10p 65.50p 80.50p 92.25p
Exercise price Nil Nil Nil Nil
Number of simulations 250,000 200,000  200,000 60,000
Number of companies 32 32  36 29
Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Expected dividend 2.22% 2.72% 1.19% Nil
Fair value of award at time of grant 47.00p 47.97p 61.21p 65.00p
Risk free interest rate 1.86% 1.92% 3.86% 4.47%
(a) The LTIP awards have a release date of 23 March 2013. There is no expiry date and therefore remaining contractual life is on the basis that the awards release 
immediately. The LTIP nil cost options have a vesting date of 23 March 2013 and an expiry of 23 March 2020. The performance conditions are set out below. 
(b) The CIP Matching Shares and Share Option Plan awards made in 2008 and 2009 did not have performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at  
the date of the award. A valuation was performed for those awards based on the terms that applied to similar awards made in previous years. The Remuneration 
Committee set the performance conditions for the awards made in 2008 and 2009 effective from 22 March 2010 and the valuation of these awards was updated  
in the year ended 31 December 2010 
(c) The LTIP Awards of 3 November 2005 had a release date of 3 November 2008. There was no expiry date and therefore remaining contractual life is on the basis  
that the awards release immediately. The LTIP nil cost options had a vesting date of 3 November 2008 and an expiry date of 3 November 2015.  
It is recognised by the Remuneration Committee that the additional EPS targets represent a highly challenging goal and consequently in determining 
whether they have been met the Committee will exercise its discretion. The overall aim is that the relevant EPS targets must have been met on a run 
rate or underlying basis. As such an adjusted measure of EPS will be calculated designed to assess the underlying performance of the business. 
While the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust EPS as it sees fit at the time, by way of example, the following adjustments are 
currently anticipated: 
 In a growth company such as Regus, costs are necessarily incurred in one year to drive profits in future years. Thus it is important to ensure 
management is not incentivised to cut back on these investments to meet EPS targets in any one year. Accordingly those costs, incurred in  
the vesting year, which it considers necessary to drive future growth will be excluded from the EPS calculation. These would include, inter alia,  
the costs of the business development departments, excess marketing expenditures and current year losses from investing in new locations. 
 Any one-off or non-recurring costs will be excluded. 
 It is expected that in the period between 2006 and 2008 the cash tax rate will rise as cumulative tax losses are utilised thereby increasing 
progressively the challenge of achieving a 14p EPS target. This will then be further complicated by the need to recognise deferred tax assets  
as the business strengthens reducing the accounting rate of tax in one year and increasing it in the next. To provide greater clarity and incentive  
to management EPS will be calculated based upon the cash tax rate up to a maximum of 30%. 
 The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that the EPS and free cash flow performance targets are a transparent and accurate measure of 
the Company’s performance at this time and are the key corporate metrics for driving long-term shareholder value. In addition, the TSR condition 
will ensure that executives are encouraged to focus on ensuring that the Company’s return to shareholders is competitive compared to 
comparable companies.  78 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
25. Share-based payment continued 
As indicated in the Remuneration Report in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2008, the Remuneration Committee felt it 
inappropriate to set specific performance conditions for Matching Shares under the CIP and options awards under the Share Option Plan awarded 
in March 2008 and March 2009 but were committed to carrying out a thorough review of the matter during 2009. 
The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the following modifications will be made to the awards made in 2008 and 2009 and that the following 
performance conditions will apply to these awards effective from 22 March 2010. 
The total number of awards made in 2008 and 2009 to each participant will be divided into three separate equal amounts and will be subject to 
future performance periods of three, four and five years respectively. Thus, conditional on meeting the performance targets, the first amount will  
not vest until March 2013, the second will not vest until March 2014 and the third will not vest until March 2015. These vesting dates relate to the 
financial years ending 31 December 2012, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 respectively. The vesting of these awards will be subject to 
the achievement of challenging corporate performance targets. 75% of each of the three amounts will be subject to defined earnings per share (EPS) 
targets over the respective performance periods. The remaining 25% of each will be subject to relative total shareholder return (TSR) targets over the 
respective periods. The targets will be as follows: 
EPS targets for the financial years ending 
% of awards eligible for vesting 2012 2013 2014
25% 15p 17p 18p
50% 16p 20p 22p
75% 17p 23p 26p
100% 18p 26p 30p
No shares will vest in each respective year unless the minimum EPS target for that year is achieved. 
% of awards eligible for vesting Regus TSR % achieved relative to FTSE All Share Total Return index
 (a)
Nil 100%
25% Above 100% but below 101%
Increments of 0.75% For each complete 1% above 100%
100% 200% or above
(a) over three, four or five year performance period. 
Regus plc Value Creation Plan 
 2011 2010
 
Number of 
entitlements 
Number of 
entitlements
At 1 January 21,000,000 21,000,000 
VCP entitlements awarded during the year – – 
Lapsed during the year (8,142,858) –
Outstanding at 31 December 12,857,142 21,000,000
 
Plan 
Date of 
award
Numbers 
awarded Lapsed Exercised At 31 Dec 2011 
Measurement 
date
VCP Tier 1 awards 20/05/2008 3,500,000 (1,000,000) – 2,500,000  –
VCP Tier 2 awards 20/05/2008 6,000,000 (3,857,143) – 2,142,857  –
VCP Tier 3 awards 20/05/2008 10,000,000 (2,857,144) – 7,142,856  –
VCP Tier 4 awards 20/05/2008 3,000,000 (1,928,571) – 1,071,429  –
 22,500,000 (9,642,858)–12,857,142  
31/03/2010 – 
31/03/2013
The fair value of services received in return for share-based payments are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted. 
No awards were exercisable at the year end (2010: nil). 
The VCP awards are valued using the Monte Carlo method.   www.regus.com/investors 79
Financial Statements
 
 
 
The inputs to the model are as follows: 
 21/05/2008
 VCP
Share price on award date 107.00p
Exercise price 107.00p
Number of simulations 200,000 
Number of companies 36 
Award life 1.86 – 4.86 yrs
Expected dividend 0.93%
Total fair value of awards at time of grant £1.3m
Risk free interest rate 4.71%
The VCP awards have measurement dates of 31 March 2010, 31 March 2011, 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013. If at the measurement dates, 
the share price targets have been met the eligible VCP entitlements will be converted into options over ordinary shares. The options are not subject 
to further performance conditions but are exercisable on the following basis: 
In year ended 
31/12/2010
In year ended 
31/12/2011 
In year ended 
31/12/2012
In year ended 
31/12/2013
Percentage of entitlements converted to options at the 31/03/2010 measurement 
date that can be exercised 40% 20% 20% 20%
Percentage of entitlements converted to options at the 31/03/2011 measurement 
date that can be exercised – 40% 30% 30%
Percentage of entitlements converted to options at the 31/03/2012 measurement 
date that can be exercised – – 40% 60%
Percentage of entitlements converted to options at the 31/03/2013 measurement 
date that can be exercised – – – 100%
The performance conditions of the VCP entitlements are as follows: 
 
Number of shares earned less those earned at any prior  
measurement date 
 Tier 1 awards Tier 2 awards Tier 3 awards Tier 4 awards
First measurement 
date 31/03/2010 Share price less than £2.60 – – – –
 Share price is £2.60 or more but less than £3.50 2,500,000 4,285,714  7,142,857 2,142,857 
 Share price is £3.50 or more 3,500,000 6,000,000  10,000,000 3,000,000 
Second measurement 
date 31/03/2011 Share price less than £2.60 – – – –
 Share price is £2.60 or more but less than £3.50 1,800,000 3,085,714  5,142,857 1,542,857 
 Share price is £3.50 or more but less than £4.50 2,500,000 4,285,714  7,142,857 2,142,857 
 Share price is £4.50 or more 3,500,000 6,000,000  10,000,000 3,000,000 
Third measurement 
date 31/03/2012 Share price less than £2.60 – – – –
 Share price is £2.60 or more but less than £3.50 1,200,000 2,057,143  3,428,571 1,028,571 
 Share price is £3.50 or more but less than £4.50 1,800,000 3,085,714  5,142,857 1,542,857 
 Share price is £4.50 or more 2,500,000 4,285,714  7,142,857 2,142,857 
Fourth measurement 
date 31/03/2013 Share price less than £2.60 – – – –
 Share price is £2.60 or more but less than £3.50 600,000 1,028,571  1,714,286 514,285 
 Share price is £3.50 or more but less than £4.50 1,200,000 2,057,143  3,428,571 1,028,571 
 Share price is £4.50 or more 1,800,000 3,085,714 5,142,857 1,542,857 80 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
25. Share-based payment continued  
Where the share price targets have not been met by 31 March 2013 then the VCP Entitlement will not convert, no ordinary shares will be earned  
and no VCP Options will be granted under the VCP. 
In respect of the first, second and third Measurement Dates (31st March 2010, 31st March 2011 and 31 March 2012, respectively), the Company’s 
share price was below the target and no VCP Entitlements vested. 
26. Retirement Benefit Obligations 
In 2011 for the first time, the Group has accounted for the Swiss pension plans as defined benefit plans under IAS 19 based upon a reasonable  
and consistent allocation method of the multi-employer plan assets to the Group’s interest in the plans. Given that the IAS 19 valuation resulted  
in insignificant prior year net liabilities, the management of the Group believes that it is appropriate not to restate 2010 comparatives. The Group  
has recognised £0.4m of pension costs in the income statement, together with a loss of £ 0.1m in other comprehensive income. 
Reconciliation of balance sheet movements 
The reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 
£m 31.12.2011 31.12.2010
Fair value of plan assets 2.4 1.1
Present value of obligations (2.5) (1.1)
 
Net funded obligations (0.1) –
As required by IAS 19 liabilities for benefit obligations are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method. This is an accrued 
benefits valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings. 
The Group does not operate any unfunded defined benefit pension plans. 
Changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets: 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows: 
£m 31.12.2011 
At 1 January (1.1)
Current service costs (0.4)
Plan participants’ contributions (0.3)
Benefit payments (0.8)
Interest cost 
Net Insurance Premiums and expenses 0.2
Actuarial (gain) / loss for the year (0.1)
Exchange rate differences 
At 31 December (2.5)
Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: 
£m 31.12.2011 
At 1 January 1.1
Employer contributions 0.4
Plan participants’ contributions 0.3
Benefit payments 0.8
Expected return on plan assets –
Actuarial gain / (loss) for the year –
Net Insurance Premiums and expenses (0.2)
Exchange rate differences –
At 31 December 2.4
   www.regus.com/investors 81
Financial Statements
 
 
 
Income and expenses 
The amounts that have been recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2011 are  
as follows: 
£m 31.12.2011 
Analysis of amounts (charged) / credited to the income statement: 
Service cost component (net of plan participants’ contributions) (0.4)
Interest cost component –
Expected return on plan assets –
Total (charge) / credit to operating profit (0.4)
 
Analysis of amounts recognised in other comprehensive income: 
Net actuarial gains / (losses) recognised (0.1)
Actuarial gain / (loss) (0.1)
Current service costs have been included in selling, general and administrative expenses. Interest costs and expected return on plan assets  
have been included in finance expenses. 
The actual return on plan assets was £nil (2010: £nil). 
Major assumptions 
The major assumptions, adopted by the Group, when valuing the defined benefit obligations under IAS 19 are as follows: 
 31.12.11 01.01.11
Discount rate 2.25% 2.80%
Inflation rate 1.00% 1.00%
Expected return on plan assets 2.25% 2.80%
Future salary increase 1.00% 1.00%
Future pension increase  0.00% 0.00%
Average remaining years of service life  10.9 10.8
Life expectancy is reflected in the defined benefit obligations by using up-to-date mortality tables. The mortality and invalidity assumptions,  
adopted by the Group, are based on the LPP 2010 tables as follows: 
Mortality tables 
Life expectancy 
at age 65 
 2011 
LPP 2010 Male 19.56
 Female 21.89
Analysis of scheme assets 
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 
 31.12.11 01.01.11
Money market 4.3% 4.3%
Fixed income 75.3% 75.3%
Equity 0.6% 0.6%
Real Estate 12.4% 12.4%
Other 7.4% 7.4%
Total 100% 100%
Sensitivities 
An increase of 0.25% in the discount rate would decrease the defined benefit obligation by 3.0%. A decrease of 0.25% in the discount rate  
would increase the defined benefit obligation by 4.3%.  82 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
27. Acquisitions 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group made the following acquisitions: 
Name Region 
Purchase 
consideration  
£m 
Percentage of 
equity and voting 
rights acquired
Date of 
acquisition
Asset Acquisition:     
Espacio Servicio, S.A. DE C.V. Americas 2.8 N/A 03/08/2011
Davinci International, Inc Americas 2.1 N/A 20/07/2011
In addition to the above, a further £1.6 million of purchase consideration was paid to complete a further 8 net asset acquisitions. There were  
no equity share capital business acquisitions completed during the year ended 31 December 2011. 
Book value 
£m 
Provisional Fair 
value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Net assets acquired  
Intangible assets* – 0.4 0.4
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) 1.3  1.2 2.5 
Current liabilities (0.7) – (0.7)
Non current liabilities (0.3) – (0.3)
  0.3  1.6 1.9
Goodwill arising on acquisition  4.6 
Total consideration  6.5
Deferred consideration  0.3
  6.2
Cash flow on acquisition  
Cash paid  6.2
Net cash outflow  6.2
The goodwill arising on the above acquisitions reflects the anticipated future benefits Regus can obtain from operating the businesses more 
efficiently, primarily through increasing occupancy and the addition of value adding services. £1.6 million of the above goodwill is expected to  
be deductible for tax purposes. 
There was no contingent consideration arising on the above acquisitions. 
The acquisition costs associated with these transactions were £0.3 million, recorded within administration expenses within the consolidated  
income statement. 
Acquisition of non-controlling interests 
On 31 May 2011, the Group acquired the remaining 40.95% interest in Regus Business Centres Canada Limited for £3.9 million. The carrying 
amount of Regus Business Centres Canada Limited’s net assets on the date of acquisition was a net liability of £2.9 million.   www.regus.com/investors 83
Financial Statements
 
 
 
During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group made the following acquisitions: 
Name Region
Purchase 
consideration  
£m 
Percentage of 
equity and voting 
rights acquired
Date of 
acquisition
100% Equity Share Capital acquisitions:     
Abbey Business Centres Limited & Abbey Offices Limited UK 3.0 100% 03/12/2010
HQ Do Brazil Administracao de bens e servicos Ltda. Americas 10.2 100% 30/09/2010
Business Facilities International S.A. EMEA 1.8 100% 15/01/2010
Asset Acquisition:  
Advanced Business Technology Inc. Americas 3.2 N/A 11/01/2010
In addition to the above, a further £2.7 million of purchase consideration was paid to complete a further 12 business and net asset acquisitions. 
 
Book value
£m
Provisional fair 
value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value 
£m 
Final fair value 
adjustments
£m
Fair value
£m
Net assets acquired  
Intangible assets* 0.1 2.3 2.4  – 2.4 
Property, plant and equipment (note 15) 10.2 2.3 12.5  0.2 12.7 
Other non-current assets 2.6  – 2.6  – 2.6 
Cash 3.9 –3.9  –3.9 
Other current assets 7.5 (1.4) 6.1 (0.5) 5.6 
Current liabilities (18.9) – (18.9) – (18.9)
Non current liabilities (2.9) – (2.9) – (2.9)
  2.5 3.2 5.7 (0.3) 5.4
Goodwill arising on acquisition 15.2  0.3 15.5 
Total consideration 20.9 – 20.9
Deferred consideration – – –
 20.9 – 20.9
Cash flow on acquisition  
Cash acquired (3.9) – (3.9) 
Overdrafts and loans acquired – – –
Cash paid  20.9 – 20.9
Net cash outflow  17.0 – 17.0
* Intangible assets comprise the fair value of customer contracts or, in the case of managed centres, the fair value of the management contract acquired. 
There was no contingent consideration arising on the above acquisitions. 
If the above equity acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2010, the revenue and net retained loss arising from these acquisitions would have  
been £40.7 million and £1.4 million respectively. In the year these equity acquisitions contributed revenue of £11.8 million and a net retained loss  
of £1.8 million. 
The goodwill arising on the above acquisitions reflects the anticipated future benefits Regus can obtain from operating the businesses more 
efficiently, primarily through increasing occupancy and the addition of value adding services. £1.2 million of the above goodwill is expected to  
be deductible for tax purposes. 
The acquisition costs associated with these transactions were £1.0m, recorded within administration expenses within the consolidated  
income statement. 
Additional consideration of £nil was accrued as a result of the improved financial performance of acquisitions under contractual earn-out provisions. 
The amendments in 2011 to provisional purchase price allocations on acquisitions completed in 2010 are reflected in the table above.  84 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
28. Capital commitments 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 11.8 11.6 
These commitments are principally in respect of fit out obligations on new centres opening in 2012. In addition our share of the capital commitments 
of joint ventures amounted to £nil at 31 December 2011 (2010: £nil). 
29. Non-cancellable operating lease commitments 
At 31 December 2011 the Group was committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases: 
 2011 2010
 
Property
£m 
Motor vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m 
Total
£m 
Property 
£m 
Motor vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
(restated) £m
Total
£m
Lease obligations falling due:  
Within one year 410.3 0.3 410.6 375.1 0.9 376.0
Between two and five years 993.4 0.1 993.5 852.7 0.8 853.5
After five years 376.0 – 376.0 329.5  – 329.5
 1,779.7 0.4 1,780.1 1,557.3 1.7 1,559.0
Non-cancellable operating lease commitments exclude future contingent rental amounts such as the variable amounts payable under performance 
based leases where the rents vary in line with a centre’s performance. The 2010 motor vehicles, plant and equipment operating lease commitments 
have been restated primarily to reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions. 
30. Contingent assets and liabilities 
The Group has bank guarantees and letters of credit held with certain banks amounting to £103.7 million (2010: £102.2 million).  
There are no material lawsuits pending against the Group.   www.regus.com/investors 85
Financial Statements
 
 
 
31. Related parties 
Parent and subsidiaries entities 
The financial statements include the results of the Group and the subsidiaries listed in note 32. 
Joint ventures 
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year. 
£m 
Management 
fees received 
from related 
parties 
Amounts owed 
by related party
Amounts owed 
to related party
2011  
Joint Ventures 1.5 6.7 6.3
2010  
Joint Ventures 1.6 4.4 1.5
As at 31 December 2011, £nil of the amounts due to the Group have been provided for (2010: £nil). 
Key management personnel 
No loans or credit transactions were outstanding with Directors or officers of the Company at the end of the year or arose during the year,  
that are required to be disclosed.  
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors):  
Key management personnel include those personnel (including Directors) that have responsibility and authority for planning, directing and  
controlling the activities of the Group: 
 
2011
£m 
2010
£m
Short-term employee benefits 5.3 3.1 
Share-based payments 0.2 1.4
 5.5 4.5
Share-based payments included in the table above reflect the accounting charge in the year. The full fair value of awards granted in the year  
was £1.9 million (2010: £2.7 million). These awards are subject to performance conditions and vest three years from the award date. 
Transactions with related parties 
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group acquired goods and services from a company indirectly controlled by a Director of the 
Company amounting to £7,807 (2010: £30,738). The goods and services were acquired in arm’s-length transactions. There was a nil balance 
outstanding at the year end (2010: nil).  86 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notes to the accounts continued 
 
32. Principal group companies 
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011, their principal activities and countries of incorporation are set out below: 
Name of undertaking 
Country of 
incorporation 
% of 
ordinary 
share and 
votes held Name of undertaking 
Country of 
incorporation 
% of 
ordinary 
share and 
votes held
Principal activity –  
Trading companies    
Principal activity –  
Holding companies   
Regus do Brasil Ltda Brazil 100 Regus H Holdings Inc British Virgin Islands 100
HQ Do Brazil Administracao de bens e servicos  Brazil 100 RGN General Partner Holdings Corp Canada 100
ABC Business Centres Ltd  England 100 RGN Limited Partner Holdings Corp Canada 100
Regus Paris SAS France 100 Insignia Partnership Canada 100
Regus GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100 RGN Services Limited Canada 100
Regus Business Centres Italia Srl Italy 100 Regus Management de Chile Ltda Chile 100
Regus Japan KK Japan 100 Regus Denmark Holding AS Denmark 100
Regus Management de Mexico, SA de CV Mexico 100 Regus Group Limited England 100
Regus Amsterdam BV Netherlands 100 Regus Investments Limited England 100
Regus Business Centre SA Switzerland 100 Regus Business Centres (Holding) England 100
HQ Global Workplaces, LLC United States 100 Regus Business Centres (Trading) Limited England 100
Regus Business Center LLC United States 100 Regus H Holdings England 100
Regus Equity Business Centers LLC United States 100 Regus H (UK)  England 100
   Regus Holdings UK Limited England 100
Principal activity –  
Management companies  
Regus Holdings SAS 
Regus Deutschland GmbH 
France 
Germany 
100
100
Regus Australia Management Pty Limited Australia 100 Regus Germany Holding GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100
Regus Belgium SA Belgium 100 Regus Management GmbH Germany 100
Regus Colombia Limitada Colombia 100 Regus No.2 S.àr.l. Luxembourg 100
Regus Poslovni Centar d.o.o Croatia 100 Regus Businessworld (Luxembourg) S.àr.l. Luxembourg 100
Regus Management s.r.o Czech Republic 100 Regus Middle East S.àr.l. Luxembourg 100
Regus Management Aps Denmark 100 Regus India Holdings Limited Mauritius 100
Regus Group Services Ltd England 100 Regus Pakistan Holdings Limited Mauritius 100
Business Centres Management Estonia OU Estonia 100 Regus Mexico S. de RL de CV Mexico 100
Regus Asia Pacific Management Limited Hong Kong 100 Regus Netherlands BV Netherlands 100
Regus Management Latvia Latvia 100 Regus Business Centres BV Netherlands 100
UAB Regus Management Lithuania Lithuania 100 Regus Business Centre Norge AS Norway 100
Regus Management Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Regus Holding GmbH Switzerland 100
Regus Malta Management Ltd Malta 100 Regus Corporation LLC United States 100
Regus Amsterdam BV Netherlands 100 Regus Holdings LLC United States 100
Regus Management Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100 Regus H Holdings LLC United States 100
Regus Management Group (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100 Regus International Services SA Uruguay 100
Regus Management Espana SL Spain 100   
Regus Global Management Centre SA Switzerland 100   
Regus Yonetim ve Danismanlik Ltd Sirketi Turkey 100   
Regus Vietnam Assets Management Vietnam 100   
     
   www.regus.com/investors 87
Financial Statements
 
 
 
33. Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these accounts 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make certain judgements and assumptions that affect 
reported amounts and related disclosures. 
Fair value accounting for business combinations 
For each business combination, we assess the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired. Where there is not an active market in the category of  
the non-current assets typically acquired with a business centre or where the books and records of the acquired company do not provide sufficient 
information to derive an accurate valuation, management calculate an estimated fair value based on available information and experience.  
The main categories of acquired non-current assets where management’s judgement has an impact on the amounts recorded include tangible  
fixed assets, customer list intangibles and the fair market value of leasehold assets and liabilities. For significant business combinations management 
also obtain third party valuations to provide additional guidance over the appropriate valuation to be included in the financial statements.  
Valuation of intangibles and goodwill 
We evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangibles to assess potential impairments on an annual basis, or during the year if an event or other 
circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill at the 
appropriate cash-generating unit level and make that determination based upon future cash flow projections, which assume certain growth 
projections which may or may not occur. We record an impairment loss for goodwill when the carrying value of the intangible asset is less than  
its estimated recoverable amount. Further details of the methodology and assumptions applied to the impairment review in the year ended  
31 December 2011, including the sensitivity to changes in those assumptions, can be found in note 13. 
Tax assets and liabilities 
We base our estimate of deferred tax assets and liabilities on current tax laws and rates and, in certain cases, business plans and other expectations 
about future outcomes. Changes in existing laws and rates, and their related interpretations, and future business results may affect the amount of 
deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents management’s 
best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. It is current Group policy to recognise a deferred tax 
asset when it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used. The Group considers it probable if the 
entity has made a taxable profit in the previous year and is forecast to continue to make a profit in the foreseeable future. Where appropriate the 
Group assesses the potential risk of future tax liabilities arising from the operation of its business in multiple tax jurisdictions and includes provisions 
within tax liabilities for those risks that can be estimated reliably. Changes in existing tax laws can affect large international groups similar to Regus 
and could result in significant additional tax liabilities over and above those already provided for. 
Onerous lease provisions 
We have identified certain poor performing centres where the lease is considered onerous, i.e. the Group does not expect to recover the 
unavoidable lease costs up to the first break point. The accounts include a provision for our estimate of the net amounts payable under the  
terms of the lease to the first break point, discounted at the Group weighted average cost of capital, where appropriate. 
Dilapidations 
Certain of our leases with landlords include a clause obliging the Group to hand the property back in the condition as at the date of signing the 
lease. The costs to bring the property back to that condition are not known until the Group exits the property so the Group estimates the costs  
at each balance sheet date. However, given that landlords often regard the nature of changes made to properties as improvements, the Group 
estimates that it is unlikely that any material dilapidation payments will be necessary. Consequently provision has been made only for those  
potential dilapidation payments when it is probable that an outflow will occur and can be reliably estimated. 
  88 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Parent company accounts 
 
Summarised extract of company balance sheet (prepared under Luxembourg GAAP) 
 
As at
31 Dec 2011
(Luxembourg 
GAAP)
£m 
As at
31 Dec 2010
(Luxembourg 
GAAP)
£m
Assets 
C. Fixed assets 
III. Financial assets 
1. Shares in affiliated undertakings 778.2 224.5
2. Loans to affiliated undertakings 0.3 578.6
4. Loans to undertakings with which the company is linked by virtue of participating interests 0.3 0.3
D. Current assets 
II. Debtors 
2. Amount owed by affiliated undertakings  14.9 20.8
a) becoming due and payable within one year 
III. Transferable securities 
2. Own shares  7.1 7.1
(9,070,906 shares of £0.01 per share (2010: 9,070,906 shares) 
IV. Cash at bank and in hand 0.1 0.6
E. Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 0.7
Total assets 801.1 832.6
Liabilities 
A. Capital and reserves 
I. Subscribed capital 9.5 9.5
II. Share premium and similar premiums 53.7 53.7
IV. Reserves 
1. Legal reserve 0.9 0.9
2. Reserve for own shares 7.1 7.1
4. Other reserves 512.9 512.9
V. Results brought forward 221.0 259.7
VI. Results for the financial year (6.8) (19.1)
VII. Interim dividends (8.5) (3.1)
 789.8 821.6
C. Provisions  
3. Other provisions 0.3 0.3
D. Non-subordinated debts 
4. Trade creditors  0.3 – 
a) becoming due and payable within one year 
6. Amounts owed to affiliated undertakings  
a) becoming due and payable within one year  10.7 10.7
 11.0 10.7
Total liabilities 801.1 832.6
Approved by the Board on 20 March 2012 
Mark Dixon   Dominique Yates 
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer   www.regus.com/investors 89
Financial Statements
 
 
 
Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable Luxembourg accounting standards and under the historical cost 
accounting rules which differ in material respects from IFRS in both the measurement and presentation of certain transactions. 
The Company is included in the consolidated accounts of Regus plc. 
The balance sheet has been extracted from the full accounts of Regus plc for the period ended 31 December 2011 which are available from the 
Company’s registered office, Boulevard Royal, Luxembourg and which will be filed with both the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce and the 
Jersey Register of Companies. 
Financial assets 
Shares in affiliated undertakings are valued at purchase price including acquisition costs. Where any permanent diminution in value is identified,  
value adjustments are recorded in the profit and loss account. These value adjustments are not continued if the reasons which caused their  
initial recording cease to apply. 
  90 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Segmental analysis 
 
Segmental analysis – management basis (unaudited) 
 
Americas 
2011
EMEA 
2011
Asia Pacific
2011
United 
Kingdom 
2011 
Other
2011
Total
2011
Mature  
Workstations 69,383 33,433 21,510 33,076 – 157,402
Occupancy (%) 87.9 84.0 85.8 84.5 – 86.1
Revenue (£m) 431.8 274.3 139.7 187.6 1.7 1,035.1
Contribution (£m) 126.6 73.5 41.7 29.7 1.4 272.9
 
2010 Expansions  
Workstations 6,771 2,654 3,628 4,521 – 17,574
Occupancy (%) 85.7 76.5 78.1 80.6 – 81.4
Revenue (£m) 36.9 18.6 21.3 23.1 – 99.9
Contribution (£m) 7.4 0.9 4.3 2.3 – 14.9
 
2011 Expansions  
Workstations 2,856 1,606 2,187 349 – 6,998
Occupancy (%) 59.0 44.4 47.5 73.7 – 52.8
Revenue (£m) 7.7 5.5 5.9 1.2 – 20.3
Contribution (£m) (5.0) (5.2) (2.7) (0.4) – (13.3)
 
Closures  
Workstations 1,054 780 432 400 – 2,666
Occupancy (%) 72.3 73.8 72.7 63.5 – 71.5
Revenue (£m) 1.1 3.3 2.2 0.7 – 7.3
Contribution (£m) (0.5) (0.9) (0.1) 0.2 – (1.3)
 
Total  
Workstations 80,064 38,473 27,757 38,346 – 184,640
Occupancy (%) 86.5 81.6 81.6 83.7 – 84.2
Revenue (£m) 477.5 301.7 169.1 212.6 1.7 1,162.6
Contribution (£m) 128.5 68.3 43.2 31.8 1.4 273.2
Unallocated contribution (£m) – – – – – 2.0
 
REVPAW (£) 5,963 7,842 6,092 5,544 – 6,296
These figures exclude non-consolidated workstations, which totalled 10,132 as at 31 December 2011. 
   www.regus.com/investors 91
Shareholder and Other Information
 
 
 
 
 
Americas 
2010
EMEA 
2010
Asia Pacific
2010
United  
Kingdom 
2010 
Other
2010
Total
2010
Mature  
Workstations 69,98833,54821,06333,356 –157,955
Occupancy (%) 79.6 76.9 78.7 75.0 – 78.0
Revenue (£m) 422.3 266.3 132.5 174.8 1.7 997.6
Contribution (£m) 100.5 66.1 40.2 14.5 1.4 222.7
 
2010 Expansions  
Workstations 2,0131,4601,720666 –5,859
Occupancy (%) 61.9 61.5 43.0 51.6 – 55.1
Revenue (£m) 8.7 7.4 4.6 2.2 – 22.9
Contribution (£m) (0.8) (2.0) (3.7) (0.6) – (7.1)
 
2010 Closures  
Workstations 6838593336 –1,197
Occupancy (%) 75.3 70.2 50.5 57.0 – 67.9
Revenue (£m) 2.9 0.5 0.3 1.2 – 4.9
Contribution (£m) (0.7) 1.2 (0.5) 0.1 – 0.1
 
2011 Closures  
Workstations 1,5811,027561493 –3,662
Occupancy (%) 72.3 76.1 73.4 66.2 – 71.1
Revenue (£m) 3.0 7.0 4.3 0.7 – 15.0
Contribution (£m) 0.1 0.5 0.4 (0.8) – 0.2
 
Total  
Workstations 74,265 36,120 23,437 34,851 – 168,673
Occupancy (%) 79.0 76.1 75.8 74.3 – 76.9
Revenue (£m) 436.9 281.2 141.7 178.9 1.7 1,040.4
Contribution (£m) 99.1 65.8 36.4 13.2 1.4 215.9
Unallocated contribution (£m) –––– ––
 
REVPAW (£) 5,883 7,785 6,046 5,133 – 6,168
 The mature business is defined as those centres owned and operated prior to 1 January 2010 and that therefore have a full 12 month 
comparative in 2011. 
 Expansions include new centres opened and acquired businesses. 
 A 2011 closure is defined as a centre closed during the 12 months ended 31 December 2011 for which there is a 12 month comparative in 2010. 
A 2010 closure is defined as a centre closed during the 12 months ended 31 December 2010. 
 Workstation numbers are calculated as the weighted average for the year. 
 EMEA represents Europe (excluding UK), Middle East and Africa. 
 Contribution in 2011 is £2.2 million (2010: £2.0 million) less when compared to note 3 owing to the exclusion of internal revenue.  92 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Five year summary 
 
 
Five year Summary 
 
Full year ended
31 Dec 2011
£m 
Full year ended
31 Dec 2010
£m
Full year ended 
31 Dec 2009 
£m 
Full year ended
31 Dec 2008
£m
Full year ended
31 Dec 2007
£m
Revenue 1,162.6 1,040.4 1,055.1  1,077.2 862.4 
Cost of sales before non-recurring costs (887.4) (824.5) (819.5) (771.5) (610.5)
Non-recurring cost of sales – (11.9) – – –
Cost of sales (887.4) (836.4) (819.5) (771.5) (610.5)
Gross profit (centre contribution) (before exceptional) 275.2 215.9 235.6 305.7 251.9 
Administration expenses before non-recurring expenses (224.7) (193.3) (166.1) (161.7) (130.2)
Non-recurring administration expenses – (3.9) (2.6) – –
Administration expenses (224.7) (197.2) (168.7) (161.7) (130.2)
Operating profit (before exceptional) 50.5 22.6 66.9 144.0 121.7 
Exceptional income from legal settlement – – 18.3  – –
Operating profit (after exceptional) 50.5 6.7 85.2 144.0 121.7 
Share of post-tax profit/(loss) of joint ventures  0.1 1.3 2.0  2.3 0.8 
Share of post-tax profit of associate – – –  – – 
Profit/(loss) before financing costs 50.6 8.1 87.2 146.3 122.5 
Finance expense (3.4) (2.0) (4.4) (6.8) (8.1)
Finance income 1.3 1.8 3.3  6.3 4.1 
Other finance costs (3.0) (0.1) 0.8 3.4 0.9
Profit/(loss) before tax for the year 45.5 7.8 86.9 149.2 119.4 
Tax (charge)/credit (8.9) (5.9) (19.2) (34.3) (15.8)
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 36.6 1.9 67.7 114.9 103.6 
 
Attributable to:  
Equity shareholders of the parent 37.9 1.5 67.0  113.9 103.1 
Minority interests (1.3) 0.4 0.7  1.0 0.5 
 36.6 1.9 67.7  114.9 103.6 
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (EPS):  
Basic (p) 4.0p 0.2p 7.1p  12.0p 10.5p 
Diluted (p) 4.0p 0.2p 7.0p  11.8p 10.4p 
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (‘000’s) 941,899 947,463 948,204  950,320 980,962 
Balance sheet data (as at 31 December)  
Intangible assets 331.3 330.8 307.4  330.3 269.9 
Property, plant and equipment 320.9 270.8 240.9  278.0 184.7 
Deferred tax assets 32.8 37.1 65.1  79.0 46.8 
Trade and other receivables 319.2 299.9 250.3  282.4 217.2 
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 197.5 204.6 245.1  219.5 142.9 
Total assets 1,201.7 1,143.2 1,108.8  1,189.2 861.5 
Current liabilities 578.4 541.8 504.5  592.3 448.2 
Non-current liabilities 126.4 105.8 96.6  108.1 96.1 
Provisions 8.2 9.8 8.2  8.5 7.4 
Equity minority interests – 0.1 –  0.3 0.5 
Equity shareholders funds’ 488.7 485.7 499.5  480.0 309.3 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ funds 1,201.7 1,143.2 1,108.8  1,189.2 861.5 
   www.regus.com/investors 93
Shareholder and Other Information
Shareholder information 
 
Corporate directory 
Secretary and Registered Office 
Tim Regan, Company Secretary 
Regus plc (Société Anonyme) 
Registered Office:  Registered Head Office: 
22 Grenville Street  26 Boulevard Royal 
St Helier   L-2449 Luxembourg 
Jersey 
JE4 8PX 
Registered Number 
Jersey   Luxembourg 
101523   R.C.S. B 141 159 
Registrars 
Equiniti (Jersey) Limited 
PO Box 63 
11 – 12 Esplanade 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE4 8PH 
Auditor 
KPMG Luxembourg S.à r.l. 
9 allée Scheffer 
L-2520 Luxembourg 
Legal advisers to the Company as to English law 
Slaughter and May 
One Bunhill Row 
London EC1Y 8YY 
Legal advisers to the Company as to Luxembourg law 
Noble & Scheidecker 
Avocats à la Cour 
398, route d’Esch 
L-1471 Luxembourg 
Corporate Stockbrokers 
Investec Bank plc 
2 Gresham Street 
London EC2V 7QP  
Goldman Sachs 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
Reservations 
UK telephone:  0870 880 8484 
US telephone:  1.877.REGUS.87 or 
   001 954 331 1647 
Websites 
www.regus.com 
www.hq.com  94 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Shareholder information continued 
 
Glossary 
Available workstations 
The total number of workstations in the Group (also termed Inventory). 
During the year, this is expressed as a weighted average. At period ends 
the absolute number is used.  
Centre Contribution 
Gross profit comprising centre revenues less direct operating expenses 
but before administrative expenses 
EBITDA 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
EBITDAR 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent 
Enquiries 
Client enquiries about Regus products or services 
Expansions 
A general term which includes new business centres established by 
Regus and acquired centres in the year 
Forward Order Book 
The future workstation revenue already contracted with clients at a  
point in time 
Like for like 
The financial performance from centres owned and operated for a full  
12 months prior to the start of the financial year which therefore have  
a full year comparative 
Mature business 
Operations owned for a full 12 month period prior to the start of the 
financial year which therefore have a full year comparative 
Occupancy 
Occupied workstations divided by available workstations expressed as  
a percentage 
Occupied workstations 
Workstations which are in use by clients. This is expressed as a 
weighted average for the year.  
REVPAW 
Total revenue per available workstations (Revenue/Available 
workstations) 
REVPOW 
Total revenue per occupied workstation 
WIPOW 
Workstation income per occupied workstation   The Forest Stewardship Council
®
 (FSC) is an international network  
which promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. Forest 
certiﬁcation is combined with a system of product labelling that allows 
consumers to readily identify timber-based products from certiﬁed forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc | www.blacksunplc.com
Printed in England by the Pureprint Group Regus plc S.A.
26 Boulevard Royal
L-2449 Luxembourg
www.regus.com
pl
v
ux
s.
c 
ard
em
co
S.
 R
mb
m
A.
Ro
ou
ya
rg
s 
ule
L
u
