 Pharmacy
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 30 June 2007
Mental Health & Community Care Primary & Unscheduled Care Electronic Patient Records Ascribe has made major advances this year in improving
by increasing investment in restructuring and expansion 
investment in the consolidation and improvement of its
Contents
Page 
1  Highlights for the Year
3  At a Glance
6  Executive Chairman’s Statement
8  Chief Operating Officer’s Review
10  Financial Review
14  Board of Directors
15  Report of the Directors
17  Corporate Governance Report
19  Remuneration Report
Page 
22  Independent Auditors’ Report
23  Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
23  Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised
Gains and Losses
24  Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
25  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
26  Statement of Accounting Policies
28  Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements
43  Notice of Annual General Meeting
IBC   Directors, Secretary and Advisers • Revenues up 55% to £15.3m (2006: £9.9m)
• Recurring maintenance revenue at 63% (2006: 62%)
• Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation
1
(EBITDA) 
increased 54% to £3.7m (2006: £2.4m
3
)
• Adjusted operating profit
2
up 55% to £3.5m (2006: £2.3m
3
)
• Operating margin
2
of 23% (2006: 23%
3
)
• Adjusted profit before tax
2
up 46% to £3.3m (2006: £2.3m
3
)
• Profit before tax up by 11% to £1.7m (2006: £1.5m
3
)
• Operating cash is 121% (2006: 111%
3
) of operating profit
2
• Adjusted earnings per share
2
up 29% to 2.38p (2006: 1.85p
3
)
• Dividend of 0.17p per share proposed - an increase of 31% on last year
1  
before charge for share based payments
2  
before goodwill amortisation and charge for share based payments
3  
restated for prior year adjustment - change in accounting policy for development costs
Highlights for the year
Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P1
its integration of acquisitions at a fundamental level 
of its product development resource, and additional 
logistical infrastructure. Pharmacy Mental Health & Community Care Primary & Unscheduled Care Electronic Patient Records
GP Practice Management
Retail Pharmacy  
Electronic Transfer of 
Precriptions
ePoS Sales Systems
Patient Medical Records
Primary Care Secondary Care
Child Health
Community Services
Electronic Prescribing
Single Assessment Process
Electronic Discharge Systems
Substance Misuse Services
Emergency Departments
Minor Injury Units
NHS Messaging
Social Care
Acute Mental Health
Electronic Patient Records
Medicine Administration
Hospital Pharmacy
Robotic Interfaces
Parenteral Nutrition 
Equipment Tracking
Patient Administration 
Systems  
Radiology Information 
Systems 
Theatres management                                                        
Markets served by Ascribe that are candidates for 
a comprehensive Electronic Patient Record system
Feedback we are getting from our customers about
our new products and integrated offerings means we
are confident about the expectations for 2007/8.  Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P3
Ascribe plc is a leading healthcare company that develops and markets software solutions supporting
patient, clinical and business processes to Primary and Secondary healthcare providers in the UK and 
overseas. The Group offers solutions that directly improve patient care and deliver financial savings 
to our customers. Ascribe provides solutions to clinical professionals and sells to Primary and Secondary
Care health providers rather than through centrally driven political initiatives. Offering patient and
decision support information to clinicians in context with their activity is the key to our ongoing success.
Ascribe currently employs over 220 personnel through its seven operating businesses in the UK, 
Kenya, Australia and New Zealand.
Ascribe at a Glance
The Group currently delivers systems for the following
health requirements:
• Electronic Patient Records (“EPR”) 
and Patient Administration Systems (“PAS”)
• Hospital Pharmacy Departments
• Electronic Prescribing & Medicine Administration
• Accident and Emergency and Minor Injury Units
• Mental Health and Community Care
• Substance Misuse Systems
• General Practice
• Primary Pharmacy and Retail Sales
• Theatres Management 
• Radiology Information Systems
• Electronic Discharge Systems
• Dispensary Robotic Interfaces
• Medical Equipment Asset Management
Ascribe is committed to developing a common integrated
solution that meets all these needs regardless of care
location. Our solutions can work as standalone modules
or as integrated systems - integrating with each other
and with third party IT systems. Integrated healthcare
systems such as electronic prescribing and medicines
administration provide a far more effective safeguard
to protect patients’ safety, helping to reduce risk and
providing healthcare professionals with better access
to patient and medication information.
In a market that has an increasing demand for clinical
systems operated by teams of health professionals
from many disciplines, Ascribe continues to deliver
innovation, development and sustainable growth. 
The Group’s goal is to provide ‘birth to death’ records
that will enable clinicians and healthcare professionals
to make more informed decisions at ‘the point of care’,
thereby reducing risk and errors and so provide patients
with better healthcare. Such a solution is required for
health organisations to move to their preferred method
of a patient being treated by multiple carers in multiple
locations against a common record.
Competitive Advantages:
• A robust and mature product suite of healthcare 
solutions that can be delivered today across primary 
and secondary care.
• Strong and scalable infrastructure that employs 
economies of scale to increase efficiency and 
reduce wastage. 
• Development focus on system integration and 
interoperability – our internal development resource 
is one of our most significant assets. We can build 
systems on time and to agreed budgets. Most 
importantly of all, we consistently deliver healthcare 
IT solutions that work.
• Experienced professional workforce, many recruited 
from within the NHS, helps us to work closely with 
customers and understand the issues that are key to 
them. Our support teams respond quickly and 
professionally and extend our customer relationship 
well past the point of purchase. Ascribe is well 
known for its excellent service and support.
• Many of our solutions are compliant to the standards 
required by the UK Government’s Connecting for 
Healthcare (“CfH”) initiative. Separate Products establish 
basic communication of data
Integration leads to common resources,
saving development time & enhancing
clinical focus
ePrescribing
Mental 
Health & 
Community
Care
Pharmacy
Patient 
Master Index
Patient 
Master Index
Patient 
Master Index
Security Security Security
Clinical &
Demographic
Database
EDI – Text transfer of basic information
Clinical &
Demographic
Database
Clinical &
Demographic
Database
ePrescribing
Mental 
Health & 
Community
Care
Pharmacy
Clinical & Demographic Database
Patient Master Index
Security - Access Control
Medical Record Viewer
EDI – Text transfer of basic information
Migrating Product Development to Incorporate
Greater Integration Integrated Clinical Products Benefits:
Clinical:
• Access to patient data is streamlined.
• Repeat entries of patient data unnecessary.
• Administration of software is simplified.
• Patient risks are reduced as current medical 
data is more easily accessed by the clinician.
• Allows Ascribe to focus upon delivering     
‘Clinical benefits’ rather than re-inventing     
code for shared tasks such as accessing the 
Patient Master Index.
Product Development:
• Development times are reduced as the need to 
duplicate administrative functions is removed.
• Reduces duplication of development effort.
• Supports data interfaces with legacy 3rd party systems.
Sales:
• Products can be delivered to market more speedily.
ePrescribing
Mental 
Health & 
Community
Care
Pharmacy
Clinical & Demographic Database
Patient Master Index
Security - Access Control
Medical Record Viewer
EDI – Text transfer of basic information
ePrescribing
++ =
Mental 
Health & 
Community
Care
Pharmacy
Substance Misuse Service
Used by DAAT (Drug & Alcohol Teams) to 
dispense medications and generate reports
ePrescribing
++ =
Order 
Comms
Pharmacy
eDischarge System
Allowing Hospitals to automatically generate 
letters to a patient’s GP at the point that 
the patient is discharged
Patient
Administration 
System
+=
Emergency
Care
System
Single Patient Admission & 
Discharge transfer system
Allowing Hospitals to make a single log-in 
of Patients’ admission & discharge through 
their Emergency Dept.
Patient
Administration 
System
+=
Interfacing
Engine
Choose & Book Compliance
Allowing Hospitals to comply with the CfH 
Choose & Book appointment scheme.
“Getting the right data, to the right person, 
at the right time”
Combining solutions to meet clinical and 
administrative demands in healthcare
Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P5 Executive Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
I am pleased to report good progress across the
Group as our acquisitions perform well and we
see organic growth. Whilst there was uncertainty
in the market in the last quarter of the financial
year this is generally resolved at local level,
where we trade directly with hospital trusts, 
and leaves us with enormous opportunity and an
increased sales pipeline. Our challenge has been
to grow the Group’s operational capacity to meet
this demand. 
After a period of consolidation, the Group has an
excellent platform to undertake and integrate
further acquisitions. Ascribe has now moved to
having each Group function under one manager
and one group-wide control system. The Ascribe
brand is now evolving and will be further 
developed. We have maximised our ability to
respond to defined markets, through our divisions,
using common group-wide services. 
Ascribe has invested heavily in the development
of its integrated suite of software. Some of the
implementations delayed at the end of our financial
year were the first customer sites going live on
our web based platform. This platform enables
us to install and maintain customers more 
efficiently and effectively as well as delivering
all our products as an integrated package. Since
the year end these customers have gone live on
the software. This gives me confidence that our
plans to maximise operational capacity are being
delivered as well as giving us follow on sales
opportunities as new and existing customers
seek to upgrade. 
The investment in enlarging the Group’s sales
and marketing team is showing the first signs of
success as Ascribe has won new sales in overseas
markets. Since the year end the Group has won
its first Accident and Emergency contract in
Australia. We now have many more cross selling
opportunities as we produce a suite of compatible
software solutions against a common sales and
marketing plan. Our customers are able to buy
all of their solutions from a single supplier and
use them to complement solutions they already
have acquired from Ascribe.
A Successful Year
Ascribe’s strategy of combining organic growth and
earnings enhancing acquisitions has continued to fuel
our growth this year. Turnover has increased by 55%
to £15.3m (2006: £9.9m). Operating profit before
goodwill amortisation and share based payments has
increased 55% to £3.5m (2006: £2.3m restated)
yielding a return on sales of 23% (2006: 23%).
Adjusted basic earnings per share for the year
increased by 29% to 2.38p from 1.85p restated 
in 2006.
This year’s record profitability has been fully converted
into cash – operating cash in 2007 was 121% of 
operating profit (2006: 111% restated). 
Strategy
The business can grow from strength to strength 
selling at local level. We can add acquisitions to the
Group with little distraction to gain market share and
operational capacity. We are maximising our efficiency
to allow us to operate at higher levels as we expect
demand to rise further in the coming years.  To ensure
Ascribe keeps and expands its market share we focus
on the patient as the end customer in all that we do. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P7
Market
Ascribe trades in multiple markets globally and across
many healthcare sectors, although generally at local
level. This gives us resilience to current changes in the
English NHS as well as many cross selling opportunities.
We currently trade in the UK, Ireland, Australia, New
Zealand, Malaysia and Hong Kong.  
Lord Hunt, the minister responsible for Connecting for
Health stated in May this year that “we can and should
devolve more to the local level” Whilst this initially
created uncertainty around the funding model, we
believe that this gives us a great opportunity in the
markets we trade. This is now demonstrated in our
strong pipeline of sales.
The Group’s overseas markets have performed well
and new sales are now coming from areas where we
have invested our sales and marketing efforts.
The English market has been disappointed by promises
from the national initiatives that have not been delivered.
It is quite possible that Ascribe could deliver to the
English national agenda through various channels such
as the alternative supplier catalogue (Additional
Supply Capability and Capacity “ASCC”) or may be
directly to the Local Service Providers (“LSP’s”). After
continuing to win in competitive tenders against all
competition, including that coming from the National
Programme for IT (“NPfIT”), we know we are able to
deliver in a market which is now able to make local
decisions to procure.
Management and Staff
Ascribe’s Board has been strengthened by the welcome
arrival of a new Non-Executive Director, Ian Priestner,
formerly a member of the Executive Leadership Team
at United Utilities plc. 
Having spent the last twelve months consolidating and
growing the business organically I am proud of what
the team has achieved. The Group is now capable of
addressing the wider opportunity ahead of us, improving
patient care and delivering value to stakeholders. On
your behalf, I would like to thank the staff at Ascribe
for all their hard work during the year. 
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 0.17p
per share (2006: 0.13p). Subject to shareholder
approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 November
2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 12 October 2007.
Current Trading and Outlook
Ascribe continues to expand the capacity of the Group
by maximising our operational synergies, moving
products to our more efficient web based platform 
and undertaking further recruitment. This positions
Ascribe to quickly respond as customers prepare to
buy locally. 
The feedback we are getting from our customers
about the Group’s new products and integrated software
means we are confident about the expectations for
2007/8. Many of our customers have extended their
contracts with us this year giving us assurance about
our long term maintenance income which still exceeds
60% of our turnover. 
Stephen Critchlow
Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer’s Review
Introduction
Ascribe’s business model is to supply Health IT
solutions directly to Healthcare Trusts at local
levels in the UK and overseas.
Integration and Consolidation
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive programme
of integration and consolidation of the businesses
acquired since flotation designed to ensure we are
able to take full advantage of our growing market
opportunity in the UK and overseas.  
Investment in our key operational activities has
included consolidation of our software development
team which has led to improved product management
and development planning. Core functionality is now
used across multiple market areas improving efficiency
and the ability to integrate our software. In parallel
with the improvement in the effectiveness of software
development and the wider commercial opportunities
in the UK and overseas health IT markets, the Board
has approved the capitalisation of part of its development
expenditure as permitted by UK GAAP. This capitalisation
results in an intangible asset that represents the
investment in new software solutions which will underpin
future sales over the medium term. 
The processes used by our project management and
implementation teams have also been improved with
teams now able to deliver multiple products. In addition
to this, our support operations have been consolidated
and a new customer relationship management system
has been introduced; together these will provide
improved robustness and efficiency of our customer
support. Our finance systems have been replaced to
provide improved management reporting.
Operating Divisions 
Ascribe has four market-based divisions: Pharmacy;
Electronic Patient Records; Mental Health and Community
Care; and Primary and Unscheduled Care. Over the
last twelve months these divisions have seen new
sales in three broad areas; existing customers looking
for additional licenses and increased functionality; new
customers looking for robust and available IT solutions
that can be easily integrated with their existing systems
and processes; and thirdly, there is a growing number
of healthcare providers looking to Ascribe to deliver
combinations of our products, across multiple 
departments, on an ongoing basis, to provide a 
single cohesive and integrated patient-centric solution
– which we can deliver; Gateshead NHS Health Trust
being a particular example of a customer who is 
purchasing multi-product five year contract extensions.
Many of our contracts yield recurring maintenance
income for a minimum period of between three and
five years, being the length of the initial contract, and
enhance further the visibility of the Group’s earnings.
Pharmacy
Ascribe's Pharmacy Division has continued to win new
health IT contracts during the year and continues to
install our new web pharmacy software solution in the
UK and overseas; this product upgrade not only
increases the scalability of our solution, it also supports
additional and complimentary pharmacy and reporting
systems, such as Ascribe’s electronic prescribing and
medicines management solutions.  
Primary and Unscheduled Care
Our Primary and Unscheduled Care Division has
installed our Accident and Emergency system, Symphony,
at a number of sites including Guys and St Thomas’,
and Hammersmith and Charing Cross in London and
at Dewsbury which becomes one of a group of three
hospitals operating from a single Symphony database.
Ascribe’s GP system, Exeter, has passed conformance
testing for Scottish Enhanced Functionality (SEF)
Tranche 3. Amongst other benefits this includes tighter
prescribing safety checks including warnings for similarly
named drugs. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P9
Mental Health and Community Care (MH&CC)
This division continues to perform well within its existing
user base by selling increased licenses and new feature
enhancing modules. Major new contracts include a 
significant new agreement to supply a MH&CC solution
to Central and North West London NHS Foundation
Trust. Our customers for this division are represented
by small dedicated teams and departments through 
to major trusts, such as Bolton, Salford & Trafford
Mental Health. 
Electronic Patient Record (EPR)
Our EPR division has performed exceptionally well,
overcoming competition from National Programme
suppliers. Contract extensions have been sold to West
Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust and to County
Durham and Darlington Foundation NHS Trust as part
of an extended and expanded contract. New and
extended contracts have also been sold to customers
including South Tees Hospitals NHS Trust, Northern
Lincolnshire and Goole Hospitals NHS Trust and Hull
and East Yorkshire Hospitals NHS Trust. The division
also expanded its NPfIT compliant ‘Choose and Book’
Services and successfully sold this functionality to
Gateshead Health NHS Trust, Mid Yorkshire Hospitals
NHS Trust and Benenden. This means that all of
Ascribe’s Patient Administration System customers will
have a compliant direct booking service for ‘Choose
and Book’.
Sales and Marketing 
Our overseas activities have performed ahead of
expectations with orders from new customers, orders
for new functionality from our current customers as
well as contracts to upgrade our pharmacy customers
to the new web based solution. I am pleased to report
that our international operations have contributed
14.4% of the Group’s turnover compared to 9.3% in
2006. Due to a variety of factors our UK turnover has
not grown as expected. Orders have been delayed in
the English NHS as localised procurement processes
are being re-established. We are still in active negotiations
on all these contracts and expect them to be delivered
in the year in which we are now trading. Some have
been achieved in the last few weeks.
Chris Dickson
Chief Operating Officer Financial Review
The year ended 30 June 2007 saw record sales
and profitability during a period when the business
invested significant time and funds into the
integration of the seven acquisitions made by
Ascribe in the two and a half years since flotation.
The business is now positioned to continue growing
organically and to integrate further acquisitions.
Trading results
Turnover grew 55% to £15.3m for the year ended 30
June 2007 (2006: £9.9m) whilst like-for-like organic
sales growth has increased by an average of 3%.
Turnover generated from recurring maintenance 
contracts remains a significant and visible component
of the Group’s revenue, comprising 63% of sales during
the year (2006: 62%). The remaining sales, of new
software solutions, are generated from new and existing
customers. The Group has an enviable record in 
competing for new tenders whilst the cross selling
opportunities from introducing further companies to the
Group have continued to drive account development
sales with existing customers.
The Board’s decision in May 2006 to invest in the
Australasian market at a time when its web-based
software solutions were nearly ready for launch has
created momentum in our overseas sales. The proportion
of the Group’s sales being generated outside the UK
and Ireland grew in 2007 to 14.4% (2006: 9.3%) to
£2.2m representing an organisation with critical mass
capable of further growth in the region. 
Operating margins have remained constant during the
year. The return on sales, before goodwill amortisation
and share based payments, is 23% (2006: 23%). This
represents a mix of the impact of increased sales, the
investment in the integration of the acquired businesses
in readiness for further growth and the capitalisation
of development expenditure under the guidelines set
out under UK GAAP. The Board is committed to the
continued and targeted investment in research and
development expenditure, which for 2007 amounted
to £2.74m (2006: £1.86m).
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and
share based payments was £3.5m compared to £2.3m
as restated in the previous year. Adjusted EBITDA
grew to £3.7m (2006: £2.4m restated). Operating
profit after goodwill amortisation and share based 
payments grew 24% to £1.9m (2006: £1.5m restated).
Accounting Policies
Following the Group’s review of its accounting under
SSAP 13, Accounting for Research and Development
Expenditure, the financial statements for the year
ended 30 June 2006 have been restated to show the
impact of capitalised expenditure relating to the period
up to that date.
During the year the group has capitalised development
costs of £0.6m (2006: £0.1m restated). A prior year
adjustment has been made in respect of the capitalised
development credit relating to the period before 1 July
2006.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The requirement to comply with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) is effective for accounting
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007. Our
December 2007 Interim Report and June 2008 Annual
Report will be presented under IFRS.  
As UK GAAP accounting closely mirrors the IFRS 
treatment of share based payments and the capitalisation
of development expenditure, the principal areas that
will have material impact on the Group results relate
only to goodwill amortisation and financial instruments.
Under IFRS the annual goodwill amortisation will cease
and be replaced by a full impairment review at the
balance sheet date with any impairment charge being
written off to the profit and loss account.  Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P11
Interest
The Group is now a net payer of interest although,
due to its very seasonal cash flow, the Group is in a
net cash position for part of the year, including the
year end as a result of the annual invoicing and payment
of maintenance contracts. Net interest payable for the
year was £187k (2006: £(7)k). The Group has a five
year bank loan and a offsetting overdraft facility with
RBS, taken out to part fund the consideration of earlier
acquisitions. Interest is paid at 1.5% over the Royal
Bank of Scotland plc’s base rate.
Goodwill
A charge of £1.54m (2006: £0.59m) for the amortisation
of goodwill has been made in the year. Amortisation
represents a full year’s charge for all seven of the
acquisitions made since flotation.
Goodwill arising on consolidation continues to be
amortised over a period of twenty years. Goodwill 
purchased as part of the acquisition of the healthcare
division of Jade Health is being amortised over a period
of five years. In all cases these are the periods that
the Board believe the Group will derive economic benefit. 
Taxation
The tax charge for the year of £0.39m (2006: £0.29m)
represents an effective rate of tax of 11.6% (2006:
12.8%) on profit before tax, goodwill amortisation 
and share based payments. The effective rate of tax
remains low due to the Group’s ability to utilise the UK
tax credits arising from investment in research and
development.
Share Price Pence
Adjusted Earnings Per Share Pence Earnings per share
Adjusted basic earnings per share (“EPS”), before
goodwill amortisation and share based payments,
increased 29% to 2.38p (2006: 1.85p restated). Basic
EPS, calculated after charging goodwill amortisation
reduced to 1.14p (2006: 1.15p restated).
Funding and bank facilities
The Group’s net funds position at 30 June 2007 was
£0.8m (2006: Net debt £0.5m).  The Group has an
overdraft facility and a fixed term debt facility with its
principal banker, the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. 
The facilities include a term loan facility amounting to
£3.4m at 30 June 2007 (2006: £2.6m) which will be
repaid by 30 June 2011 and an overdraft facility of
£1.6m (2006: £1.6m) The interest charge for both the
loan and overdraft facilities is 1.5% over the Royal Bank
of Scotland plc’s base rate. 
Acquisitions
Ascribe has not made any acquisitions during 2007 as
it has focused on the integration of the seven made
during the two and a half years since flotation. Further
acquisitions are constantly being considered where they
are earnings enhancing and represent good value for
the Group’s stakeholders. 
Dividends
In November 2006, a dividend of 0.13p per ordinary
share was paid in respect of the year ended 30 June
2006. The Board has recommended to the Group’s
shareholders that a final dividend of 0.17p per ordinary
share be paid during the year ending 30 June 2008. 
Jeremy Lee
Group Finance Director
Financial review cont.
Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P12
Turnover £ Million
Adjusted Operating Profit £ Million Case Study 1
Mid Cheshire NHS Hospitals Trust - Ascribe Web Pharmacy
Mid Cheshire NHS Hospitals Trust selected Ascribe’s Web Pharmacy as their departmental IT solution in Leighton
Hospital to help deliver improved patient care. The system integrates the Pharmacy’s Dispensary, Stores, Finance &
Reporting. It will also utilises a software interface to the Hospital’s existing Patient Administration System (PAS) to
enable a more comprehensive Electronic Patient Record (EPR). Ascribe’s Pharmacy solution was selected by Mid
Cheshire as the best fit for their clinical and information needs following an open procurement review of competitive
bids. “Our decision to install Ascribe’s Pharmacy is based upon the strengths of their clinical systems and the
improvements that these bring to patient-care,” said Alan Denby, Chief Pharmacist of Leighton Hospital.
Case Study 2
Rugby House - Substance Misuse System (SMS)
The Ascribe Substance Misuse System (SMS) is currently being implemented at Rugby House in London to support
the drug and alcohol services provided by the organisation. Rugby House provides services for those who misuse
alcohol and drugs, and to enable communities to understand how alcohol and drugs can affect everyday life.
The Ascribe Substance Misuse System is a fully functional database system that supports drug and alcohol services
within the provision of DAAT, NHS and non-public organisations. The system supports client management through
care plans. These are an effective tool for clinicians to address and improve a service user's physical and psychological
well-being. This is backed up with the in-built production of the core NTA and Home Office datasets (NDTMS, DIP, etc)
together with the ability to produce reports for local reporting needs.
The system is based on the successful ePEX Mental Health system that has been developed over the last 20 years 
to provide support for clinical services and the required national and local downloads.
As the system can be tailored to support individual customer requirements, consultancy is underway to ensure the
system is set-up correctly to meet the needs of Rugby House. A full implementation and training plan is in place 
to ensure the successful delivery of the system.
Case Study 3
Central & North West London NHS Foundation Trust – Mental Health IT Solutions
Central & North West London NHS Foundation Trust (CNWL) is one of the largest Mental Health Trusts in England and
has just completed the first phase of a two year implementation of Ascribe’s JCC solution. The roll out will be to nearly
three thousand staff and will incorporate Ascribe’s Prescription Manager Application for Substance Misuse Services.
CNWL selected Ascribe’s JCC solution as it felt the application was the best fit for its clinical and information needs
from an options appraisal that included the LSP (Local Service Provider). Configuration of the application is underway
to meet the requirements for the organisation and will include interfacing to other applications in the local health and
social care community.
Case Study 4
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust – Electronic Patient Care - Emergency Care Centre
In April 2007 Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust completed the roll-out of the eCaMIS Emergency Care Centre
system developed by Ascribe PLC to replace their previous A&E system. All clinical data concerning a patient’s visit to
the Emergency Care Centre (ECC) is recorded in real time by clinical staff at the point of giving care. As a result of
this, for the first time since the Trust computerised its A&E department in 1994, there has been no backlog of data
input. This means that GP’s get a meaningful clinical summary of their patients care within the ECC immediately via
the Clinical Viewer and without delay via a GP letter.
Case Studies Board of directors
Stephen Critchlow
Executive Chairman, Aged 46.
Stephen is the founder and Executive Chairman of Ascribe
plc. A member of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great
Britain, he received his B.Sc. from Manchester University in
1982 and worked for the NHS as a pharmacist post qualification,
rising to the position of Director of Pharmacy in 1987 for the
Royal Manchester Children’s Hospital and Prestwich Hospital.
He founded ASC Computer Software Ltd in 1989 and managed
the company through its flotation on AIM in December 2004.
Jeremy Lee
Finance Director, Aged 47.
Jeremy began his professional career as a Chartered
Accountant for Coopers & Lybrand. In 1987 he was recruited
by Campbell Soup Co Inc before joining Life Sciences
International plc in 1992. He was appointed as Finance
Director for the AIM-listed biotechnology group, Tepnel Life
Sciences plc in 1998. In 2001 he was recruited by OFEX 
listed technology company, FeONIC plc and in July 2004 he
joined Ascribe. Jeremy has considerable experience in 
acquisitions, public fund-raising activities and of managing
early stage R&D companies. 
Chris Dickson
Chris Dickson, Chief Operating Officer, Aged 47
Chris undertook his medical education in London before 
training and working as a GP. In 1994 he joined Independent
British Healthcare, later becoming operations director of their
occupational health division. Chris then worked in Hong Kong
for five years where he managed the medical support for the
construction of the new airport and later the global medical
arrangements for Cathay Pacific Airways. Chris was Head of
Health Care Services at BUPA in the UK before joining
Hybrid-4 Ltd, a mobile technology solutions, as CEO. 
David Hughes
Non-executive Director, Aged 65.
David joined the Board in 2002 after a career with IBM,
McDonnell Douglas Information Systems, Apricot Computers
and latterly Misys plc where he was Managing Director of TIS
Software Ltd before being appointed Chief Executive Officer
of ACT Financial Systems Ltd in 1995. He has been successfully
managing software houses since 1985 both in terms of
restoring profitability, growing UK and international operations
and integrating acquired businesses.
Ian Priestner,
Non-executive Director, Aged 50.
Ian is currently a Non-Executive Director of the Walton
Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery NHS Trust. Recently
he has worked as Head of Public Policy and Government
Relations (UK and International) for British Gas plc and was
Group Director of Corporate Communications for United
Utilities plc where he was a member of their Executive
Leadership Team from 2000 to 2006. In 1979, Ian worked 
for the Confederation of British Industry in its International
Affairs Department and later moved to become the Public
Affairs Specialist for the United States Embassy in London.
In 1986, Ian became Chief Press Officer for the Social
Democratic Party.  He later became a Communications
Consultant for Lowe Bell, and Public Affairs Manager for
Conoco (UK) Ltd.  Ian holds degrees in International
Relations and Law. Report of the Directors 
Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P15
For the year ended 30 June 2007 
The Directors present the annual report and audited
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2007.   
Principal Activities, Business Review 
and Future Developments
The principal activity of the Group is the development,
supply and support of software solutions for the UK
and international health market. 
The Group’s business review for the year is set out in
the Executive Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Operating
Officer’s Review and the Financial Review on pages 6
to 12.  
Results and Dividends
The results of the Group are set out in the consolidated
profit and loss account on page 23. The Directors 
recommend the payment of a dividend of 0.17p per
ordinary share (2006: 0.13p). 
Research and Development
The Group is continuously developing its software
products to meet the needs of the health IT market.
During the year, the Group incurred expenditure on
software research and development of £2.7m (2006:
£1.9m).  
Change in Accounting Polices
The Group has changed its accounting policy with
respect to  development costs. Qualifying development
costs have been capitalised during the year and will be
amortised over the period that the Group believes it will
derive economic benefit from the assets.
Substantial Interest in Shares
As at 10 September 2007, the Company had been
notified of the following substantial holdings in its
issued ordinary share capital:
Business Risks
The Board reviews and were possible mitigates known
business risks. The principal risks include:
• Political influence on health spending: Changes to 
political healthcare initiatives cause uncertainty and 
potential delays to new orders as the full meaning of  
the changes is understood by Health IT decision 
makers. The National Programme for IT(“NPfIT”), 
a central initiative for delivering improved systems 
in England, has created considerable uncertainty in 
the Health IT market, not least because of its lack 
of delivery which has led to an alternative supplier  
list being developed. Ascribe continues to operate 
directly with NHS Trusts to mitigate this risk and 
considers the creation of the alternative list to be a 
major opportunity for the Group.
• Delivery of new software: Delivery of fully tested 
software that meets the needs of clinicians is key to 
Ascribe’s success. The Group’s Project Management 
Board reviews and prioritises all development projects
whilst operational management reviews live 
development and implementation projects to ensure 
timely delivery and that risks are minimised.
• Financial: detailed financial risk  management, 
objectives and policies are disclosed in note 16 of 
the financial statements.  
Directors
The names of the current Directors together with brief
biographical details are shown on page 14.  
The changes to Directors in office during the year
under review were as follows:
Appointments
Ian Priestner 16 July 2007
Resignations
Mark Woodbridge 6 February 2007 
Having being appointed since the last AGM, Ian
Priestner will offer himself for reappointment.
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company are
disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 20.
Number of shares % of total
AS Critchlow* 15,848,970 13.62
C K Jones 15,803,747 13.58
Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 12,495,599 10.74
Artemis Investment Management Limited 11,962,497 10.28
A R Bradshaw 11,360,244 9.76
Jade Direct NZ Limited 5,815,033 5.00
Legal and General Investment Management Limited 4,300,000 3.70
* includes shares of connected persons. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P16
Payment to Creditors
The policy for all Group suppliers is to set terms of
payment when agreeing the terms for each business
transaction and to ensure that the supplier is aware of
these terms. The Group seeks to abide by those terms
whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has met the
contractual obligations.  At 30 June 2007 the number
of days of the trade creditors for the Group, calculated
by reference to the total amounts invoices by suppliers
was 48 days (2006: 45 days).
Political Contributions 
and Charitable Donations
There have been no political contributions during the
period and charitable donations amounted to £5,000
(2006: £15,000).
Corporate Governance
The corporate governance report is set out on page 17.
Annual General Meeting
Formal notice of the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, to be held at the Group’s head office in
Bolton commencing at 10am on 31 October 2007 is
given on page 43. This notice sets out the resolutions
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, together
with explanatory notes.  The proxy card for registered
shareholders is enclosed with this report. 
There are two items of special business:
Resolution 7 proposes to grant Directors authority for
a period of 15 months from the date of the AGM to
allot a maximum of 23,665,407 relevant securities. 
Resolution 8 proposes to permit Directors, for a period
of 15 months from the date of the AGM to allot up to
11,633,459 equity securities wholly for cash other
than on a pre-emptive basis to the current shareholders
pro rata to their existing holdings. This represents
10% of the aggregate current issued ordinary share
capital.
Report of the Directors cont.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities
Directors’ Responsibilities
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the
Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that
year.  In preparing those financial statements, the
Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• State whether applicable accounting standards have 
been followed, subject to any material departure 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; 
and 
• Prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume 
that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper
accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and Group and to enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985.  They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The annual report and accounts is available on the
Group website: www.ascribe.com. The maintenance
and integrity of the Group’s website is the responsibility
of the Directors. The work carried out by the auditors
does not include consideration of these matters.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions.  
Provision of Information to Auditors
In so far as each of the Directors are aware:
• There is no relevant audit information of which the 
Group’s auditors are unaware; and
• The Directors individually have taken all steps that 
they ought to have taken to make themselves aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were appointed as auditors
during the year. They have expressed their willingness
to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint
them will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the Board
J S W Lee
Secretary
18 September 2007 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P17
Corporate Governance Report
Corporate governance, in general terms is the way in
which a company is controlled and directed and, in
particular, is concerned with the role of the Board of
Directors, how the Board and committees of the Board
operate, and accountability within the Company.
The Company’s shares are listed on AIM. The Group is
subject to the AIM Admission Rules of the London
Stock Exchange and is consequently not required to
comply fully with best practice corporate governance
provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined
Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority.  However, the Directors believe
good corporate governance is essential and, having
considered the provisions of the Combined Code, set
out below the principles of the Combined Code that
the Group has adopted and how the Group has applied
these principles.  The current size of the Group means
that full compliance with the provisions of the
Combined Code is not practical or cost effective.
However, in areas where the Board of Directors
believe that the provisions set out in the Combined
Code are paramount to corporate governance, 
procedures for compliance have been established. 
The Board
The Board of Directors includes a balance of Executive
and Non-Executive Directors.  The Board comprises
two Non-Executive Directors and three Executive
Directors.  The Executive Directors are the Executive
Chairman, the Chief Operations Officer and the Group
Finance Director.  The Executive Directors and the
Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of business
experience and expertise to the Board’s discussions
and decision making.  The Board of Directors has put
in place an organisational structure with clearly defined
responsibilities and delegation of authority. Biographical
details of all the Directors are set out on page 14.
Of the two Non-Executive Directors, the Board considers
that both are independent of management.  
The full Board meets formally each month to consider
all matters of significance for the Group as they arise,
as well as matters reserved specifically for their 
consideration. These matters include development of
business strategy and policy, the review and approval
of operating budgets and monitoring of business 
performance against objectives, the approval of significant
financing and capital expenditure programmes, the
approval of business alliances and acquisitions and
disposals, the approval of interim and annual financial
statements and consideration of matters relating to
internal control.  The Board is supplied in a timely
manner with all relevant information to assist it in 
the discharge of its duties.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services
of the Company Secretary, Jeremy Lee, who is responsible
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are
complied with. There is a formal procedure for Directors
to obtain independent professional advice in the 
furtherance of their duties should that be necessary,
the cost of which would be met by the company.
To facilitate the effective running of each individual
business unit, the Board of Directors has put in place
an organisation structure with clearly defined lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. Senior 
management meet monthly to monitor and discuss all
major issues affecting the Group which do not require
Board Discussion or approval by other Board Committees.
The Company does not presently have a Nomination
committee, as it is not believed to be appropriate
given the Group’s present size.  The Board continues
to keep this decision under review. All Directors are
subject to election by shareholders at the first 
opportunity after their initial appointment, and to 
re-election thereafter, in accordance with the Articles
of Association.
Remuneration
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that its
policies on remuneration are such that the Group is
able to attract and retain high calibre executives, and
that those executives are rewarded in a way consistent
with the interests of shareholders.  Remuneration and
incentive packages are awarded according to the 
individual’s performance, experience and responsibility.
The Remuneration Committee comprises both Non-
Executive Directors and is chaired by David Hughes.
The Executive Chairman and Finance Director attend
meetings of the Committee by invitation. The Committee
meets at least annually and is responsible for making
recommendations to the Board on the remuneration
policy of the Executive Directors and senior staff, and
for determining salaries, incentive payments and
longer term incentives in the form of share options.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is
set by the Executive Directors ensuring that no
Director is responsible for the determination of their
own remuneration.
In determining the level of remuneration, individual
performance and competitiveness within the sector is
considered when setting or reviewing the remuneration
package of Executive Directors.  Details of Directors
emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report
on pages 19 to 21. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P18
Accountability and Audit
All the Directors are equally accountable under the law
for the proper stewardship of the Group’s affairs. The
Board acts in a way which allows all Directors to bring
their independent judgement to bear on issues of
strategy, performance, resources, including key
appointments and standards of conduct.
Audit Committee
The Audit committee comprises both Non-Executive
Directors and is chaired by David Hughes.  It has 
primary responsibility for ensuring that the financial
performance of the Group is properly measured and
reported on, and for reporting on and reviewing
reports from the Group’s auditors relating to the
Group’s accounting controls. The Committee monitors
the scope, results and cost effectiveness of the audit.
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the
Group maintains an adequate system of risk management
and internal control.  Due to the relatively small size
of the Group, the processes it has employed to identify,
evaluate and manage significant business risks have
been informal, and have depended upon the close
involvement of senior management, including the
three Executive Directors in all aspects of the Group’s
operations. 
The Group has undertaken significant integration in all
parts of the business during the last 12 months. To
maintain an adequate system of risk management and
internal control, the Group is updating its internal 
control environment which will be appropriate for 
the Group’s size and complexity.  
The key elements of the Group’s internal control are:  
• A clearly defined management structure and delegation
of authority to committees of the Board, heads of 
department and individual business divisions;
• Regular and comprehensive information provided to 
management, covering financial performance and 
key performance, including non-financial measures;
• A detailed budgeting process and rolling strategic 
plan which is approved by the Board;
• Procedures for the approval of capital expenditure 
and business acquisitions; and
• Monthly monitoring and re-forecasting of results 
versus budget, with analysis, investigation and 
action taken in relation to variances. 
The Group does not currently have an internal audit
function.  The Board believes that this is appropriate
given the current size of the Group.
With the adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards in 2007, the Board has assessed the areas
which it believes the Group is affected by, and is
developing a plan to address these areas. The Group
will present its December 2007 Interim Report and
June 2008 Annual Report under IFRS.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company seeks to maintain and enhance its good
relations with its shareholders.  This is achieved
through the provision of interim and annual reports;
through meetings with shareholders and presentations
to them in general meetings and after major company
announcements; by responses to individual enquiries;
and through the Company’s website, www.ascribe.com.
The Annual General Meeting is the primary opportunity
to meet individual shareholders, to make presentations
to them, to encourage their participation through
questions and to talk informally to them after the formal
proceedings. Separate resolutions are proposed at the
Annual General Meeting on each substantially separate
issue.
The Board is always ready, where practicable, to enter
into dialogue with institutional and individual shareholders
based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
Corporate governance report cont. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P19
Remuneration Report
The remuneration report sets out the Company’s
remuneration policy and its application to its Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the
Board and during the year the following Directors
served:
David Hughes 
(Chairman)
Mark Woodbridge 
(until 6 February 2007)
Ian Priestner  
(from 16 July 2007)
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are
set and approved by the Board.
Directors Contracts
Each Executive Director has a rolling service contract
with the Company which may be terminated by either
party with not less than 12 months’ notice. Non-executive
Directors have letters of appointment, not service 
contracts, which are terminable in not less than 12
months.
Remuneration Policy
The Board has appointed the Remuneration Committee
to ensure that the Company’s Executive Directors are
rewarded to attract, retain and motivate individuals of
the appropriate quality at a fair level.
Performance Graph
The graph illustrates the relative performance of the
shares in Ascribe plc against the AIM Allshare Index
since 1 July 2006.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
The main elements of the Director’s remuneration
package are as follows:
• Basic salary – reviewed annually in June; 
• Benefits including pension contributions, life assurance,
company car allowance and healthcare; 
• Annual bonus payment determined on certain financial
targets agreed by the Committee. 
Share Option Plans
Ascribe plc operates approved and unapproved 
discretionary share option schemes for staff of the
Group. The Committee decides which individuals
should participate and the extent of their participation.
Share options are awarded within the scheme rules
subject to Inland Revenue rules.
Pension Benefits
The Ascribe Group operates a number of Stakeholder
and Contracted-In Money Purchase schemes where the
Group matches staff contributions up to a maximum of
5%. In July 2006 the Group introduced a new on-line
benefits package across the majority of the Group
with the intention of harmonising and enhancing 
benefits across the enlarged business. All Executive
Directors accrue benefits under Money Purchase
schemes. In addition the Group operates an executive
pension scheme whereby Stephen Critchlow and Chris
Dickson receive a contribution equal to 15% and 10%,
respectively, of their basic salaries. Access to 
independent financial advice is provided to all eligible
staff to ensure that they are aware of the need to
make adequate provision for retirement.  Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P20
Emoluments
The remuneration of each Director who served during the year, excluding share options, is set out in the table below.
The highest paid director was Stephen Critchlow.
Directors’ Interests in Shares
The Directors at 30 June 2007 and their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the year end are
set out below.  Certain Directors have been granted share options, the details of which are set out in the
Remuneration Report on page 21.
Remuneration Report cont.
Executive
Stephen Critchlow
Chris Dickson
Jeremy Lee
Graham Lewis
Sub total
Non-Executive
David Hughes
Mark Woodbridge
Chris Moore
Sub total
TOTAL
Salary &
fees
2007
£’000
178
109
96
-
383
31
27
-
58
441
Benefits
2007
£’000
18
4
5
-
27
-
-
-
-
27
Annual
Bonus
2007
£’000
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other
2007
£’000
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
2007
£’000
196
113
101
-
410
31
27
-
58
468
Total
2006
£’000
239
8
105
255
607
26
20
15
61
668
Pension
2007
£’000
27
3
5
-
35
-
-
-
-
35
Pension
2006
£’000
25
-
4
13
42
-
-
-
-
42
Stephen Critchlow
David Hughes
Jeremy Lee
Chris Dickson
30 June 2007
15,848,970
350,000
62,000
300,000
Number of ordinary shares of 1p each
30 June 2006
16,598,970
350,000
62,000
- Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P21
Share Options
The following chart relates to participation in Ascribe plc Employee Share Option Scheme. The middle market value of
the Company’s ordinary shares on 30 June 2006 was 57.5p and the range during the year was 29p to 63p.
Options under the Company’s schemes can normally be exercised only on the achievement of performance criteria set
by the Remuneration Committee and linked to the underlying performance of the Group.
* Performance Criteria – annual growth in earnings per share (excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) 
above the corresponding annual growth in the Retail Price Index.
1. Company’s Approved Executive Share Option Scheme.
2. Company’s Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
Remuneration Report cont.
S Critchlow*
S Critchlow*
S Critchlow*
C Dickson*
C Dickson*
C Dickson*
J Lee*
J Lee*
J Lee*
D Hughes
D Hughes*
D Hughes*
D Hughes*
Notes
1,2
1,2
1,2
1,2
1,2
1,2
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
Exercise
Price
18p
18p
18p
36p
36p
36p
18p
18p
18p
18p
18p
18p
18p
As at
1/7/06
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
-
-
-
170,000
170,000
170,000
500,000
34,000
34,000
34,000
Granted 
in year
-
-
-
266,667
266,667
266,666
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Exercised
in year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
As at
30/6/07
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
266,667
266,667
266,666
170,000
170,000
170,000
500,000
34,000
34,000
34,000
Earliest
Vesting
Date
17/12/05
17/12/06
17/12/07
18/09/07
18/09/08
18/09/09
17/12/05
17/12/06
17/12/07
17/12/06
17/12/05
17/12/06
17/12/07
Expiry 
Date
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
18/08/16
18/08/16
18/08/16
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
17/12/14
Number of shares Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P22
To the Members of Ascribe Plc
We have audited the group and parent company financial
statements (the ‘‘financial statements’’) of Ascribe plc
for the year ended 30 June 2007 which comprise the
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, the Consolidated
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, the
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related
notes. These financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors 
and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual
Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing
(UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion,
has been prepared for and only for the company’s
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other
person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and are properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors' Report is consistent
with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the
company has not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and explanations
we require for our audit, or if information specified by
law regarding directors’ remuneration and other 
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual
Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the
audited financial statements. This other information
comprises only the Executive Chairman’s Statement,
the Chief Operating Officer’s Review, the Financial
Review, the Report of the Directors and the Corporate
Governance Report. We consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent 
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’s and company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain
all the information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence
to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements
are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
• The financial statements give a true and fair view, 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the 
group’s and the parent company’s affairs as at 30 
June 2007 and of the group’s profit and cash flows 
for the year then ended;
• The financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
1985; and
• The information given in the Directors' Report is 
consistent with the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Manchester
18 September 2007
Independent Auditors’ Report Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P23
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
For the year ended 30 June 2007
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised 
Gains and Losses 
For the year ended 30 June 2007 
Continuing operations
Turnover
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Goodwill amortisation
Share based payments
Other administration expenses
Total administration expenses
Operating profit before goodwill 
amortisation and share based payments
Operating profit
Bank interest received
Interest payable
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Taxation on ordinary activities
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation
Basic earnings per share (pence)
Fully diluted earnings per share (pence)
2007
£’000
15,313
(1,544)
13,769
(1,536)
(98)
(10,253)
(11,887)
3,516
1,882
38
(225)
1,695
(387)
1,308
1.14
1.09
Restated
2006
£’000
9,881
(701)
9,180
(593)
(162)
(6,909)
(7,664)
2,271
1,516
48
(41)
1,523
(290)
1,233
1.15
1.11
Note
1
3
4
4
5
7
7
Profit for the year
Currency translation differences on 
retranslation of subsidiary undertakings
Total gains and losses recognised
Effects of prior year adjustments
Total gains recognised since the last annual report
2007
£’000
1,308
(12)
1,296
121
1,417
2006
£’000
1,233
(50)
1,183 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P24
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets
at 30 June 2007 
The financial statements on pages 23 to 42 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 September 2007 and
were signed on its behalf by:
A S Critchlow J S W Lee
Directors
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets
Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than 
one year
Total debtors
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current liabilities
Total assets less current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after 
more than one year
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Shares to be issued
Share premium account
Merger reserve
Profit & loss account
Shareholders’ funds
Note
8
9
10
12
12
13
14
18
21
19
19
19
20
2007
£’000
16,815
507
-
17,322
3,075
-
3,075
4,190
7,265
(10,293)
(3,028)
14,294
(3,224)
11,070
1,143
650
9,220
561
(504)
11,070
Restated
2006
£’000
19,082
294
-
19,376
3,124
-
3,124
3,160
6,284
(11,330)
(5,046)
14,330
(5,196)
9,134
1,142
-
9,181
561
(1,750)
9,134
2007
£’000
-
97
19,345
19,442
1,891
-
1,891
887
2,778
(5,260)
(2,482)
16,960
(3,224)
13,736
1,143
650
9,220
-
2,723
13,736
Restated
2006
£’000
-
83
20,796
20,879
892
2,000
2,892
-
2,892
(7,210)
(4,318)
16,561
(5,196)
11,365
1,142
-
9,181
-
1,042
11,365
Group Company Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 30 June 2007 
Note
24a
24b
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Return on investments and servicing of finance
Interest paid
Interest received
Taxation:
Corporation tax paid
Capital Expenditure and Financial Investment:
Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Purchase of intangible fixed assets
Proceeds from the sale of fixed assets
Net cashflow from capital expeniture 
and financial investment
Acquisitions:
Net cash acquired with subsidiaries
Cash consideration and expenses
Payment of deferred consideration
Net cashflow from acquisitions
Equity dividends paid to shareholders
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing
Financing:
Fundraising expenses
Loan advances
Loan repayments
Increase /(decrease) in cash
Year ended 
30 June 2007
£’000
4,287
(225)
38
(187)
(594)
(385)
(788)
-
(1,173)
-
(38)
(850)
(888)
(148)
1,297
-
1,431
(557)
874
2,171
Restated Year ended
30 June 2006
£’000
2,528
(41)
48
7
(319)
(103)
(121)
9
(215)
2,424
(6,803)
(800)
(5,179)
(107)
(3,285)
38
2,600
(50)
2,588
(697)
Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P25 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P26
Statement of Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on the
going concern basis under the historical cost convention
and are in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The following principal accounting policies have been
applied on a consistent basis as set out below with the
exception of the treatment of development costs and
shares to be issued which are explained in Note 25 of
the financial statements:
Basis of Consolidation 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of
the Company and of its subsidiaries up to 30 June
2007. The results of the other subsidiaries and 
businesses acquired during the period are included
from the effective date of acquisition.  Profits and
losses on intra-Group transactions are eliminated in
full. On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiary’s
assets and liabilities which exist at the date of acquisition
are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition
at that date.  No profit and loss account is presented
for the Company, as permitted by Section 230 of the
Companies Act 1985.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking
or business is the difference between the purchase
consideration and the fair value of the assets and 
liabilities acquired.  Purchased goodwill and goodwill
arising on consolidation is amortised through the profit
and loss account over the Directors’ estimate of the
useful economic life of between 5 and 20 years.
Impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill are
undertaken at the end of the first full financial year
following acquisition and in other periods if events or
circumstances change.
Turnover and Long-term Contracts
Turnover comprises the value of goods and services
provided during the period, excluding value added tax, and
includes income from licences, project implementation,
installation, support, maintenance, training, consultancy
and the supply of third party software and hardware.
Each element of turnover is recognised when 
i) Delivery of goods or provision of services has 
taken place;
ii) There are no significant obligations remaining to 
be delivered; and
iii) Collection of the amount due from the customers 
i reasonably assured.
The supply of licences is only recognised when the
software is installed and appropriate training provided. 
Revenue for project implementation, installation, training
and consultancy is recognised proportionately as the
work progresses. The supply of hardware is recognised
on delivery to the customer. 
For maintenance sales, only that proportion of revenue
is recognised which relates to the part of the maintenance
period falling within the accounting year.
Income recognised in turnover but not invoiced at the
period end is recorded in prepayments and accrued
income in debtors. Where invoices are raised in
advance of the provision of services they are recorded
as deferred income in creditors.
Revenue on long-term contracts is ascertained in a
manner appropriate to the stage of completion of the
contract at the period end date, with due regard to
anticipated future costs. Amounts recoverable on such
contracts are included within debtors. Payments on
account in excess of turnover are included within
creditors. Full provision is made for losses on all 
contracts in the year in which the loss is first foreseen.
Research and Development Costs
All software research and development expenditure is
expensed in the period in which it is incurred except
where the development expenditure meets the criteria
set out in SSAP 13 “Accounting for Research and
Development Expenditure” when the qualifying 
expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the 
period that the group expects to derive economic 
benefit from the developments currently estimated
between one and five years. This is a change in
accounting policy from previous years. 
Fixed Asset Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings are
stated at cost less provision for permanent diminution in
value. Cost comprises the aggregate of cash consideration,
the fair value of shares issued and acquisition expenses.
Depreciation
Depreciation is provided to write off the costs, less
estimated residual values, of all fixed assets on a
straight-line basis.  It is calculated at the followings
rates:
Leasehold improvements 20% per annum or life 
of the lease if less.
Fixtures and fittings 20% - 33
1
/ 3% per annum.
Computer equipment 33
1
/
3% per annum.
Motor vehicles 33
1
/
3% per annum.
Deferred Consideration 
The terms of an acquisition may provide that the fair
value of the purchase consideration, which may be
payable in cash or shares at a future date, depends on
uncertain future events such as the future performance
of the acquired company.  The amounts recognised in
the financial statements are the fair value of the
deferred consideration that is reasonably expected to
be paid at the balance sheet date.  Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P27
Deferred Taxation
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing
differences that have originated but not reversed at
the balance sheet date where transactions or events
that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the
future or a right to pay less tax in the future have
occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and
recognised in the financial statements when, on the
basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not
that there will be suitable taxable profits from which
the future reversal of the timing differences can be
deducted. The recoverability of tax losses is assessed
by reference to forecasts which have been prepared
and approved by the Board. No timing differences are
recognised in respect of revalued tangible fixed assets
or fair value adjustments to acquired tangible fixed
assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Foreign Currency Transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the
rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into sterling with the rate of
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or at the
contracted rate when covered by a forward exchange
contract. Differences on exchange arising from the
retranslation of the opening net investments in subsidiary
undertakings are taken to reserves and reported in
the statement of recognised gains and losses. All
other foreign exchange differences are taken to the
profit and loss account.  
Operating Leases
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and
loss account on an accruals basis over the term of the
lease.
Pension Costs
Contributions to staff and Directors defined contribution
pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss
account in the period in which they become payable. 
Share Based Payments
The Group has applied the requirements of FRS 20
“Share-based Payments” in respect of all share options
issued from the date of incorporation.
The Group issues share options as a long term incentive
plan to certain employees.  These share options are
measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non-
market based vesting conditions) at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the
share-based payments is expensed on a straight line
basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate
of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for
the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes model.
Financial Instruments
Short term debtors and creditors have not been treated
as financial assets and liabilities for disclosure purposes.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes.
Dividends
Interim dividends are recognised when paid and final
dividends are recognised as a liability when the dividend
has been approved by the Company’s shareholders.
Dividends paid are not disclosed on the face of the
profit and loss account but as a distribution out of 
profit and loss reserves.   
Statement of Accounting Policies cont. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P28
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements  
1 Segmental Analysis
Turnover is wholly attributable to the principal activities. A geographical analysis of turnover is as follows:
All turnover by geographical operation is generated by the UK with the exception of £3,004,000 (2006: £490,000),
generated from Australasia and Africa.  All net assets are held in the UK with the exception of net liabilities of £68,000
(2006: net liabilities of £26,000), held in Australasia and Africa.
The Directors believe that there are two distinct business classes being maintenance of software and the supply of
new software. 
2 Employees
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme.  The assets of the scheme are held separately from those
of the Group in an independently administered fund. The pension costs for the period represents contributions
payable by the Group to these funds and amounted to £349,000 (2006: £152,000).
At the year end, there was £30,000 unpaid pension contributions (2006: £7,000). 
United Kingdom
Rest of the World
2007
£’000
13,107
2,206
15,313
2006 
£’000
8,964
917
9,881
Maintenance income
Income relating to sales of software
2007
£’000
9,619
5,694
15,313
2006 
£’000
6,112
3,769
9,881
Staff costs (including Directors) consist of:
Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs
Share based payments
2007
£’000
6,288
602
349
98
7,337
2006 
£’000
4,535
451
152
162
5,300
Directors
Emoluments
Remuneration for management services
Amounts paid to Directors’ connected parties for 
their services
Company contributions to a defined pension scheme
Year ended 30 June 2007
£’000
437
31
35
503
Year ended 30 June 2006
£’000
627
41
42
710 Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
2 Employees (continued)
The average number of employees allocated by their principal activity (including directors) during the year was as follows:
3 Operating Profit
Included within the remuneration paid to the auditor’s above, was £38,000 in 2006 relating to acquisitions made 
during that year which were capitalised as part of the cost of acquisitions.
The Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases at the balance sheet date which expire in:
This is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Net research and development costs (after capitalisation of 
£788,000 (2006: £121,000))
Depreciation of owned assets
Amortisation of goodwill (note 8)
Amortisation of capitalised development expenditure (note 8)
Auditor’s remuneration:
Fees paid to Company auditors for the audit of the 
parent Company and consolidated accounts
The audit of the Company's subsidaries pursuant to legislation
Taxation services
Services in relation to acquisitions
Operating leases:
Land and buildings
Other
Profit on disposal of fixed assets
2007
£’000
2,036
168
1,536
195
30
30
20
-
80
376
8
-
Restated
2006 
£’000
1,735
118
593
-
15
30
5
38
88
248
35
(1)
Within one year
2 – 5 years
In more than 5 years
Land & 
buildings 
£’000
82
57
228
Other
£’000
8
-
-
Land & 
buildings 
£’000
27
87
220
Other
£’000
3
2
0
2007 2006
Sales
Administration
Research and development
2007 Number
73
52
76
201
2006 Number
63
33
64
160
Highest paid Director
Aggregrate emoluments
Company contribution to a defined 
contribution pension scheme
2007
£’000
196
27
223
2006 
£’000
239
25
264 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P30
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
4 Interest
5 Taxation Charge on Profit on Ordinary Activities
a) Analysis of charge for the year
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
The tax charge for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. 
The differences are explained below:
Current tax
UK corporation tax on profits for the year
Adjustment with respect to previous periods
Overseas taxation
Total current tax
Deferred tax - current year
Deferred tax - prior year
Group taxation
2007
£’000
413
(37)
23
399
154
(166)
387
2006 
£’000
328
(43)
5
290
-
-
290
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Theoretical tax at UK corporation tax rate of 30%
Effects of:
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances
Amortisation of goodwill
Utilisation of tax losses
Marginal relief
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
FRS 20 provision not deductible for tax purposes
Research and development enhanced deduction
Capitalised development expenditure
Timing differences
Adjustment to tax charge in respect to previous periods
Current tax charge for the year
2007
£’000
1,695
509
(16)
234
(6)
-
4
30
(157)
(178)
16
(37)
399
Restated 
2006 
£’000
1,523
457
14
134
(151)
(3)
2
48
(95)
(36)
(37)
(43)
290
Bank interest receivable
Interest payable
2007
£’000
38
(225)
(187)
2006 
£’000
48
(41)
7 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P31
5 Taxation Charge on Profit on Ordinary Activities (continued)
c) Factors that may affect future tax charges
At 30 June 2007, there are corporation tax losses within certain subsidiaries of approximate £217,000 
(2006: £242,000) which are available for set off against future taxable profits of those same trades.
A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the March 2007 Budget Statement and
are expected to be enacted in the 2007 and 2008 Finance Acts. The changes had not been enacted at the balance
sheet date and these changes are not therefore included in these financial statements.
The effect of the changes enacted in the Finance Act 2007 would be to reduce the deferred tax liability provided at 
30 June 2007 by £1,000. This tax decrease would increase profit for the year by £1,000. The decrease in deferred
tax is due to the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.  
6 Dividends
Subject to Shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 October 2007, a dividend of £198,000 will be paid to
shareholders on 1 November 2007.
7 Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the
weighted average number of shares in issue.  Diluted earning per share is the weighted average number of ordinary shares
in issue adjusted for the potential ordinary share dilution from share options and shares to be issued.  Adjusted basic earning
per share is calculated by adding back goodwill amortisation, share based payments and the dividends and appropriations
relating to non equity shares repaid at flotation, to more accurately reflect the Group’s underlying earnings.
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Profit after taxation (£’000)
Share based payments (£’000)
Goodwill amortisation (£’000)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (£’000)
Number of shares (thousands)
Earnings per share (pence)
Basic weighted average no. of shares (thousands)
Dilutions arising from share options (thousands)
Dilution from shares to be issued (thousands)
Diluted weighted average number of shares
Basic
1,308
-
-
1,308
114,250
1.14
-
-
-
-
Adjusted
1,081
98
1,536
2,715
114,250
2.38
-
-
-
-
Diluted
1,308
-
-
1,308
120,487
1.09
114,250
4,227
2,010
120,487
Basic
1,233
-
-
1,233
107,678
1.15
-
-
-
-
Adjusted
1,233
162
593
1,988
107,678
1.85
-
-
-
-
Diluted
1,233
-
-
1,233
110,865
1.11
107,678
3,187
-
110,865
2007 2006 Restated
Dividends payable on equity shares
Equity dividends paid in the year: 
0.13 pence per share (2006: 0.10 pence per share)
Dividends proposed since the year end:
0.17 pence per share (2006: 0.13 pence per share)
2007
£’000
148
198
2006 
£’000
107
148 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P32
8 Intangible Fixed Assets
Adjustments to goodwill relate to the cancellation of consideration payable in relation to Park Systems Limited and Arkive Computing
Limited and the revision to estimated deferred consideration for the acquisition of HE Information Systems Limited (note 11). 
The assets are being amortised over a period of up to 20 years as this is the period which the Board of Directors believe the Group 
will derive economic benefit from these assets.
9 Tangible Fixed Assets
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Group
Cost:
At 1 July 2006 
Additions
Adjustments
At 30 June 2007 
Amortisation:
At 1 July 2006 
Charge for the year
At 30 June 2007 
Net book value at 30 June 2007 
Net book value at 30 June 2006
Total
£’000
19,823
788
(1,324)
19,287
741
1,731
2,472
16,815
19,082
Restated
Development
Expenditure
£’000
121
788
-
909
-
195
195
714
121
Goodwill 
£’000
19,702
-
(1,324)
18,378
741
1,536
2,277
16,101
18,961
Cost:
At 1 July 2006
Additions
Reclassifications
Disposals
At 30 June 2007
Amortisation:
At 1 July 2006
Charge for the year
Reclassifications
Disposals
At 30 June 2007
Net book value
At 30 June 2007
At 30 June 2006
Leasehold 
improvements
£’000
260
130
-
-
390
216
27
-
-
243
147
44
Motor 
vehicles
£’000
256
-
(29)
(11)
216
190
26
(22)
(7)
187
29
66
Fixtures & 
fittings
£’000
517
26
(298)
-
245
454
27
(264)
-
217
28
63
Computer
Equipment
£’000
561
229
327
-
1,117
440
88
286
-
814
303
121
Total
£’000
1,594
385
-
(11)
1,968
1,300
168
-
(7)
1,461
507
294
Computer 
equipment
£’000
83
34
-
-
117
-
20
-
-
20
97
83
Group Company Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P33
10 Fixed Asset Investments - Company
The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
All of the investments are directly held.
11 Acquisitions
The Group acquired Barwick Systems Limited (on 14 March 2006), the trade and assets of Jade Healthcare 
(on 10 May 2006) and HE Information Systems Limited (on 29 June 2006).  These acquisitions have been 
accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. At 30 June 2006 provisional figures were used 
for the fair values. Final fair values have now been determined and are unchanged as shown below:
1 
Deferred consideration is payable by means of the issue of ordinary shares to the value of £650,000 after 10 May 2007 subject to  
the Jade business meeting performance targets. These targets were met and the equity issued on 16 July 2007.
2 
Payment of deferred consideration in relation to HE Information Systems Limited is subject to meeting certain performance targets in 
the three years to 29 June 2009. Based on the results to 30 June 2007 and forecasts, the estimated deferred consideration has been 
reduced from £2,500,000 (the maximum payable) to £1,500,000. Under the contractual arrangements, deferred consideration once 
determined is settled 50% in cash and 50% in shares.
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
At 1 July 2006
Adjustment with respect to investments held at 1 July 2006
At 30 June 2007
£’000
20,796
(1,451)
19,345
Name of Company
ASC Computer Software Ltd
Protechnic Exeter Ltd
Footman Walker Associates Ltd
Barwick Systems Ltd
HE Information Systems Ltd
Principal Activity
Health Software
Health Software
Health Software
Health Software
Health Software
Country of Incorporation
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
England & Wales
% of issued ordinary
shares held and 
voting rights
100
100
100
100
100
Acquisition date
Tangible fixed assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand
Creditors
Net assets/(liabilities) acquired
Goodwill
Total assets acquired
Less costs of acquisitions
Satisfied by cash
Satisfied by equity
Deferred consideration
Barwick
Systems Ltd
14 March 2006
£’000
-
176
200
(271)
105
1,971
2,076
(76)
2,000
2,000
-
-
2,000
Jade Healthcare 
10 May 2006
£’000
-
220
-
(450)
(230)
3,778
3,548
(168)
3,380
1,500
1,230
650
2
3,380
HE Information
Systems Ltd
29 June 2006 
£’000
94
598
2,224
(1,858)
1,058
4,555
5,613
(121)
5,492
2,994
998
1,500
2
5,492
Total
£’000
94
994
2,424
(2,579)
933
10,304
11,237
(365)
10,872
6,494
2,228
2,150
10,872 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P34
12 Debtors
1 
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and do not accrue interest.
13 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
1 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured and do not accrue interest.
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Amounts due within one year:
Trade debtors 
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings
1
Amounts recoverable on contracts
Other debtors
Prepayments and accrued income
Deferred taxation
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings
Total debtors
2007
£’000
2,008
-
92
12
951
12
3,075
-
-
3,075
2006
£’000
2,309
-
87
107
621
-
3,124
-
-
3,124
2007
£’000
-
1,724
-
57
36
74
1,891
-
-
1,891
2006
£’000
-
787
-
51
54
-
892
2,000
2,000
2,892
Group Company
Bank overdraft
Bank loan
Trade creditors
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings
1
Corporation tax
Other taxation and social security
Deferred consideration 
Other creditors
Deferred income
Accruals
2007
£’000
-
700
1,245
-
306
906
1,000
181
5,628
327
10,293
Restated 
2006
£’000
1,129
759
685
-
510
721
1,000
53
5,881
592
11,330
2007
£’000
-
700
116
3,358
8
4
1,000
9
-
65
5,260
Restated 
2006
£’000
1,129
759
155
3,846
-
-
1,000
10
-
311
7,210
Group Company Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P35
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
14 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
15 Bank and Borrowings
The bank loans are secured by the assets of the group and are denominated in sterling. For details of the Groups
banking facilities and interest rate exposure see note 16.
Bank loan
Deferred consideration (note 11)
2007
£’000
2,724
500
3,224
Restated
2006
£’000
1,791
3,405
5,196
2007
£’000
2,724
500
3,224
Restated
2006
£’000
1,791
3,405
5,196
Group Company
Cash in hand
Bank loan
Bank overdraft
The bank loan and overdraft is repayable as follows:
Within one year or on demand
In more than one year but not more than two years
In more than two years but not more than five years
2007
£’000
(4,190)
3,424
-
(766)
700
882
1,842
3,424
2006
£’000
(3,160)
2,550
1,129
519
1,888
882
909
3,679
2007
£’000
(887)
3,424
-
2,537
700
882
1,842
3,424
2006
£’000
-
2,550
1,129
3,679
1,888
882
909
3,679
Group Company Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P36
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
16 Financial Instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items such as trade
debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from its operations and deferred consideration liabilities. The main 
purpose of these instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. As permitted by Financial Reporting
Standard 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments, short term debtors and creditors have been excluded. The
Directors consider the main financial risks to which the Group is exposed to from its operations are interest rate risk,
liquidity risk and foreign exchange risk.
Interest rate risk
The Group seeks to minimise net interest payments by offsetting Group cash balances to limit overdrafts and 
maximise centrally placed term deposits.
During the year bank facilities were provided by the Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The bank loan and overdraft facility
bear interest at a rate of 1.5% above the Royal Bank of Scotland plc’s base rate.
The Group does not have any financial instruments to hedge against floating interest rate risk.
All other financial assets and liabilities are non-interest bearing.
Liquidity risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings. Borrowings are raised
at Group level and the Group’s policy is to maintain a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank facilities to meet
foreseeable peak funding requirements.  Short term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
As at 30 June 2007, the bank facilities were as follows:
Overdraft £1,600,000 Next Review date set at June 2008
Five Year Loan £3,424,000 Next Review date set at June 2011
The overdraft was unutilised at 30 June 2007.
Currency risks
The group does not actively hedge against the effect of exchange rate differences resulting from the translation of
foreign currency earnings, except in so far as a significant proportion of the foreign currency trade receivables are
matched by similar denominated trade payables. Material surplus cash balances that are not denominated in sterling
are promptly converted into sterling.
Fair values
The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities are not considered to be materially different from its book value. 
Financial assets
Financial assets comprise net cash at bank and in hand as follows:
All balances accrue interest at market rates.
Net cash at bank and in hand
Sterling
Australian dollar
New Zealand dollar
Kenyan Shilling
30 June 2007
£’000
3,592
507
74
17
4,190
30 June 2006
£’000
1,675
341
9
6
2,031 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P37
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities comprise the following:
All financial liabilites are denominated in Sterling.
17 Deferred Taxation
The potential deferred taxation (asset)/liability is as follows:
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Accelerated capital allowances
Sundry timing differences
Share based payments
Capitalised research and development expenditure
Tax losses
2007
£’000
-
-
-
-
-
-
2006
£’000
(84)
(27)
-
-
(4)
(115)
2007
£’000
(57)
(37)
(78)
214
(54)
(12)
2006
£’000
-
-
-
-
Unprovided Provided
Bank overdraft
Bank loan due within one year
Bank loan due after more than one year
Deferred consideration after more than one year
30 June 2007
£’000
-
700
2,724
500
3,924
30 June 2006
£’000
1,129
759
1,791
3,405
7,084
Deferred taxation at 1 July 2006
Transfered from Profit and Loss Account
Deferred taxation at 30 June 2007
£’000
-
12
12 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P38
18 Share Capital
Movement in share capital 
On 20 December 2006, the Company issued 66,940 ordinary shares of 1p each to satisfy an employee share option exercised at 18p
per share.
On 5 January 2007, the Company issued 64,103 ordinary shares of 1p each in deferred consideration, at 39p per share, in relation to
the acquisition of Arkive Computing Ltd completed on 17 June 2005.
On 14 February 2007, the Company issued 15,000 ordinary shares of 1p each to satisfy an employee share option exercised at 18p
per share.
Share options
The following options of the Ascribe plc Share Option Scheme, which include Director’s share options, 
were outstanding at 30 June 2007:
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Authorised
140,000,000 (30 June 2006:140,000,000) 
ordinary shares of 1p each
Allotted, called up and fully paid
114,324,076 (30 June 2006: 114,178,033)
Ordinary shares of 1p each
2007
£’000
1,400
1,143
2006
£’000
1,400
1,142
At 1 July 2006 
Issued in respect of the exercise of share options
Issued in respect of acquisitions
Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital at 30 June 2007
2007
£’000
1,142
1
-
1,143
2006
£’000
1,070
-
72
1,142
Date of
Grant
17 Dec 2004
27 May 2005
19 Dec 2005
18 Sep 2006
Total
At
1 July 2006
6,711,551
500,000
399,000
-
7,610,551
Issued
in the year
-
-
-
821,000
821,000
Exercised
in the year
(81,940)
-
-
-
(81,940)
Lapsed
in the year
(126,500)
(200,000)
(55,000)
-
(381,500)
At
30 June 2007
6,503,111
300,000
344,000
821,000
7,968,111
Period 
of options
17 Dec 2007
- 16 Dec 2014
27 May  2008
- 26 May 2015
19 Dec 2008
- 18 Dec 2015
18 Sep 2009
17 Sep 2016
Price 
per share
18p
24p
34.5p
36p Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Share options cont.
The Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) was introduced in December 2004. Under the ESOP the remuneration 
committee can grant options over shares in the company to employees of the group. Options are granted with a fixed
exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under the option at the date of grant. The contractual life of an
option is 13 years. The company does not make annual grants of share options. Options granted under the ESOP will
become exercisable between one and up to 12 years of the anniversary of the date of grant. Options were valued
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Ascribe plc and a number of listed companies within the IT
and Health sectors over the last three years.  The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk
free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option
life. A reconciliation of option movements is shown above.
The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year was £75,000 (2006: £33,000).
The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was £0.36 (2006: £0.345).
The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment plans was £98,000 (2006: £162,000), 
all of which related to equity-settled share based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge was
£69,000 (2006: £113,000).
19 Reserves
Share price at grant date (£)
Exercise price (£)
Number of employees
Shares under option (number)
Vesting period (years)
Expected volatility
Option life (years)
Expected life (years)
Risk free rate
Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield
Fair value per option (£)
17 December
2004
0.18
0.18
39
6,503,111
1-3
33%
10
3
4.4%
0.1%
0.0527
27 May 
2005
0.24
0.24
2
300,000
3
30%
10
3
4.3%
0.3%
0.0643
19 December
2005
0.345
0.345
54
344,000
3
30%
10
3
4.3%
0.3%
0.0958
18 September
2006
0.36
0.36
10
821,000
1-3
30%
10
3
4.9%
0.3%
0.0916
Group:
At 1 July 2006 as originally reported
Prior year adjustments (note 25)
At 1 July 2006 as restated
Exchange differences
Profit for the year
Share based payments
Dividend paid
Issue of shares (net of issue costs)
At 30 June 2007
Merger
reserve
£’000
561
-
561
-
-
-
-
561
Share 
premium
£’000
9,181
-
-
-
-
-
-
39
9,220
Profit & loss
account
£’000
(1,871)
121
(1,750)
(12)
1,308
98
(148)
-
(504)
2007 2006
Weighted
average 
exercise 
price 
36p
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
34.5 - 36p 
Number of
shares
(‘000) 
821
Weighted
average 
remaining
life: 
Expected 
2 years
Weighted
average 
remaining
life: 
Contractual 
12 years
Weighted
average 
exercise 
price 
34.5p
Number of
shares
(‘000) 
344
Weighted
average 
remaining 
life: 
Expected 
2 years
Weighted
average 
remaining 
life: 
Contractual 
12 years Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P40
19 Reserves cont.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not 
been included in these financial statements. The profit for the financial year for the Company was £1,731,000 
(2006: £453,000).
20 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders’ Funds
21 Shares to be Issued
Deferred consideration of £650,000, payable within one year, relates to the acquisition of Jade Healthcare and is
dependent upon the financial performance of the business during the period to 10 May 2007.
On 16 July 2007, following the satisfaction of performance criteria, the Company issued 2,010,517 ordinary shares of
1p each in deferred consideration, at 32.33p per share, in relation to the acquisition of Jade Healthcare completed on
10 May 2006.
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
Profit for the year
Equity dividend
Other recognised losses in the year
Issue of shares (including premium net of issue costs)
Shares to be issued
Share based payments
Net increase in equity shareholders’ funds
Opening equity shareholders’ funds
Prior year adjustments
Opening equity shareholders’ funds restated
Closing equity shareholders’ funds
2007
£’000
1,308
(148)
(12)
40
650
98
1,936
9,134
-
9,134
11,070
2006
£’000
1,233
(107)
(50)
2,274
-
162
3,512
6,477
(855)
5,622
9,134
2007
£’000
1,731   
(148)
-
40
650
98
2,371
11,365
-
11,365
13,736
2006
£’000
453
(107)
-
2,274
-
162
2,782
9,438
(855)
8,583
11,365
Group Company
In respect of deferred consideration
2007
£’000
650
Restated
2006
£’000
-
2007
£’000
650
Restated
2006
£’000
-
Group Company
Company:
At 1 July 2006
Profit for the year
Share based payments
Dividend paid
Issue of shares (net of issue costs)
At 30 June 2007
Merger
reserve
£’000
561
-
-
-
-
561
Share 
premium
£’000
9,181
-
-
-
39
9,220
Profit & loss
account
£’000
1,042
1,731
98
(148)
-
2,723 Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P41
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
22 Capital Commitments
The Group contracted for, but did not provide, £178,000 of capital expenditure at 30 June 2007 (30 June 2006: £nil).
There was no capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for at 30 June 2007 for the Company (£nil: 30 June 2006).
23 Related Party Transactions
The Group has the following related party transactions to disclose for the financial year:
AT Communications plc
Mr M Woodbridge was Group Finance Director of AT Communications plc. The Group engaged the services of AT
Communications plc for the supply and installation of IT systems. The Group was invoiced £188,000 during the year,
on normal commercial terms of which £52,000 was outstanding in the year end up until his resignation on 6 February
2007. Mr M Woodbridge was the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
24 Notes to the Cash Flow Statement
b) Analysis of changes in net (debt)/funds
Bank overdraft
Cash at bank
Debt due within one year
Debt due after more than one year
1 July 2006
£’000
(1,129)
3,160
2,031
(759)
(1,791)
(519)
Cash flow
£’000
1,129
1,042
2,171
59
(933)
1,297
Non-cash
movement
£’000
-
(12)
(12)
-
-
(12)
30 June 2007
£’000
-
4,190
4,190
(700)
(2,724)
766
a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net 
cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets
Goodwill amortisation
Capitalised development expenditure amortisation
Charge for share based payments
Loss / (profit) on sale of tangible fixed assets
Decrease / (increase) in debtors
Increase in creditors
Net cash inflow from operating activities
Reconciliation of net cash flow to 
movement in net funds /(debt)
Increase / (decrease) in cash
Cash outflow from increase in debt
Change in net cash / (debt) arising from cash flow
Exchange movement
Opening net (debt) / funds
Closing net funds / (debt)
Year ended 30 June 2007
£’000
1,882
168
1,536
195
98
4
49
355
4,287
2,171
(874)
1,297
(12)
(519)
766
Restated
Year ended 30 June 2006
£’000
1,516
118
593
-
162
(9)
(606)
754
2,528
(697)
(2,550)
(3,247)
49
2,679
(519) Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P42
Notes Forming Part of the Financial Statements cont.
25 Prior Year Adjustments
A prior year adjustment has been made with respect to a change in accounting policy in relation to capitalisation of
Development costs.  
The group believe that there is significant value to the software development that it undertakes each year and that it
will be able to derive economic benefits from the developments for a number of subsequent years. Prior years have
been restated accordingly and the profit and loss account credit for the year ended 30 June 2006 was £121,000. 
The treatment of contingent deferred consideration as equity has been reconsidered and the accounts adjusted to
reflect this as a liability in accordance with FRS 25. As a consequence, net assets decreased by £2,155,000 as at 
30 June 2006. There is no effect on the profits of either 2006 or 2007. Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts year ended 30 June 2007 P43
Notice of Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Ascribe plc will be held at Ascribe House, Brancker Street,
Westhoughton, Bolton, BL5 3JD, on 31 October 2007 at 10am for the following purposes:
Ordinary Business
1. To receive and adopt the report of the Directors and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2007.
2. To recommend to the Company’s shareholders that a dividend of 0.17 pence per ordinary share in the capital of the Company be 
paid for the year ended 30 June 2007.
3. To approve the Directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2007.
4. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company’s auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting 
of the Company at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors of the Company to determine their 
remuneration.
5. To appoint Ian Priestner as a Director of the Company.
6. To re-appoint, as a Director of the Company, David Hughes who is retiring by rotation.
Special Business
7. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution:
THAT, for the purposes of and pursuant to section 80(1) of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”), the Directors of the Company be
authorised generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (within the meaning of 
section 80(2) of the Act) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £236,654 to such persons at such time and upon such terms and
conditions as they may determine (subject always to the articles of association of the Company) provided this authority and power
shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked, expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 15 months
from the date of the passing of this resolution (whichever is the earlier) and provided further that the Company may before the expiry
of such period make any offer, agreement or arrangement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the
expiry of such period and the Directors of the Company may then allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer, agreement or
arrangement as if the authority or power hereby conferred had not expired.
8. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an special resolution:
THAT, for the purposes of and pursuant to section 95(1) of the Act, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby authorised
and empowered to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 94 of the Act) pursuant to the general authority and power
conferred by resolution numbered 8 in this notice of meeting as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided
that this authority and power shall, unless renewed, varied or revoked, expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of
the Company or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution (whichever is the earlier) and provided further that this
authority and power shall be limited:
a. to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to a rights issue or similar offer to ordinary shareholders where the equity securities 
respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate or nearly as practical (and taking into 
account any prohibitions against or difficulties concerning the making of an offer or allotment to shareholders whose registered 
address or place of residence is overseas and subject to such exclusions as the Directors of the Company may deem necessary or 
expedient to deal with fractional entitlement or legal and practical difficulties under the laws of, or the requirements of any 
recognised regulatory body in, any territory) to be respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them;
b. to the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a. above) for cash of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 
of £116,334.59.
By order of the Board
Jeremy Lee Ascribe House
Company Secretary Brancker Street
18 September 2007 Westhoughton
Bolton, BL5 3JD
Notes:
1) A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him. A proxy 
need not be a member of the company. A form of proxy is attached to this notice of general meeting and instructions for use are 
given on the form; the form must be lodged at the company’s registered offices not less than 48 hours before the time appointed 
for the holding of the meeting. Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting 
at the meeting should he so wish.
2) The Company pursuant to the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, has specified that only holders of ordinary shares registered 
in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 29 October 2007 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in 
respect of the number of shares registered in their name. Changes in the register of members after 6.00pm on 29 October 2007 
shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
3) The following documents will be available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours on any 
weekday (Saturday and Sundays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting
from 10.45 on 29 October 2007 until its conclusion: (a) the register of Directors’ interests in the capital of the company, (b) copies 
of the Directors’ contracts of service.  Ascribe plc Annual Report & Accounts period ended 30 June 2006 P49
Directors
A S Critchlow Executive Chairman
J S W Lee Finance Director
C Dickson Chief Operating Officer 
D M Hughes*
Δ
Non-Executive Director
I Priestner*
Δ
Non-Executive Director
* Member of the Audit Committee
Δ
Member of the Remuneration Committee
Secretary
J S W Lee
Company Registration Number
5204003
Registered Office
Ascribe House
Brancker Street
Westhoughton
Bolton
BL5 3JD
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Registered Auditors
101 Barbirolli Square
Lower Mosley Street
Manchester
M2 3PW
Solicitors
Pinsent Masons Eversheds LLP
100 Barborolli  Square Eversheds House
Manchester 70 Great Bridgewater Street
M2 3SS Manchester
M1 5ES
Nominated Advisor and stockbroker
Cenkos Securities Limited
6.7.8 Tokenhouse Yard
London
EC2R 7AS
Registrar
Neville Registrars Limited
18 Laurel Lane
Halesowen
B63 3DA
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland
1 Spinningfields Square
Manchester
M3 3AP
Designed and produced by Lime Print Solutions Ltd.
Tel. 01925 244727  email. studio@lime-solutions.net
Directors, Secretary and Advisers Ascribe plc
Ascribe House  Brancker Street  
Westhoughton  Bolton  BL5 3JD
Telephone +44 (0)870 053 4545
Fax +44 (0)870 053 3777
Email info@ascribe.com
Web www.ascribe.com
ASCRIBE Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2007
