 riotinto.com/ar2014
2014 Annual report
Delivering sustainable
shareholder returns Contents
Strategic report
Performance highlights 1
Group overview 2
Chairman’s letter 4
Chief executive’s statement 5
Strategic context 7
Group strategy 8
Business model 11
Key performance indicators 12
Principal risks and uncertainties 14
Capital allocation 18
Sustainable development 20
Independent limited assurance report 27
Product groups
Aluminium 28
Copper 30
Diamonds & Minerals 32
Energy 34
Iron Ore 36
Exploration 38
Technology & Innovation 39
Financial overview 40
Five year review 41
Directors’ report
Directors’ report 44
Board of directors 49
Executive Committee 52
Corporate governance 53
Remuneration Report
Annual statement by the Remuneration
Committee chairman 64
Remuneration Policy 66
Remuneration Implementation Report 74
Financial statements
Group income statement 103
Group statement of comprehensive income 104
Group cash flow statement 105
Group balance sheet 106
Group statement of changes in equity 107
Notes to the 2014 financial statements 110
Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet 175
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 178
Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief 183
Directors’ declaration 184
Auditor’s independence declaration 185
Independent auditors’ report 186
Financial summary 2005-2014 192
Summary financial data 194
Production, reserves and operations
Metals and minerals production 195
Ore reserves 199
Mineral resources 204
Competent Persons 210
Mines and production facilities 212
Additional information
Shareholder information 220
UK Listing Rules cross reference table 226
Financial calendar 227
Contact details 228
Navigating through Rio Tinto’s Annual and Strategic report
As of 2013, the UK’s regulatory reporting framework requires companies to produce a strategic report. The intention is
to provide investors with the option of receiving a document which is more concise than the full annual report, and
which is strategic in its focus.
The first 41 pages of Rio Tinto’s 2014 Annual report constitute its 2014 Strategic report. References to page numbers
beyond 41 are references to pages in the full 2014 Annual report. This is available online at riotinto.com/ar2014 or
shareholders may obtain a hard copy free of charge by contacting Rio Tinto’s registrars, whose details are set out on
page 228.
Please visit Rio Tinto’s website to learn more about the Group’s performance in 2014.
This Annual report, which includes the Group’s 2014 Strategic report, complies with Australian and UK reporting
requirements.
Copies of Rio Tinto’s shareholder documents – the 2014 Annual report and 2014 Strategic report, along with the
2015 Notices of annual general meeting – are available to view on the Group’s website: riotinto.com
Rio Tinto is reducing the print run of this document to be more environmentally
friendly. We encourage you to visit: riotinto.com/ar2014 to access a full library of
PDFs of this Annual report.
Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations
and business of the Rio Tinto Group. These statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A
of the US Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words “intend”, “aim”,
“project”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan”, “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “should”, “will”, “target”, “set to” or similar
expressions, commonly identify such forward-looking statements.
Examples of forward-looking statements in this Annual report include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated
production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors. Forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document
that are beyond the Group’s control. For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market prices that may vary
significantly from current levels. These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments. Other
factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our products, changes to the
assumptions regarding the recoverable value of our tangible and intangible assets, the effect of foreign currency
exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in
taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future
results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements which speak only as to the date of this Annual report.
Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or
revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. The Group cannot
guarantee that its forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results. Performance highlights
2014 results demonstrate clear delivery against our commitments
In 2014, Rio Tinto made a commitment to materially increase cash returns to shareholders. The Group delivered this through a 12 per cent increase in the full year
dividend and announced a US$2.0 billion share buy-back. These represent a total cash return to shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion.
During 2014, Rio Tinto’s continued financial and operating discipline enabled the Group to offset much of the impact of lower commodity prices. By increasing
volumes and reducing costs, Rio Tinto achieved underlying earnings
(a)
of US$9.3 billion and maintained the EBITDA margin
(b)
at 39 per cent. Free cash flow was
assisted by a further reduction in capital expenditure
(c)
and a successful programme to release working capital. As a consequence, net debt
(d)
reduced by
US$5.6 billion to US$12.5 billion.
Decisive early action taken throughout the Group delivered the strong balance sheet, enabling the additional material cash return to shareholders.
With lower commodity prices and uncertain global economic trends, the operating environment remains tough. However, in these conditions Rio Tinto’s qualities and
competitive advantages deliver superior value. The Group’s combination of world-class assets, disciplined capital allocation, balance sheet strength, operating and
commercial excellence, and a culture of safety and integrity gives Rio Tinto confidence in its ability to continue generating sustainable returns for shareholders.
Year to 31 December 2014 2013 Change
Pg 12
Underlying earnings (US$ millions)
(a)
9,305 10,217 -9%
Net earnings (US$ millions)
(a)
6,527 3,665 +78%
Pg 12
Net cash generated from operating activities (US$ millions) 14,286 15,078 -5%
Pg 13
Capital expenditure (US$ millions)
(c)
8,162 13,001 -37%
Underlying earnings per share (US cents) 503.4 553.1 -9%
Basic earnings per share (US cents) 353.1 198.4 +78%
Ordinary dividends per share (US cents) 215.0 192.0 +12%
At 31 December 2014 2013 Change
Pg 13
Net debt (US$ millions)
(d)
12,495 18,055 -31%
Gearing ratio
(e)
19% 25% -6%
The financial results are prepared in accordance with IFRS and are audited.
(a) Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance. It is presented here to provide greater understanding of
the underlying business performance of the Group’s operations. Net and underlying earnings relate to profit attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. Underlying earnings is defined
and reconciled to net earnings on pages 124 and 125.
(b) EBITDA margin is defined as Group underlying EBITDA divided by product group total revenues as per the Financial information by business unit on pages 178 and 179 where it is
reconciled to profit on ordinary activities before finance items and taxation.
(c) Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals of property, plant and equipment.
(d) Net debt is defined and reconciled to the balance sheet on page 41.
(e) Gearing ratio is defined as net debt divided by the sum of net debt and total equity at each period end.
Revenues and earnings
– Achieved consolidated sales revenues of US$47.7 billion, as a
US$5.4 billion (pre-tax) decline in pricing was partially offset by
US$3.0 billion from higher volumes.
– Sustained the EBITDA margin at 39 per cent, unchanged from 2013,
with volume gains and cost improvements offsetting the impact of
lower prices.
– Achieved underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion, nine per cent lower than
2013 despite the US$4.1 billion (post-tax) impact of lower prices.
– Delivered underlying earnings per share of 503.4 US cents.
– Generated net earnings of US$6.5 billion, reflecting non-cash exchange
rate losses of US$1.9 billion, a US$0.4 billion charge following the repeal
of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax and other charges of US$0.5 billion. An
impairment charge of US$1.2 billion mainly related to the Kitimat project
as reported at the half year was mostly offset by an impairment reversal of
US$1.0 billion in the second half of 2014 related to an uplift in carrying
value for the Pacific Aluminium business.
Production
– Set production records for iron ore and Hunter Valley thermal coal,
and delivered a strong operational performance in bauxite, copper
and aluminium.
Cash flow and balance sheet
– Achieved US$4.8 billion of sustainable operating cash cost
improvements and exploration and evaluation savings since 2012, of
which US$1.5 billion were in 2014.
– Generated net cash from operating activities of US$14.3 billion,
including working capital improvements of US$1.5 billion, principally
from lower inventories and lower receivables.
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$4.8 billion to US$8.2 billion in
2014, reflecting completion of existing major projects and continued
capital discipline.
– Decreased net debt by US$5.6 billion in 2014 to US$12.5 billion at
31 December 2014, with gearing of 18.6 per cent. This compares with
US$18.1 billion and 25.2 per cent gearing at 31 December 2013.
Capital returns
– Increased full year dividend by 12 per cent to 215 US cents per share.
– Announced an additional capital return of US$2.0 billion,
which comprises a A$500 million (c. US$0.4 billion) off-market share
buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of
approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto
plc shares.
– These represent a total cash return to shareholders, in respect of 2014,
of almost US$6.0 billion, an increase of approximately 64 per cent
on 2013.
riotinto.com 1
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group overview
Introduction to Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto is a leading global mining group that focuses on finding, mining and
processing the Earth’s mineral resources. Our goal is to deliver strong and
sustainable shareholder returns from our portfolio of world-class assets and
our compelling pipeline of projects.
We take a long-term, disciplined approach, developing and running long-life,
low-cost, expandable operations that are capable of delivering value
throughout the cycle. Supported by our Exploration and Technology &
Innovation groups, our five product groups represent a diversity of
commodities that give us exposure to demand across the economic
development spectrum
(a)
.
Supporting our world-class assets is a company of world-class people who are
the foundation of our success. This 60,000-strong workforce, across more
than 40 countries, pulls together as a powerful team committed to getting the
best out of our operations. Their safety is always our first concern. We also
foster a culture of innovation, where our people are proud to achieve and are
always learning.
Our vision is to be a company that is admired and respected for delivering
superior value, as the industry’s most trusted partner. Our operations give us
the opportunity to create mutual benefit with the communities, regions and
countries in which we work, and our metals and minerals are transformed into
end products that contribute to higher living standards. (Find out more on
page 11.)
Underpinning everything we do are our values: respect, integrity, teamwork
and accountability. They are fundamental to the way we operate and engage
with those around us, and form the foundation of a long-term, reliable
business that generates sustainable returns for shareholders.
Aluminium product group
Building on more than a century of experience and expertise, Rio Tinto is a
global leader in the aluminium industry. Our business includes high-quality
bauxite mines, large-scale alumina refineries, and some of the world’s lowest-
cost, most technologically-advanced primary aluminium smelters.
Products
Bauxite
Bauxite is the natural ore used to make aluminium. It is refined into alumina
which is smelted into aluminium metal. Our wholly- and partly-owned bauxite
mines are located in Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
Alumina
Alumina (aluminium oxide) is extracted from bauxite via a refining process.
Approximately four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce two tonnes of
alumina, which in turn makes one tonne of aluminium metal. Our wholly- and
partly-owned alumina refineries are located in Australia, Brazil and Canada.
Aluminium
Aluminium is a unique and versatile modern metal. Light, strong, flexible,
corrosion-resistant and infinitely recyclable, aluminium is one of the most
widely-used metals in the world. Its largest markets are transportation,
machinery and construction. Our smelters are mainly concentrated in Canada.
We also have plants in France, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland, the UK and
Oman.
Strategic advantages
– Access to the largest and best-quality bauxite ore reserves in the industry,
strategically located to serve growing Chinese bauxite demand.
– One of the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
– Unrivalled hydropower position, which delivers significant cost and
other advantages in an energy intensive industry and today’s carbon-
constrained world.
– Rio Tinto has a first-quartile cost position for aluminium smelting, with
industry-leading smelting technology.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– Canada – Asia
–Europe – Americas
– Australia – Europe
Full operating review on page 28.
Copper product group
Rio Tinto’s Copper group is made up of four world-class operating assets and
two attractive development projects. We are managing the portfolio to bring
on new production when the market demands it.
Products
Copper
Copper is a malleable, corrosion resistant, antimicrobial metal and a highly
effective conductor of heat and electricity. It is an essential component of
nearly all modern electrical systems, including renewable energy sources such
as solar, wind, geothermal and hydro-electric technologies. Global information
and communication technologies rely on it, as do hybrid and electric cars and
hospitals and medical facilities, where it is used to prevent the spread of
diseases and infections. We produce gold, silver and molybdenum as co-
products of our copper production.
Gold
Gold is used as a store of value. It is also highly conductive, malleable and
inert, making it a key component in the electronics, chemical production,
jewellery, aerospace and medical industries.
Silver
Silver has applications in art, science, and industry. It is used in many
electronic devices, in aerospace applications and semiconductors. A precious
metal, silver is used to make jewellery and as an investment.
Molybdenum
Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used to produce stainless steel
and other metal alloys. It enhances the metal’s toughness, high-temperature
strength and corrosion resistance.
Strategic advantages
– A portfolio of high-quality assets and growth opportunities.
– Attractive growth options that can be delivered when the market requires.
– Clear pathway to deliver superior profitability.
– Industry-leading technology and innovation.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
–US – US
– Chile – China
– Mongolia – Japan
Full operating review on page 30.
(a) On 27 February 2015, Rio Tinto announced that it would be streamlining its portfolio of assets into four product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals and Iron
Ore, with immediate effect. The coal assets of the former Energy product group became part of a new Copper & Coal product group, and the uranium assets of the former Energy
product group became part of the Diamonds & Minerals product group. In this Annual report, references to Copper, Diamonds & Minerals and Energy refer to the product groups
as they existed in 2014.
2 riotinto.com Diamonds & Minerals product group
The Diamonds & Minerals product group comprises a suite of industry-
leading, demand-led businesses, which include mining, refining and marketing
operations across four sectors. Rio Tinto Diamonds is one of the world’s
leading diamond producers, active in mining, manufacturing, selling, and
marketing diamonds. Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates, with
mines, processing plants, and commercial and research facilities. Dampier Salt
is one of the world’s largest producers of seaborne salt. Rio Tinto Iron &
Titanium is an industry leader in high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks. The
Diamonds & Minerals group also includes the Simandou iron ore project in
Guinea, one of the largest known undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources
in the world.
Products
Diamonds
Diamonds are an important component in both affordable and higher-
end jewellery. We are able to service all established and emerging
markets as we produce the full range of diamonds in terms of size, quality
and colour distribution.
Titanium dioxide
The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, can be
transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal. The
white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food,
sunscreen and cosmetics. Titanium metal’s key properties of light weight,
chemical inertness and high strength make it ideal for use in medical
applications and in the aerospace industry.
Borates
Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes. They are a
vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, and are essential
nutrients for crops. They are commonly used in glass and ceramic applications
including fibreglass, television screens, floor and wall tiles, and heat-
resistant glass.
Salt
Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry and is
indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic
products, as well as for water treatment, food and healthcare. Other products
include high purity iron, metal powders and zircon.
Strategic advantages
– Portfolio of industry-leading businesses operating in attractive markets.
– Demand-led, integrated operations that are responsive to the changing
external environment.
– Poised to benefit from mid to late-cycle demand growth as consumption
increases in emerging markets.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– North America – North America
– Australia – South East Asia
–SouthAfrica –India
Full operating review on page 32.
Energy product group
Energy is essential for modern life and the demand for energy continues to
grow. Rio Tinto’s Energy product group produced coal and uranium, two
important sources of energy from mining. The thermal coal and uranium we
produce is used to generate electricity and our uranium is subject to strict
safeguards and non-proliferation conditions to ensure it is only used for
peaceful purposes. We also produce coking or metallurgical coal, which
is an important ingredient in steel and cement production. We have
operations, exploration and development projects in Australia, Namibia,
South Africa and Canada.
Products
Coal
Coal is a cost effective and abundant energy source and we are a leading
supplier to the seaborne thermal coal market. Thermal coal is used for
electricity generation in power stations. We also produce higher-value coking
or metallurgical coal, which produces steel when mixed in furnaces with iron
ore. We have five operating mines in Australia and one in South Africa.
Uranium
Uranium is one of the most powerful known natural energy sources, and is
used in the production of clean, stable, base-load electricity. After uranium ore
is mined, it is processed into uranium oxide. This is the product that is sold for
processing into fuel rods for use in nuclear power stations. We have uranium
operations in Australia and Namibia, and an exploration project in Canada.
Strategic advantages
– Premium Australian coal assets located close to existing infrastructure and
growing Asian markets.
– Successfully transforming the business by reducing costs, increasing
productivity and improving our position on the cost curve.
– Strong product stewardship strategy, including investment in technologies
to reduce emissions from our products.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– Australia – Japan
– Namibia – South Korea
– Taiwan
Full operating review on page 34.
Iron Ore product group
Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore portfolio, supplying the global
seaborne iron ore trade. We are well positioned to benefit from continuing
demand across China and the developing world. In Western Australia, the
majority of our production continues to achieve industry-leading margins
through effective cost saving measures, automation and a relentless focus on
optimising operational efficiencies and marketing expertise.
Products
Iron ore
Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most
fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from
railways to paperclips. Our iron ore mines are located in Australia and Canada.
Strategic advantages
– Proximity of the expanded Pilbara operations in Australia to Asian markets.
– Position as lowest cost major iron ore producer in the Pilbara, with a
Pilbara cash unit cost of US$19.50 in 2014.
– World-class assets comprising a seamless supply chain with
unencumbered optionality.
– A premium product suite driving strong customer relationships supported
by technical and commercial marketing expertise.
Key production locations Key sales destinations
– Australia – China
– Canada – Japan
–SouthKorea
Full operating review on page 36.
riotinto.com 3
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholders,
During 2014, your company maintained its steadfast commitment to generate
sustainable shareholder returns by supplying the commodities essential for
modern life. As this report shows, we delivered strong financial and operational
performance against a challenging market backdrop. Our success is
underpinned by our strong safety performance, operational excellence,
values-driven approach and the best people in the industry.
I am very pleased to report we delivered on our commitments during 2014. We
achieved underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion and our focus on cash
generation led to net cash from operating activities of US$14.3 billion. We
exceeded our cost reduction target and lowered net debt significantly while
reducing capital expenditure to US$8.2 billion.
Most importantly we fulfilled our promise to you, the owners of our company,
to materially increase cash returns. Our primary commitment in terms of
shareholder returns is our progressive dividend policy. In February 2015 we
announced a 12 per cent increase in our full year dividend as well as a
US$2.0 billion share buy-back. These represent a total cash return to
shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion. They underscore the
confidence your board has in the resilience and strength of the company
despite ongoing uncertainties in our external markets. We believe that
delivering returns to shareholders is an important component of our overall
approach to creating shareholder value.
Value through the economic cycle
This improved performance reflects the strategic approach the company has
embedded throughout our more than 140 year history: to invest in and
operate long-life, low-cost, expandable operations in the most attractive
industry sectors. We focus on the best assets, because they are capable of
delivering value throughout the cycle.
Volatility has become a characteristic of the rapidly-evolving world in which we
operate. Each year presents a new economic challenge. The past six months
in particular have seen increased uncertainty in energy, metals and foreign
exchange markets. The prices for many of the commodities we produce were
significantly lower during 2014, with average iron ore prices down 30 per cent
year-on-year.
However, given the decisive action we have taken over the past two years, your
company is in a strong position to capitalise on the positive long-term
fundamentals for our key commodities, despite the short-term market challenges.
Rio Tinto’s position as a pre-eminent supplier of raw materials and refined
metals and minerals products places us in an enviable position. At a time of
significant distress for late-entrant or high-cost producers, Rio Tinto has been
able to go about its business in a disciplined and orderly way. This is due to
our world-class assets, the quality of our products and customer relationships,
and the decisive actions we have taken to strengthen our balance sheet.
We continue to focus on maximising returns from our existing assets while
ensuring only the best growth projects attract fresh capital.
We also continue to optimise our portfolio, and in 2014 divested the Clermont
Joint Venture and Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique coal businesses, the Søral and
Alucam aluminium businesses, and the Copper group’s Sulawesi and Pebble
projects.
As we disclosed in October 2014, Glencore contacted Rio Tinto regarding a
potential merger in July 2014. The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its
financial and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a combination was
not in the best interests of Rio Tinto shareholders.
A responsible and transparent business
The methods the company employs to deliver superior results are as
important as the results themselves. We remain deeply committed to being a
responsible company providing products the world over to support economic
improvement and social progress.
We operate in a complex and interconnected world where global and local
issues – such as biodiversity, climate change, livelihoods, and regional
economic development – bring both risk and opportunity to the design,
development and management of our operations.
Society’s expectations are increasing, and we will continue to listen carefully to
our stakeholders, as we strive to create mutual value.
Our operations can have a substantial positive economic impact on the
regions and countries in which we operate. Over the past four years, our
economic contribution has exceeded US$230 billion.
We lead our industry with our ongoing commitment to tax transparency,
publishing our annual Taxes Paid report to hold ourselves and host governments
to account. We hope others will be encouraged to follow our example.
It is through this combination of facilitating social development, acting as a
catalyst for growth, and behaving in an environmentally responsible way, that
we manage our risks and deliver value for you, our shareholders, and also
create projects of worth for the communities in which we work.
Governance – a balance of diversity and depth
The past year has again seen a broadening of experience and diversity on your
board as we welcomed a number of new non-executive directors.
Michael L’Estrange joined the board in September 2014 and Megan Clark in
November. They bring to Rio Tinto a mix of backgrounds deeply relevant to
our strategy and culture, including mining, science and technology, public
policy and international relations. At our Australian annual general meeting in
early May, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick will step down after many years of
wonderful service. I thank them both for their dedication and immense
contribution to Rio Tinto.
I am delighted that Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch agreed to extend their tenure
with open-ended contracts. They have provided transformative leadership
since 2013, and I am confident that their experience will continue to drive the
delivery of sustainable results.
A key role of the board is to ensure it has the appropriate succession
arrangements for its senior leadership team and that it has the next
generation of leaders moving through the company.
Rio Tinto has always prided itself on the breadth and depth of the talent within
our organisation, and the capabilities of our people – across more than
40 countries – are highly regarded. I would like to thank Sam, the Executive
Committee, and all of our 60,000 employees across the world for their
commitment, leadership and resilience.
Looking forward with confidence
Markets are challenging, and in this environment investors seek strength,
reliability and consistency. It is in these periods that your company thrives and
the quality of its assets, operational excellence and balance sheet strength
shines through.
Let me assure you that your board, our management, and all our people,
are committed to delivering sustainable returns to you, our shareholders.
Thank you for your continued investment in Rio Tinto. I look forward to
reviewing progress in 2015 with you next year.
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
4 March 2015
4 riotinto.com Chief executive’s statement
Dear shareholders,
Your company had a strong year, making truly satisfying progress towards
building a safer, more resilient, world-class business. Our relentless focus
on improving performance at all of our operations, driving down costs and
strengthening our balance sheet has enabled us to deliver materially
increased cash returns to shareholders. We remain committed to pursuing
further improvement in the year ahead.
In 2014 we delivered excellent results and upheld our commitment to improve
performance and strengthen the balance sheet. In challenging conditions we
delivered on, and in many cases exceeded, expectations.
It is clear that in the short term we will continue to face challenging
commodity markets as economic and geopolitical uncertainty continues.
Divergent monetary policy paths in Europe, the US and parts of Asia are
contributing to financial volatility. China is now experiencing slower, but still
significant, economic growth as it rebalances its economic priorities from
investment towards consumption.
But we also know that against a backdrop of uncertainty, Rio Tinto thrives.
Our combination of world-class assets, disciplined capital allocation, balance
sheet strength, operating and commercial excellence, and our culture of
safety and integrity gives me confidence we are best placed to make the most
of the positive long-term demand fundamentals to generate sustainable
returns.
Our strong 2014 results are first and foremost due to the efforts of our
hardworking and dedicated employees around the world. I had the great
pleasure of visiting many of our operations during the year, and yet again I was
inspired by the commitment of our people, and impressed by their expertise.
I thank them all for their contributions.
I would like to thank the Executive Committee – including Alfredo Barrios and
Greg Lilleyman who we welcomed to the team this year – for their strong and
passionate leadership.
Putting safety first
We strive to put safety first in everything we do. From small things such as
starting our meetings with what we call a “safety share”, to supporting
community mental health initiatives and understanding our critical risks,
safety is deeply embedded in our culture.
We reduced our all injury frequency rate by nine per cent in 2014 compared
with 2013. This was our best year ever in terms of injury rate performance, and
over the past five years we have reduced our all injury frequency rate by
14.5 per cent.
However success really means everyone returning home safely, every day.
Therefore it is with much sadness I report the deaths of two employees at
managed operations during 2014. In February, at the Gove alumina refinery in
Australia, our colleague Darryl Manderson died due to an equipment incident
while carrying out maintenance work. In November, Enrick Gagnon died when
a landslide derailed an iron ore train in Canada. I was also greatly saddened by
two further fatalities earlier in 2015, at QIT Madagascar Minerals and at
Zululand Anthracite Colliery in South Africa. Both of these 2015 fatalities are
currently being investigated.
These deaths have had a major impact on the family, friends and workmates of
these colleagues. We will learn from these tragedies to prevent future ones.
Although our safety performance leads our industry, we need to be constantly
vigilant and focused on improvement. We refreshed our safety strategy in
2014 and our goal, above all, remains to eliminate fatalities.
Managing a world-class portfolio
Over decades and across our product suite we have built a strong portfolio
of businesses. Across the Group in 2014, we saw numerous examples of the
strength of our portfolio. Among the highlights of our operational performance
were the production records we set for iron ore and Hunter Valley thermal coal.
Our Pilbara iron ore business reached its 290 Mt/a run rate two months ahead
of schedule. Expanding our Pilbara operations to 360 Mt/a rests comfortably
with our view of the longer-term demand for iron ore. These operations are
world class in terms of assets, optionality, and low-cost operating
performance, as well as in our marketing expertise and leading-edge
application of technology.
The expansion translated into excellent product group earnings and cash flow
for Iron Ore. Despite significant price declines for its products, Iron Ore’s
underlying earnings reached US$8.1 billion. This was a reduction of only
18 per cent on 2013, thanks to continued cost reduction efforts and the
favourable effect of the weaker Australian dollar.
The turnaround of our Aluminium business continued in 2014. Higher prices for
aluminium and our focus on efficiency and productivity saw the product group’s
underlying earnings more than double, from US$557 million in 2013 to
US$1.2 billion in 2014. Our bauxite business is generating handsome margins,
but more work is needed in the alumina side of the portfolio. So we have set
some tough targets for 2015, and we expect alumina’s profile to steadily
improve.
The Copper group delivered an 11 per cent increase in underlying earnings.
This was despite a seven per cent reduction in average copper prices, and
reflects the group’s success in reducing costs and boosting productivity.
Copper also increased production volumes and made more good progress in
simplifying the portfolio.
The Diamonds & Minerals group continued to focus on maximising cash flow
matching capacity to the market – the right approach for these specialist
products. The product group achieved underlying earnings of US$401 million,
a 15 per cent increase on 2013, as higher volumes and lower costs more than
offset lower prices in the minerals portfolio.
Lower prices across the coal sector decreased our Energy group’s earnings by
US$434 million. Not all of this could be offset by the good progress the Energy
team continued to make in reducing operating costs and maximising efficiencies.
Ultimately this resulted in a loss of US$210 million of underlying earnings.
All of our product groups have high-quality growth options, which we continue
to pursue in a disciplined manner. We believe we have the right capital
allocation framework and the right level of spending to support value-accretive
growth while ensuring we retain a strong balance sheet and meet our
commitment to deliver sustainable returns.
As part of our continued focus on efficiency and costs, we announced on
27 February 2015 that we would be streamlining our product group structure,
with immediate effect. Under the new arrangements, Rio Tinto’s world-class
portfolio of assets has been condensed into four product groups: Aluminium,
Copper & Coal, Diamonds & Minerals and Iron Ore.
I would like to recognise the significant contributions of Jacynthe Côté and
Harry Kenyon-Slaney who left or will leave the company during 2014 and early
2015 respectively. I thank them both and wish them both well.
riotinto.com 5
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chief executive’s statement continued
Focus and agility
In many respects, our industry-leading businesses are where others wish to
be; however, now is not the time for complacency.
We must anticipate, adapt and respond with urgency to changing conditions,
sustaining our focus on efficiency in areas that make a difference – rein in our
costs, ensure every dollar is spent wisely and remove wasteful working capital.
Rio Tinto’s balance sheet is strong and sound and we are committed to
maintaining this position. In a period of market instability, a robust balance sheet is
a major advantage. It protects the business, it protects shareholders and it creates
a platform for future growth. It provides flexibility to undertake future projects – as
and when required – and to find the best ways to reward shareholders.
On page 10, you can read more about the areas we will be focusing on in 2015
as we strive to enhance our performance even further.
Delivering sustainable value
In 2014, your company fulfilled its commitment to deliver greater value for
shareholders. In doing so, we have also created value for many of our
partners around the world who are so integral to the continuing success
of our business.
I believe the quality and commitment of our people sets us apart, as does
the way they embrace and embody our values: respect, integrity, teamwork
and accountability.
I would like to thank our employees for their dedication and hard work, our
stakeholders for continuing to partner with us, and you, our shareholders for
investing in our company.
Sam Walsh AO
Chief executive
4 March 2015
6 riotinto.com Strategic context
Global economy
The positive momentum in developed economies in late 2013 fuelled
expectations of an acceleration in global growth, but that faded in early 2014.
In the end, the US remained one of the few bright spots in the global economy
in 2014 while China’s slowdown became more entrenched. Europe failed to
emerge meaningfully from imposed austerity, Japan’s growth was negatively
impacted by a consumption tax hike and emerging economies suffered from
the delayed recovery in global trade. As a result, the global economy grew by
only just over three per cent in 2014, in line with growth in the previous two
years, and below the International Monetary Fund’s forecast of 3.7 per cent
growth at the start of the year.
Despite most economies continuing to deal with consequences from the
2008/09 global financial crisis (GFC), volatility in financial markets fell to low
levels during the first part of 2014. Equity markets reached record levels,
supported by sustained loose monetary policies. Nervousness however
returned to the markets towards the end of year on the back of rising
geopolitical tensions, a very sharp drop in oil prices and reminders of fragilities
in the eurozone.
In China, growth in 2014 came just below the government’s target of 7.5 per
cent. The new leadership attempted to bring the credit boom of the past five
years under control while preventing a contagion from weak property and
export sectors to the broader economy. This balancing act is likely to continue
into 2015 and we expect China’s GDP growth to slow further to around seven
per cent. The economy is in the middle of a long-signalled transition away
from the investment-led and commodity-intensive growth model of the past
couple of decades towards a stronger focus on consumption and services as
well as a cleaner environment. This “new normal” implies still-significant but
slower GDP growth and maturing commodity demand.
Among developed economies, monetary policies are moving on divergent
paths. The US managed to shrug off severe winter disruptions at the start of
2014 to sustain a robust pace of growth. Manufacturing activity was strong
throughout the year and the labour market strengthened appreciably. As a
result, the Federal Reserve unwound its Quantitative Easing (QE) programme
and the focus has now shifted towards the timing of the first interest rate hike
in the US since the financial crisis, expected in 2015. In contrast, the European
Central Bank has embarked on a new QE initiative in an attempt to kick-start a
recovery in Europe’s periphery countries, stimulate growth in the core beyond
Germany and counter growing deflation risks. With the Bank of Japan also
extending its QE programme in October 2014 there is an increasingly
pronounced dual track in the post-GFC recovery process within Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) economies.
The divergent monetary policies are putting upward pressure on the US dollar,
which rallied strongly against most currencies in the later part of 2014.
Meanwhile, the euro fell to a nine-year low against the US currency by the
start of 2015. The broad US dollar strength, combined with weaker metals and
minerals prices, also put downward pressure on commodity-dependent
currencies such as the Australian and Canadian dollars, both of which
depreciated by around eight per cent in the course of 2014. Unlike foreign
exchange, the US bond market was resilient to the anticipated shift in
monetary policy last year. This could reflect concerns that even as developed
economies finally emerge from post-GFC adjustment, they might only return
to a growth trajectory that is lower than that of the early-2000s.
Drivers of commodity prices
Long-term structural economic trends are important drivers of future
commodity prices through their effects on commodity demand. The economic
development and urbanisation of emerging countries goes through an initial
investment-led growth phase, which is particularly commodity-intensive. This
benefits commodities such as steel and copper used in construction and
infrastructure. As economies evolve, other commodities such as light metals,
energy products and industrial minerals tend to take over as the main
enablers of consumption-led growth models.
While the macroeconomic environment provides a common demand context,
supply-side factors can result in stark structural differences between
commodities. In principle, commodity prices will tend to have a relationship
with the cost of developing and extracting metal and mineral resources.
However the exact nature of that relationship depends on barriers to entry and
exit, which are specific to each sector and evolve over time.
The long-term nature of mining investment, combined with high capital-
intensity and long project lead-times, tends to result in cyclical investment
patterns in the industry as a whole, which also translates into cyclical
commodity prices.
Across many commodity sectors, the general supply trends in recent years
have pointed towards fewer discoveries, falling ore grades and maturing existing
operations as well as greater complexity of projects. In a context of accelerating
demand from China, a period of higher prices and margins was required to
incentivise the necessary supply-side response. With supply finally catching up
with demand for most commodities, focus has naturally switched towards
managing margin compressions and extracting productivity gains from recent
investment instead of committing significant capital into new projects.
Commodity markets
The subdued global macro environment combined with strong supply resulted
in significant downturns for most commodity prices in 2014 and into 2015.
Prices for iron ore, which had been one of the most resilient commodities in
2013, were down 30 per cent on average year-on-year in 2014. The addition of
seaborne iron ore capacity exceeded demand growth, tipping the markets into
oversupply. Pressured by falling prices, about 125 million tonnes of high cost
production from China and non-traditional seaborne suppliers exited the market
in 2014. The continued ramp-up of committed supply is expected to once again
exceed the growth in iron ore demand in 2015. However, with further exits of
high-cost producers anticipated, the market will be more in balance.
Thermal and metallurgical coal had already experienced large price falls in
2013 and continued on a declining trend in 2014, reaching five- and seven-
year lows respectively. Production has been slow to react to the new price
environment, in particular in China where State Owned Enterprises account for
a large share of output, which, combined with further cost reductions across
the industry, led to lower prices.
Aluminium was one of the few commodities to see an increase in prices in
2014 when considering rising regional premiums. A combination of continued
stock financing and more disciplined supply contributed to the improved
market environment. Indonesia’s bauxite ore export ban remained in place
throughout 2014, resulting in higher Chinese demand for alumina and bauxite
from alternative sources. Lower bauxite inventories in China should support
imports of Australian bauxite into China in 2015.
In copper, despite the stronger ramp-up in new mine supply, low reported
inventories moderated the price decline in 2014. Concerns over near-term
demand have weighed more heavily on copper prices so far in 2015.
Titanium dioxide prices remained under pressure in 2014 as inventories
continued to be absorbed.
Outlook
Economic growth is likely to remain modest and only mildly supportive for
commodity demand in the near term. The start of 2015 suggests it will be a
challenging year with continued industry-wide margin compression. The falls
in oil prices and applicable exchange rates will provide some relief for miners,
but could also delay the exit of higher cost producers. It is therefore likely that
the industry will continue to put strong controls over capital budgets and
further focus on productivity, costs and margins.
Although the outlook for our operating environment remains tough, Rio Tinto
is positioned to perform better than many competitors in challenging
conditions. Our strong balance sheet and world-class portfolio are competitive
advantages that equip us to generate sustainable returns through the cycle.
riotinto.com 7
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group strategy
External pressures continue
The mining industry is cyclical. Following a decade-long growth phase, it has
now firmly entered a period of lower prices, driven by a subdued global macro
environment combined with strong supply. We expect the current phase of
margin compression to continue as previously committed supply enters our
markets and the key drivers of demand growth taper off. Meanwhile, volatility –
a feature of the macroeconomic environment since the global financial crisis –
is expected to continue, bringing with it further short-term risk.
Our response to this has been to continue to focus on productivity, cost
reductions and capital discipline – squeezing maximum returns out of our
existing businesses while ensuring only the best growth projects attract
capital. Others in the sector have embarked upon similar paths. Inefficiencies
are being exposed, and so reductions in costs and capital expenditure,
productivity improvements, and project deferrals and cancellations have
become widespread across the mining industry.
Despite the uncertain conditions that we currently face, the long-term outlook
for our sector remains positive. These factors drive demand for the minerals
and metals we produce, as essential ingredients of modern life. They make our
business a sustainable and valuable one to be in.
Consistent strategy underpinned by six value drivers
In today’s challenging market conditions it is all the more important to have a
clear and effective strategy. We remain convinced that our longstanding and
consistent strategy is the right one: to invest in and operate long-life, low-cost,
expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
Sustainable shareholder returns
In 2014 we reaffirmed our commitment to deliver sustainable returns to
shareholders. Six critical value drivers underpin this commitment, and
combine to create a platform for our ongoing success.
Free cash
flow generation
Operating 
and commercial 
excellence
Balance sheet
strength
Capital
allocation
discipline
A world-class 
portfolio
Quality growth
Sustainable
shareholder
returns
1. World-class portfolio
At the heart of Rio Tinto is a portfolio of world-class assets – from our Pilbara
iron ore business, to our Queensland bauxite ore reserves, hydro-powered
aluminium smelters, our global suite of copper mines and sector-leading
energy, diamonds and minerals assets. We use a clear strategic framework to
assess our existing assets and new opportunities – taking into account the
industry attractiveness and the competitive advantage of each asset, and its
capacity to deliver best-in-class returns.
2. Quality growth
We have a compelling pipeline of near-term and longer dated projects across
the portfolio. By reinforcing capital discipline and reshaping our projects, we
have retained significant, high quality growth despite significantly reducing our
capital expenditure. Our project pipeline has a compelling internal rate of
return and is expected to deliver strong compound annual growth.
3. Operating and commercial excellence
The safety of our people is core to everything we do, and we remain at
the forefront of the industry in safety performance. A well-run operation is
a safe operation.
We have established a leading position in the development and use of
technology and innovation – allowing us to increase productivity and reduce
risk. As the industry faces increasingly complex geological, environmental and
cost pressures, our technology advantage will be an increasingly important
value driver.
Our commercial activities aim to ensure we reap the maximum value from
each of our businesses. Our marketing teams work hand-in-hand with our
operations, so that our resource management is fully aligned to the market.
Over the years we have leveraged our understanding of customer needs to
create new markets for our products, including high temperature Weipa
bauxite, and champagne and pink diamonds. We deploy industry-leading
capabilities in supply chain optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions
across the Group – and have in-house centres of excellence for value-in-use
analysis, pricing and contracting strategies. Together, these activities allow us
to manage risk and capture value in all market conditions.
4. Balance sheet strength
In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as mining, a strong balance
sheet is essential in order to preserve optionality and generate shareholder
wealth at all points in the cycle. We target a net gearing ratio of 20 to
30 per cent in order to maintain our robust balance sheet – and aim to stay at
the lower end of this range at the current point in the cycle. This positions us
favourably to withstand current industry pressures, protect shareholders and
seize on any opportunities these market conditions create.
5. Capital allocation discipline
We have a consistent and disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our first
allocation is to essential sustaining capital for our operations. Next, we fund
our primary contract with our shareholders – the progressive dividend. Finally,
we assess the best use of the remaining capital between alternatives of
compelling growth, debt reduction and further cash returns to shareholders.
At each stage, we apply stringent governance and assessment criteria as we
seek to maximise return on every dollar spent.
6. Free cash flow generation
Over recent years we have made improvements to our business – increasing
our productivity, reducing operating and capital costs and delivering
incremental volume expansions from high quality projects. Together with the
quality of our asset base, these actions enhance our capacity to generate free
cash flows, and underpin our confidence in our ability to deliver sustainable
returns to shareholders.
8 riotinto.com Progress against strategy
What we said we would do in 2014 What we did
World-class portfolio
Continue reshaping our portfolio Announced or completed asset sales of US$3.9 billion since 2013
(see page 19)
Curtail the Gove alumina refinery during the first half of 2014 Production at Gove curtailed in May 2014
(seepages28to29)
Keep sustaining capital expenditure at 2013 levels of around US$3 billion Reduced sustaining capital expenditure to US$2.7 billion
(see page 13)
Quality growth
Reduce total capital expenditure to less than US$11 billion in 2014 and to around
US$8 billion in 2015, while delivering steady growth
Reduced capital expenditure from US$13.0 billion in 2013 to US$8.2 billion,
completing two major projects which enabled us to bring on significant
new volumes
(see page 18)
Continue to progress key evaluation projects at a pace that matches our overall
view of investment priorities
Progressed studies at South of Embley (bauxite), La Granja and Resolution
(copper), Zulti South (titanium dioxide), Mount Pleasant (thermal coal) and
Ranger 3 Deeps (uranium)
(seepages28to37)
Ramp up the Pilbara operations to reach an annual production rate of 290 Mt/a
before the end of the first half of 2014
Annual production rate of 290 Mt/a from the Pilbara reached in May 2014,
two months ahead of schedule.
Increase Pilbara mine production capacity by 60 Mt/a between 2014 and 2017, by
focusing predominately on brownfield expansions and low-cost productivity gains
40 Mt/a of low-cost, brownfield growth in implementation. Investment
decision on Silvergrass mine not required in 2015.
(seepages36to37)
Continue to discuss the pathway forward for Oyu Tolgoi underground expansion
with the Government of Mongolia
Continued discussions with the Government of Mongolia over the
development pathway. Finalised underground feasibility study and
technical report
(seepages30to31)
Operating and commercial excellence
Target, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities Regrettably, our Group had two fatalities at our managed operations
during 2014
(see page 22)
Achieve year-on-year improvement in AIFR and lost time injuries Our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) improved from 0.65 per 200,000 hours
worked in 2013 to 0.59 in 2014
(see page 22)
Improve how we manage critical risks and learn from serious potential accidents Updated our safety strategy to confirm our focus on injury reduction
and strengthen our emphasis on fatality elimination and catastrophic
event prevention
(see page 22)
Deliver further savings to reach US$3 billion full-year improvement in 2014
versus 2012 in operating cash costs
Achieved a further US$1.3 billion of operating unit cash cost improvements in
2014, delivering total operating cash cost savings of US$3.6 billion versus
2012
(see page 40)
Maintain the reduced exploration and evaluation spend achieved in 2013 Reduced exploration and evaluation spend by a further US$0.2 billion
(see page 38)
Increase sales volumes at Oyu Tolgoi Increased mined copper and gold production at Oyu Tolgoi by 94% and 275%
respectively compared with 2013, with copper sales increasing seven-fold
(seepages30to31)
riotinto.com 9
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group strategy continued
What we said we would do in 2014 What we did
Balance sheet strength
Pay down debt to a more sustainable level Reduced net debt from US$22.1 billion in June 2013 to US$12.5 billion at
31 December 2014. The gearing ratio at the end of 2014 was 18.6%,
compared with 25.2% at the end of 2013
(see page 13)
Capital allocation discipline
Continue to apply our enhanced capital allocation systems and controls Maintained “cash generation offices” to strengthen the focus on cash and
improve visibility for senior managers in this area
Continued to reinforce Investment Committee approvals process
(seepages18to19)
Allocate capital in the following order of priority: essential sustaining capital
expenditure; progressive dividends; iterative cycle of compelling growth, debt
reduction, and further cash returns to shareholders
Disciplined capital allocation framework adhered to, resulting in: sustaining
capital of US$2.7 billion, progressive dividend of US$3.7 billion, compelling
growth of US$5.5 billion and net debt reduction of US$5.6 billion
(seepages18to19)
Free cash flow generation
Reduce working capital Released US$1.5 billion of working capital
(see page 1)
Materially increase returns to shareholders Increased our progressive dividend by 12 per cent and announced on
12 February 2015 a share buy-back of US$2.0 billion (a combined increase of
64 per cent compared with 2013)
(seepages18to19)
Our 2015 strategic priorities
We will continue to focus on our critical value drivers in 2015, in order to meet
our commitment to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders.
As always, we will maintain our relentless focus on safety, as measured by
both the elimination of fatalities and minimising all injury frequency rates
and lost time injuries.
We will continue to shape our world-class portfolio – ensuring that we focus on
only the highest returning assets in our preferred industry sectors, and that
our capital is deployed in the most efficient way.
We will further enhance our portfolio as we complete a number of key growth
projects, including the infrastructure for our 360 Mt/a iron ore expansion and
our new Kitimat smelter. Beyond this, we will progress our South of Embley
bauxite project and will continue our work on creating the conditions
necessary to further advance the underground expansion of Oyu Tolgoi.
Importantly, we will deliver measured, value-adding growth while reducing our
capital expenditure to less than US$7.0 billion in 2015.
Our strong focus on costs will continue in 2015, as we target further operating
cash cost savings of US$750 million and continue to optimise our working
capital. We will further leverage our strength in technology and innovation, and
our leading commercial capabilities, to ensure we remain the supplier of choice
to our customers and maximise the cash generated from every business.
Maintaining our balance sheet strength will remain a core priority. We aim to
maintain our gearing ratio at the low end of the 20 per cent to 30 per cent range.
10 riotinto.com Business model
How we create value
Rio Tinto owns a portfolio of world-class assets, the result of investment
decisions made in line with our longstanding strategy. The way we find,
develop and operate these assets; the way we market the minerals and metals
we produce; and the legacy we leave at the end of these assets’ lives enables
us to create value and deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
Through productivity improvements, cost reductions and prudent growth we
preserve and enhance value from our portfolio. We commit to finding ever
safer, smarter and more sustainable ways to run our businesses, and our
competitive advantages – which spring from a combination of our assets, our
people, our capabilities and our values – keep us strong throughout the cycle.
Explore and evaluate
Our experienced in-house exploration team has a proven track record of
discovering Tier 1 orebodies: the highest-value deposits that are profitable
throughout the commodity cycle. We maximise opportunities by exploring for
and evaluating deposits in new geographies and in our preferred commodities.
We also explore the orbits of our current operations, like Weipa in Australia or
Bingham Canyon in the US, which sustains the value of our existing
businesses. So that we can keep our focus on targets that are important to
Rio Tinto, we operate the majority of exploration programmes ourselves, rather
than outsourcing. We will, however, partner with others if it gives us access to
attractive opportunities, or skills, that we do not possess in-house, and which
support the quality of our exploration pipeline.
Our orebody knowledge allows us to find value-enhancing ways of developing
our resources and positioning our products in the marketplace, and helps
support the Group’s investment decision-making. Our geological expertise
gives us the confidence to keep hunting for the most elusive discoveries. And
we have a strong tradition of developing and applying innovative technologies
to resolve specific exploration challenges.
Develop
We develop orebodies for long-term value delivery. We have strengthened our
investment assessment criteria, our levels of independent review of
opportunities and our investment approval processes. We approve investment
only in opportunities that, after prudent assessment, offer attractive returns
that are well above our cost of capital.
During the development phase, we plan the most efficient configuration
for mining the orebody and for getting the products to market. We work
closely with our customers, to create demand for the optimal suite of
products, thus maximising value over the deposit’s lifetime. Once the value
of the resource is confirmed, and internal and external approvals are received,
the project moves into implementation and construction. We aim to deliver
projects on time and on budget – such as reaching our targeted 290 Mt/a
annual production rate from the Pilbara iron ore operations in May 2014,
two months ahead of schedule.
Mine and process
We create value by safely and efficiently operating assets that fit with our
strategy. By focusing on operating excellence we will sustain our low-cost
leadership position and drive our operations even further down the cost curve.
Our global operating model allows us to implement standard processes and
systems across the Group, for instance in procurement, operations and
maintenance. This increases the life of our equipment and optimises the
extraction of ore. In turn, we enjoy higher production and reduced costs, and
we maximise value.
Our commitment to technology and innovation sets us apart from our peers
and allows us to take advantage of opportunities that may not be available to
others. Our world-class technologies bring us ongoing productivity benefits, and
help us tailor our products to our customers’ needs. Through our network of
partnerships with academia, technology suppliers and other experts, we gain
access to knowledge and technical prowess that augment our own capabilities.
Market and deliver
Supplying high-quality products, which have been developed to meet our
customers’ needs, is the basis of our business. Our diverse portfolio of metals
and minerals allows us to respond to demand across the development cycle: we
supply basic raw materials and refined products that are the building blocks of
added-value goods. Most of our customers are industrial companies that process
our products further and supply numerous sectors – including construction and
infrastructure, automotive, machinery, energy and consumer goods.
Our marketing teams work closely with our operations, so that our resource
management is fully aligned to the market, and we innovate and improve our
products and services to maximise value to customers.
We are constantly adding to our knowledge of our markets and our customers’
requirements, allowing us to improve our investment decisions. In many
cases, we are responsible for delivering product to our customers, and do so
efficiently, reliably and cost-effectively. We have capabilities across a variety
of logistics solutions, including our own networks of rail, ports and ships.
Close down and rehabilitate
We integrate closure planning throughout an asset’s life cycle, from the
earliest stages of project development, and aim to progressively rehabilitate as
much land as possible before closure. When a resource reaches the end of its
life, we seek sustainable and beneficial future land uses, to minimise financial,
social and environmental impact. We work together with our stakeholders to
identify post-closure options that take into account their concerns and their
priorities for the use of the land. By partnering with external conservation
organisations, we access expertise that helps us improve our rehabilitation
performance. Our approach helps us to maintain a positive reputation and
uphold our licence to operate.
Read more about how we embed sustainability throughout our business on
pages20to26.
Delivering value for our stakeholders
Rio Tinto’s primary focus is on the delivery of value for our shareholders. We
balance disciplined investment with prudent management of our balance
sheet and cash returns to shareholders. We offer a long-term investment
opportunity, and commit to sustainable growth in returns to shareholders
through our progressive dividend policy. As we work, fixed on this core aim,
our activities also give us the opportunity to create value for our other
stakeholders, in a variety of ways.
Customers
We supply our customers with the right products at the right time. They then
add further value, by turning them into the end products that society needs to
make modern life work.
Communities
Our operations create employment and career development opportunities for
our local communities, as well as business opportunities for local suppliers.
Communities often benefit from the infrastructure we put in place to serve our
facilities and, once our operations are closed, we restore the sites – often for
community use, new industry, or back to native vegetation.
Our people
We invest in our people throughout their careers, offering diverse employment
prospects, opportunities for development, and competitive rewards and
benefits that have a clear link to performance.
Governments
We are often a major economic contributor to the local, state and national
jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax and sovereign equity contributions
enable governments to develop and maintain public works, services and
institutions. We work together to facilitate growth of diverse and sustainable
economies that endure far beyond the active life of our operations.
Suppliers
By seeking a balance of global, national and local supply capability, and
supporting local supplier development, we drive value for our shareholders
and deliver economic benefits for the communities in which we operate.
riotinto.com 11
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Key performance indicators
Our key performance indicators (KPIs)
enable us to measure our financial and
sustainable development performance.
Their relevance to our strategy and our
performance against these measures in
2014 are explained below.
Some KPIs are used as a measure in the
long-term incentive arrangements for the
remuneration of executives. These are
identified with this symbol:
KPI trend data
The Group’s performance against each KPI
is covered in more detail in later sections
of this Annual report. Explanations of the
actions taken by management to maintain
and improve performance against each
KPI support the data.
See the Remuneration Report on
page 64
Notes
(a) The accounting information in these charts
is drawn up in accordance with IFRS.
(b) Underlying earnings is the key financial
performance indicator which management
uses internally to assess performance. It is
presented here as a measure of earnings to
provide greater understanding of the
underlying business performance of the
Group’s operations. Items excluded from
net earnings to arrive at underlying
earnings are explained in note 2 to the
2014 financial statements. Both net
earnings and underlying earnings deal with
amounts attributable to the owners of
Rio Tinto. However, IFRS requires that the
profit for the year reported in the income
statement should also include earnings
attributable to non-controlling interests
in subsidiaries.
Indicator
All injury frequency rate (AIFR)
Per 200,000 hours worked
Underlying earnings
(a) (b)
US$ millions
Net cash generated from operating
activities
(a)
US$ millions
Relevance to strategy
The safety of our people is core to
everything we do. Our goal is zero harm,
including, above all, the elimination of
workplace fatalities. We are committed
to reinforcing our strong safety culture,
and improving safety leadership.
This is the key financial performance
indicator used across the Group. It
gives insight to cost management,
production growth and performance
efficiency. We are focused on reducing
our costs and increasing productivity to
improve earnings and deliver
sustainable returns to shareholders.
Net cash generated from operating activities
is a complementary measure demonstrating
conversion of underlying earnings to cash. It
provides additional insight to how we are
managing costs and increasing efficiency and
productivity across the business in order to
deliver increased returns.
Performance
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
0.67
0.67
0.65
0.59
0.69
15,572
9,269
10,217
9,305
13,987
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
20,235
9,430
18,277
15,078
14,286
Our AIFR has improved by 14 per
cent over the last five years. We
improved our AIFR by nine per cent from
2013. However, we did not meet our goal
of zero fatalities and two people died
while working at Rio Tinto managed
operations in 2014.
Underlying earnings have decreased by
US$912 million compared with 2013.
This reflects strong volumes (primarily
in iron ore), favourable exchange rates,
operating cash cost improvements and
reductions in exploration and
evaluation expenditure, which largely
offset the unfavourable effect of price
movements on major commodities.
Net cash generated from operating
activities of US$14,286 million, which include
US$298 million of dividends from equity
accounted units, are five per cent lower than
in 2013, primarily as a result of lower prices
which were partially offset by higher volumes,
cash cost improvements and favourable
movements in working capital.
Definition
AIFR is calculated based on the number
of injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
This includes medical treatment cases,
andrestrictedwork-dayandlost-day
injuries for employees and contractors.
Items excluded from net earnings to
arrive at underlying earnings are
explained in note 2 to the 2014
financial statements.
Net cash generated from operating activities
represents the cash generated by the Group’s
consolidated operations, after payment of
interest, taxes, and dividends to non-
controlling interests in subsidiaries.
More information
Page 22 Pages 178 to 179 Page 105
12 riotinto.com Total shareholder return (TSR)
%
Net debt
(a)
US$ millions
Capital expenditure
(a)
US$ millions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
intensity
Indexedrelativeto2008(2008being
equivalent to 100)
The aim of our strategy is to maximise
total shareholder return over the long
term. This KPI measures performance in
terms of shareholder wealth generation.
We also monitor our relative TSR
performance against peers.
Netdebtisameasureofhowweare
managing our balance sheet and
capital structure. A strong balance
sheet is essential for withstanding
external pressures and seizing
opportunities through the cycle. We
constantly evaluate and balance the
alternative uses for our cash between
disciplined investment, strengthening
our balance sheet, and returning cash
to investors.
We adopt a consistent approach to
capital allocation. We are committed to
a disciplined and rigorous investment
process – investing capital only in
assets that, after prudent assessment,
offer attractive returns that are well
above our cost of capital.
Our GHG performance is an
important indicator of our
commitment and ability to manage
exposure to future climate policy
and legislative costs, and is closely
linked to our energy use and cost.
We are focusing on reducing the
energy intensity of our operations
as well as the carbon intensity of
our energy, including through the
development and implementation
of innovative technologies.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
8,342
4,071
19,192
18,055
12,495
70
96.1
95.9
94.1
83.2
82.0
12,573
17,615
13,001
8,162
4,591
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
(31.2)
14.8
2.1
(9.7)
31.6
Rio Tinto’s TSR performance over the
five-year period from 2010 to 2014 was
characterised by continued nervousness
in global equity markets. Total dividends
paid in calendar year 2014 were 204.5 US
cents per share, a 15 per cent increase on
2013. The subdued global macro
environment coupled with a strong
supply response caused prices for many
of our commodities to decrease, which, in
turn, pushed the Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited share prices lower in
2014. These factors resulted in the
Rio Tinto Group registering a TSR of -
9.7 per cent in 2014.
Net debt decreased from US$18,055
million at 31 December 2013 to
US$12,495 million at 31 December
2014 due to operating cash inflows
from divestment proceeds and the
Turquoise Hill rights offering far
exceeding outflows relating to capital
expenditure and the increased
dividend payment.
Capital expenditure declined by
US$4,839 million or 37 per cent to
US$8,162 million in 2014, following the
completion of five major capital
projects in 2013 (Pilbara iron ore
infrastructure expansion to 290 Mt/a,
Oyu Tolgoi copper/gold mine, AP60
aluminium smelter, Kestrel coking
coal mine and Argyle underground
diamond mine).
We have reduced our total GHG
emissions intensity by 18 per cent
between 2008 and 2014. This is
largely a result of the aluminium
smelter divestments (Ningxia in
2009, Sebree and Saint Jean in
2013), closure of the Lynemouth
smelter in 2012, commissioning
of our low intensity AP60 smelter
in late 2013 and improved
measurement methodology for
coal seam gas at our Australian
coal mines.
TSR combines share price
appreciation and dividends paid to show
the total return to the shareholder.
Netdebtiscalculatedas:thenet
borrowings after adjusting for amounts
due to equity accounted units originally
funded by Rio Tinto, cash and cash
equivalents, other liquid resources
and derivatives related to net debt.
This is further explained in note 24
“Consolidated net debt” to the 2014
financial statements.
Capital expenditure comprises the cash
outflow on purchases of property, plant
and equipment, and intangible assets.
Our GHG emissions intensity
measure is the change in total
GHG emissions per unit of
commodity production relative to a
base year. Total GHG emissions
are direct emissions, plus
emissions from imports of
electricity and steam, minus
electricity and steam exports and
net carbon credits purchased from,
or sold to, recognised sources.
Page 90 Page 141 Pages 180 to 181 Page 24
riotinto.com 13
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties
The focus on the six value drivers articulated on pages 8 to 10 has been accompanied by a significant review of the principal risks and uncertainties the
business faces.
Overview of Rio Tinto’s risk management framework
Our risk management framework recognises that managing risk effectively is an integral part of how we create value, and fundamental to our business
success. The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with all of Rio Tinto’s managers and business leaders. They operate within the Group-wide
framework to ensure that risks are managed within agreed thresholds. The framework, underpinned by Rio Tinto’s Risk policy and standard, includes clearly-
defined oversight responsibilities for the board of directors and the Executive Committee, supported by the Risk Management Committee. It also outlines the roles
played by central support functions, by Group Risk, and by Group Audit & Assurance to support effective risk analysis and management across Rio Tinto.
This approach reflects a “three lines of defence” model for the management of risks and controls:
– First line of defence: ownership of risk by the operations.
– Second line of defence: control of risk by Group functions and management committees.
– Third line of defence: assurance of our systems by Group Audit & Assurance.
More information on the Group’s approach to risk management can be found in the corporate governance section on page 62.
Business risk owners
Managers across the business
are accountable and responsible
for effective risk identification
and management 
Board of directors and board committees
Provides oversight across the risk management process,
confirms that management’s risk thresholds reflect the 
level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of
strategic objectives and monitors Group-level risks
Group Audit & Assurance
Responsible for providing reasonable assurance that the
systems for internal control are adequate and effective
Central support functions
Provide targeted expertise and
support to risk owners, develop and
maintain risk specific controls to
ensure effective management of
material Group-level risk within
agreed thresholds
Group Risk
Responsible for maintaining
appropriate risk policy and standard,
providing co-ordination and support
of Group-level risk management
activity and risk reporting  
Risk Management Committee
Responsible for ensuring that
significant risks to Group-level
objectives are identified and for
ensuring the risk management
process is effective
Executive Committee
Responsible for risk strategy and
accepting risks inherent in key
investments and in strategic,
business or annual plans
Risk factors
Rio Tinto’s business units and functions assess the potential economic and
non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework
defined by the Group’s Risk policy and standard. Principal risks and
uncertainties are those that the Risk Management Committee, business unit
or function determine to have potential material consequences at a Group
level. They also include factors that may trigger a succession of events that, in
aggregate, become material to the Group. Once identified, each principal risk
or uncertainty is reviewed by the relevant internal experts and by the Risk
Management Committee.
Pages 15 to 17 describe the currently-known principal risks and uncertainties
that could materially affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet its strategic
objectives. There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks,
currently not believed to be material, which could turn out to be material. The
risk factors outlined do not include the management detail on how each is
managed and mitigated, or the controls established to decrease the likelihood
or impact of these risks occurring. This is discussed in more detail on page 62.
Risks may materialise individually, simultaneously or in combination and could
significantly affect the Group’s:
– short, medium and long-term business and prospects;
– earnings, cash flow and financial position;
– overall financial results and product demand;
– current asset values;
– future asset values and growth potential;
– safety record and the long, medium and short-term health of its
employees;
– environmental and social impact on neighbouring communities;
– social licence to operate; or
– Group or business unit reputation.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection
with any forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary
statement on the inside front cover.
14 riotinto.com External risks
Factor Nature
Commodity prices and global
demand for the Group’s
products are expected to remain
uncertain
Commodity prices and demand are volatile and strongly influenced by fluctuating world economic conditions. The Group’s
policy is to sell its products at prices that reflect the value of our products in the market and not to enter into price hedging
arrangements.
Past strong demand for the
Group’s products in China could
be affected by future
developments in that country
The Group is highly exposed to the Chinese market. China’s demand for any of the Group’s products, and iron ore in
particular, could be substantially affected by:
– aneconomicslowdowninChina;
– financial or banking market conditions impacting investment;
– an accelerated shift from infrastructure-led to service-oriented growth; or
– a material change in energy policy.
Any or all of these may adversely affect the Group’s profitability and cash position.
Rio Tinto is exposed to
fluctuations in exchange rates
The vast majority of the Group’s sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used for holding surplus
cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results. Although many costs are incurred in US dollars,
a significant portion are incurred in, or influenced by, the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates,
principally the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar. The Group’s normal policy is not to hedge foreign exchange rates and
so the Group may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to
prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility. Currency fluctuations may negatively impact the Group’s profitability and
dividend payments as well as rating agency metrics and asset carrying values.
Political, legal and commercial
changes in the places where the
Group operates
The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions, resulting in exposure to a broad spectrum of economies, political
and legal frameworks and societal norms. Each jurisdiction poses unique complexities and challenges that in turn impose
risks on the value chain, from new business development through to closure and rehabilitation, and on asset carrying values.
These can include:
– difficulty in obtaining agreements, leases or permits for new activities;
– renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits;
– changes in government ownership levels in Group businesses;
– changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements;
– currency and foreign investment restrictions;
– limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access; and
– general increases in regulation and compliance requirements.
Jurisdiction-specific behaviour or circumstance may also present uncertainties to our operating environment: unclear land
title and rights to land and resources (including Indigenous title); political and administrative change, policy reform, and
changes in law or government regulation; an inherent culture of bribery and corruption; violent criminal or sectarian
tensions. Any such jurisdictional instability or legislative uncertainty that impacts the Group’s operations may result in
increased costs, curtail or negatively impact existing operations and/or prevent the Group from making future investments.
Community disputes in the
countries and territories in
which the Group operates
Some of the Group’s current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may regard these operations
as being detrimental to them. Community expectations are typically complex, with the potential for multiple inconsistent
stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve. Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be subject to many
influences, for example, related industries, operations of other groups, or local, regional or national events in any of the
places where we operate. These disputes can disrupt our operations and may increase our costs, thereby potentially
impacting our revenue and profitability. In the extreme, our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity,
which can impact our operational and financial performance, as well as our reputation.
Increased regulation of
greenhouse gas emissions could
adversely affect the Group’s
cost of operations
Rio Tinto’s operations are energy-intensive and depend on fossil fuels. In numerous jurisdictions, there is increasing
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, tighter emission reduction targets and progressive introduction of carbon pricing
mechanisms. These may raise worldwide energy, production and transport costs over the medium to long term, which may
increase the Group’s cost base and potentially negatively impact the Group’s profitability.
Regulations, standards and
stakeholder expectations
regarding health, safety,
environment and community
evolve over time and unforeseen
changes could have an adverse
effect on the Group’s social
licencetooperate,business
viability and reputation
The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards alongside
community and stakeholder expectations. Evolving regulation, standards and stakeholder expectations could result in
increased costs, regulatory action, litigation or, in extreme cases, threaten the viability of an operation.
riotinto.com 15
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Strategic risks
Factor Nature
The Group’s exploration and
development of new projects
might be unsuccessful
Rio Tinto identifies new orebodies and mining properties through its exploration programme, and develops or expands other
operations as a means of generating shareholder value. Exploration is not always successful and there is a high degree of
competition for world-class orebodies. The Group may also not be able to source or maintain adequate financing, or may be
unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing large projects. Furthermore, project
execution may not proceed as planned and project budgets and schedules may prove inaccurate, all of which may negatively
impact the Group’s profitability and the mineral resources from which future cash flows should come.
Rio Tinto may fail to
successfully execute
divestments and acquisitions
Potential acquisitions may not succeed and the Group may not be able to successfully divest assets it wishes to sell, resulting
in unforeseen pressure on the Group’s cash position or reducing the Group’s ability to expand operations as a means of
generating shareholder value. All business combinations or acquisitions entail a number of risks, including the cost of
effectively integrating acquisitions to realise synergies, significant write-offs or restructuring charges, and unanticipated costs
and liabilities. The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities it has acquired that were unforeseen or
greater than anticipated. The Group may also face liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour all commitments
or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
Large outsourcing programmes
may result in exposure to third-
party failure, or loss of
intellectual property
The Group is implementing business transformation programmes to increase efficiency. These include outsourcing and off-
shoring elements of important business support delivery as well as increasing procurement of goods and services from
emerging market suppliers. The Group may be exposed to business continuity failure impacting financial performance, loss of
intellectual property or data, data privacy violations and/or reputational damage as a result of third-party failure or actions.
Financial risks
Factor Nature
The Group’s reported results
could be adversely affected by
the impairment of assets
including goodwill
The Group may be required to record impairment charges as a result of adverse developments in the recoverable values of its
assets (including goodwill). Significant assumptions in the determination of recoverable value include, but are not limited to:
pricing of the Group’s commodities and products, reserves and resources, infrastructure availability, discount and foreign
currency exchange rates, operating and development cost projections, and the timing of expenditure and revenues related to
major projects. In addition, the occurrence of unexpected events, or events beyond the Group’s control that adversely impact
its business, may have an impact on the assumptions underlying the recoverable value of its assets. The foregoing items
are not exhaustive and impairments may be caused by factors currently unknown to the Group. To the extent that the
recoverable value of an asset is impaired, such impairment will negatively impact the Group’s profitability during the
relevant period.
Discount rates used in
determining provisions and
asset valuations may change,
causing changes to provisions,
asset carrying values and
capital allocation
Discount rates are utilised to determine provisions for costs of known future obligations (such as close-down and
remediation) as well as valuing assets for impairment testing and capital allocation purposes. Discount rates may vary over
time as underlying assumptions change. These assumptions include observable long term government bond yields, market
risk premiums, and other situational changes (such as change in political stability in a particular jurisdiction).
Changes to the discount rate may impact the size of provisions recognised, lead to changes in the carrying value of assets, or
alter the capital allocated to various projects.
The Group’s liquidity and
cash flow expectations may
not be realised, inhibiting
planned expenditure
Both the Group’s ability to fund planned expenditure such as capital growth, mergers and acquisitions, innovation and other
objectives or obligations as well as the ability to weather a major economic downturn could be compromised by inadequate
access to sufficient liquidity, including external financing sources such as bank financing or capital markets.
Failure to reduce costs may
result in reduced margins
Failure to reduce costs may have an adverse impact on our operating margins and the viability of our capital
expansion projects.
Operational risks
Factor Nature
Estimates of ore reserves are
based on uncertain assumptions
that, if changed, could result in
the need to restate ore reserves
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, including subjective judgments and determinations
that are based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information. Previously valid assumptions may
change significantly with new information, which may result in changes to the economic viability of some ore reserves and
the need for them to be restated. In addition, volatility in commodity prices can result in substantial adjustments in the
Group’s recognition of ore reserves.
Labour disputes could lead
to lost production and/or
increased costs
Some of the Group’s employees, including employees in non-managed operations, are represented by labour unions under
various collective labour agreements. The Group may not be able to renegotiate agreements satisfactorily when they expire
and may face difficult negotiations, higher wage demands or industrial action. In addition, labour agreements may not
prevent a strike or work stoppage and labour disputes may arise even in circumstances where the Group’s employees are not
represented by labour unions.
16 riotinto.com Factor Nature
Some of the Group’s
technologies are unproven and
failures could adversely impact
costs and/or productivity
The Group has invested in and implemented new technologies both in information systems and in operational initiatives,
some of which are unproven and their eventual viability cannot be assessed with certainty. The actual benefits of these
technologies may differ materially from expectations.
The Group may be exposed to
major failures in the supply
chain for specialist services,
equipment and materials
Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of materials, services, equipment, and
infrastructure, and on providers of logistics. Supply chain failures, or significantly increased costs within the supply chain,
for whatever reason, could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business.
Joint ventures, strategic
partnerships or non-managed
operations may not be
successful and may not comply
with the Group’s standards
The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter into others, all of which
involve risk. Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains operational control in its joint ventures, its
partners may:
– have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group;
– exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint venture’s best interests; or
– be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital
to expansion or maintenance projects.
Where these joint ventures are controlled and managed by others, the Group may provide expertise and advice but has
limited control over compliance with its standards and objectives. Controlling partners may take action contrary to the
Group’s interests or policies, resulting in adverse impact to the Group’s operations, financial performance, legal liability
or reputation.
The Group’s operations are
vulnerable to a range of
interruptions, not all of which
are covered fully by insurance
1. Natural disasters and events
Mining, smelting, refining and infrastructure installations are vulnerable to natural events including earthquakes, subsidence,
drought, flood, fire, storm and climate change.
2. Sustained operational difficulties
Operating difficulties are many and various, ranging from geological variations that could result in significant ground or
containment failure to breakdown of key capital equipment. Reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power generation and
transmission, and water supplies are required to access and conduct our operations and deliver product to market.
Limitations, delayed development, bottlenecks or interruptions in infrastructure, including as a result of third parties gaining
access to our integrated facilities, could impede our ability to deliver products.
3. Information technology and cyber security
The Group relies heavily on information technology and process control systems to support our business. In common with
most large global companies, the Group has experienced cyber attacks and is faced with ongoing threats to the
confidentiality, integrity and availability of such systems. An extended failure of critical system components, caused by
accidental or malicious actions, including those resulting from a cyber security attack, could result in a significant
environmental, health or safety incident, commercial loss or interruption to operations.
4. Major operational failure
The Group’s operations involve chemicals and other substances stored under high temperature and pressure, with the
potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the process, leading to a release of hazardous materials. This could
occur by accident, systems failure or a breach of operating standards, and could result in a significant environmental, health
or safety incident.
5. Sustained pandemic
The Group has exploration, development projects and operations in numerous countries and is reliant on effective global
shipping/transportation movements to deliver product to markets. The sustained outbreak of a pandemic may result in
health exposure to our workforce as well as the temporary closure of a site or access to shipping/transportation movements,
adversely impacting financial performance.
The Group’s insurance does not cover every potential loss associated with its operations and adequate coverage at reasonable
rates is not always obtainable. In addition, insurance provision may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any
business interruption. Any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business.
The Group depends on
the continued services of
key personnel
The Group’s ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent on the services of a wide range of highly-skilled and
experienced personnel available in the locations where they are needed. Failure to recruit and retain key staff, and the
inability to deploy staff worldwide, where they are most needed, could affect the Group’s business. Similar constraints may be
felt by the Group’s key consultants, contractors and suppliers, thereby impacting the Group’s operations, expansion plans or
business more generally.
The Group’s costs of close-
down,reclamation,and
rehabilitation could be higher
than expected
Close-down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and costly. Estimated costs
are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the provisions might prove to be inadequate due to
changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new, or increases in the cost of, reclamation techniques. In addition,
the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary
thelifeofanoperation.
riotinto.com 17
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Capital allocation
The aim of Rio Tinto’s capital allocation process is to invest in a sustainable way through the cycle, having consideration of shareholders’ expectations of returns,
and the robustness of our balance sheet. This is achieved through an evaluation and prioritisation of the Group’s portfolio of investment opportunitiesovera
number of years to determine what will be the best use of capital.
Key considerations in determining the best use of capital include the progressive dividend policy and the strength of the balance sheet. This, together with
financial policies, existing capital commitments and net cash generated from operating activities forecasts set the boundaries for how much capital is available
for investment.
In today’s capital-constrained environment, only the highest-returning investments will be approved. The Group analyses each investment based on net present
value but also considers a number of further factors, including internal rate of return, payback period and risk profile. This suite of ranking criteria, together with
the application of strategic judgment, ensures that capital is deployed to the best opportunities.
Rio Tinto’s capital expenditure reduced by 37 per cent to US$8.2 billion in 2014, compared with the peak level in 2012 of US$17.6 billion. It is expected to be
reduced further to less than US$7 billion in 2015 of which around US$2.5 billion is expected to be sustaining capital. Rio Tinto funded its capital expenditure with
net cash generated from operating activities in 2014 and aims to continue funding its capital programme from internal sources.
Compelling 
growth
Further cash returns 
to shareholders
Debt reduction
2 1
Essential sustaining 
capex
Progressive 
dividends
Iterative  
cycle of:
3
Major capital projects (>US$1bn)
(Rio Tinto 100% owned unless otherwise stated)
Total approved
capital cost
(100%) US$ Status/milestones
In production
Iron ore – expansion of the Pilbara mines, ports and
railways from 237 Mt/a to 290 Mt/a. (Rio Tinto share
US$8.4bn).
$9.8bn The integrated mines, rail and ports reached a run-rate of 290 Mt/a in May
2014, two months ahead of schedule. The Nammuldi mine expansion was
completed and is commencing production.
Ongoing and approved
Iron ore – expansion of the Pilbara port, rail and power
supply capacity to 360 Mt/a. (Rio Tinto share, US$3.5bn).
$5.9bn The phase two expansion to 360 Mt/a includes investment in the port, rail
and power supply and investment in automation.
Iron ore–investmenttoextendthelifeofthe
Yandicoogina mine in the Pilbara to 2021.
$1.7bn The investment includes a wet processing plant to maintain product
specification levels.
Aluminium – modernisation and expansion of Kitimat
smelter in British Columbia, Canada to increase capacity
from 280ktpa to 420ktpa.
$4.8bn First production from the modernisation is expected towards the end of the
first half of 2015 with full capacity expected to be reached in the first half
of 2016.
Copper – development of Organic Growth Project 1
(OGP1) at Escondida (Rio Tinto 30%), Chile.
$1.3bn
(Rio Tinto share)
Replacement of the Los Colorados concentrator with a 152kt per day plant,
accessing higher-grade ore. Initial production is expected in the first half
of 2015.
Copper – construction of a desalination facility to ensure
continued water supply and sustain operations at
Escondida (Rio Tinto 30%), Chile.
$1.0bn
(Rio Tinto share)
The project is designed to provide a sustainable supply of water for the new
OGP1 copper concentrator. Commissioning is scheduled for 2017.
Cash returns to shareholders
The aim of Rio Tinto’s progressive dividend policy is to maintain or increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends per share. The rate of the total dividend, in
US dollars per share, is determined annually, taking into account the results for the past year and the outlook. The interim dividend is set at one half of the total
dividend per share for the previous year.
The full year dividend in respect of 2014 was increased by 12 per cent, to 215 US cents per share, reflecting the board’s confidence in the business and its
attractive prospects. This follows a 15 per cent increase in both the 2013 and 2012 full year dividends.
In February 2015, Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion share buy-back programme, comprising a targeted A$500 million (c. US$0.4 billion) off-market share
buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
These represent a total cash return to shareholders, in respect of 2014, of almost US$6.0 billion, an increase of approximately 64 per cent on 2013.
18 riotinto.com Divestments and acquisitions
Asset
Consideration
US$m Status
Divested in 2014
Clermont Joint Venture 1,015
(a)
Sold to GS Coal Pty Ltd.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 50
(a)
Sold to International Coal Ventures Private Limited (ICVL).
Søral Undisclosed Sold to Norsk Hydro.
Alucam Undisclosed Sold to the Government of Cameroon.
Divested in 2013
Northparkes mine 820 Sold to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd.
Constellium 671 Shares sold to general public.
Palabora Mining Company Limited 373 Sold to a consortium led by Industrial Development Corporation of South
Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
Eagle nickel – copper project 315 Sold to Lundin Mining Corporation.
Altynalmas Gold 235 Sold to Sumeru Gold B.V.
Inova Resources Limited 81 Sold to Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co.
Sebree 48 Sold to Century Aluminum Co.
Divested in 2012
Alcan Cable 229 Sold to General Cable Corporation.
Specialty Alumina businesses Undisclosed Sold to H.I.G.
Lynemouth Power Station Undisclosed Sold to RWE.
Energy – Extract Resources Ltd/Kalahari Minerals plc 429 Equity investment sold to Taurus Mineral Limited.
Acquired in 2012
Copper – Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
(formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited) 307
Purchase of additional shares increasing the Group’s holdings to
51 per cent.
Minerals – Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited 1,700 Acquisition of BHP Billiton Group’s entire interests in Richards Bay
Minerals, doubling the Group’s holding to 74 per cent.
(a) Before working capital and completion adjustments.
There were no material acquisitions in 2014 or 2013.
riotinto.com 19
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development
Rio Tinto’s vision is to be a company that is admired and respected for
delivering superior business value and for being the industry’s trusted partner.
To earn this trust we must continually find safer, smarter, more sustainable
ways to run our business.
We are always looking for new answers to the complex global and local
challenges we face, which include resource scarcity, climate change,
community employment and regional economic development. We see these
challenges as opportunities to advance our reputation and create value for our
business, our shareholders and the people we are proud to work alongside. To
achieve our sustainable development goals, we work hand-in-hand with our
partners and communities on the ground, where it matters most.
The foundation is The way we work, our global code of business conduct. It
contains the principles and standards of conduct which reaffirm our
commitment to sustainable development, and operational excellence at our
sites. All of our sites must meet a minimum set of performance standards for
health, safety, environment, closure and community and social performance.
These ensure we meet or go beyond our statutory and regulatory
requirements. The standards are backed up by strong processes to assure
management that we are performing to the right levels and establishing
longer-term identification and management of risks.
We also measure ourselves against the performance of other companies in our
sector as well as leaders in other industries. Over many years we have played
a leading role in developing sustainable development standards in the mining
and metals sector through organisations such as the International Council on
Mining and Metals (ICMM), and national bodies, particularly in Australia. We
look to learn from other sectors where leading companies’ performance can
informusandhelpusimprove.
Materiality
We use a materiality assessment to focus our report on the sustainable
development issues that matter most. This tells us which issues are material
to our stakeholders and to our business. We run this process annually as part
of our corporate reporting cycle, to ensure that each year we provide the
information that our stakeholders are looking for.
Current or potential impact on our business
Level of concern to stakeholders
Issues of highest 
materiality 
reported in 
the Annual report
Issues addressed 
through direct 
communications, 
not reported in 
normal channels
Issues reported 
in the sustainable 
development 
website
Low Medium High
Low Medium High
Our process has been developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) guidance on materiality and completeness (www.globalreporting.org).
This specifies that sustainable development reports should cover topics and
indicators that “reflect the organisation’s significant economic, environmental
and social impacts” or that “substantively influence the assessments and
decisions of stakeholders”. It involves identifying and prioritising issues that
may affect our business and stakeholders over the next three years, taking
internal and external perspectives into account.
We create a materiality matrix which plots external stakeholders’ level of
concern against the current or potential impact on our business. Each issue is
given a rating of “low”, “medium” or “high” from both internal and external
perspectives. An impact can be either positive or negative.
Issues that are of high importance to both our external and internal
stakeholders are reported in this section of our Annual report. Those of
medium-to-high importance are reported in the full Sustainable development
report on our website.
Having determined which topics to include in our 2014 materiality matrix, we
reviewed these with internal experts from each of our sustainable
development focus areas to determine their validity and relative importance.
The results of this assessment were reviewed and approved by the
Sustainability Committee.
Further information on the Sustainability Committee is included in the
Directors’ report on page 59.
Performance overview
Performance progress in 2014 included:
– A nine per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) compared
with 2013.
– A 12 per cent reduction in our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
compared with 2013.
– An 18 per cent reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions intensity
from 2008.
– Receiving the CDP leadership award for the largest absolute carbon
reduction on the ASX 200.
– Meeting our communities target that all operations have locally-
appropriate, publicly-reported indicators in place consistent with the
Millennium Development Goals.
– Being recognised as having good practice on human rights reporting in
line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
– Improving our listing as a leading company on the FTSE4Good and Dow
Jones Sustainability Indexes, which investors use to monitor businesses’
sustainability performance.
However, we did not achieve all our goals and there are areas where we need
to improve. Above all, we must achieve our target of zero fatalities. Tragically,
two colleagues lost their lives while working at our managed operations in
2014.
Also, in addition to complying with statutory reporting obligations, we reported
12 environmental incidents to the Executive Committee with the potential to
impact the environment or to concern local communities. In 2013, we reported
15 such incidents.
Our priorities for 2015 are to:
– Deliver our refreshed safety strategy for fatality elimination, injury
reduction and catastrophic risk management.
– Maintain progress on reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity.
– Achieve our target to implement critical control monitoring plans against
material health risks.
– Complete an epidemiology study of the workforce at Rössing
Uranium Limited.
– Further develop and implement our Mental Health Framework throughout
the business.
20 riotinto.com – Implement our updated Health, Safety, Environment & Communities
(HSEC) and Closure standards throughout our operations.
– Enhance business management of water risks and rehabilitation performance.
– Meet our diversity and inclusion targets for women and graduates.
– Advance our talent pipeline and the continued implementation of diversity
and inclusion.
– Develop a regional economic development toolkit in partnership with local
communities and our Procurement function.
– Further streamline the integration of human rights considerations into
existing corporate processes. We will also develop a more targeted risk-
based approach for stand-alone human rights studies.
– Continue developing our integrity and compliance programme. We will
focus on ways in which we can improve risk assessments where they relate
to business integrity, third party due diligence and monitoring.
– Refresh The way we work, to ensure it remains relevant to our employees,
the business and the risks we face.
Performance data
Our sustainable development performance data are reported for calendar years
and, unless stated otherwise, represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each
managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may have only partial ownership.
Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect
material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the
reporting period are included. Divested operations are included in data
collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
We have incorporated the requirements of the ten sustainable development
principles of the ICMM and the mandatory requirements set out in ICMM
Position statements into our own policies, strategies and standards. We report
in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level A+. In 2015, we will
begin reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines.
Further information on our data definitions, our GRI-checked report and our
alignment with the ICMM sustainable development principles and supporting
position statement can be found online at riotinto.com/sd2014
Goals and targets
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we have set Group targets for a range of sustainable development metrics. These help us drive
performance improvement and manage risk. Further information on the risk framework that Rio Tinto applies to identify these metrics and drive decision-making
can be found on pages 14 to 17.
Targets Performance to date
Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of
workplace fatalities.
2 fatalities at managed operations in 2014.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities and a
year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) per 200,000
hours worked.
9 per cent reduction in our AIFR compared with 2013.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational illness
per 10,000 employees annually.
6 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational illness
compared with 2013.
All managed operations will have reviewed – and increased their focus on
managing – their health risks, through implementation of critical control
management plans (CCMPs) to address their specific material health risks, by
the end of 2015.
41 per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks
and implemented CCMPs.
Ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between
2008 and 2015.
18 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity
compared with 2008, currently beating our 2015 target.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved their
approved local water performance targets by 2018.
66 per cent of managed operations are on track to meet their recently
approved local water performance targets.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent
the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting:
– Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015. – Women represented 15.5 per cent of our senior management in 2014.
– Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake. – Women represented 31.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate intake.
– 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions where
we are developing new businesses.
– 17.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate intake were nationals from regions
where we are developing new businesses.
By 2015, all operations have in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported
social performance indicators that demonstrate a positive contribution to the
economic development of the communities and regions where we work,
consistent with the Millennium Development Goals.
We met our target and all operations have locally-appropriate, publicly-
reported indicators in place.
riotinto.com 21
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued
Performance data 2010-2014
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Social
Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 2 3263
Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents – –1 – –
All injury frequency rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.59 0.65 0.67 0.67 0.69
New cases of occupational illness (per 10,000 employees) 15 16 15 13 20
Employees (number)
(a)
60,000 66,000 71,000 68,000 77,000
Environment
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (indexed relative to 2008) 82.0 83.2* 94.1 95.9 96.1
Total energy use (petajoules) 450 484* 502 516 513
Freshwater used (billion litres) 465 436* 446 465 457
Land footprint – disturbed (square kilometres) 3,592 3,556 3,530 3,485 3,453
Land footprint – rehabilitated (square kilometres) 502 472 446 422 420
Economic contribution
Value add (US$ million)
(a) (b)
29,178 31,818 26,195 38,193 33,812
Payments to suppliers (US$ million)
(a)
21,370 26,054 30,271 28,444 27,486
Community contributions (US$ million) 261 331 291 294 166
* Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over time. Amendments due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial
updates to data.
(a) These figures include the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates.
(b) Value add is the sum of labour costs, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
Social
Safety
2014 proved to be our best year ever in terms of injury rate performance. Our
all injury frequency rate (AIFR), which includes data for employees and
contractors, is one of the key safety measures we consider in monitoring our
performance. At the end of 2014, our AIFR was 0.59 per 200,000 hours worked.
Over the last five years we have reduced our AIFR by 14.5 per cent. Our lost
time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) was 0.37 per 200,000 hours worked in 2014.
Our commitment to safety is the foundation of how we operate, as we work to
achieve our vision of everyone going home safe and healthy after each
working day. We believe we can prevent fatalities, injuries and illness by
effectively identifying and controlling risks in our business.
For us to achieve our goal of zero fatalities, every person working at Rio Tinto
must be fully engaged. To this end we are building a positive safety culture,
where everyone contributes to improving our safety performance and has the
confidence to stop work and ensure it is safe.
We have a long history of good safety performance and strive to improve on
this every year. In 2014, we updated our safety strategy to confirm our focus
on injury reduction and strengthen our emphasis on fatality elimination and
catastrophic event prevention. This helps us drive effective risk management,
identify critical risks, verify that we have controls in place and provide our
people with appropriate training.
Regrettably, we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities in 2014. Two people
lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations. Darryl
Manderson died due to an equipment incident during maintenance activities at
the Gove alumina refinery in Australia. Enrick Gagnon died in a train
derailment incident at the Iron Ore Company of Canada. These are tragic
events that affect families, friends and workmates. We provide support and
counselling to those who have lost loved ones.
To achieve our target of zero fatalities it is essential we learn from both actual
and potential significant incidents to prevent them happening again. We are
strengthening our investigative process so that we improve our understanding
of the factors that lead to fatalities, and the behavioural and process changes
needed to eliminate them. We continue to collaborate industry-wide to share
and apply best practice.
This focus on investigation and sharing lessons learned extends to our non-
managed operations. Further discussion of this is covered on page 25.
We continued our focus on incorporating learnings from the Oil and Gas
industry into our management of process safety . We have projects in place to:
– build leader awareness and competence;
– improve incident reporting and investigation; and
– deepen our understanding of the process safety risks and the effectiveness
of controls through rigorous process hazard risk analysis studies.
Health
We provide a healthy environment for our workforce. We continue to focus on
identifying, minimising and managing key occupational health risks to control
occupational exposures. We also focus on promoting the fundamentals of
fitness for work, particularly for safety-critical roles.
We are targeting a year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of
occupational illness. In 2014, we reduced our rate of new cases of occupational
illness by six per cent from 2013. The main types of occupational illnesses
recorded relate to musculo-skeletal disorders (49 per cent), stress (33 per
cent) and noise-induced hearing loss (four per cent).
Worldwide, our employees face occupational health risks that vary significantly
because of the diversity and geographic spread of our operations. We now
have a 2015 Group target for all managed operations to have reviewed – and
increased their focus on managing – their health risks, through
implementation of critical control management plans (CCMPs) to address their
specific material health risks, by the end of 2015. This will help businesses to
focus on the right issues and have the right critical controls in place.
The process we are using to help businesses put these plans in place has led
to a more pragmatic, focused approach to the control of material health risks.
We have helped businesses to develop internal competency in this area. Forty
one per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks
and implemented CCMPs. Most (89 per cent) believe they are well placed to
meet the CCMP target by the end of 2015.
In 2014, we revised our health standards to simplify them, to provide a
consistent framework for managing health risks and focus on material risks for
the Group. These will be rolled out in 2015. This change aims to encourage
improved ownership of the standards by operations’ leaders and ensure we are
managing the impacts and risks related to our operations in order to protect
employees and improve our workplaces.
22 riotinto.com The potential for fatigue to contribute to safety incidents is well understood.
To improve fatigue management we use research tools and technology to
complement our programmes, including: personal alerting tools; personal
monitors to measure sleep quantity, quality and associated mental
effectiveness; and scheduling.
Across many industries, the potential for mental health problems to lead to
short and long-term disability, employee turnover and occupational injuries is
becoming better understood. In partnership with subject matter experts in this
field we have developed tools and training that will support the management of
mental health risks for our workers. These cover a broad range of areas across
mental health management, including crisis response, understanding mental
health and ultimately improving the wellbeing and resilience of our workforce.
March 2015 marks one year since the World Health Organisation (WHO) was
notified of an outbreak of Ebola in West Africa. In Guinea, where we have
operations, 2,730 cases were reported and 1,739 deaths since the outbreak
began. Responding to the outbreak, a Rio Tinto Business Resilience Team was
established and a number of control measures have been implemented in
partnership with the Guinean Government, WHO and other international
organisations. We have put prevention measures in place both for our
employees and the local Guinean communities. We have supported the
Government and communities through awareness raising and providing
logistics and food. As part of our efforts we have organised and conducted
prevention and awareness campaigns, distributed hygiene kits and provided
support to local hospitals with protective equipment and medical supplies. To
date, none of our employees or their families in Guinea have been affected by
the disease.
Rössing was challenged by local and international stakeholders in relation to
the long-term health of, and impacts from radiation on, its employees at the
Rössing mine in Namibia. It was alleged that employees were not given
access to their medical records. In fact, since the mine started in 1976, all
employees have had access to their own health records and Rössing has
longstanding standards and programmes to help manage health risks
including monitoring and academic review. For 2015, Rössing will undertake
a new epidemiological study. This study will be conducted by independent
experts and will be peer reviewed.
People
The way we work sets out the principles that form the foundation of our
business: collaboration, fair treatment and living our values of respect,
integrity, teamwork and accountability.
We seek to hire, motivate and retain people who demonstrate our values and
are passionate about making a difference to our business and the
communities in which we live and work. We employ people on the basis of job
requirements and do not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social
origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, religion, disability or any other
status. We do not employ forced, bonded or child labour. We recognise the
right of all employees to choose to belong to a union and seek to bargain
collectively. We employ people with disabilities and make considerable efforts
to offer suitable alternative employment and retraining to employees who
become disabled and can no longer perform their regular duties.
To ensure that what we do creates long-term value for all our stakeholders,
we set clear performance objectives for employees. We have Group-wide
performance and remuneration systems that ensure we assess employees
consistently and transparently. By engaging with employees about the
business and their career aspirations, we make a clear link between
performance and reward.
In 2014, we employed 60,000 people (including the Group’s share of joint
arrangements and associates). Of these, approximately 31,000 were located in
Australasia, 16,000 in North America, 7,000 in Africa, 4,000 in Europe and
2,000 in Central and South America. See page 180 for a breakdown of
employees by business units.
Throughout 2014, we remained one of the largest private sector employers of
Indigenous Australians, with over 1,650 full time Indigenous employees who
represented approximately 7.5 per cent of our permanent Australian workforce.
In addition to our permanent Indigenous workforce we had over 550 Indigenous
contractors working on our Australian mine sites. Our local employment
commitments are often managed through directly-negotiated agreements with
Traditional Owners.
Diversity helps us generate new and innovative ways of thinking. We are
committed to increasing the representation of women in our business and
remain focused on ensuring our workforce is representative of the countries
and communities in which we operate. Women represented 31.8 per cent
(female: 34; male: 73) of our graduate intake in 2014, 21.4 per cent (female: 3;
male: 11) of the board, 15.5 per cent (female: 104; male: 565) of our senior
management, and 18.7 per cent (female: 9,963; male: 43,122)
(c)
of our total
workforce. In 2014, 17.8 per cent of our graduate intake were nationals from
regions where we are developing new businesses. Further information on
diversity and inclusion can be found on page 60 in the Corporate
governance section.
We recognise we have further work to do to deliver on our diversity targets for
2015 and this is reflected in our work plan. We will continue to develop our
graduate talent to build on the completion of a successful three-year
emerging regions graduate intake programme from 2011 to 2014.
Our 2014 employee survey showed that our people continue to report high
levels of engagement, with employees feeling that safety, efficiency and
flexibility have improved since the last survey. They believe that we can do
more to celebrate our successes and manage personal performance. Action
planning has occurred across the Group, with improvement plans developed
in partnership between leaders and employees. The implementation of these
plans will continue throughout 2015.
Good communication and open, honest dialogue are vital if we are to meet
the expectations of our employees. Rio Tinto’s culture of leader-led
communication and engagement is supported by a number of communication
tools. These include myRioTinto, a portal dedicated to employment needs, and
keeping employees informed of Group updates, news and announcements.
Communities and regional development
We strive to build good relationships with our host communities. We engage
with them to understand the social, environmental and economic implications
of our activities, seeking to minimise negative impacts and bring shared value
totheplaceswherewework.
We work to a Communities and Social Performance (CSP) framework based on
building knowledge, engaging with communities and developing programmes
that reflect local community priorities. Our CSP programme and our policy,
standards and guidance notes support this.
During 2014, our business contributed to just under 2,200 socio-economic
programmes covering a wide range of activities such as health, education,
environmental protection, housing, agricultural and business development.
In 2014, we spent US$261 million on these community contribution
programmes. There was a decrease in overall community contributions of
21 per cent compared to 2013, which reflects prevailing market conditions,
divestments and completion of key programmes at developing projects such
as Oyu Tolgoi and La Granja.
Our Communities target requires that, by 2015, all operations must have
in place locally-appropriate, publicly-reported social performance indicators
that demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development of the
communities and regions where we work. This is consistent with the UN’s
Millennium Development Goals. We met our target and 100 per cent of
operations have the indicators in place and have reported them publicly, in
2014. During 2015 we will establish a new Group target, to apply from 2016,
to indicate progress and results of our Communities and Social Performance
work in our businesses.
(c) Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on managed operations
(excludes non-managed operations and joint ventures) as of 31 December 2014.
riotinto.com 23
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued
We accept that we cannot meet everybody’s concerns and expectations.
However, wherever we operate we seek to do so with broad-based community
support. By listening carefully to the concerns of our stakeholders, and
consistently aiming to align their needs with our own, we work to create
mutually beneficial outcomes through collaboration with our partners to
manage the shared risks, responsibilities and benefits of the long-life
investments we make.
Environment
Climate change
The scale of necessary emissions reductions – coupled with the world’s
increasing requirements for secure, affordable energy – create large
challenges which require worldwide attention. Our climate change programme
focuses on reducing the energy intensity of our operations, as well as the
carbon intensity of our energy.
Our total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were 33.9 million tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent (CO
2
-e) in 2014, 3.5 million tonnes lower than in 2013. In
2008 we set a target of a ten per cent reduction in total GHG emissions
intensity, to be achieved by 2015. We have reduced our total GHG emissions
intensity by 18 per cent compared with 2008, currently beating our 2015
target. Over the same period absolute emissions were reduced by 31 per cent.
A new target will be set in 2015 that extends the existing external target to
2020. This will focus on the challenge to increase energy efficiency. Targets
will be developed in collaboration with businesses, and take into account their
current circumstances and future plans.
Our business is inherently energy intensive. The majority of our GHG
emissions are generated from energy use (electricity, fuel) and chemical
processes (anodes and reductants) during mining, milling and smelting
activities at our sites. The majority (65 per cent) of the electricity we use is
from hydropower.
Transportation, processing and use of our products also contribute
significantly to GHG emissions. In 2014, the three most significant sources of
indirect emissions associated with our products were:
– Approximately 5.3 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with third party
transport of our products and raw materials.
– An estimated 129.6 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with customers
using our coal in electricity generation and steel production.
– Approximately 459.4 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with customers
using our iron ore to produce steel (these emissions are not all in addition
to the coal-use emissions above, as some customers use both our iron ore
and our coal to produce steel).
To assess how carbon policy and regulation will affect our businesses and our
products in the future, we closely monitor national and international climate
and energy policy developments and we advocate constructively for policies
that are environmentally effective, economically efficient and equitable. We
also assess the potential risks to the resilience of our operations from
changing climatic events.
Further information on the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is included in
the Directors’ report on page 48.
Closure
Although it may extend over decades, mining is a temporary land use.
It is a priority that we plan ahead for the closure of our operations after the
commercially recoverable ore is exhausted. We must balance the needs and
expectations of the present with those of future generations, while responding
to environmental and social challenges of mine closure.
The Closure standard applies to all our managed operations and to non-
operational (legacy) sites. This provides consistency in closure planning and
management. It also helps us identify opportunities for generating positive
socio-economic benefits from our activities.
Closure planning is integrated into our operational activities and we aim to
progressively rehabilitate as much land as possible prior to closure. In 2014,
26 per cent of our disturbed land (excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity
dams) had been rehabilitated. Our biodiversity goal is also closely connected to
closure planning and management. At sites with high or very high biodiversity
values, we aim to have achieved a net positive impact (NPI) on biodiversity, or
have a clear set of criteria that demonstrates trajectory to NPI, agreed by the
time we close operations. These sites are determined by their proximity to
biodiversity-rich habitats, species of conservation significance and the site
conservation context. In 2014, 32 of our operations were prioritised with either
high (eight), or very high (24) biodiversity values. To achieve our goal these
sites are required to develop and implement biodiversity action plans.
Stakeholder consultation – with local communities, including traditional
landowners, governments, and employees – is a fundamental part of our
closure planning.
Water
Wherever possible we prevent – or otherwise minimise, mitigate and
remediate – the impact that our operations may have on water resources. Our
approach to water management is based on the identification, assessment and
control of water-related risks. We seek risk-based local solutions to promote
sustainable water supply for our operations and communities.
For many years, our focus has been on reducing the freshwater use per tonne
of product and we set ourselves a target for this metric from 2008 to 2013.
However, over this period, we learnt that this metric alone did not always
address the issues that have the greatest potential to impact our performance,
or that were of most concern to local stakeholders.
Water challenges and risks vary by region and site, so we have redefined our
Group water target to better reflect the local and regional conditions and the
risks to the environment where we operate. The current Group water target
requires that, by 2018, all managed operations with material water risk will
have reviewed and improved their management of these material water risks,
and will have achieved their approved local water performance targets.
A site is identified as having a material water risk where there is potential for a
high or critical impact on the business through effects on the environment,
production, community, compliance or reputation.
Local water performance targets have been set to improve the site-specific
water performance. These cover three areas: water supply, ecological impacts,
and water surplus management. Each site has a target that is appropriate to its
specific operational circumstances. At the end of 2014, 66 per cent of managed
operations were on track to meet their approved local water performance
targets by 2018 and the remaining sites are committed to making progress and
will have submitted, by the end of 2015, clear plans to meet these targets.
Unfortunately, five incidents related to water were reported to the Executive
Committee in 2014. These are listed in the environmental regulation section
included in the Directors’ report on page 47. We use these incidents and our
annual assessment of performance against the targets to focus attention and
effort on those sites and businesses that need support to improve their water
management performance.
In 2014, our total water use was 834 billion litres and total recycled water was
264 billion litres. This is consistent with 2013 performance.
Environmental regulation
We are subject to various environmental regulations and are required to
disclose Group-level environmental incidents and fines. Further information on
the Group’s environmental regulation is included in the Directors’ report on
page 47.
24 riotinto.com Economic
Economic contributions
Our operations can have a substantial impact on the regions and countries in
which we operate through our tax payments to local and national
governments, the direct and indirect employment we generate and our
community programmes.
Globally, the Group’s economic contribution was US$51 billion
(d)
in 2014. This
includes:
– US$29 billion in value add, made up of payments to employees, payments
to governments and returns to capital.
– US$21 billion as payments to suppliers.
We are committed to contributing to the social and economic development of
our host communities. It is important to our shareholders, employees and
many other stakeholders that we contribute to social stability through local
employment opportunities, procurement and the transparent payment of tax
and dividends.
Details of payments to governments are available in our report on Taxes paid
in 2014, which is made available on the Group’s website.
The figures presented in this section include the Group’s share of joint
ventures and associates.
Non-managed operations and joint ventures
Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint ventures that it does not
manage, including the Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg
copper-gold mine in Indonesia. We actively engage with our partners around
sustainable development through formal governance structures and technical
exchanges. In this way we endeavour to ensure that the principles in The way
we work are respected at all times and encourage them to embed a strong
safety and security culture in their workforces.
Escondida
Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed by BHP
Billiton. Our seats on the Owners’ Council ensure we have regular input on
strategic and policy matters. In 2014, Escondida began construction of the
Escondida Water Supply project to develop a new 2,500 litre per second
seawater desalination facility. This project will ensure a continued water supply
to sustain operations while minimising Escondida’s need to use groundwater.
Escondida is recognised as having a world-class process for managing
significant health, safety and environmental risks. Rio Tinto is in the process of
adopting the Escondida process to effectively manage critical fatality risk and
has benefited from Escondida’s guidance and willingness to openly share
its learnings.
Grasberg
PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan Inc., owns
and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua, Indonesia. Rio Tinto has a joint
venture interest attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which entitles it to a
40 per cent share of production above specified levels until the end of 2021
and 40 per cent of all production after 2021. We engage with and influence
PTFI through five formal channels: the Operating, Technical, Communities and
Sustainable Development committees and the Tailings board.
Tragically, there were six industrial fatalities at PTFI in 2014: four at the
surface mine involving a collision between a light vehicle and a haul truck; one
due to a fall of ground in the underground operation; and one due to a roll-
over involving a concrete mixer truck in the surface area of the operation. We
have worked closely with, and continue to support, the PTFI leadership team in
the investigations and in the post-investigation lesson implementation. In
2014 senior Rio Tinto leaders and technical specialists visited the site, shared
our Group’s knowledge and provided practical advice to support PTFI’s actions
to learn from, and avoid a recurrence of these, tragic accidents. There was a
further fatality at Grasberg in early 2015, as a result of an equipment/
pedestrian interaction.
(d) Due to rounding, sum does not equal the total shown.
The operation employs controlled riverine tailings transport, a process that the
World Bank does not consider as good industry practice, on the basis that it is
contrary to the International Finance Corporation’s 2007 Environmental,
Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining. However, several independent expert
reviews concluded that this method represents the best available option for
this operation because of the extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and
significant seismic activity. We continue to believe that this method is
appropriate given these conditions, but have adopted the standard that
riverine and shallow marine disposal of mining and processing mineral waste
will not be used at new Rio Tinto managed operations.
Rio Tinto technical personnel review and provide guidance and oversight of
the controlled riverine tailings management system with a focus on
geotechnical, geochemical and environmental issues. There is an official
multidisciplinary Technical Committee which addresses environmental issues
along with technical issues related to geology, worker health and safety, mine
planning, processing and tailings management. Rio Tinto is represented by a
senior environmental manager on the PTFI Tailings Management board,
which meets twice a year at Grasberg and includes third-party experts. The
emphasis of Rio Tinto’s involvement is to promote continuous improvements
in the environmental performance of the existing tailings management
system. Historic and ongoing improvements since Rio Tinto’s involvement
began include:
– construction, extension and maintenance of a levee system to limit the
lowlands depositional footprint;
– diversion of the Ajkwa River system in the lowlands out of the permitted
tailings deposition area;
– ongoing re-vegetation programmes in the deposition area;
– ongoing efforts to increase tailings retention within the deposition
area; and
– ongoing efforts to ensure that the tailings remain geochemically benign
and will therefore not pose an acid rock drainage risk.
Governance
Human rights
Rio Tinto respects and supports human rights wherever it operates in a way
that is consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our human
rights approach is founded in The way we work, our human rights policy and
voluntary commitments. It is also consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). In implementing our policies, we are
subject to local laws. We build on compliance with local laws and, where our
policies and procedures are more stringent, we operate to these standards.
In line with the human rights due diligence process in the UNGPs, we look to
understand our potential and actual human rights impacts, ensure we are
managing them, and communicate our performance. We embed human rights
considerations into existing corporate processes including risk analysis, impact
assessment and complaints handling and may also conduct standalone
human rights studies where appropriate. While we respect all internationally-
recognised human rights, there are some issues to which we pay particularly
close attention because of our geographical and operating footprint. These
include: security; land access and resettlement; environment including access
to water and sanitation; cultural heritage including the rights of Indigenous
peoples; labour rights; and in-migration related impacts on local communities,
including access to health services.
riotinto.com 25
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Sustainable development continued
We work with suppliers, contractors and other partners to avoid our
involvement in human rights harm, and to positively influence human rights
through those business relationships. The way we work and our Procurement
principles apply to all suppliers and contractors working with Rio Tinto or on its
behalf. The principles reiterate that we oppose and prohibit forced, bonded or
child labour. They specify that suppliers should maintain human rights policies
and have a process to assure compliance. Prequalification checks, contractual
arrangements and ongoing monitoring help us to ensure that suppliers follow
these principles.
We provide employees an online human rights training programme. It explains
why respecting human rights is important, what human rights impacts we
might have, and internal resources and mechanisms to help manage them.
Last year, approximately 1,500 employees, a large proportion of whom work in
our Procurement function, completed this training. We also provide site-
specific training and in 2014 developed a training package that sites can adapt
to address their priority human rights issues.
Rio Tinto has made voluntary commitments to the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises, UN Global Compact and the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). To avoid human rights violations
through our security arrangements, we provide training for security personnel
and continue to conduct security and human rights assessments at all high
risk sites. We have developed practical guidelines, toolkits and training on
implementing the VPSHR. Our online VPSHR training became mandatory for
all security personnel at high risk sites from January 2014, and is strongly
recommended for all other sites. In 2014 we conducted in-person VPSHR and
Use of Force training for guards at four sites in Africa. This training involved
both private and public security.
Under our Communities standard all sites must have a complaints, disputes
and grievance mechanism in place, in line with the effectiveness criteria for
operational-level grievance mechanisms in the UNGPs. Speak-OUT, the
Group’s confidential and independently-operated whistleblowing programme,
can also be used to lodge human rights-related complaints.
We respect the land connection of Indigenous communities and seek mutually
beneficial agreement with affected communities in the development and
performance of our operations. We strive to achieve the free, prior and
informed consent of Indigenous communities as defined in the 2012
International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 7 and the 2013 ICMM
Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining. We seek consent as
defined in relevant jurisdictions, and ensure agreement-making processes are
consistent with such definitions.
Integrity and compliance
The way we work sets out our overall commitment to integrity and
compliance. It puts our values – respect, integrity, teamwork and
accountability – into practice, and holds us to the highest ethical standards to
behave in ways that earn the trust of others. We operate within all applicable
laws and regulations and are dedicated to open and transparent dealings with
our stakeholders.
Our compliance standards are core to our Integrity and Compliance
programme. In 2014, we introduced a new Business Integrity standard, which
applies to all Rio Tinto businesses and functions. Developed in consultation
with compliance managers from across the businesses, it consolidates and
streamlinesfourpreviousbusinessintegrity-related standards: anti-bribery
due diligence; fraud; business integrity (anti-corruption); and business
integrity (conflicts of interest). This ensures that employees and contractors
have a single point of reference for integrity and compliance matters. The
standard applies a risk-based approach, with simplified language and
improved readability.
We refreshed our online training to ensure it is geared more towards the risks
encountered by each individual. The new system incorporates a wider range
of shorter task-based or awareness modules, which tailor the training
dependingontheindividual’srole.Eachpersonthencompletesasetofcore
and elective modules.
We are committed to a culture of transparency and speaking up about issues.
We provide our businesses with internal and external channels for raising
concerns, anonymously if required. Speak-OUT, the Group’s confidential and
independently-operated whistleblowing programme, enables employees to
report anonymously, subject to local law, any significant concerns about the
business or behaviour of individuals. This could include suspicion around
safety violations, environmental procedures, human rights, financial reporting,
or business integrity issues in general. We encourage employees to raise
their concerns to management first; Speak-OUT is always available as an
alternative option.
In 2014, 588 Speak-OUT reports were lodged, representing approximately five
per cent fewer than the number reported in 2013.
In line with our commitment to transparency and good governance, we issue
information on the Group’s operational, financial and sustainable development
performance in a timely way through a number of channels, such as media
releases and regulatory filings. We communicate views to governments and
others on matters affecting our business interests.
Assurance
We engaged an independent external assurance organisation,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, to provide the board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited with assurance on selected sustainable development subject
matters, as explained on the next page.
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ assurance statement satisfies the requirements
of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst our online
GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject matter 5 of the
ICMM procedure.
Further information on external auditors and internal assurance is included in
the Directors’ report under the Corporate governance section on pages 62
and 63.
26 riotinto.com Independent limited assurance report
What we found
Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected
subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2014 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance
with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (together Rio Tinto),
What we did
Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the
selected subject matter within the Sustainable development sections of the
Rio Tinto 2014 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2014 Strategic report for the
year ended 31 December 2014.
Selected subject matter
– Rio Tinto’s assertion that it has incorporated the requirements of the
10 sustainable development principles of the International Council on
Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the mandatory requirements set out in
ICMM Position Statements into its own policies, strategies and standards
– Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted to
identify and prioritise its material sustainable development risks
and opportunities
– Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the existence and status of
implementation of systems and approaches used to manage the
following selected sustainable development risk areas:
–Safety
– Greenhouse gas emissions
– Energy use
–Water
– The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected
sustainable development risk areas:
– Number of fatalities
– All injury frequency rate
– Lost time injury frequency rate
– Number of lost time injuries (numerator of the lost time injury
frequency rate)
– Total greenhouse gas emissions
– Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
– Total energy use
– Percentage of managed operations with material water risk that are on
track to achieving their approved local water performance targets
Reporting criteria
The subject matter above has been assessed against the definitions and
approaches which will be presented at www.riotinto.com/sd2014 as at
6 March 2015.
Responsibilities
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we performed.
Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of
the selected subject matter in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
What our work involved
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or
Reviews of Historical Financial Information and (for selected subject matter
relating to greenhouse gas emissions) the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements.
These Standards require that we comply with independence and ethical
requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
Main procedures performed
– Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto
– Evaluating the design and effectiveness of the key processes and controls
for capturing, collating and reporting the performance data within the
selected subject matter
– Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at both an
operational and corporate level, which included testing at a selection of
operations from across Aluminium, Energy, Iron Ore, Copper, and
Diamonds & Minerals
– Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data
– Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and
documentation supporting assertions made in the selected subject matter
We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Liza Maimone PricewaterhouseCoopers
Partner Canberra
4 March 2015
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
Inherent limitations
Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements
due to the selective testing of the information being
examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may
occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial
data may be subject to more inherent limitations than
financial data, given both its nature and the methods
used for determining, calculating and sampling or
estimating such data.
Restriction on use
This report has been prepared in accordance with our
engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its
sustainable development performance. We do not accept
or assume responsibility for the consequences of any
reliance on this report for any other purpose or to any
other person or organisation. Any reliance on this report
byanythirdpartyisentirelyatitsownrisk.
We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Rio Tinto
2014 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2014 Strategic
report to assist Rio Tinto’s members in assessing whether
the directors have discharged their responsibilities by
commissioning an independent assurance report in
connection with the selected subject matter.
Limited assurance
This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance
for our conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement
is restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical
procedures and the work is substantially less detailed
than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance
engagement, the level of assurance is lower than would
be obtained in a reasonable assurance engagement.
riotinto.com 27
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Aluminium
Financial performance
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
Revenue 12,123 12,463
Net cash generated from operating activities 2,550 1,696
Underlying earnings 1,248 557
Capital expenditures 2,021 2,226
Net operating assets 18,297 18,814
Strategy and strategic priorities
Rio Tinto’s Aluminium group is focused on delivering industry-leading
performance through the cycle and strong returns in the years to come. The
business has been reshaped around the core pillars of bauxite and the group’s
smelting assets that are in the first quartile of the industry. By taking action to
move the smelting asset base down the cost curve, the portfolio has been
positioned squarely into the first quartile. Upon completion of the Kitimat
Modernisation Project, more than 80 per cent of the Aluminium group’s
smelter assets will be in the first quartile compared with only 40 per cent in
2011. Following the transition of Gove to a bauxite export business, the group
has ramped up bauxite exports and supplied around 50 per cent of Chinese
bauxite imports in 2014. Its goal is to establish its Cape York bauxite as the
productofchoiceforChineseseabornedemand.
In 2015 the Aluminium group intends to capitalise on its competitive
advantages through:
– Growing the group’s sector-leading, high-margin bauxite position
while further enhancing performance and cash generation from its
low-cost smelters.
– Driving operating excellence at the group’s alumina refineries, providing
competitive supply security to its first-quartile smelter portfolio.
– Capitalising on its commercial and trading capabilities to increase margins
and value.
– Achieving continuous improvement from driving sustainable cost
reduction, productivity improvement initiatives and working capital
reductions across all the Aluminium group’s operations.
– Optimising the portfolio by divesting non-core operations to concentrate
on strategic, top-tier assets.
– Exercising a disciplined approach to capital allocation, geared to delivering
key brownfield and modernisation projects that leverage the group’s
competitive advantages in bauxite ore reserves and self-generated energy.
Safety
The Aluminium group’s all-injury frequency rate continued its steady
downward trend in 2014. The key all-injury metric at the year’s end was 0.53,
which represented a 20 per cent improvement over the 0.66 rate at the end of
2013. However, despite showing an incremental improvement in the group’s
overall safety performance, the tragic death of Darryl Manderson at the Gove
operations in Australia in the first half of 2014 is a sobering reminder of the
importance of the relentless focus on safety. The Aluminium group is
committedtoazeroharmworkplaceandthereissimplynoroomforthese
kinds of accidents. The group has therefore redoubled its efforts to improve
further through initiatives such as the “Zero Harm by Choice” leadership
development programme, a Human Performance initiative and activities to
improve process safety. Drawing on lessons learned from previous incidents,
the group is constantly working to implement enhanced policies, systems and
procedures to improve performance.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Rio Tinto’s Aluminium group has one of the lowest carbon footprints in the
aluminium industry. The group has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by
40 per cent since 2008. Almost 80 per cent of its total power needs comes
from non-fossil-fuel based hydro (72 per cent) and nuclear (six per cent)
power compared with an industry average of 35 per cent for non-fossil-fuel
based power. This means that the emissions intensity from the group’s
smelters is around half of the industry average – less than six tonnes of CO
2
equivalent per tonne of aluminium versus an industry average of around
11 tonnes.
Review of operations
With effect from 1 June 2014, Alfredo Barrios succeeded Jacynthe Côté
as chief executive of the Aluminium group and also joined the Rio Tinto
Executive Committee.
The group’s position as a sector-leading business is demonstrated in its
financial performance in 2014. The Aluminium group’s underlying earnings
increased by 124 per cent to US$1,248 million, US$691 million higher than in
2013. The group achieved underlying EBITDA of US$2,930 million, which
represented a gain of 55 per cent from 2013, while widening the gap with the
competition on the strength of its industry-leading EBITDA margins. The
improved underlying EBITDA, combined with reduced working capital levels,
has increased net cash generated from operating activities by US$854 million
to US$2,550 million and generated positive free cash flow. The solid financial
results reflected numerous ongoing cost reduction and productivity
improvement initiatives across the Aluminium group, as well as benefits
derived from rising regional and product premiums and the impact of the
weaker Australian and Canadian dollars. Value-added products, which are
produced to individual customer specifications, represented some 62 per cent
of the primary metal produced by Rio Tinto in 2014, which translated into
superior realised prices and margins.
The average London Metal Exchange price for aluminium in 2014 was
US$1,867 per tonne, which compares with an average of US$1,845 per tonne
in 2013. Rio Tinto’s average realised price for primary metal products –
including market and product premiums – was US$2,395 per tonne in 2014,
compared with US$2,249 per tonne in 2013.
Cash cost improvements lifted earnings by US$168 million (US$232 million
pre-tax). Greater production efficiencies, lower raw material prices, reduced
functional costs, and increased production at various operations all helped to
reduce unit cash costs of production.
In 2014, record bauxite production was achieved at the Sangaredi mine in
Guinea and the Weipa mine in Australia delivered a similarly strong
performance to that achieved in 2013. However, global bauxite production was
marginally lower in 2014 compared with 2013 as Gove production was
impacted by infrastructure constraints following the shift to bauxite exports,
after curtailment of the refinery. Exports are expected to ramp up towards a
run rate of eight million tonnes per annum in 2015 as export infrastructure
constraints are addressed.
Alumina production increased by six per cent in 2014. This position will be
further improved during the second half of 2015, when the expanded Yarwun
refinery in Australia is expected to reach full capacity as design and
construction challenges are progressively addressed.
Rio Tinto’s share of aluminium production for 2014 totalled 3.4 million tonnes,
which was broadly in line with 2013. Production from the new AP60 plant, and
capacity creep across the smelter portfolio offset the closure of Shawinigan in
November 2013 and the partial shutdown at Kitimat as preparations are made
to commission the modernised smelter. Eight smelters, representing 54 per
cent of 2014 production volumes, achieved annual production records.
28 riotinto.com The Aluminium group continues to make some difficult but necessary
decisions with respect to portfolio management. The Gove site in Australia is
now operating as a bauxite export business, following the curtailment of
refinery operations in May 2014. The plan is to ramp up export capacity from
six to eight million tonnes per annum towards the end of 2015, following
upgrades to export infrastructure. While the workforce at Gove has been
reduced, the bauxite business will be used to sustain an important economic
base for the region and its Indigenous population.
Since 2009, Rio Tinto has closed, curtailed or divested approximately one
million tonnes of primary aluminium capacity and three million tonnes of
alumina capacity. In October 2014, Rio Tinto sold its 50 per cent interest in the
SØRAL aluminium smelter in Norway, and in December divested its 46.67 per
cent interest in the Alucam smelter in Cameroon.
The new Arvida Aluminium Smelter – AP60 Technology Centre in Quebec’s
Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region was inaugurated in January 2014. With an
initial capacity of 60,000 tonnes per annum, the smelter provides an
industrial-scale Research & Development platform for commercialisation of
Rio Tinto’s latest-generation AP Technology™. This facility also benefits from
low-cost, self-generated hydropower.
In Iceland, modernisation of the ISAL smelter, including the addition of a
leading-edge casting facility to produce value-added billet, was completed in
the first half of 2014. Annual capacity has been increased from 190,000 to
205,000 tonnes.
In June 2014, as a result of further revisions to future capital required to
complete the modernisation project at Kitimat in British Columbia, and related
impacts on the project, the Kitimat assets were impaired by US$800 million
(net of tax). In December 2014, an impairment reversal of US$1 billion (net of
tax) was recognised relating to the Pacific Aluminium operations, where
significant cost improvements and high regional and product premiums have
increased the value of the assets.
Development projects
The Aluminium group’s development pipeline is focused on leveraging the
product group’s two sustainable competitive advantages: unrivalled positions
in energy and bauxite.
At the year’s end, preparations were being finalised for full commissioning of
the transformed Kitimat smelter in the first half of 2015. Leveraging the
Aluminium group’s wholly-owned Kemano hydropower resource and high-
efficiency AP smelting technology, the Kitimat Modernisation Project will
increase production capacity at the smelter by more than 48 per cent to
approximately 420,000 tonnes per year, while reducing overall environmental
emissions by nearly 50 per cent. Kitimat will be one of the lowest-cost
smelters in the world – in the first decile of the cost curve – and is strategically
located to supply key emerging markets in the Pacific Rim. In August 2014,
the board approved additional capital of US$1.5 billion to complete the Kitimat
project, taking the total approved capital cost to US$4.8 billion.
In early 2014, Rio Tinto entered into an option agreement with LNG Canada for
an undisclosed sum. Exercise of the option would entitle LNG Canada to
acquire or lease a wharf and associated land at the Kitimat port to facilitate a
proposed liquid natural gas export project. The exercise of this option would
not impact the group’s ability to operate the Kitimat aluminium smelter.
Rio Tinto is now prioritising the South of Embley bauxite growth project at
Cape York, Queensland in Australia. With mining costs in the first quartile and
with attractive returns, this is a Tier 1 investment opportunity. The project
includes mine, port and infrastructure elements, with a planned initial output
of 22.8 million tonnes per year and options, using the same infrastructure, to
later expand up to 50 million tonnes. The project feasibility study is under way.
The project will be brought to the board for approval in 2015.
Outlook
After several very challenging years, there is growing optimism and positive
sentiment about the prospects for the aluminium industry. The fundamentals
are strong, with forecasters anticipating a healthy market deficit outside China
for the coming years.
Global primary demand reached around 54 million tonnes in 2014, and is
expected to grow in the range of six to seven per cent during 2015. Aluminium
prices gradually improved over the course of 2014, and regional premiums
have continued to increase, reflecting the tight market outside China.
A combination of current forecast production rates and strong demand is
expected to result in the global market maintaining a supply deficit for 2015.
Crucially, the ex-China market appears set to continue a strong rate of
drawdown of stored metal in the coming years, which is expected to result in
inventory returning to pre-financial crisis levels when measured against
growing demand.
Over the medium term, forecasters envisage compound annual aluminium
demand growth of around four per cent through 2025, supported by increased
intensities in key applications, most notably the transportation sector.
Aluminium’s unique properties – light weight, strength and resistance to
corrosion – are driving increasing market penetration in the automotive market.
It is expected that within the next ten years, seven out of ten new pickup trucks
produced in North America will be aluminium-bodied, as competitors follow the
lead of Ford, which recently introduced its first aluminium-bodied F-150. Many
other leading automakers also have been increasing the amount of aluminium
used in lightweight and fuel-efficient car models.
Demand for alumina will be underpinned by aluminium and will be nearly
balanced, given that alumina cannot be stored as easily as aluminium
or bauxite.
Prospects for bauxite – a sector where Rio Tinto enjoys an unrivalled position –
are particularly bright, with a projected rate of growth outpacing that of
aluminium, thanks in large part to robust demand in the Chinese market. The
emerging Middle East market represents an additional opportunity.
On the supply side, exports from Indonesia, a major bauxite producer, have
ceased in the wake of an export ban imposed by the Indonesian Government
that took effect in January 2014. Although medium-term uncertainty remains,
sustained tightness in supply is expected. With attractive growth opportunities
ranging from South of Embley to rich deposits in Brazil and Guinea, the
Aluminium group is well positioned to capitalise on increased demand for
seaborne bauxite.
riotinto.com 29
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Copper
Financial performance
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
Revenue 6,282 5,916
Net cash generated from operating activities
(a)
1,701 379
Underlying earnings 912 821
Capital expenditure 1,011 1,866
Net operating assets 10,581 12,070
(a) Net cash generated from operating activities excludes that from equity accounted
units (Escondida) but includes dividends from equity accounted units.
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Copper group’s strategy is to focus its resources on generating value from
a core portfolio of low-cost, high-value, world-class assets. This includes
existing operations at Rio Tinto Kennecott, Oyu Tolgoi, Escondida and
Grasberg, and greenfield growth opportunities at La Granja and Resolution.
The Copper group’s goal is to set an industry profitability benchmark by:
– Focusing on a world-class asset portfolio.
– Positioning itself in the first or second quartile of the cost curve.
– Delivering quality earnings by reducing costs and improving productivity.
– Making selective investments that can deliver growth to meet
market opportunities.
The group’s strategic priorities are to:
– Improve productivity through safer, better and smarter practices, and
selected technology investments.
– Drive maximum value out of the products the group mines and optimise
the entire supply chain.
– Develop strong leadership and an aligned, capable, engaged and
collaborative workforce.
Safety
In 2014, the Copper product group’s all injury frequency rate was 0.51,
compared with 0.49 in 2013. While there has not been a fatal incident in the
Copper group’s managed operations in the past two years, unfortunately six
employees were killed at the non-managed Grasberg operation during 2014:
four in a haul truck incident, one due to a fall of ground in the underground
operation and one due to a roll-over involving a concrete mixer truck.
During 2014, the group launched several new safety initiatives:
– A Critical Risk Management programme aimed at easily identifying and
mitigating the common risks that can lead to fatalities and catastrophic
accidents. The programme was built on the principles of the Material
Safety Risk Management process at Escondida, where there have been no
fatalities since the process was put in place in 2011.
– A Hand Safety campaign designed to increase employee awareness of safe
practices and decrease common injuries to hands and fingers.
– Drilling safety standards and improvements to underground control
safety standards.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Copper group’s 2014 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were 8.57 tonnes
of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of copper cathode produced, compared
with 8.34 tonnes in 2013. The decrease in efficiency resulted from a planned
maintenance shutdown of the Kennecott smelter, which reduced copper
cathode production year-on-year despite the continued operation of the mine
and concentrator during the shutdown period. As a result, GHG emissions per
tonne of copper cathode produced were higher.
Review of operations
The Copper group is focused on creating long-term value for shareholders. In
the short term, it aims to achieve this by improving earnings quality through
ongoing cost improvements and productivity gains. In the medium term, it
aims to develop attractive brownfield projects at Kennecott and Oyu Tolgoi to
leverage the next copper market cycle. In the longer term, the group is
focused on two greenfield projects designed to deliver world-class returns and
steady cash flows.
In 2014, the group delivered significant improvements in productivity, with a
seven per cent increase in mined copper from its operations at Kennecott and
Oyu Tolgoi, making Rio Tinto the world’s sixth largest supplier. The group
produced 603 thousand tonnes of mined copper (Rio Tinto share). Copper
operations also produced 487 thousand ounces of mined gold, 4,699 thousand
ounces of mined silver and 11.5 thousand tonnes of molybdenum as by-
products.
The Copper group’s underlying earnings of US$912 million were 11 per cent
higher than 2013, driven by increased gold and molybdenum sales
at Kennecott, the ramp-up of Oyu Tolgoi and delivery of further cash cost
savings. The group generated sustainable cost reductions of more than
US$900 million in 2013 and 2014, and is making good progress improving
operating costs. In 2014, the Copper group reduced working capital by
US$500 million, generated positive free cash flow for the first time since
2010 – delivering US$800 million in free cash flow – and delivered underlying
EBITDA margin improvement of 26 per cent, compared with 2013, closing the
gap with its peer companies.
The group’s impairment charge resulted from a review of the investment case
for the Molybdenum Autoclave Process project at Kennecott. The review
concluded that the project, which has been on care and maintenance since
early 2013, will be terminated. The recoverable amount was determined based
on anticipated net disposal proceeds. As a result, a pre-tax impairment charge
of US$559 million has been recorded against property, plant and equipment.
As part of ongoing work to focus its portfolio on high-value, world-class assets,
the group divested its ownership in the Sulawesi nickel project in Indonesia,
and its 19.1 per cent stake in Northern Dynasty Minerals, owner of the Pebble
copper and gold project in the Bristol Bay region of Alaska.
Core operating assets
Rio Tinto Kennecott (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Kennecott supplies approximately 20 per cent of US refined copper
requirements, and is one of the world’s few fully-integrated mining,
concentrating, smelting and refining operations.
In 2014, Kennecott produced 204.1 thousand tonnes of refined copper,
252.2 thousand ounces of refined gold, and 11.5 thousand tonnes of
molybdenum. Production in 2014 was impacted by ongoing recovery from the
130 million-tonne landslide on the north-east wall of the Bingham Canyon
Mine, which occurred in April 2013, and a 65-day planned smelter shutdown
completed in the fourth quarter of 2014. Recovery work will continue in 2015,
with production in the near- and medium-term impacted by continued removal
of slide material and constrained by ongoing management of pit wall stability.
Oyu Tolgoi (Rio Tinto: 50.8 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources)
Located in Mongolia’s South Gobi Desert, Oyu Tolgoi is one of the world’s
largest copper-gold-silver mines. In 2014, Oyu Tolgoi produced 148 thousand
tonnes of copper and 589 thousand ounces of mined gold (100 per cent basis).
Since the second half of 2014, deliveries to Oyu Tolgoi customers have
outstripped production and the operation ended the year with inventories at
normalised levels.
Escondida (Rio Tinto: 30 per cent interest)
Located in Chile’s Atacama Desert, Escondida is the world’s largest copper-
producing mine. In 2014, Escondida produced 1,137.6 thousand tonnes of
mined copper (100 per cent basis). Copper production was higher year-on-
year due to increased mill throughput and increased ore stacked for leaching.
Water constraints at Escondida are expected to create some risk to production
volumes in 2015.
30 riotinto.com Grasberg (a joint venture that gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share of production
above specified levels until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production
after 2021)
Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), a subsidiary
of US-based Freeport-McMoRan, Inc. Located in the province of Papua,
Indonesia, it is one of the world’s largest copper mines. Rio Tinto’s share of
mined copper production at Grasberg was 7.7 thousand tonnes in 2014.
Development projects
The Copper group is focused on delivering high-quality, medium-term projects
to extend mine life at its existing operations, creating future options with
world-class greenfield projects and developing innovations that drive safety,
growth and productivity. A phased development approach allows the group to
deploy capital in a way that maximises shareholder return, minimises risk and
times new production to come online when the market requires.
Productivity and mine life extension
Rio Tinto Kennecott
Kennecott is at the early stages of its South Pushback project which may
allow the Copper group to extend the life of Bingham Canyon through
accessing additional copper units from approximately 510 million tonnes of
ore reserves
(b)
.
Grasberg
PTFI continues to develop the large-scale, high-grade underground orebodies
located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these
underground orebodies are expected to ramp up over several years to
approximately 240,000 tonnes of ore per day following the anticipated
transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2017.
Oyu Tolgoi
The Copper group is focused on unlocking the full value of Oyu Tolgoi and
remains committed to the underground development, pending appropriate
investment conditions. Rio Tinto continues to engage with the Government
of Mongolia to resolve a number of outstanding shareholder matters, progress
project financing and meet certain conditions needed to proceed with the
proposed underground development project, where a significant portion of
the value is contained.
Greenfield projects
La Granja (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Located in northern Peru, the La Granja project is one of the world’s largest-
known undeveloped copper resources.
The project team is assessing a range of options to develop the large near-
surface resource at La Granja, including staged development with early
production from leaching of both secondary sulphide and primary sulphide
mineralisation. The team continues to successfully prove very good recoveries
from the leaching of chalcopyrite-dominant ore, and has continued to build a
strong social consensus for the project.
Resolution Copper (Rio Tinto: 55 per cent)
The Resolution Copper project, located in Arizona, US, is one of the world’s
largest undeveloped copper deposits. In 2014, drilling continued and the
project completed construction of the #10 mine shaft to final depth of 2,116
metres. Drilling, underground development and engineering studies continue
as the Copper group works to optimise the business case.
(b) This is only a portion of Rio Tinto Kennecott’s current ore reserves. See Ore
reserves section of this report for Rio Tinto Kennecott’s ore reserves including
breakout of all metals and classifications.
Resolution submitted a General Mine Plan of Operations in 2013. In December
2014, President Obama signed legislation that will allow the US Federal
Government to exchange 2,400 acres of federally owned land immediately
adjacent to Resolution’s operational site, for 5,300 acres of important wildlife
habitat, conservation and recreational land owned by Resolution. Both the land
exchange and proposed mine plan will now undergo a comprehensive
environmental and regulatory review that includes an assessment under the
US National Environmental Policy Act. This process will include public input,
government-to-government consultation with Arizona Native American tribes,
and a US Federal Government appraisal of the exchange lands.
Growth and innovation
Rio Tinto Copper is testing and evaluating technologies to drive improved safety
and productivity at its current mines and development projects. The innovation
portfolio is being prioritised to ensure that the best projects are being pursued,
and that there is a balance between short and long-term initiatives.
In 2014, Rio Tinto opened the Processing Excellence Centre after successful
trials at a number of copper and energy sites. The Centre is improving
concentrator performance by linking experts with operations across the
globe in real-time, which has driven significant improvements at Oyu Tolgoi
and Kennecott.
During an industrial-scale chalcopyrite heap leaching demonstration at
Kennecott, the group achieved expected copper extraction targets. The Growth
& Innovation team is now conducting laboratory tests at its Bundoora facility
near Melbourne, Australia with the aim of enhancing leaching recovery further.
This will allow the group to develop chalcopyrite deposits such as La Granja
more efficiently.
The Copper group is working with a variety of partners in areas such as the
development of safer and more productive underground mining equipment
and processes, as well as technologies for dynamic measurement of
underground rock mass and caving performance. The goal of these projects is
to significantly improve safety and productivity during construction and
operation of underground mines.
Outlook
The copper market is expected to see a period of continued price weakness in
the short term as, despite continued demand growth, the market moves into a
surplus resulting from a number of new projects coming online. However,
beyond this challenging short-term picture, the medium and long-term
fundamentals remain robust, with a substantial supply gap expected by the
end of the decade requiring further significant investment in new capacity. The
continued urbanisation, industrialisation and electrification of China and other
large markets creates a solid demand outlook, while supply will be constrained
by the industry’s need to invest to offset grade declines and closures at
existing mines, and by the many challenges of bringing on new projects.
These market dynamics create opportunity for Rio Tinto Copper. The group
has a world-class portfolio of low-cost assets and high-quality growth
opportunities. It has made material progress in reducing costs and is on
course to become a producer in the first or second quartile of the cost curve
and deliver superior profitability. It is leveraging technology to make Copper
group operations safer, more productive and more sustainable. The group is
pursuing high-value growth opportunities at its existing operations in the
medium term and greenfield development projects in the longer term, using
a phased approach to manage risk and time new production to come online
when the market requires. Finally, the Copper group is building strong
community partnerships and encouraging its employees to deliver results
through collaboration and sharing of best practices. The group believes this
strategy will generate significant and sustainable shareholder value.
riotinto.com 31
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Diamonds & Minerals
Financial performance
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
Revenue 4,150 4,193
Net cash generated from operating activities 1,201 842
Underlying earnings 401 350
Underlying earnings excluding Simandou 456 393
Capital expenditure 508 1,009
Net operating assets 7,308 7,900
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Diamonds & Minerals product group has an attractive portfolio of
businesses that connect customers and consumers all around the world with
products that enhance their quality of life. Demand growth for diamonds and
industrial minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the economic development
cycle, following peak requirements for commodities such as iron ore and
copper. The product group’s strategy is focused on operating safe, low-cost,
demand-led businesses. Through its integrated marketing strategies and
insight, the product group creates and grows global markets for its products in
order to deliver value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
The product group’s strategy is focused on:
– Operating demand-led, integrated operations that can respond quickly to
the changing external environment.
– Creating and growing global markets through technical research and
development and market insight.
– Improving operating performance by reducing costs, driving productivity
and streamlining the organisation.
– Strengthening its position in traditional segments and entering attractive
new markets.
Safety
Diamonds & Minerals continues to focus on fostering a culture of
accountability and awareness among employees and improving contractor
safety in our pursuit of zero harm. The product group’s all injury frequency
rate (AIFR) fell to 0.48 in 2014 from 0.75 in 2013.
The product group faces some unique challenges in health and safety. The
workforce spans multiple nationalities, ethnicities, languages and cultures in
developing countries. In response, management employs innovative strategies
and visible safety leadership to train the workforce. Diamonds & Minerals is
focused on eliminating fatality risks by placing an emphasis on critical controls
and robust process safety.
Ebola, which has had tragic human consequences, is a critical issue for the
product group. The priority for Diamonds & Minerals has been to ensure the
health and safety of employees, contractors and their families. In addition,
Diamonds & Minerals has supported the Government of Guinea and
international organisations by donating more than US$3.4 million worth of
equipment and in-kind donations to facilitate the response to this disease.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity increased slightly in 2014.
This was largely due to lower production at Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (RTIT),
where a reduction in capacity utilisation of its smelters led to an increase in
GHG emissions per tonne of product. This was reflected in a four per cent
increase in emissions intensity for RTIT compared with 2013. GHG emissions
per tonne of product were marginally higher at Rio Tinto Minerals, but
improved across Rio Tinto Diamonds operations. The product group continues
to invest in the implementation of more efficient equipment and technology,
such as the wind farm at Diavik.
Review of operations
The Diamonds & Minerals group’s underlying earnings of US$401 million were
15 per cent higher than 2013. Excluding Simandou exploration and evaluation
costs, underlying earnings of US$456 million were 16 per cent higher than
2013. This reflected favourable exchange rates, higher diamond prices, lower
exploration and evaluation costs, higher sales volumes of titanium dioxide
feedstock, borates and zircon and cash cost improvements, partly offset by
lower prices for titanium dioxide feedstocks, borates and zircon. In absolute
terms, cash operating costs were US$223 million lower than 2013 including a
US$152 million benefit from exchange rate movements. Net cash generated
from operating activities of US$1,201 million was 43 per cent higher than
2013, reflecting higher EBITDA and improved working capital management.
Rio Tinto Diamonds (RTD)
RTD is a leading producer of rough diamonds, with a product portfolio that
provides a presence in all major markets and market segments. Rio Tinto’s
diamonds assets comprise the Argyle Diamond Mine in Australia (Rio Tinto:
100 per cent), the Diavik Diamond Mine in Canada (Rio Tinto: 60 per cent),
Murowa Diamonds in Zimbabwe (Rio Tinto: 78 per cent) and the Bunder
diamond project in India (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent). RTD markets its share of
rough diamond production through its centralised sales and marketing office
and has a niche cutting and polishing factory in Australia for its high-end
branded pink polished diamonds from the Argyle mine, which it sells to an
international customer base.
RTD produced 13.9 million carats of rough diamonds in 2014, 13 per cent
lower than in 2013. Argyle production was negatively impacted by the move
from open pit to underground mining, the processing of lower grade tailings as
underground production ramped up, and a maintenance shutdown impacting
both underground crushers. Diavik production was in line with 2013 despite
lower grades, thanks to improved mining rates and processing plant
improvements. Murowa production was seven per cent higher than in 2013.
Revenue in 2014 was six per cent higher than in 2013, reflecting higher sales
volumes at Diavik and increased prices. Earnings of US$104 million were
US$51 million higher than 2013. The second crusher at Argyle was
commissioned during the year and the ramp-up of the Argyle underground
mine to full operation is on schedule to be completed by 2015. Diavik has
been operating as a fully underground mine since 2012.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (RTIT)
RTIT is the largest producer of high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks. It
mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (RTFT) operation in
Canada; its managed operation Richards Bay Minerals (RBM) in South Africa
(Rio Tinto: 74 per cent); and its QIT Madagascar Minerals (QMM) operation
(Rio Tinto: 80 per cent). RTIT produces high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks
at its world-class metallurgical complexes at RTFT and RBM as well as
valuable co-products including high purity iron, steel, metal powders, zircon
and rutile.
In 2014, titanium dioxide feedstock production fell by 11 per cent year-on-year
to 1.44 million tonnes (Rio Tinto share). Due to challenging market conditions
for high grade titanium dioxide feedstock, production continues to be aligned
with market demand. One of nine furnaces remains offline at RTFT pending a
rebuild which has been deferred until market conditions improve. RTIT’s
revenues fell by four per cent due to lower prices for titanium dioxide
feedstocks and zircon, partly offset by higher sales volumes. Earnings fell by
six per cent to US$248 million.
Rio Tinto Minerals (RTM)
RTM (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent) supplies over 30 per cent of the world’s refined
borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, California. RTM also has borates
refineries and/or shipping facilities in China, France, Malaysia, the Netherlands,
Spain and the US.
32 riotinto.com Borates production of 508,000 tonnes boric oxide equivalent was three per
cent higher than in 2013 in response to higher sales demand. Global demand
for RTM refined borates improved slightly with revenue three per cent higher
than 2013. Earnings of US$121 million were eight per cent lower than 2013
due to a decrease in product prices and the absence of prior year tax benefits.
During the year, Rio Tinto Minerals completed the modified direct dissolving of
kernite (MDDK) project, which allows for more efficient orebody utilisation.
Dampier Salt (DSL)
DSL (Rio Tinto: 68 per cent), the world’s largest solar salt exporter, produces
industrial salt by solar evaporation of seawater at Dampier and Port Hedland,
and from underground brine at Lake MacLeod, all in Western Australia. Salt is
sold principally to base chemical industry markets in Asia. Salt production of
6.8 million tonnes (Rio Tinto share) was one per cent higher than 2013.
Development projects
The feasibility study to develop the A21 kimberlite pipe at Diavik was
completed and approved in 2014. This development will provide an important
source of incremental production to maintain existing production levels. A21 is
estimated to cost US$350 million (Rio Tinto share US$210 million), with first
production expected in 2018.
Work continued on the feasibility study for the Zulti South mine expansion at
RBM, which will maintain the low-cost RBM smelter capacity post-2017. If the
project is approved in 2015, commissioning is scheduled for 2017. The mineral
sands exploration programme in Mozambique and other brownfield studies at
the group’s operations also continued throughout the year.
The Simandou iron ore project in Guinea is one of the largest-known
undeveloped high-grade iron ore resources in the world. The concession will
enable the development of the largest mine and infrastructure project ever
undertaken in Africa. This will include the progressive development of a
100 million tonne per annum mine, a 650-kilometre trans-Guinean railway and
a new deep-water port.
In May 2014, Rio Tinto and its partners, Chinalco and the International Finance
Corporation, signed the Investment Framework with the Government of
Guinea for the development of the Simandou iron ore project. This provides
the legal and commercial foundation for the project and formally separates
the infrastructure from the mine development. The Investment Framework
was approved for ratification by the Guinean National Assembly in June 2014,
followed by Presidential promulgation and Supreme Court review and took
effect in August 2014.
The project partners are continuing to work towards the completion of a
bankable feasibility study and the establishment of a funding consortium to
build the infrastructure. These two elements will provide the basis for
disciplined capital allocation decisions.
The Bunder diamond project is progressing its prefeasibility study, which
began in July 2010. These studies have confirmed the economic potential of
the orebody and work is under way on the mine plan, environmental and
forestry approvals required to execute a Mining Lease.
The Jadar Project in Serbia is potentially a world-class lithium-borate deposit
discovered by Rio Tinto in 2004. If developed, the deposit could supply a
significant proportion of global demand for lithium and borates. Findings so far
are encouraging and feasibility assessments are ongoing to build an economic
business case and advance the environmental and social-economic impact
assessments for the project. Lithium carbonate’s fastest-growing application is
in batteries that provide clean power to industrial systems and electric and
hybrid vehicles.
In 2011, Diamonds & Minerals re-entered the potash business through an
exploration joint venture with North Atlantic Potash Inc. (NAPI), a subsidiary of
JSCAcron.Acronisaworldleaderinfertiliserproductionandholdsmultiple
potash exploration permits in Saskatchewan, Canada. Rio Tinto has completed
an extensive exploration programme on the joint venture properties, with
promising results and is in discussions with NAPI and Acron regarding the
future of the joint venture. Higher nutritional standards, population growth and
limited arable land make potash a critical factor in maintaining global food
security, and a natural complement to RTM’s existing borate fertiliser business.
Outlook
Diamonds & Minerals’ businesses serve a range of different industries, but
have in common a track record of creating and defining new and profitable
markets for the group’s products. Demand softened in these markets in 2013
and 2014 in response to broader economic trends. The group’s key markets
are beginning to stabilise, although the pace of recovery is slower than
previously thought and unlikely to fully manifest during 2015. However, the
medium- to long-term outlook continues to be positive across all products as
urbanisation and rising standards of living, particularly in China, drive higher
levels of demand.
RTM will continue to seek to capture profitable growth in emerging economies
and maintain its position in its established markets. Ongoing supply chain
improvements will facilitate speed and flexibility in shifting supply to promising
sectors and regions. Demand for borates is expected to remain stable in the
near term, and the long-term industry fundamentals remain attractive. RTM
will focus on increasing refined borates capacity to meet higher-than-GDP
demand growth while achieving world-class safety performance and improving
its cost position.
Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is expected to continue to grow in the
medium to long term, in line with improving global economic conditions,
urbanisation and demand growth in emerging markets supported by rising per
capita incomes. In response to weak demand and excess inventory in the
feedstock supply chain, and in order to reduce operating costs and inventory,
RTIT has taken action at a number of its operations, including temporary
closures of the QMM mine and the upgraded slag (UGS) plant and deferral of a
furnace rebuild at RTFT. Pigment and feedstock inventories within the supply
chain are now returning towards historical levels.
The medium to long-term fundamentals for the diamond industry are positive
and expected to support sustainable future price growth. The global mineral
resource base is steadily declining, compounded by limited exploration
investment and success, and expected reductions in supply over the medium
to longer term. Demand in India and China is expected to continue to grow,
and to represent nearly 50 per cent of global diamond consumption by 2025.
Demand in mature markets is expected to continue to grow in line with GDP.
riotinto.com 33
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Energy
Financial performance
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
Revenue 4,308 5,454
Net cash generated from operating activities 355 919
Underlying earnings/(loss) (210) 33
Capital expenditure 224 732
Net operating assets 3,794 4,872
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Energy product group aimed to safely deliver superior margins and growth
from a strong existing resource base to serve growing global energy demand.
Its strategic priorities were:
– Extract full value from the group’s assets.
– Leverage technology and deliver competitive projects.
– Maintain the group’s licence to operate.
– Build and steer a resilient, high-return portfolio.
Safety
The Energy product group’s 2014 all injury frequency rate was 0.74 compared
to 0.67 in 2013 with a large number of hand injuries recorded during the year.
Energy strives to foster a culture of shared and personal accountability for
health and safety, and to create a workplace where everyone goes home safe
and well at the end of every shift. Throughout 2014, the group’s health and
safety efforts focused on:
– Strengthening the management of critical risks, specifically in areas of
process safety, underground operations, and vehicles and driving.
– Improving contractor safety performance through active engagement and
interaction with contract partners.
– Comprehensively refreshing the safety culture and systems at all sites to
raise personal awareness and commitment to improve hazard
management processes, and to strengthen the implementation of lessons
arising from incidents.
– Reducing high frequency incidents such as hand injuries.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Energy group’s greenhouse gas emissions decreased to approximately
3.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2014, compared with
3.6 million tonnes in 2013. This reduction was mainly due to the divestment of
the Clermont Mine and the closure of the Blair Athol Mine, and the continued
efforts of the group to increase the energy efficiency of its operations through a
range of initiatives including equipment optimisation and engine improvements.
Over the past 15 years, Rio Tinto has spent more than US$100 million on
research and development into technologies that will reduce emissions from
coal-fired power plants. In 2014, the Energy product group continued its
sponsorship of The Otway Project, Australia’s first industrial-scale
demonstration of geological carbon dioxide capture and storage.
Review of operations
2014 was another challenging year for the Energy product group as the
business environment for both coal and uranium remained very difficult. The
group’s underlying loss of US$210 million compared with underlying earnings
of US$33 million in 2013.
Annual site production records at Hail Creek, Hunter Valley Operations and
Bengalla, cost improvements and benefits from a weaker Australian dollar
were more than offset by lower prices, which reduced earnings by
US$434 million, and lower uranium production. Energy continued to focus on
positioning its assets further down the cost curve through a range of cost,
productivity and revenue enhancements. An aggressive programme of cost
and productivity improvements delivered US$795 million of pre-tax cash
savings in 2014 and 2013 compared with 2012, contributing to the product
group’s cash flow generation in 2014.
Energy’s focus has been on safely creating value, reducing costs, eliminating
waste and improving asset and labour productivity. This work coupled with the
agility to adjust production mix in response to changing market conditions, is
protecting value in very challenging times.
The product group’s extensive operational and marketing expertise enabled
further volume, cost and margin improvements to be secured. Energy retains
deep and enduring relationships with its customers, built upon a foundation
of high-quality products supplied reliably and consistently, over long periods
of time. On average over the past three years, Energy’s marketing team
has delivered a price premium to spot market benchmarks of approximately
eight per cent for coking coal, ten per cent for thermal coal and 35 per cent
for uranium.
In April 2014, the group’s two uranium operations – Rössing and Energy
Resources of Australia – each entered into a new marketing and sales
agreement with Rio Tinto Uranium (RTU). Under the new agreements, RTU will
purchase uranium oxide from both operations and market the combined pool
directly to customers. This new arrangement provides Energy’s uranium
customers with the benefit of multi-sourced supply.
In 2014 Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent share in the Clermont coal mine in
Queensland to GS Coal Pty Ltd for US$1.015 billion, and its coal operations in
Mozambique to International Coal Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million,
both before net debt and working capital adjustments.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
In Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia (RTCA) manages the Hail Creek
(Rio Tinto: 82 per cent) and Kestrel (80 per cent) coal mines. As stated above,
Rio Tinto sold its interest in the Clermont Mine in May 2014.
In New South Wales, RTCA manages Coal & Allied’s coal mines which include
Hunter Valley Operations (80 per cent), Bengalla (32 per cent), Mount Thorley
(64 per cent) and Warkworth (44.5 per cent).
Lower prices for all types of coal saw RTCA’s net earnings decline from
US$367 million in 2013 to US$21 million in 2014. In very difficult markets
RTCA has worked hard to improve its operational performance. Its coal mines
remain cash flow positive with the majority placed in the lowest quartile of the
cost curve.
Significant productivity gains across the Australian coal business delivered
annual site production records at Hail Creek, Hunter Valley Operations and
Bengalla. Excluding production from the Clermont Mine which was divested
during the year, thermal coal production increased by 15 per cent (Rio Tinto
share) in 2014 compared with 2013.
The product group declared a significant increase in its Hunter Valley
managed thermal coal reserves in November 2014, compared with the
previous estimates reported in Rio Tinto’s 2013 Annual report.
RTCA is using technology and innovation to boost its competitive edge. The
Rio Tinto Processing Excellence Centre located in Brisbane is helping improve
yields at its sites; an Integrated Operations Centre planned to open in 2015 in
Singleton is supporting the optimisation of mine performance; and automated
drilling is being piloted at Hunter Valley Operations.
RTCA is also demonstrating operational and commercial excellence by
adjusting semi-soft coal production to deliver improved margins at its Hunter
Valley sites. In response to deteriorating coking coal markets its Hail Creek
Mine began producing a thermal coal product for targeted customers.
RTCA has been working for nearly five years to secure a long-term future for
Mount Thorley Warkworth mine. In 2014, it continued to seek approvals to
maintain operations at the 30 year old mine, on land it owns within the
footprint of existing mining leases. Approval is critical for the future of the
operation and its 1,300 employees and contractors as existing approvals
only allow the mine to maintain production and employment at current
levels until the end of 2015. Two separate planning applications have been
submitted for the integrated operation and the NSW Department of Planning
and Environment has recommended approval. A decision on both applications
is expected in 2015.
34 riotinto.com Zululand Anthracite Colliery(RioTinto:74percent)
ZAC is an anthracite coal mine in South Africa which was held for sale until
1 April 2014 when it became a Rio Tinto managed operation.
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique (formerly Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
In October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of RTCM, which includes the
Benga coal mine in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal
Ventures Private Limited.
Energy Resources of Australia (Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent)
ERA is a publicly-listed company which operates the Ranger Mine in the
Northern Territory of Australia. No uranium oxide was produced in the first
half of 2014 due to a leach tank failure on 7 December 2013 which triggered
the suspension of processing operations and a series of investigations. A
Government-appointed taskforce was established to oversee the regulatory
response to the leach tank failure. A progressive restart of the Ranger
processing plant began on 5 June 2014, with the mill processing lower-
grade stockpiled material, following receipt of written approval from the
Commonwealth Minister for Industry and the Northern Territory Department
of Mines and Energy.
ERA produced a total of 1,757 thousand pounds (Rio Tinto share) of uranium
oxide in 2014. Its 2014 full-year earnings were unfavourably impacted by costs
associated with the leach tank failure and subsequent suspension of
processing plant operations. Uranium oxide was purchased to fulfil higher
price contracted sales, partly mitigating effects of the suspension.
Progressive rehabilitation over the Ranger Project Area advanced during 2014.
A total of more than 33 million tonnes of material has been returned to Pit 3,
and rehabilitation of Pit 1 is well advanced.
The Ranger 3 Deeps project remains in prefeasibility. On 3 October 2014 ERA
lodged a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the proposed Ranger 3
Deeps underground mine with the Northern Territory Environmental
Protection Authority and the Commonwealth Department of the Environment.
During 2014 ERA achieved cash savings of more than A$23 million, surpassing
its objective of saving a cumulative A$150 million in operating costs during the
period 2011-2014.
Rössing Uranium Limited (Rio Tinto: 68.6 per cent)
Rio Tinto’s share of uranium production at Rössing was 2,333 thousand
pounds in 2014. Production was impacted by a leach tank failure in late 2013
and the introduction of a new operating model in mid-2014. Under this new
model Rössing is tailoring production to meet only existing long-term
customer requirements.
In June, a planned shutdown of the processing plant allowed for major
maintenance work to be carried out. The work was completed without any
safety incidents and plant operations were successfully restarted on
1 July 2014.
In light of continued low prices for uranium, Rössing embarked on an
aggressive cash generation programme in 2014. The business exceeded its
savings target for the year, delivering US$14 million against a target of
US$12 million from a range of initiatives.
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium’s Roughrider project is an exploration site located in
Canada’s Athabasca Basin in north-east Saskatchewan. The basin supplies
approximately 20 per cent of the world’s uranium.
In 2014, the Canadian Government and the European Union signed a
Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement which provides an exemption to
eligible companies from the Non-Resident Ownership Policy as it applies to
foreign ownership of uranium mines. Once ratified, this change means
Rio Tinto could, if economical to do so, develop a uranium operation without
the need to first find a Canadian majority partner.
Exploration and development studies on the project progressed during 2014.
Development projects
Rio Tinto’s premium coal assets in Australia’s Hunter Valley present a number
of low-capital, high-quality growth options.
The Mount Pleasant project is the largest undeveloped deposit in the Hunter
Valley and has high quality coal, a low strip ratio, existing consents and
committed rail and port facilities. Located adjacent to Bengalla mine, Mount
Pleasant is an attractive, low-capital expansion option and is in the advanced
stages of study. It has a capital intensity of between A$100 and A$150 per
saleable tonne with an expected capacity of 8.5 million tonnes per annum of
saleable product.
In late 2014, the Hunter Blend project was launched. The project aims to
enable Rio Tinto to operate its Hunter Valley coal mines, plants and logistics
infrastructure as one integrated system to deliver greater value and synergies
than through the present standalone operations.
The Mount Pleasant and Hunter Blend projects are both opportunities to
further improve the overall efficiency of Rio Tinto’s operations in the Hunter
Valley and to maximise the synergies that exist across the business. Whilst the
group’s world class resource base offers a range of further brownfield
opportunities, these two projects, when combined with the existing business
transformation programme, effectively deliver 67 per cent volume growth and
a 40 per cent cost reduction against 2012 levels.
Rio Tinto is continuing to assess options for open cut mining on the eastern
side of Hail Creek Mine in Queensland. It is also exploring the potential for
underground mining. Government approvals and a prefeasibility study are in
progress. A decision on the timing and nature of future development at Hail
Creekwillbemadeoncethesearecomplete.
Other options in the Australian coal portfolio include the Valeria and Winchester
South projects. Valeria is a large, predominantly semi-soft and thermal coal
deposit in central Queensland. It is close to existing infrastructure, with 40km of
rail needed to reach Kestrel Mine. Winchester South is a coking coal deposit in
central Queensland.
Outlook
Whilst the short-term outlook for coal and uranium remains challenging, the
long-term outlook is more positive. Energy demand continues to grow.
Globally, it grew by 50 per cent between 1990 and 2011 and the International
Energy Agency expects it to grow by a further 40 per cent to 2035.
All energy sources will be needed to meet increased demand. However, much
of it is expected to be met by coal – the cheapest and most readily available
source of energy. High quality thermal coal is likely to be in demand for
efficiency and air quality reasons, which aligns with Rio Tinto’s premium
resource and product profile.
Demand for uranium is expected to grow steadily in the longer term, and
nuclear power remains the only base-load energy source that does not
produce greenhouse gases.
Geologically, coking coal remains a relatively scarce commodity found in a
small number of discrete locations of which the Bowen Basin in Australia is one
of the most significant. Long-term demand appears to be firm, underpinned by
urbanisation and industrialisation in the major developing economies of China
and India, causing steady growth in steel output.
Rio Tinto is ideally positioned to continue supplying premium energy products
to traditional markets in Japan, Taiwan and Korea, which are dependent on
imports for all of their primary energy needs, while capturing growth
opportunities in emerging markets. India’s coal imports have been increasing
and are rapidly becoming as significant as China, while a number of ASEAN
(Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries are also looking to secure
reliable international coal supplies.
riotinto.com 35
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Iron Ore
Financial performance
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
Revenue 23,281 25,994
Net cash generated from operating activities 10,274 14,008
Underlying earnings 8,107 9,858
Capital expenditure 4,211 6,814
Net operating assets 20,987 21,062
Strategy and strategic priorities
The Iron Ore product group’s vision is to remain the best iron ore producer in
the world by focusing on three strategic goals:
– Production at the right cost, delivered through high-performing teams with
the support of unrivalled technology.
– Value-driven growth through disciplined phasing and low-cost growth
options.
– Maximising portfolio value through specialist sales and marketing expertise.
Safety
In 2014, Iron Ore’s all injury frequency rate was 0.73 compared with 0.70 in the
previous year. This result was reached amidst a challenging environment in
which Iron Ore completed 80 per cent of the infrastructure component of the
Pilbara 360 million tonne per annum (Mt/a) expansion programme and
recovered from a severe tropical cyclone. Sadly, there was one fatality in
November 2014 at the Iron Ore Company of Canada. Train driver Enrick
Gagnon lost his life as a result of a train derailment on the Quebec North
Shore and Labrador railway (QNS&L) that was caused by a landslide.
During 2014 Iron Ore initiated a health, safety and environment system review
and continued with the roll-out of improvements to safety interactions,
pre-start safety meetings and safety training programmes. The group has
continued the implementation of its innovative THINK safety programme,
which is focused on increasing employee engagement and leadership in
safety management.
In Western Australia the group maintained a strong focus on the mental health
of employees, including the development of a three-year wellbeing strategy.
This focuses on building both mental and physical wellbeing, raising awareness
and better equipping leaders to provide support and recovery assistance when
required. Implementation of the strategy will commence in 2015.
The Pilbara Utilities team received the 2014 Group-wide Chief Executive Safety
Award, which recognises the sites and teams with the best annual safety
performance over the prior three years.
Greenhouse gas emissions
During 2014 there was a significant change in the external legislative
environment for energy and climate change. The Australian Government
repealed both the Energy Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act and the Clean
Energy Act, effective 1 July 2014, introducing a review of the renewable energy
target and commissioning a white paper on energy issues.
Throughout 2014, Iron Ore continued to implement high value opportunities
identified in the final round of EEO, establishing more than 35 initiatives across
mines, rail and ports. For example at Yandicoogina, greenhouse gas emissions
have been reduced by approximately 8,700 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year
through the use of a Le Tourneau 2350 loader, which uses regenerative
technology to achieve a low fuel burn rate.
Iron Ore met all legislative requirements in 2014, including reporting, under the
National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme, the Clean Energy Act, the
Clean Energy Repeal Bill, and the EEO Act, until it was repealed in July.
The product group’s total greenhouse gas emission intensity has improved
6.7 per cent on the baseline target set in 2008.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity of saleable production at the Iron Ore
Company of Canada marginally improved during 2014 despite a product mix
that saw a greater fraction of total concentrate production converted to the
more GHG-intensive pellet product. Although being more GHG intensive to
produce than concentrate, pellet ultimately provides a lower GHG intensity
route to finished steel for the end user.
Review of operations
Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore portfolio. Operations in the Pilbara
region of Western Australia comprise 15 mines, four independent port
terminals, the largest privately-owned heavy freight railway in Australia and
supporting infrastructure, including the Operations Centre in Perth. The Iron
Ore Company of Canada (IOC) operates a mine, concentrator and pelletising
plant in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, together with port
facilities in Sept-Îles, Quebec. Rio Tinto Marine delivers shipping services to
the wider Rio Tinto Group, including Iron Ore.
In 2014 Iron Ore achieved underlying earnings of US$8,107 million. Record
sales volumes, continued cash cost savings and lower taxes following the
repeal of Mineral Resources Rent Tax in September 2014 were offset by
weaker iron ore prices, down 30 per cent on average year-on-year, reducing
earnings by US$3.8 billion on 2013.
Iron Ore met global production guidance in 2014, producing 295.4 million
tonnes globally. Rio Tinto’s share of production was 233.6 million tonnes – an
increase of 12 per cent on 2013.
Quarterly production and sales records were consistently achieved through
the year. This strong performance was delivered despite interruptions caused
by severe weather conditions in both the Pilbara and Canada. In January 2014,
all Pilbara coastal and some mine operations were suspended as a result of
tropical cyclone Christine and heavy rainfall that continued into February.
North America’s extreme weather in Q1 also significantly affected IOC’s
production and shipments in the first half of 2014.
Pilbara production improved as the year progressed, contributing to the early
achievement of a 290 Mt/a run rate. Production at IOC stabilised as phase two
of the Concentrate Expansion Project (CEP) was successfully completed,
delivering 8.7 million tonnes of pellets and 6.0 million tonnes of concentrate
for sale for the year.
Steel demand in China, while robust, did not grow at the strong rates
witnessed for most of the past decade. Combined with strong growth in
seaborne iron ore supply, this put downward pressure on the iron ore price,
with the Platts 62 per cent iron fines index averaging US$96.70 per dry metric
tonne, a landed price in China that excludes moisture content. Iron Ore’s
global shipments in 2014 were 303 million tonnes at an average realised free
on board (FOB) price of US$84.30 per wet metric tonne for Pilbara volume.
Rio Tinto Marine shipped 238 Mt of dry bulk cargo on behalf of the wider
Group, an increase of 25 per cent on 2013. Rio Tinto is now the largest dry
bulk shipping business in the world in terms of volume, with a contract fleet of
more than 200 vessels at any given time, including 17 vessels owned by
Rio Tinto. Average freight rates in 2014 tracked below 2013 and forward
voyage rate curves are flat, reflecting vessel oversupply and a drop in bunker
fuel prices.
In the Pilbara, a new nameplate capacity of 290 Mt/a capacity was achieved in
May 2014, two months ahead of schedule. Effective coordination between the
expansion and operations teams enabled an almost seamless transition to the
increased nameplate capacity, overseen by the Operations Centre to ensure
optimal supply chain performance.
“Production at the Right Cost” improvement initiatives focused heavily on
reducing costs and driving productivity gains, contributing US$710 million in
pre-tax savings to the wider Rio Tinto Group since 2012. These included
reducing the use of contractors, external service providers and consultants,
finding low-cost production improvements, increasing the utilisation of assets
and maximising the value of new technologies. People remained a key driver
in reducing costs and increasing productivity throughout 2014. An example of
this was the Training Transformation strategy, which returned an overall
36 riotinto.com 376,000 productive hours to the business and delivered an overall saving of
US$48 million through a focus on future innovation and technology solutions,
and real-time field training.
TheMineoftheFuture
™
programme continued to deliver efficiencies in 2014
across production, health, safety and environmental performance. In
conjunction with the Technology & Innovation group, Iron Ore successfully
converted four drills at the West Angelas mine to an Autonomous Drilling
System, adding to the two units already in operation. The autonomous
haulage system (AHS) continued to be deployed across the Pilbara, delivering
lower load and haul operating costs, increased productivity and safer operating
environments. At the Hope Downs 4 mine, autonomous haulage exceeded the
Iron Ore Pilbara site with the highest manned effective utilisation by 14 per
cent, and decreased load and haul operating costs by approximately 13 per
cent. Hope Downs 4 and Nammuldi mines became the first fully-operational
AHS sites, with 19 Komatsu 830E AHS haul trucks at Hope Downs 4 and 25
Komatsu 930E AHS trucks at Nammuldi. A further 13 930E AHS trucks are
also in operation at Yandicoogina. Iron Ore continues to be the world’s largest
operator of AHS trucks and a proud leader in automated mining technologies.
Progress was also made towards AutoHaul
®
, the world’s first autonomous
heavy-haul rail system, with the project moving through a number of testing
phases and the first autonomous train journey piloted in the fourth quarter.
Throughout the year, the US$300 million Wickham town upgrade project,
supporting the Cape Lambert rail and port operations workforce, was largely
completed. It included construction of more than 240 houses, the Wickham
Lodge fly-in, fly-out accommodation and the Julutharndu Maya central
facilities building as well as new parks, roads and other town infrastructure.
In 2014, a key focus for Iron Ore remained on supporting local communities,
businesses and people within the company’s operational footprint. Sixty three
per cent of expenditure outlayed to businesses located in the Pilbara, was with
Pilbara Aboriginal businesses and their joint venture partners, providing
integral services to various operations and projects, and saw millions of dollars
reinvested into local economies. Iron Ore remains one of the largest private
sector employers of Aboriginal people, with more than 1,100 workers in 2014.
Iron Ore continued to actively implement key participation agreements with
Traditional Owners in the Pilbara, which secures land access for the life of
mining operations. These agreements incorporate mutual obligations to
deliver outcomes in employment, financial compensation, education and
training, heritage surveys and practices, environmental care and land use.
IOC (Rio Tinto share 58.7 per cent) continued to be an important operation
within Iron Ore’s portfolio, maintaining a strong position as a supplier of high
quality, premium pellets and high quality, low contaminant concentrate. The
company is poised to realise the full potential of an enviable orebody and
additional capacity brought online through recently completed expansions,
while the operation remains dedicated to the journey towards zero harm.
Development projects
In May, Iron Ore announced that the Pilbara network of mines, rail and ports
had reached a run rate of 290 Mt/a, two months ahead of schedule, following
completion of first-phase port and rail expansion works in late 2013. This
major milestone signalled a step change in production performance and paved
the way for second-phase developments to 360 Mt/a.
Infrastructure to support the 360 Mt/a expansion is 80 per cent complete, with
all marine and wharf works commissioned. A new shiploader at Cape Lambert
Port B has been installed along with the early commissioning of a new stacker
and reclaimer. First ore through a new car dumper was achieved ahead of
schedule in the third quarter and all rail works for the expansion to 360 Mt/a
have been completed, including AutoHaul
®
wayside rail works.
Iron Ore’s breakthrough pathway to match the upgraded port and rail capacity
will see Pilbara mine production capacity increase towards 350 Mt/a through a
series of low-cost brownfield expansions. US$400 million of capital expenditure
was also approved for plant equipment and modification, as well as additional
heavy machinery for use at various mines in the Pilbara. The rapid low-cost
growth pathway from existing mines such as West Angelas deposit B,
Paraburdoo, Brockman 2, Nammuldi and Yandicoogina is well advanced, with
around 40 Mt/a approved and in implementation. This will enable a target
production rate of more than 330 Mt/a in 2015 and support delivery towards
350 Mt/a in 2017. An investment decision regarding development of the
greenfield Silvergrass mine has been deferred until 2016.
The brownfield mine growth is being achieved at an average mine production
capital intensity of approximately US$9 per tonne and the full expansion from
220 Mt/a to 360 Mt/a is expected to be delivered at an industry-leading capital
intensity of US$110-120 per tonne.
Iron Ore’s Pilbara expansion programme remains the largest integrated mining
project in Australian history and has a proven record of delivering project
stages on time and budget.
Milestones from 2014 include first ore delivered from a new 21-kilometre
conveyor system at Western Turner Syncline to Tom Price in the first quarter.
Completion of this project contributed to the 360 Mt/a expansion plan and
provides a safer, more efficient alternative to the previous road haul operation.
Rio Tinto has also approved development of Western Turner Syncline phase
two, which will increase production by an additional 7 Mt/a.
The Nammuldi Below Water Table process plant delivered first ore to the
stockyards in November and is expected to be in full production by the end of
the first quarter of 2015.
First ore was also delivered through the new fines circuit and stacker at West
Angelas deposit B in mid-November, five weeks ahead of plan. Development of
deposit B included a new pit, fines circuit, stacker, and a haul road connecting
to deposit A. All other non-processing infrastructure is scheduled for
completion in the first quarter of 2015.
Marandoo phase two, which includes construction of a new wet processing
plant to access ore reserves below the water table, was completed in 2014 and
will extend the life of Marandoo operations.
At IOC, the completion of stage two of the Concentrate Expansion Project in
the first half helped remove pit-to-plant bottlenecks and aided extra capacity
to grow production. The project commissioned an additional ball mill and
mining equipment, and upgraded power distribution infrastructure providing
an additional 1.3 Mt concentrate capacity.
Outlook
The demand outlook for iron ore remains sound with expected contestable
iron ore demand growth in excess of 100 Mt/a by 2020. In the longer term,
there is significant potential for growth in demand in emerging markets such
as ASEAN and India due to population growth, urbanisation and rising
incomes.
Supply growth is expected to outpace demand growth, with approximately
300 Mt/a of additional seaborne capacity currently under construction or in
ramp-up. These volumes will be spread out across the remainder of this
decade and, as a consequence, supply-side exits from Chinese domestic
suppliers and some high-cost seaborne suppliers will continue. Approximately
125 Mt of high-cost supply from China and non-traditional seaborne suppliers
exited in 2014.
With its low-cost position, proximity to China and emerging markets, and suite
of iron ore products, Rio Tinto is well placed to take advantage of demand
growth for seaborne iron ore through its expansion options.
riotinto.com 37
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Exploration
Rio Tinto has had a sustained commitment to exploration since 1946, with an
exceptional track record in mineral discovery. Mature operations such as
Weipa, the Pilbara and Rössing were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto
Exploration where value is still being realised after more than 40 years of
production.
Strategy
The goal of Exploration is to create value for Rio Tinto through the discovery or
acquisition of well-located, high-grade Tier 1 resources to supplement the
Group’s existing high-quality resource base. The Exploration group performs
both greenfield and brownfield exploration programmes and undertakes
focused research and development to aid the exploration effort. Greenfield
exploration aims to establish completely new operating business units,
involving, among other objectives, geographic or commodity diversification.
Brownfield exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group
businesses in the orbit of existing operations, providing significant value to the
product groups.
Additionally, Exploration is supporting an increasing array of projects across
the business. This includes providing orebody knowledge expertise to the
product groups, helping business development groups to evaluate merger and
acquisition opportunities and assisting the Economics team with industry
analysis and intelligence to support supply forecasts. In 2014, Exploration also
reviewed the orebody knowledge content for all projects that were progressed
to the Investment Committee.
The exploration process can take over 20 years to progress from target
generation to development decisions, due to community, sustainability and
investment requirements. Rio Tinto’s core exploration capability and rigorous
global prioritisation process has consistently delivered Tier 1 discoveries.
Tier 1 discoveries over the past decade include:
Year Discovery Commodity Location
2005 La Granja Copper Peru
2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia
2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia
2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique
2009 Jadar Lithium/borates Serbia
2011 Amargosa Bauxite Brazil
2013 KP405 Potash Canada
2014 Yandi Braid Iron ore Australia
At the end of 2014, the Exploration group was active in 19 countries and
assessing opportunities in other countries across a range of commodities
including copper, nickel, iron ore, bauxite, coking coal, uranium, diamonds and
mineral sands. Exploration activities in China were conducted through CRTX,
the joint venture between Chinalco (51 per cent) and Rio Tinto (49 per cent).
The Exploration group is organised into regional multi-commodity teams
headquartered in Melbourne, London, Salt Lake City, Perth, Brisbane and Beijing;
supported by a team of technical and commodity professionals. This structure
provides a global reach with a local presence that allows for effective community
engagement and development of the Group’s social licence to operate.
Safety
At the end of 2014 the Exploration group’s all injury frequency rate was 0.47, a
further improvement on the 0.49 rate at the end of 2013. A multi-year change
programme rolled out across the Exploration group has helped to sustain the
significant safety improvement gained in 2013 and as a result Rio Tinto
Exploration was awarded the “2014 Chief Executive Safety Award – most
improved”. This programme also contributed to measureable improvements in
operational performance across all regions.
Performance
During 2014, commercial activities provided access to quality projects and
supported the progression of projects through the Exploration project pipeline.
Exploration joint ventures were established in Canada, the US, Chile, Mexico
and Australia. In addition, Exploration divested part of its interest in the
Tamarack project in Minnesota, US thereby securing funding to increase the
pace of the multi-year drilling programme required to continue testing for
extensions to the nickel-copper-precious metal resource.
Resource knowledge of the Roughrider uranium project in Saskatchewan has
increased, with further drilling and resource modelling. In 2015 the Exploration
group will focus on identifying potential for additional resources in the orbit
surrounding the project. In addition, Rio Tinto’s Saskatchewan regional tenure
has been prioritised and rationalised following further drilling. At the Sanxai
bauxite project in Laos, ongoing exploration provided greater certainty around
resource size whilst infrastructure studies targeting a range of options have
been progressing. The Amargosa bauxite project in Brazil has progressed, with
drilling and mapping advancing a number of brownfield areas in the Amargosa
orbit as well as adding new prospects in the region.
Brownfield projects generated good drilling results at iron ore projects in
the Pilbara, coking coal projects in the Bowen Basin, and in the Weipa orbit
in Australia. In the Bingham orbit, drilling continued to extend the
mineralisation envelope.
Exploration activities are underpinned by data and information management.
The focus on data accuracy and availability has continued to drive
efficiency improvements.
Research and development projects have progressed, with new analytical
techniques for mineral geochemistry supporting exploration targeting. Progress
continued on the development of the VK1 airborne gravity gradiometer, with a
significant improvement in detection levels achieved in 2014.
In addition to Exploration’s projects, the Group’s major evaluation projects in
2014 were:
Project Commodity Country
La Granja Copper Peru
Resolution Copper US
Pilbara Iron ore Australia
Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia
Hunter Valley Thermal coal Australia
Zulti South Mineral sands South Africa
Simandou Iron ore Guinea
Weipa Bauxite Australia
In 2014, the Group reduced its exploration and evaluation expenditure to
US$747 million
(a)
. This represented a 21 per cent decrease compared with
2013 expenditure of US$948 million. Of the 2014 spend, US$209 million
relates to centrally-controlled exploration and evaluation activity. In total,
Rio Tinto’s exploration and evaluation activity covered ten commodities in
2014, across a range of greenfield and brownfield environments.
Outlook
In 2015 the Exploration group will continue to work on a prioritised portfolio of
greenfield and brownfield projects. The downturn in commodity prices is
expected to produce further cost-effective commercial opportunities, by
providing access to high quality projects. However, challenges around
timeframes to access ground, the need to increasingly explore for orebodies
beneath cover rocks, and the decreasing grade and quality of potential
orebodies are expected to continue. The Exploration group will focus on project
generation in a number of key geographies, as well as testing of targets within
the portfolio. For 2015, exploration projects at a more advanced stage include:
Project Commodity Country Type Stage
Tamarack Nickel US Greenfield Project of Merit
Roughrider Uranium Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude
Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit
Amargosa orbit Bauxite Brazil Greenfield Order of Magnitude
Bowen Basin Coking coal Australia Brownfield Project of Merit
Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit
(a) An additional US$18m loss on an undeveloped evaluation project was recorded
separately in Loss relating to interests in undeveloped projects.
38 riotinto.com Technology & Innovation
Rio Tinto’s Technology & Innovation group (T&I) partners with the product
groups to achieve operating excellence. T&I has a recognised track record of
value creation and protection, while embedding fundamental changes that will
keep Rio Tinto competitive for the long term. Gross costs in 2014 were
US$340 million, compared with US$370 million in 2013 and US$415 million in
2012. The total number of employees in T&I increased from 730 at year-end
2013 to 919 at year-end 2014, primarily attributed to the transfer of Iron Ore
project teams into T&I.
Strategy
T&I delivers value through three levers:
– Project shaping and delivery: ensuring the Group “does the right projects”
and “does the projects right”.
– Productivity: focusing on asset performance, technology deployment and
global processes to sustainably improve operations, maximise margins and
capture value.
– Innovation: creating step-change improvements to address the significant
challenges facing the mining industry.
Safety
T&I is committed to the safe operation of its managed facilities and the safe
deployment of its personnel. The all injury frequency rate for T&I in 2014 was
0.57 compared with 0.63 in 2013. The improvement resulted from several
changes, including improved supervision and leadership in the field, improved
HSE resourcing of construction projects, focus on specific construction injury
risks and work planning, and attention to critical controls in the workplace. In
2014, the Cornerstone project at Rio Tinto Kennecott, US under the leadership
of Rio Tinto Projects, won the Chief Executive Safety Award for the best
project. This annual award recognises the project that has achieved
outstanding safety performance and embodies a strong safety culture.
Performance
Project shaping and delivery
The Strategic Planning team works with product groups to identify valuable
development options. In 2014, the team developed and successfully piloted a
project shaping process. This considers the full spectrum of options and
stakeholder interests early in the capital project life cycle, so that attractive
projects get the best start and non-economic ones are culled early. The
process will continue to be rolled out across the Group in 2015.
Rio Tinto Projects was established in 2014 by combining the T&I and Iron Ore
project teams. Rio Tinto now has a single projects organisation, responsible for
executing capital development projects and using a consistent accountability
model. In 2014, Rio Tinto Projects worked on delivering the following:
– Pilbara 360 project, Australia – continuing in 2015
– Concentrate expansion project at the Iron Ore Company of Canada
– Exploration decline at Energy Resources of Australia
– Modernisation of the ISAL aluminium smelter, Iceland
– AP60 project at the Arvida aluminium smelter, Canada
– Modified direct dissolving of kernite project at Boron Operations, US
– Cornerstone project – continuing in 2015
– Kitimat modernisation project, Canada – continuing in 2015
Rio Tinto Projects also contributed to studies for the South of Embley bauxite
project, Mount Pleasant coal project, Hail Creek mine expansion, Zulti South
mine expansion, Simandou iron ore project and Oyu Tolgoi copper expansion
project phase 2.
The Technical Assurance team provides independent assessments to the
Rio Tinto Investment Committee and board to ensure investment decisions are
thoroughly reviewed and technically sound. Technical Assurance has
developed and applied more rigorous project review, due diligence, and post-
investment review processes to Rio Tinto’s governance. This has been
effective in helping prioritise 2014’s reduced capital spend and will continue to
support future capital allocation.
Productivity
T&I’s Productivity team continues to help operations attain the best operating
performance from an asset. Key initiatives in 2014 included:
– Productivity programmes to improve the performance of mines and
processing plants: For example, improving throughput in a number of
operations, improving haul truck payloads and reducing train loading
times in the Pilbara, increasing concentrator throughput at Oyu Tolgoi,
improving recoveries at Escondida through process modelling and de-
bottlenecking the beneficiation plant at Weipa. T&I’s Integrated Value
Chain Engagement (IVCE) programme undertaken by the Brockman iron
ore mine since 2012 has delivered seven million tonnes of additional
saleable ore and an additional 45 million tonnes of material movement
without introducing new assets. Many other operations have benefited
from the IVCE programme.
– Asset management: Including maintenance tactics, shutdown strategies
and defect elimination protocols – to enhance the reliability, utilisation and
life of operating assets.
– Process development: Using sophisticated laboratory and pilot plant
facilities, and world-class modelling capabilities, to provide support to
operations and projects. Examples include a step-change in leach
extraction from copper sulphides and low-cost tailings de-watering.
– Technical risk mitigation: Supporting projects like Pilbara 360, the
Kennecott landslide recovery, and tailings dam design and operations.
Innovation
Automation programmes continued to progress under the Mine of the
Future
™
programme with 57 autonomous trucks in operation in the Pilbara at
year end and the world’s first autonomous heavy-haul railway (Autohaul
®
)
under construction. In 2014, T&I deployed three new technologies under the
Mine of the Future
™
programme:
– Processing Excellence Centre (PEC): Following successful trials that
delivered significant value at Rio Tinto copper process plants, the PEC was
officially opened in March. This state-of-the-art facility provides advanced
remote technical support to operations. The excellence centre platform
will be further developed across the Group.
–RTVis
™
: This visualisation software allows novel analysis of in-ground data,
improving understanding of the orebody at an operation. Application of
RTVis
™
at the Yandicoogina mine has seen a reclassification of more than
one million tonnes of material to a high silica ore product for blending. At
West Angelas, the high-grade recovery programme enabled by RTVis
™
created a two per cent increase in high-grade ore recovery.
– Autonomous drilling system (ADS): West Angelas is now the world’s first
full-time autonomous drill mine, with six rigs in operation. Functionality of
the system is being extended to allow use by Rio Tinto Energy. ADS has
demonstrated a ten per cent increase in use of equipment availability and
significant improvement in labour productivity at West Angelas.
In addition, the Rio Tinto Chinalco Innovation Joint Venture (RTCI) was
established in November. Combining Rio Tinto’s global leadership in mining
innovation with the resources and expertise of Chinalco’s world-class research
and development and engineering teams will provide a solid basis to develop
and/or commercialise next-generation technologies.
Outlook
In 2015, T&I will continue to build on its 2014 successes by:
– implementing the project shaping process and improving capital
project performance;
– ramping up the delivery of industry-leading productivity improvements;
– moving to the next phase of Mine of the Future
™
by harnessing “big data”
and predictive analytics, further equipment automation, further
implementation of operation centres, excellence centres and
implementation of other step-change innovations.
riotinto.com 39
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial overview
The key metrics for Group financial management and planning are
summarised below.
2014
US$ million
2013
US$ million
2012
US$ million
Underlying earnings
(a)
9,305 10,217 9,269
Net earnings/(loss)
(a)
6,527 3,665 (3,028)
Net cash generated from
operating activities 14,286 15,078 9,430
Net debt 12,495 18,055 19,192
Total capital
(b)
67,089 71,557 76,932
(a) Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management
uses internally to assess performance. It is presented here as a measure of earnings
to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the
Group. Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are
explained in note 2 to the financial statements. Both net earnings and underlying
earnings deal with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. However, IFRS
requires that the profit for the year reported in the income statement should also
include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
(b) Total capital is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity
attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt.
Decreased underlying earnings reflect the unfavourable impact of lower prices
in the Group’s main commodities, other than aluminium and diamonds. This
was offset by the favourable impact of improved sales volumes, operating cash
cost improvements and continued overall strengthening of the US dollar
against local currencies.
Net earnings of US$6.5 billion reflect non-cash exchange losses of
US$1.9 billion; impairment reversals of US$1.0 billion offset by impairment
charges of US$1.1 billion; a US$0.4 billion write-off of deferred tax assets
following the repeal of the Mineral Resources Rent Tax by the Australian
senate; and losses on disposal of businesses during the period of US$0.3
billion.
Net cash generated from operating activities, which include dividends from
equity accounted units, reflect the negative impact of lower commodity prices
partially offset by the favourable impact from higher volumes and cost
reduction initiatives and a reduction in net interest paid as a result of lower
net debt.
Net debt decreased from US$18.1 billion at 31 December 2013 to
US$12.5 billion at 31 December 2014 as operating cash inflows, divestment
proceeds and proceeds from the disposal of the Group’s St James’s Square
properties more than offset the outflows relating to capital expenditure and
the increased dividend payment. Gearing ratio decreased from 25.2 per cent at
31 December 2013 to 18.6 per cent at 31 December 2014. Interest cover
remained unchanged from the prior year at 13 times. The board’s objective
when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst
maximising returns for the Group’s shareholders. In practice, this involves
regular reviews by the board and senior management. These reviews take into
account the Group’s strategic priorities, economic and business conditions, and
opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities
cycle. The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of
financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
In addition to the information provided on the product groups on pages 28 to
37, further information on their financial performance can be found in notes 2
and 3 to the financial statements on pages 123 to 126 and the financial
information by business unit on pages 178 to 182.
40 riotinto.com Five year review
Selected financial data
The selected consolidated financial information below has been derived from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group. The
selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and qualified in their entirety by reference to, the 2014 financial statements and notes
thereto. The financial statements as included on pages 103 to 194 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Group
Income statement data
Fortheyearsending31December
Amounts in accordance with IFRS
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
2010
US$m
Consolidated sales revenue 47,664 51,171 50,942 60,529 55,171
Group operating (loss)/profit
(a)
11,346 7,430 (1,925) 14,037 19,608
Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations 6,499 1,079 (3,020) 6,800 15,195
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – – (7) (10) (97)
Profit/(loss) for the year 6,499 1,079 (3,027) 6,790 15,098
Basic earnings/(losses) per share
(b)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (US cents) 353.1 198.4 (163.4) 303.9 731.0
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (US cents) – – (0.4) (0.5) (4.9)
Profit/(loss) for the year per share (US cents) 353.1 198.4 (163.8) 303.4 726.1
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share
(b)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations (US cents) 351.2 197.3 (163.4) 302.0 726.7
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (US cents) – – (0.4) (0.5) (4.9)
Profit/(loss) for the year per share (US cents) 351.2 197.3 (163.8) 301.5 721.8
Dividends per share 2014 2013 2012 2012 2010
Dividends declared during the year
US cents
–interim 96.0 83.5 72.5 54.0 45.0
–final 119.0 108.5 94.5 91.0 63.0
UK pence
–interim 56.9 54.3 46.4 33.1 28.2
–final 78.0 65.8 60.3 57.3 39.1
Australian cents
–interim 103.1 93.0 68.5 49.8 49.3
–final 153.0 120.14 91.7 84.2 61.9
Dividends paid during the year (US cents)
–ordinary 204.5 178.0 163.5 117.0 90.0
Weighted average number of shares – basic (millions) 1,848.4 1,847.3 1,849.1 1,923.1 1,961.0
Weighted average number of shares – diluted (millions)
(b)
1,858.7 1,857.7 1,849.1 1,935.5 1,972.6
Balance sheet data
at 31 December
Amounts in accordance with IFRS 2014 US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2011
US$m
2010
US$m
Total assets 107,827 111,025 118,437 120,152 112,773
Share capital/premium 9,053 9,410 10,189 10,024 10,105
Total equity/Net assets 54,594 53,502 57,740 58,884 64,512
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 46,285 45,886 46,553 52,199 58,247
(a) Group operating profit or loss includes the effects of charges and reversals resulting from impairments (other than impairments of equity accounted units) and profit and loss on
disposals of interests in businesses. Group operating loss or profit amounts shown above exclude equity accounted operations, finance items, tax and discontinued operations.
(b) The effects of anti-dilutive potential have not been included when calculating diluted loss per share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
riotinto.com 41
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ approval statement
This Strategic report is delivered in accordance with a resolution of the board, and has been signed on behalf of the board by:
JanduPlessis
Chairman
4 March 2015
42 riotinto.com Contents
Directors’ report
Dual listed structure and constitutional documents 44
Operating and financial review 44
Risk identification, assessment and management 45
Share capital 45
Purchases 46
Substantial shareholders 46
Dividends 46
Secretaries 46
Corporate governance 46
Indemnities and insurance 47
Employment policies and communication 47
Political donations 47
Government regulations 47
Environmental regulations 47
Greenhouse gas emissions 48
Exploration, research and development 48
Auditors 48
Fees for audit and non-audit services 48
Financial instruments 48
Board of directors 49
Executive Committee 52
Corporate governance 53
Remuneration Report 64
riotinto.com 43
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report
The directors present their report and audited consolidated financial
statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Dual listed structure and constitutional documents
An explanation of the dual listed companies structure (DLC) of Rio Tinto plc
and Rio Tinto Limited, and of the Companies’ constitutional documents can be
found on pages 220 to 222. This section also provides a description of voting
rights under the DLC arrangements, including restrictions which may apply in
respect of the shares of either Company under specified circumstances.
Operating and financial review
The Strategic report set out on pages 1 to 42 provides a comprehensive review
of Rio Tinto’s operations, its financial position and its business strategies and
prospects, and is incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this
directors’ report.
Rio Tinto’s principal activities during 2014 were minerals and metals
exploration, development, production and processing.
Pages 1 to 39 of the Strategic report provides a comprehensive review of the
development and performance of Rio Tinto’s operations for the year ended
31 December 2014 and the potential future developments and expected
results of those operations.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits
or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 33 to 36 to the
financial statements.
Significant changes and events affecting the Group during 2014 and until the
date of this report have been:
– On 13 January 2014, Rio Tinto acquired 510,983,220 common shares of
Turquoise Hill under Turquoise Hill’s rights offering at a total cost of
C$1,292,787,546.60 or C$2.53 per share, together with additional
anti-dilution share warrants. The purchase represented approximately
50.8 per cent of the common shares offered under the rights offering and
enabled Rio Tinto to maintain its existing percentage shareholding in
Turquoise Hill. The rights offering was fully subscribed. Turquoise Hill used
a portion of the funds it received under the rights offering to repay all
amounts outstanding under the US$1.8 billion interim funding facility and
the US$600 million secured bridge funding facility each provided to
Turquoise Hill by Rio Tinto.
– On 28 January 2014, Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited (RTMEL)
received 44,126,780 common shares of Minera IRL Limited (IRL),
representing approximately 19.44 per cent of the issued and outstanding
common shares of IRL. The shares formed part of the consideration agreed
to in the 2006 option agreement on the Ollachea Gold Project between
RTMEL and IRL. The consideration for each share was C$0.1790. The
shares were issued from IRL’s treasury and were not purchased by RTMEL
via a market transaction. Should RTMEL not sell any of the shares for a
period of one year, RTMEL shall be entitled to a cash incentive payment.
– On 12 February 2014, Rio Tinto entered into an option agreement with
LNG Canada, a joint venture comprising Shell Canada Energy, Phoenix
Energy Holdings Limited (an affiliate of Petro-China Investment (Hong
Kong) Limited), Kogas Canada LNG Ltd. (an affiliate of Korea Gas
Corporation) and Diamond LNG Canada Ltd. (an affiliate of Mitsubishi
Corporation) to acquire or lease a wharf and associated land at its port
facility at Kitimat, British Columbia, Canada. LNG Canada is proposing to
construct and operate a natural gas liquefaction plant and marine terminal
export facility at Kitimat.
– On 7 April 2014, Rio Tinto announced its intention to gift its 19.1 per cent
shareholding in Northern Dynasty Minerals Ltd (Northern Dynasty), owner
of the Pebble Project, to two local Alaskan charitable foundations. The
decision followed the strategic review announced in 2013 of Rio Tinto’s
interest in Northern Dynasty, which concluded the Pebble Project did not
fit with Rio Tinto’s strategy. The shares in Northern Dynasty were divided
equally between the Alaska Community Foundation to fund educational
and vocational training and the Bristol Bay Native Corporation Education
Foundation, which supports educational and cultural programmes in
the region.
– On 30 April 2014, Rio Tinto filed a complaint in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York against: Vale, S.A., Beny
Steinmetz, BSG Resources Limited, BSG Resources (Guinea) Ltd. aka BSG
Resources Guinée Ltd, BSGR Guinea Ltd. BVI, BSG Resources Guinée SARL
aka BSG Resources (Guinea) SARL aka VBG-Vale BSGR Guinea, Frederic
Cilins, Michael Noy, Avraham Lev Ran, Mamadie Touré, and Mahmoud
Thiam. The Complaint relates to the loss of half of Rio Tinto’s mining
concession in the Simandou region of south-east Guinea in 2008. Rio Tinto
asked the Court to award compensatory, consequential, exemplary and
punitive damages to Rio Tinto in an amount to be determined at trial.
– On 13 May 2014, Rio Tinto announced that its Pilbara iron ore system of
mines, rail and ports had reached a run rate of 290 million tonnes a year,
two months ahead of schedule.
– On 26 May 2014, the Government of Guinea and its partners, Rio Tinto,
Chinalco and the IFC, signed the Investment Framework for blocks 3 and 4
of Simandou. The signing provided the continued legal and commercial
foundation for the project.
– On 27 May 2014, the Group announced that it had appointed Alfredo
Barrios as chief executive of its Aluminium business, to succeed Jacynthe
Côté with effect from 1 June 2014.
– On 2 June 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent interest
in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal Pty Ltd, a company jointly owned
by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation, for US$1,015 million. Under the
terms of the sale, Glencore took over management of Clermont mine,
which produces thermal coal in central Queensland.
– On 30 July 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached an agreement to
sell Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and
other projects in the Tete province of Mozambique, to International Coal
Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million (before net debt and working
capital adjustments). On 8 October 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had
completed the sale.
– On 18 August 2014, the Group announced that following recent
developments in Papua New Guinea, including the new mining legislation
passed by the Autonomous Bougainville Government, it had decided to
review all options for its 53.83 per cent stake in Bougainville Copper
Limited.
– On 2 September 2014, Talon Metals Corp., a company listed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, announced an independent mineral resource
estimate prepared in accordance with Canadian National Instrument
43-101 (NI 43-101) on the Tamarack Nickel-Copper-Platinum Project
(Tamarack Project) located in Minnesota, US. Talon has the right to acquire
an initial 30 per cent stake in the Tamarack Project from Kennecott
Exploration Company, a subsidiary of the Group.
44 riotinto.com – On 7 October 2014, the Group announced that in July 2014, Glencore had
contacted it regarding a potential merger of Rio Tinto and Glencore and
that the Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its financial and legal
advisers, had concluded unanimously that a combination was not in the
best interests of Rio Tinto’s shareholders, and that the board’s rejection
was communicated to Glencore in early August.
– 17 November 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had signed a Heads of
Agreement with Sinosteel Corporation (SC) and it intended to advance
discussions with SC for a second extension to the Channar Mining iron ore
joint venture in Western Australia’s Pilbara region.
– On 27 November 2014, Rio Tinto announced that it had formally approved
the development of a fourth pipe, known as A21, at the Diavik Diamond
Mine.
– On 28 November 2014, Rio Tinto Coal Australia declared a significant
increase of its managed thermal coal reserves in the Hunter Valley of New
South Wales, Australia, compared with the previous estimates reported in
Rio Tinto’s 2013 Annual Report.
– On 12 February 2015, the Group announced a capital return of
US$2.0 billion which comprises a targeted A$500 million (c. US$0.4 billion)
off-market share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the
balance of approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of
Rio Tinto plc shares.
– On 27 February 2015, the Group announced that it would be streamlining
its product groups and corporate functions as part of the continued focus
on efficiency and costs, with immediate effect. Under the new
arrangements, Rio Tinto’s world-class portfolio of assets have been
condensed into four product groups: Aluminium, Copper & Coal, Diamonds
& Minerals and Iron Ore.
Details of events after the balance sheet date are further described in note 43
to the financial statements.
Risk identification, assessment and management
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 14 to 17.
The Group’s approach to risk management is discussed on page 62.
Share capital
Details of the Group’s share capital as at 31 December 2014 can be found
at notes 27 and 28 to the financial statements. Details of the rights and
obligations attached to each class of shares can be found on pages 220
and 221 under the heading “Voting rights”.
Where under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants
are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the registered owners, the
voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction
of the participant.
Details of certain consequences triggered on a change of control can be found
on page 220 under the heading “Dual listed companies structure”.
Details of certain restrictions on holding shares in Rio Tinto are described on
page 221 under the heading “Limitations on ownership of shares”. There are
no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Rio Tinto shares save for:
– restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by laws, regulations
or Rio Tinto policy (for example, those relating to market abuse or insider
dealing or share trading and, in Australia, including those relating to
foreign investment);
– restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed following a
failure to supply information required to be disclosed, or in relation to
unmarketable parcels of shares;
– restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee share
plans while they remain subject to the plan.
At the annual general meetings held in 2014, shareholders authorised:
– the purchase by Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries, and the on-market
repurchase by Rio Tinto plc, of up to 141,340,869 Rio Tinto plc shares
(representing approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto plc’s issued share
capitalatthattime);
– the off-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc of up to 141,340,869 Rio Tinto plc
shares acquired by Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiaries under the above
authority; and
– the off-market or on-market buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited of up to
43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares (representing approximately ten
per cent of Rio Tinto Limited’s issued share capital at the time).
riotinto.com 45
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report continued
Purchases
Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited
Total number
(a)
of shares
purchased
Average price
(b)
paid per
share US$
Total number
(c)
of shares
purchased as
part of
publicly
announced
plans or
programmes
Total number
(a)
of shares
purchased
Average price
(b)
paid per share
US$
Total number
(c)
of shares
purchased as
part of
publicly
announced
plans or
programmes
Rio Tinto Group
Approximate dollar
value of shares that
may yet be purchased
under the plans or
programmes
US$
(e)
2014
1 Jan to 31 Jan – – – 10,436 60.62 – –
1 Feb to 28 Feb – – – 579,000 62.46 – –
1Marto31Mar – ––– –– –
1 Apr to 30 Apr 667,292 56.57 – 1,099,277 61.02 – –
1Mayto31May – ––– –– –
1 Jun to 30 Jun 12,751 53.44 – – – – –
1Julto31Jul – ––– –– –
1 Aug to 31 Aug 58,003 55.58 – 53,827 60.68 – –
1 Sep to 30 Sep 777,165 52.29 – 933,259 56.01 – –
1 Oct to 31 Oct 649,261 48.45 – 1,726,644 51.39 – –
1 Nov to 30 Nov 198,482 51.69 – – – – –
1Decto31Dec – ––– –– –
Total 2,362,954
(d)
52.48 – 4,402,443 56.36 – –
2015 – – – – – – –
1Janto31Jan – ––– –– –
1Febto16Feb – ––– –– –
Notes
(a) Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each; Rio Tinto plc ADRs; Rio Tinto Limited shares.
(b) The average prices paid have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rate on the day of settlement.
(c) Shares purchased by the Companies’ registrars in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans are not deemed to form part of any publicly
announced plan or programme.
(d) This figure represents 1.66 per cent of Rio Tinto plc issued share capital at 31 December 2014.
(e) Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion buy-back programme on 12 February 2015. At 16 February 2015, no Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares had beenpurchased
under this programme.
During 2014, in order to satisfy obligations under employee share plans,
Rio Tinto plc issued 1,450,659 shares from treasury and allotted 971 newly
issued shares. The trustees of Rio Tinto plc’s employee share trusts purchased
on-market 961,451shares and 27,493 ADRs. The trustee of Rio Tinto Limited’s
employee share trusts purchased 2,483,214 shares on-market. In total,
2,298,707 Rio Tinto plc shares, 5,504 ADRs, and 1,229,122 Rio Tinto Limited
shares were delivered to plan participants.
Also during the year, the Companies’ registrars purchased 1,374,010 Rio Tinto
plc shares and 1,919,229 Rio Tinto Limited shares on-market to satisfy
obligations to shareholders under the dividend reinvestment plans.
For the period 1 January 2015 to 16 February 2015, Rio Tinto plc issued
316,583 shares from treasury in connection with employee share plans and
allotted 253 newly issued shares. During this period, 791,957 Rio Tinto plc
shares, 350 ADRs, and 581,972 Rio Tinto Limited shares were delivered to
plan participants.
Awards over 1,919,507 Rio Tinto plc shares and 1,515,972 Rio Tinto Limited
shares were granted under employee share plans during 2014. As at
16 February 2015, awards were outstanding over 6,434,325 Rio Tinto plc
shares, 124,530 ADRs and 5,074,494 Rio Tinto Limited shares. Upon vesting,
awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, the purchase of shares
on-market, or, in the case of Rio Tinto plc, by issuing treasury shares.
On 12 February 2015, Rio Tinto announced a US$2.0 billion buy-back
programme comprising a targeted A$500 million (c. US$0.4 billion) off-market
share buy-back tender of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of
approximately US$1.6 billion for an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Substantial shareholders
Details of substantial shareholders can be found on page 222.
Dividends
Details of dividends paid and the progressive dividend policy can be found on
page 224.
Directors
The names of the directors who served during the year, together with their
biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 49 to 51.
All directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2015 annual general
meetings with the exception of Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick who will
retire at the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting to be
held on 7 May 2015.
A table of directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings during 2014
is on page 55.
Secretaries
Details of the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and the joint company
secretaries of Rio Tinto Limited together with their qualifications and
experience are set out on page 51.
Corporate governance
A full report on corporate governance can be found on pages 53 to 63 and
forms part of this Directors’ report.
46 riotinto.com Indemnities and insurance
The Articles of Association and Constitution of the Companies provide for
them to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, officers of the Companies,
including officers of wholly owned subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from
the conduct of the Group’s business. The directors of the Companies, the
company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and the joint company secretaries of
Rio Tinto Limited, and certain employees serving as directors of subsidiaries
at the Group’s request have been indemnified in accordance with these
provisions. No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during
the year. The Group has purchased directors’ and officers’ insurance during
the year. In broad terms, the insurance cover indemnifies individual directors’
and officers’ personal legal liability and legal defence costs for claims arising
out of actions taken in connection with Group business. It is a condition of the
insurance policy that detailed terms and premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
Employment policies and communication
Information about the Group’s employment policies and our employees is
available on page 23.
Political donations
No donations were made during 2014 for political purposes in the EU, Australia
or elsewhere, as defined by the UK Companies Act 2006.
Government regulations
Our operations in over 40 countries are subject to extensive regulations
imposed by local, state, provincial and federal governments. These regulations
govern many aspects of our operations – how we explore, mine and process
ore, conditions of land tenure and use, health, safety and environmental
requirements, how we operate as a company including laws regarding
securities, taxation, intellectual property, competition and foreign investment,
provisions to protect data privacy, conditions of trade and export and
infrastructure access. In addition to these laws, several operations are also
governed by the provisions of specific agreements which have been made with
governments. Some of these agreements are enshrined in acts of parliament.
The geographic and product diversity of our operations reduces the likelihood
of any single government regulation having a material effect on the Group’s
business. Our many internal controls – codes of conduct, standards and
procedures coupled with our high standards of practice also mitigate against
the impact of regulation.
In Australia and Namibia, Rio Tinto’s uranium operations are subject to specific
regulations governing the mining and export of uranium.
In Canada, our hydroelectric power generation assets are regulated by the
Quebec and British Columbia provincial agencies covering issues of water
rights, power sales and purchases.
In Mongolia, starting from 1 January 2015, we are potentially subject to legal
requirements under the so-called “Glass Account Law” on publicly disclosing
certain financial information related to the company’s procurement, tender
process and debts. The law applies to companies in which the government
owns at least one-third of its common shares (the government owns
34 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC). The company already broadly discloses much
of the information covered in the new law, but the practical impact to the
business is still unclear as the government is yet to provide detailed guidance
on minimum compliance standards.
In South Africa, our operations are subject to and have complied with black
economic empowerment legislation which required companies to transfer (for
fair value) 26 per cent of the Group’s South African mining assets to historically
disadvantaged South Africans by 2014. Rio Tinto also complies with the mining
legislation’s transformation imperatives which includes empowerment of South
Africa’s Historically Disadvantaged Employees and Communities.
Environmental regulations
Rio Tinto is subject to various environmental regulations including
regulations that cover air, land, water, ecology and noise in the countries
where it has operations. Rio Tinto measures its performance against
environmental regulation to which its operations are subject by tracking and
rating incidents according to their environmental impact. Issues of Group-level
importance are reported to the Executive Committee and the Sustainability
Committee. Prosecutions and other breaches are also used to gauge
Rio Tinto’s performance.
In 2014, there were 12 one-off or repeated environmental incidents reported
to the Executive Committee with impact to the environment or of concern to
local communities. Five resulted from air discharges, four from water
discharges, one from spillage into a water body, one related to soil runoff and
one related to injury to fauna.
They were:
– Several releases of coal dust and sulphur dioxide beyond specified limits
from a plant in the Netherlands.
– Elevated potroom particulate emission at an aluminium smelter in Canada.
– Complaints of blast dust cloud drifting over private land adjacent to a coal
mine in Australia.
– Multiple releases of fluorine gas from scrubber and exhaust fan
malfunctions at an aluminium smelter in Canada.
– Several releases of dust emissions beyond specified limits from a plant
in France.
– Release of caustic, spent liquor and other substances due to water
discharge overflow at an alumina refinery in Australia.
– Exceedances of total suspended solids and pH requirements during heavy
rain at a refinery in Australia.
– Release of effluent from a settling tank into surface water from a plant in
the Netherlands.
– Release of oil into a river outlet at an aluminium smelter in Canada.
– A diesel spill into a river as a result of a train derailment in Canada.
– Presence of adult salmon in an industrial lagoon in violation of wildlife
regulations at a smelter in Canada.
– Soil runoff into a rice field following insufficient rehabilitation of an
exhausted exploration borrow pit in Guinea.
During 2014, six operations incurred fines amounting to US$319,513
(2013: US$190,279).
Australian corporations that exceed specific greenhouse gas emissions or
energy use thresholds have obligations under the Australian National
Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER). All Rio Tinto entities
covered under this Act met their annual NGER reporting obligations by the
required 31 October 2014 deadline.
A number of Australian Rio Tinto entities were also subject to the Clean
Energy Act 2011 and the Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006 for the first
half of 2014 and both these Acts were repealed retrospectively, with effect
from 1 July 2014. All compliance requirements under these Acts were satisfied
within the stipulated timeframes.
Further information on the Group’s environmental performance is included in
the sustainable development section of this Annual report, on pages 20 to 26,
and on the website.
riotinto.com 47
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ report continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions (in million tCO
2
-e)
(a)(b)
2014 2013
Scope 1
(c)
21.9 23.6
(g)
Scope 2
(d)
12.5 14.4
Total emissions
(e)
33.9 37.4
(g)
Ratios
GH intensity index
(f)
82.0 83.2
(g)
GH intensity (tCO
2
-e/t of product) 0.082 0.095
(a) Rio Tinto’s greenhouse gas emissions for managed operations are reported in
accordance with requirements under Part 7 of The UK Companies Act 2006
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013. Our approach and
methodology used for the determination of these emissions are available at:
http://www.riotinto.com/sd2014/pdfs/climate_change. pdf and
http://www.riotinto.com/sd2014/pdfs/glossary.pdf
(b) Rio Tinto’s greenhouse gas emission inventory is based on definitions provided by
The World Resource Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Carbon Reporting and Accounting Standard,
March 2004.
(c) Scope 1 emissions include “emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of
managed facilities”. It includes emissions from land management and livestock
management at those facilities.
(d) Scope 2 emissions include “emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam
or cooling”.
(e) Total emissions is the sum of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions minus emissions that
are associated with the generation of electricity, heat, steam or cooling supplied to
others. These emissions exclude indirect emissions associated with transportation
and use of our products reported on page 24.
(f) Rio Tinto greenhouse gas intensity index is the weighted emissions intensity for
each of Rio Tinto’s main commodities relative to the commodity intensities in the
2008 base year (set to 100). This index incorporates approximately 97 per cent of
Rio Tinto’s emissions from managed operations.
(g) Number restated to ensure comparability over time. Amendment due to changes in
measurement and calculation methodologies or immaterial updates to data.
Exploration, research and development
The Group carries out exploration as well as research and development in
support of its activities as described more fully under Exploration and
Technology & Innovation on pages 38 to 39. Amounts charged for the year,
net of any gains on disposal, generated a net loss before tax for exploration
and evaluation of US$783 million (2013: US$1,109 million). Research and
development costs were US$112 million (2013: US$231 million).
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers (together, PwC)
are the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited respectively.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to continue
in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to reappoint them as
auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at the 2015 annual general meetings.
A separate resolution will seek authority for the Audit Committee to determine
their remuneration. PricewaterhouseCoopers will continue in office as auditors
of Rio Tinto Limited.
A copy of the declaration given by PricewaterhouseCoopers as the Group’s
external auditors to the directors in relation to the auditors’ compliance with
the independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and
the professional code of conduct for external auditors is set out on page 185 in
the financial statements.
No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during 2014 was a director or
partner of the auditors at a time when they conducted an audit of the Group.
Each person who held the office of director at the date the board resolved to
approve this report makes the following statements:
– so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the auditors are unaware; and
– each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a
director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Fees for audit and non-audit services
The amounts payable to the Group’s auditors, PwC, were:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Audit fees
(a)
14.7 15.3
Assurance services
(b)
2.1 4.2
Taxation services 0.9 0.9
All other fees
(c)
0.4 1.3
18.1 21.7
(a) Audit fees relating to statutory audits.
(b) Assurance services in 2014 are mainly related to half year review procedures,
sustainability assurance and limited assurance over the 2014 Taxes Paid Report.
(c) All other fees include services in connection with the divestment programme and
other corporate projects.
Further information on auditor’s remuneration see note 39 to the
financial statements.
Duringtheyear,theAuditCommitteereviewed the effectiveness of PwC for
Group audit and local, statutory audit work. The evaluation took the form of a
survey comprising a range of questions covering objectivity, quality and
efficiency and was completed by individual Rio Tinto business units. The
results of this survey and review were presented to the Audit Committee which
concluded that PwC continued to provide a high-quality audit and an effective
and independent challenge to management. The Audit Committee was
satisfied with the external audit process and the independence of the
external auditors.
PwC have been the external auditors since before the formation of the dual
listed companies structure in 1995. For the reasons noted on page 58 the Audit
Committee does not consider it necessary at the present time to undertake a
tender process for the Group’s external audit. Since 2002, PwC have followed
the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and APB Ethical Standards
and rotated both the lead UK and Australian audit partners at least every five
years. In the UK, the audit engagement partner was appointed in 2011, and in
Australia the audit engagement partner was appointed in 2012. They are due to
transition after 2015 and 2016 respectively. This continued refreshing of the
team brings new perspectives to the audit and promotes healthy debate
between auditors and management as well as the Committee.
Based on advice provided by the Audit Committee as set out in the report of
the Audit Committee on pages 57 to 59, the directors are satisfied that the
provision of non-audit services by PwC is compatible with the general standard
of independence for auditors and the standards imposed by Australian, UK and
US legislation.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies and
exposure to risk are described in note 30 to the 2014 financial statements.
48 riotinto.com Board of directors
Key for committee memberships:
(A) Audit Committee
(R) Remuneration Committee
(N) Nominations Committee
(S) Sustainability Committee
(C) Chairman’s Committee
(I) Independent
Jan du Plessis (R, N and C)
Chairman, BCom, LLB, CA(SA), age 61
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2008. Jan was appointed chairman in
2009. He is the chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Jan, a South African and British citizen, became group
finance director of Compagnie Financière Richemont, the Swiss luxury goods
group, in 1988. In 2004, he was appointed chairman of British American
Tobacco plc, a position which he held until 2009.
External appointments (current and recent): Non-executive director of
SABMiller plc since 2014 and chairman-elect, non-executive director and
senior independent non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Group plc
since 2008 and 2012 respectively. Jan stepped down from the board of Marks
and Spencer Group plc in March 2015.
Sam Walsh AO (C)
Chief executive, BCom (Melbourne), age 65
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2009. He was appointed chief
executive in 2013.
Skills and experience: Sam, an Australian citizen, joined Rio Tinto in 1991,
following 20 years in the automotive industry at General Motors and Nissan
Australia. He has held a number of management positions during his career at
Rio Tinto including chief executive of the Aluminium group from 2001 to 2004,
chief executive of the Iron Ore group from 2004 to 2009 and chief executive,
Iron Ore and Australia from 2009 to 2013. Sam is a Fellow of the Australian
Institute of Management, the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy,
the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply Management, the Australian
Institute of Company Directors and the Australian Academy of Technical
Science and Engineering. In 2010, he was appointed an Officer in the General
Division of the Order of Australia.
External appointments (current and recent): Trustee of the Royal Opera House
Covent Garden Foundation since 2014, Member of the Council of the
International Council on Mining & Metals and a director of The International
Council on Mining and Metals (UK) Limited since 2013, non-executive director
of Seven West Media Limited from 2008 until 2013.
Chris Lynch (C)
Chief financial officer, BCom, MBA, age 61
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2011 (non-executive) and chief
financial officer since 2013.
Skills and experience: Chris, an Australian citizen, has nearly 30 years’
experience in the mining and metals industry. He was chief executive officer of
the Transurban Group, an international toll road developer and manager with
interests in Australia and North America, until 2012. His career has included
seven years at BHP Billiton, where he was chief financial officer and then
executive director and group president – Carbon Steel Materials. Prior to this,
Chris spent 20 years with Alcoa Inc. where he was vice-president and chief
information officer based in Pittsburgh, and chief financial officer Alcoa Europe
in Switzerland. He was also managing director of KAAL Australia Limited, a
joint venture company formed by Alcoa and Kobe Steel.
External appointments (current and recent): Chief executive officer of the
Transurban Group Limited from 2008 until 2012, commissioner of the
Australian Football League from 2008 until 2014.
Robert Brown (A, N and I)
Non-executive director, BSc, age 70
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2010.
Skills and experience: Bob is a Canadian citizen and contributes his
considerable experience in large, high-profile Canadian companies. He is
chairman of Aimia Inc., a customer loyalty management provider, and
serves on the board of BCE Inc. (Bell Canada Enterprises), Canada’s largest
communications company. He was previously president and chief executive
officer of CAE Inc., a world leader in flight simulation and training. Before
that he spent 16 years at Bombardier Inc., the aerospace and transportation
company, where he was firstly head of the Aerospace Group and then
president and chief executive officer. He has also served as chairman of Air
Canada and of the Aerospace Industries Association of Canada. Bob was
inducted to the Order of Canada as well as l’Ordre National du Québec. He
has been awarded honorary doctorates from five Canadian universities.
External appointments (current and recent): Non-executive director of BCE
Inc. and Bell Canada since 2009, non-executive director and chairman of Aimia
Inc. since 2005 and 2008 respectively, non-executive director of Fier CPVC-
Montreal L.P. from 2005 until 2014.
Megan Clark AC (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, BSc, PhD, age 56
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since November 2014.
Skills and experience: Megan, an Australian citizen, was chief executive of the
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) from
2009 until 2014. Prior to that, Megan held various mineral exploration, mine
geology and strategy roles with Western Mining Corporation, was a director at
NM Rothschild and Sons (Australia) and was vice president, Technology and
subsequently vice president, Health, Safety, Environment, Community and
Sustainability with BHP Billiton from 2003 to 2008. She holds a PhD in
economic geology from Queen’s University, Canada and is a Fellow of the
Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering, the Australian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and the Australian Institute of Company
Directors. In 2014 she was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia.
External appointments (current and recent): Member of the Global Foundation
board since 2014, member of the Monash University Council since 2014,
member of the advisory board of the World Economic Forum’s 2015 Global
Risk Report, member of the Australian advisory board of Bank of America
Merrill Lynch since 2010, chief executive and director of CSIRO from 2009 to
2014, member of the Prime Minister’s Science, Industry, and Engineering
Council from 2009 until 2014.
Michael Fitzpatrick (A, R, N and I)
Non-executive director, BEng, BA (Oxon), age 62
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2006.
Skills and experience: Michael, an Australian citizen, contributes wide-ranging
investment and local knowledge of Australian business. He is chairman of
Treasury Group Limited, a Sydney-based incubator of fund management
companies, chairman of the Australian Football League and a former chairman
of the Australian Sports Commission. After leaving professional football in 1983
and working for the Treasury of the State of Victoria and with investment banks
in New York, Michael founded the pioneering infrastructure asset management
company Hastings Funds Management Limited in 1994. He was a Rhodes
Scholar in 1975.
External appointments (current and recent): Non-executive director of
LatAm Autos Limited since November 2014, non-executive director of
Carnegie Wave Energy Limited since 2012, non-executive director and
chairman of Infrastructure Capital Group Limited since 2009, chairman of
the Treasury Group Limited since 2005, commissioner and chairman of the
Australian Football League since 2003 and 2007 respectively, director of the
Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research since 2001.
riotinto.com 49
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board of directors continued
Ann Godbehere (A, N and I)
Non-executive director, FCPA, FCGA, age 59
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto and chairman of the Audit Committee
since 2010.
Skills and experience: Ann, a Canadian and British citizen, has more than
25 years’ experience in the financial services industry. She spent ten years at
Swiss Re, a global reinsurer, latterly as chief financial officer from 2003 until
2007. She was interim chief financial officer and executive director of Northern
Rock bank after its nationalisation. Ann is a qualified accountant.
External appointments (current and recent): Non-executive director of
UBS Group AG since 2014 and non-executive director of UBS AG since
2009, non-executive director of British American Tobacco plc since 2011,
non-executive director of Atrium Underwriting Group Limited from 2007
until 2014, non-executive director of Arden Holdings Ltd from 2007 until
2014, non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of
Prudential Public Limited Company since 2007 and 2009 respectively.
Richard Goodmanson (R, S, N and I)
Non-executive director, B. Econ, BCom, MBA, MCE, age 67
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2004 and chairman of the
Sustainability Committee.
Skills and experience: Richard, a US citizen, was executive vice president and
chief operating officer of DuPont until 2009. Prior to this he was president and
chief executive officer of America West Airlines and senior vice president of
operations for Frito-Lay, Inc., a subsidiary of PepsiCo. Richard has worked at
senior levels for McKinsey & Co, where he led client service teams on major
programmes of strategy development. He spent ten years in heavy civil
engineering project management, principally in South East Asia, including the
construction of the Hong Kong Subway System.
External appointments (current and recent): Non-executive director of Qantas
Airways Limited since 2008.
Lord Kerr of Kinlochard (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, GCMG, MA (Oxon), age 73
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2003.
Skills and experience: John, a British citizen, was a member of the UK
Diplomatic Service for 36 years and headed it from 1997 to 2002 as permanent
under secretary at the Foreign Office. He previously served in HM Treasury
and in the former Soviet Union and Pakistan, and was ambassador to the
European Union and the US. He has been an Independent member of the
House of Lords since 2004.
External appointments (current and recent): Advisory board member of
Edinburgh Partners Limited since 2012, director and vice chairman of Scottish
Power Limited since 2009 and 2012 respectively, chairman of the Centre for
European Reform (London) since 2008, vice president of the European Policy
Centre (Brussels) since 2007, trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities
of Scotland since 2005, director of The Scottish American Investment
Company plc since 2002, deputy chairman of Royal Dutch Shell plc from 2005
until 2012, chairman of the Court and Council of Imperial College London from
2005 until 2011, advisory board member of BAE Systems from 2008 until
2011, trustee of the National Gallery in London from 2002 until 2010, trustee
of the Rhodes Trust from 1997 until 2010.
Anne Lauvergeon (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, PhD, age 55
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since March 2014.
Skills and experience: Anne, a French citizen, started her professional career in
1983 in the steel industry and in 1990 was named adviser for economic
international affairs at the French Presidencyanddeputychiefofitsstaffin
1991. In 1995, she became a partner of Lazard Frères & Cie, subsequently
joining Alcatel Telecom as senior executive vice president in 1997, where she
was responsible for international activities and the group’s industrial
shareholdings in the energy and securities sectors. She served as chairman
and chief executive officer of COGEMA from 1999 until 2011 and chief
executive officer of AREVA Group from 2001 until 2011.
External appointments (current and recent): Chairman of SIGFOX since 2014,
non-executive director of American Express Company since 2013, non-
executive director of EADS N.V. since 2013, non-executive director of Total SA
since 2000, chairman and chief executive officer of French advisory company,
A.L.P., non-executive director of GDF SUEZ from 2001 until 2012, chief
executive officer of AREVA Group from 2001 until 2011, and non-executive
director of Vodafone plc from 2005 until 2014.
Michael L’Estrange AO (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, BA, MA (Oxon), age 62
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since September 2014.
Skills and experience: Michael, an Australian citizen, joined the Australian
Government’s Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet in 1981. From 1989
to 1994, he worked in a range of policy advisory positions before he was
appointed the inaugural executive director of the Menzies Research Centre in
Canberra in 1995. In 1996, he was appointed by the Prime Minister as
secretary to cabinet and head of the Cabinet Policy Unit. He served in that role
until 2000 when he became Australia’s high commissioner to the United
Kingdom. He returned to Australia as secretary of the Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade from 2005 to 2009. In 2007, he was appointed as an Officer
in the Order of Australia. Michael served as head of college of the National
Security College at the Australian National University from 2009 until 2014 and
he is a professor at the college.
External Appointments (current and recent): Director of the University of Notre
Dame, Australia since 2014, and head of college of the National Security
College at the Australian National University from 2009 until 2014.
Hon. Paul Tellier (A, R, N and I)
Non-executive director, LLL, BLitt (Oxon), LL.D, C.C. age 75
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2007.
Skills and experience: Paul, a Canadian citizen, entered the civil service in the
1970s. He was clerk of the Privy Council Office and secretary to the Cabinet of
the Government of Canada from 1985 to 1992. He was president and chief
executive officer of the Canadian National Railway Company from 1992 until
2002. Until 2004, he was president and chief executive officer of Bombardier
Inc., the aerospace and transportation company.
External appointments (current and recent): Chairman of Global Container
Terminals Inc. since 2007, member of the advisory board of General Motors
of Canada since 2005, trustee of the International Accounting Standards
Foundation from 2007 until 2012, co-chair of the Prime Minister of Canada’s
Advisory Committee on the Renewal of the Public Service from 2006 until
2014, strategic adviser to Société Générale (Canada) from 2005 until 2013,
director of BCE Inc. (Bell Canada Enterprises) from 1999 until 2010, director
of Bell Canada from 1996 until 2010, director of McCain Foods Limited from
1996 until 2014.
50 riotinto.com Simon Thompson (S, N and I)
Non-executive director, MA (Oxon), age 55
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since April 2014.
Skills and experience: Simon, a British citizen, was an executive director of
Anglo American plc, chairman and chief executive of the Base Metals Division,
chairman of the Exploration Division and chairman of Tarmac. Prior to his
career with Anglo American he held investment banking positions at S. G.
Warburg and N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
External appointments (current and recent): Chairman of Tullow Oil plc since
2012, non-executive director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc since 2009 and
senior independent director since 2014, non-executive director of Sandvik AB
since 2008, non-executive director of Newmont Mining Corporation from 2008
to 2014.
JohnVarley(A,R,NandI)
Non-executive director, BA, MA (Oxon), age 58
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto and chairman of the Remuneration
Committee since 2011 and senior independent director since 2012.
Skills and experience: John, a British citizen, joined Barclays plc in 1982 after
working as a solicitor. He was chief executive of Barclays from 2004 until 2010.
During a 28-year career with the bank he held several senior positions,
including chairman of the Asset Management division, group finance director
and deputy chief executive.
External appointments (current and recent): Director of Barclays plc and
Barclays Bank plc from 1998 until 2010, non-executive director of BlackRock
Inc. since 2009, non-executive director and senior independent director of
AstraZeneca plc since 2006 and 2012 respectively, chairman of Marie Curie
Cancer Care since 2011 and chairman of Business Action on Homelessness
since 2006.
Directors who left the board
Vivienne Cox
Non-executive director, MA (Oxon), MBA (INSEAD), age 55
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto from 2005 until April 2014.
Skills and experience: Vivienne is a British citizen. She was executive vice
president of Gas, Power and Renewables at BP and former chief executive
of BP Alternative Energy. During her career at BP she served in a variety of
positions ranging from supply and trading, to commercial, finance and
exploration and renewable energy. Vivienne holds degrees in chemistry
from Oxford University and in business administration from INSEAD.
External appointments (current and recent): Member of Kingfisher plc Net
Positive Advisory Council since 2013, non-executive director of BG Group plc
since 2012, non-executive director and senior independent non-executive
director of Pearson plc since 2012 and 2013 respectively, non-executive
director of the UK Department for International Development since 2010,
non-executive director of The Climate Change Organisation since 2010,
non-executive director and non-executive chairman of Climate Change Capital
Limited from 2008 and 2009 respectively until 2012, member and chairman of
the supervisory board of Vallourec, since 2010 and 2013 respectively, member
of the offshore advisory committee of Mainstream Renewable Power from
2010 until 2012, a member of the board of INSEAD business school from 2009
until 2013.
Company secretaries
Eleanor Evans
LLB (Lond), Solicitor, age 48
Skills and experience: Eleanor joined the Group as company secretary of
Rio Tinto plc and joint company secretary of Rio Tinto Limited in 2013.
Prior to joining Rio Tinto, Eleanor was general counsel and company secretary
at Amec Foster Wheeler plc and chief legal officer and company secretary at
Cobham plc. In both roles Eleanor was responsible for legal, compliance and
secretariat matters globally, was a member of the executive committee and
the risk committee, and was secretary to the board of directors and their
principal committees. Eleanor commenced her career as a solicitor
specialising in corporate and financial law with Norton Rose Fulbright and in
her earlier career held senior legal roles at The BOC Group plc and Corus
Group plc.
External appointments (current and recent): Eleanor is a member of the
executive committee of GC100, the Association of General Counsel and
Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100, a trustee of the StepChange
Foundation UK, a charity, and is an advisory board member of Women in
Mining UK.
Tim Paine
BEc, LLB, FGIA, FCIS, age 51
Skills and experience: Tim joined the Group as joint company secretary of
Rio Tinto Limited in 2012. He has over 20 years’ experience in corporate
counsel and company secretary roles, including at ANZ Bank, Mayne Group,
Symbion Health and Skilled Group. Tim commenced his career as a solicitor in
private practice and has also managed his own consulting company.
External appointments (current and recent): He has no external appointments.
riotinto.com 51
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Executive Committee
Hugo Bague
MA (Linguistics), age 54
Hugo Bague was appointed Group executive, Organisational Resources in
2013 after joining Rio Tinto as global head of Human Resources in 2007.
Previously he worked for Hewlett-Packard where he was the global vice
president, Human Resources for the Technology Solutions Group, based in
the US. Prior to this he worked for Compaq Computers, Nortel Networks and
Abbott Laboratories based in Switzerland, France and Germany.
He has been a non-executive director and member of the nominating and
governance committee, and the compensation committee of Jones Lang
LaSalle Incorporated, a global real estate services firm, since 2011.
Alfredo Barrios
PhD (Energy Economics), BSc (Physics), MSc (Management), age 49
Alfredo was appointed chief executive, Aluminium in June 2014. He joined the
Group after a wide-ranging career in leadership positions with BP plc. His most
recent role was executive director and executive vice president Downstream at
TNK-BP, based in Moscow, where he was directly responsible for the refining,
trading, supply, logistics, and marketing businesses. Prior to this, he led BP’s
operations in Spain and Portugal where he was responsible for establishing
and developing the Fuels Value Chain organisation, combining this with the
role of BP Head of Country Spain.
Alfredo has held board positions in a number of companies, including CLH
(Spain) from 2007 until 2011 where he was chairman of the Audit Committee,
and OAO NGK Slavneft (Russia) from 2012 until 2013. He was president of the
Spanish National Oil Industry Association (AOP) from 2009 until 2011.
Alan Davies
BBus (Acctcy) LLB, LLM, FCA, age 44
Alan was appointed chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals in 2012. He joined
the Group in 1997 and has held management positions in Australia, London and
the US for the Iron Ore and Energy businesses. Prior to his current role, Alan
was president, international operations for Rio Tinto’s Iron Ore business with
global accountability for operations and projects in Canada, India and Guinea,
and was also previously chief financial officer of the Iron Ore business. Alan
assumed responsibility for the Uranium business on 27 February 2015. Alan is a
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia.
He was a director of the Art Gallery of Western Australia from 2010 to 2012.
Andrew Harding
BEng (Mining Engineering), MBA, age 48
Andrew Harding was appointed chief executive, Iron Ore in 2013. Prior to his
current role, Andrew spent three years as chief executive, Copper, where he
was responsible for a range of mines and projects including the development
of the world-class Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine in Mongolia. Andrew joined
Rio Tinto in 1992 and spent seven years in Rio Tinto Iron Ore. He has also held
a range of positions in Technology & Innovation, Energy and Aluminium and
was president and chief executive officer of Kennecott Utah Copper.
He was a director of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd between 2009 and 2010 and
between 2011 and 2013.
Jean-Sébastien Jacques
MSc, age 43
Jean-Sébastien was appointed chief executive, Copper & Coal in February
2015, having previously been chief executive, Copper since 2013. He joined
Rio Tinto in 2011 as president, International Operations – Copper, where he led
a senior team and oversaw Rio Tinto’s interests in the Palabora Mining
Company in South Africa, Northparkes Mines in Australia, Kennecott Eagle
Minerals, the Pebble Mine in the US and Sulawesi in Indonesia. Prior to joining
Rio Tinto, Jean-Sébastien spent more than 15 years working across Europe,
South East Asia, India and the US in operational and strategy roles in the
aluminium, bauxite and steel industries. He served as group director, Strategy
and was on the executive committee at Tata Steel Group from 2007 to 2011.
Jean-Sébastien was appointed chairman of the International Copper Association
in October 2014, having served as vice chairman since 2013. He was a director
of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd during 2013, a director of Bougainville Copper
Limited from 2012 until 2013, and a director of Palabora Mining Company
Limited from 2011 until 2013.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
BSc (Geology), age 54
Harry was appointed chief executive, Energy in 2012. He joined the Group in
1990 from Anglo American Corporation and has held management positions in
South Africa, Australia and the UK. Harry spent his early career at Rio Tinto in
marketing and operational roles in the uranium, copper and industrial
minerals businesses. In 2004, he was appointed chief executive of Energy
Resources of Australia and in 2007, managing director of Rio Tinto Iron &
Titanium. Prior to his current role, he was chief executive of Rio Tinto’s
Diamonds & Minerals product group. Harry will be leaving Rio Tinto in March
2015 following the announcement made on 27 February 2015.
Harry has been a director of the World Coal Association since 2012 and was
appointed chairman in 2014. He became a director of the Coal Industry
Advisory Board to the IEA in 2013.
Greg Lilleyman
BEng (Construction), age 48
Greg was appointed Group executive, Technology & Innovation in January
2014. He joined the Group in 1990 and held a number of operational roles
across the Pilbara, Hunter Valley and Canada with both the Iron Ore and
Energy businesses. In 2011 Greg was appointed president, Pilbara Operations
for Rio Tinto Iron Ore and in 2013 assumed the role of head of productivity
improvement with Technology & Innovation.
Greg was a board member of the Australian Institute of Management of
Western Australia from 2012 until 2013, a board member of the Energy &
Minerals Institute from 2011 until 2013, and a director of the Chamber of
Minerals and Energy of Western Australia from 2008 until 2013, holding the
position of president from 2011 until 2013. Since 2012 he has been a board
member of the Curtin University Foundation.
Debra Valentine
BA (History), JD, age 61
Debra was appointed Group executive, Legal & Regulatory Affairs in 2009
having joined Rio Tinto as global head of Legal in 2008. She previously worked
at United Technologies Corporation in the US where she was vice president,
deputy general counsel and corporate secretary. Before then, she was a
partner with the law firm O’Melveny & Myers, in Washington DC. Debra served
as general counsel at the US Federal Trade Commission from 1997 to 2001.
She has been a member of the board of the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative since 2012, the North American Advisory Council at Chatham House
since 2013, the UK-Japan 21
st
Century Group since October 2014 and the
‘Your Life’ Corporate Advisory Board since November 2014.
Executive director members
Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch were also members of the Executive Committee
in 2014 through their positions as chief executive and chief financial officer
respectively. Their biographies are shown on page 49.
52 riotinto.com Corporate governance
Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to comply with the
regulatory obligations associated with its three principal stock exchange
listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
Statement of compliance with governance codes and
standards in 2014
In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the September 2012
editionoftheUKCorporateGovernanceCode(theCode),theASXCorporate
Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and
Recommendations (2nd edition with 2010 amendments) (the ASX Principles),
and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Corporate Governance Standards
(the NYSE Standards).
Throughout 2014, and at the date of this report, the Group applied the
principles of, and was compliant with the provisions of, the ASX Principles and
with the Code.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the
NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any significant ways in
which its practices of corporate governance differ from the NYSE Standards.
The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its practices
are broadly consistent with them, with the following exceptions where the
strict requirements of the NYSE Standards are not met.
The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating/corporate
governance committee composed entirely of independent directors which, in
addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members,
develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance
principles applicable to the company. Rio Tinto has a Nominations Committee,
information about which is set out on page 59. This committee does not
develop corporate governance principles for the board’s approval. The board
itself performs this task.
Under US securities law and the NYSE Standards, the company is required to
have an audit committee that is directly responsible for the appointment,
compensation, retention and oversight of the work of external auditors. While
the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board on these
matters, the ultimate responsibility for the appointment of the external
auditors rests with the shareholders.
A discussion of the Group’s position on audit tenders is set out on page 58 of
this report.
Further information about the corporate governance framework is available in
the “Corporate governance” section of Rio Tinto’s website.
The board
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors. The
directors are responsible for the success of the Group and, through the
independent oversight of management, are accountable to shareholders for
the performance of the business.
Role and responsibilities
The principal role of the board is to set the Group’s strategy and to review
regularly its strategic direction. In doing this, the board also has responsibility
for corporate governance.
A formal schedule of matters reserved by the board has been established by
the directors. This covers areas such as the Group’s strategy, major
investments, acquisitions and divestments and oversight of risk. It is available
on the website.
Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the
chief executive and the Executive Committee. In turn, authorities are also
delegated to individual members of the Executive Committee.
As part of the annual financial planning process, the board sets annual
performance targets, which include personal and business performance
measures, under the Group’s short-term incentive plan (detailed on page 76)
for the chief executive. These performance targets are determined by the
Remuneration Committee on behalf of the board. The chief executive
establishes targets for the Executive Committee. Those objectives are
cascaded throughout management teams.
Further details of the performance evaluation of the executive directors and
other senior executives are discussed in the Implementation Report section of
the Remuneration Report on page 75.
Board balance and independence
Board composition
The names, skills and experience of each director together with their terms in
office are shown in the biographical details on pages 49 to 51. Details of
changes to the board during 2014 and in the year to date are set out in the
Directors’ report on page 46.
Director independence
The tests of independence of a non-executive director vary between the
jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings. The Nominations Committee has
adopted a formal policy for the determination of the independence of the
non-executive directors.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from
management and the absence of any business relationship which could
materially interfere with the director’s independence of judgment and ability to
provide a strong, valuable contribution to the board’s deliberations, or which
could interfere with the director’s ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and
a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for
materiality both to the Group, and the other party to the contract. “Material” is
defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than
two per cent of either party’s consolidated gross revenue per annum, although
the test also takes other circumstances into account. The Code includes criteria
to assess independence where a director has served on the board for more than
nine years from the date of their first election.
The chairman was considered independent upon his appointment under the
Code, and in the board’s view he continues to satisfy the tests for
independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
Applying the criteria of the independence policy, the board is satisfied that all
of its non-executive directors are and remain independent. Lord Kerr and
Michael Fitzpatrick are not standing for re-election in 2015.
riotinto.com 53
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued
Richard Goodmanson, who has been a non-executive director since 2004, has
agreed to stand for re-election to the board at the annual general meetings in
2015. The board believes that Richard makes an outstanding contribution to
the board, and particularly as chairman of the Sustainability Committee.
Richard provides continuity to the board, given his significant knowledge of the
business and the board has confirmed that he continues to satisfy the tests for
independence in carrying out his role.
Executive directors’ other directorships
Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other
companies. The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the board, operates a
procedure under which approval may be given to accept such invitations,
recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from
such appointments. Details of the chief executive’s external appointments are
set out on page 49.
Election and re-election
The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the
year. Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders
at the first annual general meetings after their appointment. In subsequent
years, the directors are expected to submit themselves for re-election at the
annual general meetings each year.
Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years and
would not normally serve more than nine years.
On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto announced the appointment of Michael L’Estrange
as an independent non-executive director effective 1 September 2014. On
20 November 2014 Rio Tinto announced the appointment of Dr Megan Clark
as an independent non-executive director effective immediately. Both will offer
themselves for election at the annual general meetings in 2015 and further
details about them are set out in the notices of annual general meetings.
Governance processes
In 2014, there were nine scheduled board meetings. Details of the directors’
attendance at all of the board and committee meetings held in 2014 are set
out on the following page.
The board has regular discussions with senior management on the Group’s
strategy. These discussions typically include presentations given by senior
management during the year. The board attends an annual two-day strategy
meeting with the Executive Committee, which includes broader, detailed
review sessions on the Group’s strategic direction. The outputs from this event
help underpin the board’s annual financial planning exercise and provide
strategic direction and focus to the Executive Committee.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them
to fulfil their duties. They also have direct access to the advice and services of
the Rio Tinto company secretary. The directors are also able to obtain
independent professional advice at the Group’s expense.
The chairman and non-executive directors meet, typically at the start of each
board meeting, without the executive directors present, to create an
opportunity for non-executive directors to raise any issues in private session.
In addition, the directors are in regular informal communication with members
of the Executive Committee and other members of senior management. This
helps to foster an open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
All new non-executive directors undertake a full, formal and tailored induction
on joining the board. The board is provided with training and development
opportunities during the year. The directors are also encouraged to participate
in site visits to the Group’s operations around the world and to meet with
employees and, from time to time, shareholders and other key stakeholders. In
2014, the board visited our coal mining operations in the Hunter Valley,
Australia. These events are arranged by the Rio Tinto company secretary on
behalf of the chairman, and seek to ensure directors have appropriate
knowledge of the company and access to its operations and staff.
Progress against our priorities
The progress made towards achieving the priorities set by the board during
2014 are set out on pages 9 and 10.
Annual performance evaluation
An annual exercise is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the board,
board committees and individual directors.
For 2014, the board and committee (audit, nominations, remuneration
and sustainability) evaluation process was conducted by the Rio Tinto
company secretary.
The process involved agreeing with the chairman, board and committee
chairmen a series of questions for discussion and interviews with directors
seeking their views with regard to progress on the actions arising from the
2013 evaluation and generally upon the performance of the board and its
committees in 2014.
The findings from the evaluation reports for the board and its committees and
recommended actions were discussed with the chairman and the chairmen of
the committees ahead of a full review at the February 2015 meetings of the
board and its committees.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, were
responsible for the performance evaluation of the chairman. Non-executive
directors met to give their views and the senior independent director also
sought the views of the executive directors. The senior independent director
gave feedback on the chairman’s performance to him in February.
The chairman continues to be responsible for the assessment of each
individual director’s performance and contribution.
54 riotinto.com Directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings during 2014
Board
Scheduled
(g)
Audit
Committee
(g)
Remuneration
Committee
(g) (h)
Sustainability
Committee
(g)
Nominations
Committee
(g)
Chairman’s
Committee
(g)
Jan du Plessis 9/9 – 9/9 – 5/5 13/13
Chris Lynch 9/9 – – – – 10/13
Sam Walsh 9/9 – – – – 11/13
Robert Brown
(a)
9/9 2/2 – 4/4 5/5 –
Megan Clark
(b)
1/1 – – – – –
Vivienne Cox
(c)
3/3 – – 2/2 1/1 –
Michael Fitzpatrick 9/9 6/6 8/9 – 5/5 –
Ann Godbehere 9/9 6/6 – – 5/5 –
Richard Goodmanson 9/9 – 8/9 5/5 5/5 –
Lord Kerr 9/9 – – 5/5 5/5 –
Anne Lauvergeon
(d)
6/6 – – 3/3 4/4 –
Michael L’Estrange
(e)
3/3 – – 1/1 2/2 –
Paul Tellier 9/9 6/6 9/9 – 5/5 –
Simon Thompson
(f)
5/6 – – 3/3 3/4 –
John Varley 9/9 6/6 9/9 – 5/5 –
(a) Stepped down from the Sustainability Committee and joined the Audit Committee on 15 October 2014.
(b) Joined the board on 20 November 2014.
(c) Stood down from the board on 15 April 2014.
(d) Joined the board on 15 March 2014.
(e) Joined the board on 1 September 2014.
(f) Joined the board on 1 April 2014 and had a prior conflict for meetings in September 2014.
(g) The number of meetings attended/maximum number the director could have attended.
(h) This included three meetings convened at short notice.
riotinto.com 55
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued
Governance structure
The board has established sub-committees which are responsible for audit,
remuneration, sustainability and nominations issues. In addition, a Chairman’s
Committee operates under delegated authority between scheduled board
meetings. These committees support the board in ensuring that high
standards of corporate governance are maintained across the Group.
The committees are governed by terms of reference, set and approved by
the board, which are reviewed annually. The terms of reference of the audit,
nominations, remuneration and sustainability committees (revised versions
of those for the audit, sustainability and nominations committees were
issued in February 2015) can be viewed in the “Corporate governance”
section of the website.
The chief executive is assisted by the key management committees noted
below in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tinto’s strategy.
Audit Committee
Disclosure
Committee
Investment
Committee
Executive
Committee
Closure
Committee
Ore Reserves
Steering Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Board committees Management committees
Board of directors
Chief executive
Sustainability
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Nominations
Committee
Chairman’s
Committee
56 riotinto.com Board committees
Audit Committee
Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere (chairman), Robert Brown,
Michael Fitzpatrick, Paul Tellier and John Varley. Robert Brown was appointed
to the Committee on 15 October 2014.
Key responsibilities
The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the board to monitor
decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting,
sound systems of internal control and risk management.
The Committee’s terms of reference set out its main responsibilities, and are
available to view on the website. The Committee is responsible for:
– Financial reporting;
– Internal control, including internal control over financial reporting;
– Internal audit and assurance;
– The external auditors (appointment and relationship);
– The effectiveness of the risk management framework; and
– The integrity and compliance programme including the Group’s Speak-
OUT whistleblowing programme.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has full authority to
investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference. Accordingly, the
Committee may:
– obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties at
the cost of the Group; and
– have direct access to the resources of the Group as it may reasonably
require including the external and internal auditors.
Financial reporting
During 2014 the Committee’s deliberations included the following matters
which it considered to be significant:
– Impairments in the 2013 accounts, and the continued monitoring of
management’s determination of cash-generating units, review of
impairment triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges
and reversals over the course of the year.
– Management’s key accounting judgments and policies, and the application
of these in the accounts, including:
– the justification for exclusion of certain items from underlying earnings;
– the Group’s tax exposure, the consequences of the repeal of the
Mineral Resources Rent Tax and the appropriateness of provisions for
uncertain tax positions; and
– accounting for divestments announced in 2013 and 2014 with
contractual obligations which remain with the Group following
completion of the divestments.
The Committee also considered:
– the impact on internal financial controls of the overall cost reduction
programme which has been implemented across the Group.
– the impact of the Group’s finance transformation programme which
includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain finance activities
(excluding key controls) to a third party provider. Group Audit & Assurance
has performed a series of point-in-time reviews of the effectiveness of the
finance transformation governance structure and the transition of certain
processes to the outsourcing provider and reported to the Committee on
the findings from these reviews.
– closure provisions.
– the Group’s resources and reserves report in the 2013 Annual report and
received updates during the year.
To date in 2015 the Committee has reviewed, amongst others, the
following matters which it considered to be significant in relation to the
2014 financial statements:
– carrying values in the draft 2014 Annual report, including assessment of
impairment charges (particularly at the Kitimat modernisation project and
the Molybdenum Autoclave Process (MAP)) and impairment reversals (at
Pacific Aluminium).
– closure provisions and an increase to the provision adjusted through fixed
assets at Rio Tinto Kennecott. The Committee noted that this significant
adjustment is primarily a result of updating the existing estimate to an
Order of Magnitude level reflecting the latest data and business plan.
– management’s key accounting judgments and policies, and the application
of these in the accounts, including:
– the justifications for exclusion of certain items from underlying
earnings; and
– the Group’s tax exposure, the recoverability of deferred tax assets and
the appropriateness of provisions for uncertain tax positions.
– the Group’s resources and reserves report in the 2014 Annual report.
Key judgments considered
In preparing the financial statements, a number of judgments and estimates
are required involving assumptions and consideration of future events that are
inherently uncertain. The Committee focused its work on assessing
management’s ongoing judgments and estimates against available evidence,
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements. The Committee
also considered the external auditors’ views on these matters.
Of the judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty listed as critical
accounting policies and estimates in note 1 to the financial statements, the
following areas received specific focus from the Committee over the year:
– Assessment of the carrying value and annual impairment reviews
of: assets dependent on the approval of major capital spend (Oyu Tolgoi
and Simandou); major assets under construction (Kitimat modernisation
project and MAP); and for impairment reversals derived from the
sustainability of improved business performances (Aluminium group
including Pacific Aluminium) due to the size and degree of subjectivity
related to the recoverable amount for these assets and the complex
judgments about the expected future performance of the business.
– Valuation reports and indicators for the above assets to corroborate the
internally prepared valuations. For listed subsidiaries (Turquoise Hill
Resources and Energy Resources of Australia), the Committee considered
the carrying value of these separate businesses against external market
data, including market capitalisation and broker reports.
– The assumptions on discount rate, long-term pricing and risk factors for
future growth projects were considered and challenged by the Committee,
by understanding how they compare with external market data.
– For Oyu Tolgoi, the timing of the underground development is an
important factor in determining potential impairment, and the Committee
reviewed and challenged the likely timing in light of the progress of
discussions with the Government of Mongolia and changes in Government
in late 2014. The Committee satisfied itself with regard to the carrying
value for Oyu Tolgoi and the likely impact of further delays to the project
on the carrying value as noted in note 6 on page 128.
– Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
– Estimates of risk free discount rates in light of the ongoing impact of
fiscal interventions. The Committee also focused on the different
remediation or closure outcomes which could realistically arise when
assessing the adequacy of the provisioning for these obligations. Both
involve complex judgments.
riotinto.com 57
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued
– Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets.
– Appropriateness of continued recognition of deferred tax assets,
particularly tax losses in France, recovery of which is restricted
by legislation.
– Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits. During 2014 the board
received an update on the status of funding, investment and governance of
pensions and other retirement benefits provided to current and former
employees of the Company. The Committee received reports in 2014 and
2015 on PwC’s audit procedures over the Group’s pension and post-
retirement defined benefit assets and liabilities. The Committee reviewed
the disclosures on pensions in note 45 on pages 168 to 173.
In addition, the Committee critically assessed the projections of future cash
flows under different scenarios and compared these with cash balances and
committed facilities available in order that the Committee could recommend
to the board that the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis of
preparation was appropriate.
Governance processes
The Committee met six times in 2014. The chairman of the board, chief
financial officer, other senior management and external and internal auditors
regularly attended its meetings. The Committee carries out its business
following an agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
The members of the Committee are independent and free of any relationship
that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities. The
members meet the independence requirements of the Code, the ASX
Principles and the NYSE Standards. The Committee meets the composition,
operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles.
The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees’
financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least
one committee member should have recent and relevant financial
qualifications and experience. Ann Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is
considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience, and
financial qualifications, and has been designated the Committee’s financial
expert. All other members of the Committee are, in the opinion of the board,
deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services
provided by the Group’s external auditors PwC. All of the engagements for
services provided by PwC were either within the pre-approval policies or
separately approved by the Committee. The Committee members are
satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with
this procedure is compatible with the general standard of independence for
auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including Australian, UK and
US legislation.
The Committee considered reports from PwC and Group Audit & Assurance on
the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment in
order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
controls over financial reporting and the Group’s disclosure controls and
procedures in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act 2002.
The external auditors attended all six Committee meetings during the year. In
advance of the Committee meetings, the audit partners brief the chairman of
the Committee on key matters. Private discussion sessions were routinely held
between PwC and the Committee without management present to discuss the
status of the audit and nature of interaction with management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group
audit and local statutory audit work. The evaluation, managed by the Group’s
financial controllers, took the form of a survey comprising a range of questions
covering objectivity, quality, and efficiency, and was completed by individual
Rio Tinto business units. The results of this survey and review were assessed
by the Committee which concluded that PwC continued to provide a high-
quality audit and effective and independent challenge to management. The
Committee was satisfied with the external audit process and that the
independence of the external auditors was in no way compromised.
PwC have been the external auditors since before the formation of the DLC
structure in 1995, and acted as external auditors to a number of the
company’s legacy entities prior to the formation of the DLC. In the UK, the
audit engagement partner Richard Hughes was appointed in 2011, and in
Australia the audit engagement partner Paul Bendall was appointed in 2012.
They are due to transition off the audit after the December 2015 and 2016
year-end audits respectively.
The Committee considers its recommendations to the board on the
appointment and reappointment of auditors annually and specifically has
responsibility for establishing formal and transparent arrangements with PwC.
The Committee has reviewed the timetable for tendering and has taken into
account all relevant regulation and guidance. New EU regulations and the
recent ruling by the Competition and Markets Authority will impose mandatory
rotation requirements from 2016 which require that the Group’s auditors must
be changed by 2021. In light of these requirements, it is likely that the audit
will be tendered in 2017 or 2018 with the new auditors appointed for the 2019
or 2020 financial year.
The Committee believes that the requirements of good governance and the
needs of Rio Tinto are best served by tendering in the above timeframe for the
following reasons:
– Rio Tinto is undergoing significant business process change through the
cost saving programme, which includes outsourcing of certain activities
(including the finance transformation programme), and is currently
implementing a new financial reporting consolidation system. A measured
rotation timetable maintains stability in the independent oversight
provided by the external auditors while the business fully implements the
changes to maximise efficiency and effectiveness.
– Rio Tinto draws on expertise from a number of accounting firms and
therefore a rotation of external audit services will require careful planning
of transition periods to ensure that all services are fully contracted
throughout the rotation process.
Rio Tinto ensures independence through other means, including detailed
review, challenge and reporting of all work performed by accounting firms. A
summary is presented annually to the Audit Committee of the fees incurred
and nature of work performed. Further information on fees paid to PwC in 2014
for audit and non-audit services are set out on page 48 of the Directors’ report.
The Committee meets privately with the Head of Group Audit & Assurance
from time to time without management present and the chairman of the
Committee has regular discussions with him.
Other
In 2014 the Committee also:
– Conducted an ongoing review and monitoring of the Group’s control
environment and risk management processes and effectiveness.
– Reviewed Group Audit & Assurance findings and approved the Internal
Audit Plan and associated resources for 2015.
– Monitored Internal Control over Financial Reporting (SOx) testing results.
– Monitored the effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls and internal
control systems.
– Reviewed reports from the Head of Group Compliance.
– Monitored the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management system with
the Head of Group Risk.
– Reviewed Legal and Tax disputes reports from the Group Executive,
Legal & Regulatory Affairs and the Head of Tax respectively.
– Considered the requirement for the Annual report and accounts, taken as a
whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
– Reviewed the controls and processes in place over reporting of cost
savings achieved under the Group’s cost reduction programme.
– Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committee’s
performance and supported the recommended action.
– Conducted ongoing monitoring of non-audit activities performed by the
Group’s external auditors and approval of their audit engagement
contracts and remuneration.
58 riotinto.com – Considered proposals from various regulators (including the Financial
Reporting Council and Competition and Markets Authority) on Auditor
Independence and the Audit Committee’s responsibilities in this regard.
– Underwent training and development on relevant accounting topics.
In the first part of 2015, the Committee:
– Evaluated, at the request of the board, the 2014 Annual report and
accounts, to assess whether they are, taken as a whole, fair, balanced
and understandable.
– Considered findings from the 2014 evaluation of the
Committee’s performance.
During the remainder of 2015 the Committee will follow its annual schedule of
meetings and topics for discussion and will report on the same in 2016.
Sustainability Committee
Members of the Committee are Richard Goodmanson (chairman), Anne
Lauvergeon, Michael L’Estrange, Lord Kerr, Simon Thompson and Megan
Clark. Anne Lauvergeon was appointed to the Committee with effect from
15 March 2014. Simon Thompson was appointed to the Committee with effect
from 1 April 2014. Robert Brown stood down from the Committee and Michael
L’Estrange was appointed to the Committee on 15 October 2014. Megan Clark
was appointed to the Committee with effect from 20 November 2014. Vivienne
Cox stood down from the Committee with effect from 15 April 2014.
Key responsibilities
The Committee assists the board with overseeing strategies designed to
manage social and environmental risks, overseeing management processes
and standards and achieving compliance with social and environmental
responsibilities and commitments. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of
management policies and procedures relating to safety, health, employment
practices, relationships with neighbouring communities, environment, human
rights, land access, political involvement and sustainable development. The
Committee’s terms of reference are available to view on the website.
Governance processes
In 2014, the Committee met five times. The chairman of the board, chief
executive, and other senior management regularly attend its meetings. The
Committee carries out its business following an agreed annual cycle of
meetings and topics for consideration.
The members of the Committee are all independent in accordance with the
independence policy adopted by the board.
2014 activities
In 2014 the Committee:
– Reviewed key risks associated with process safety and communities and
social performance, and management’s plans for tackling them;
– Reviewed work plans formulated for health, safety, environment,
communities and employment practices, and assurance over selected
areas within the Committee’s terms of reference;
– Undertook reviews around major risk areas, including mine closures and
legacy matters and energy, environment and climate change;
– Received updates on findings following the pit wall slide at Bingham
Canyon and the fatality at Gove; and
– Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committee’s
performance and implemented the recommendations.
We draw to your attention the Sustainable development report on pages 20 to
26 of this report.
Remuneration Committee
Members of the Committee are John Varley (chairman), Jan du Plessis,
Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
Key responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee assists the board with fulfilling its oversight
responsibility to shareholders. In particular, the Committee seeks to spend
compensation resource fairly and responsibly to ensure that remuneration
policy and practices are properly linked to corporate and individual performance
and to the delivery of the Group’s strategy on behalf of our owners. The
Committee’s terms of reference are available to view on the website.
The report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 64 to 100 has been
recommended by the Committee for approval by the board, and was approved
by the board on 4 March 2015. On page 75 we have included sections dealing
with the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and how it spent its
time in 2014.
Governance processes
The Committee met nine times in 2014, including three ad hoc meetings
called at short notice. The Committee carries out its business following an
agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
In addition to the matters noted on page 75, the Committee considered the
findings from the 2013 external evaluation of the Committee’s performance. In
early 2015, the Committee considered the findings from the 2014 evaluation
of the Committee’s performance.
As set out in the Committee chairman’s annual statement on pages 64 to 65,
we are committed to a continuing dialogue with our owners.
Chairman’s Committee
Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis (chairman), Sam Walsh and
Chris Lynch.
Key responsibilities
The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board
meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board or as
specifically set out within its terms of reference. It supports the functioning of
the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees is
properly planned and aligned with management. When mandated by the
board, the Chairman’s Committee will consider urgent matters between board
meetings, and deals with the implementation of board decisions on
transactions and other corporate matters. Other than for the chairman of the
board, the Committee performs the annual review of non-executive directors’
fees and makes a recommendation to the board.
Nominations Committee
Members of the Committee comprise Jan du Plessis (chairman) and all
non-executive directors.
Key responsibilities
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly assessing
the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the composition of
the board in terms of the diversity and capacity required to oversee the
delivery of Rio Tinto’s strategy.
The Committee develops and agrees in advance the desired profiles of
potential candidates for board membership. It oversees the recruitment
process and engages external search consultants to manage searches on its
behalf, including constructing shortlists comprising candidates from diverse
backgrounds. Following a final review of shortlisted candidates, the Committee
makes recommendations for new board members to the board for approval.
The Committee engages Egon Zehnder from time to time. Egon Zehnder
conducts searches for a number of Rio Tinto positions and not only at board
and Executive Committee level. Egon Zehnder has no other connection with
the Company.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for
appointments to the Executive Committee and monitors executive
succession planning.
The Committee’s terms of reference are available to view on the website.
riotinto.com 59
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued
Governance processes
The Committee meets as required and in 2014, met five times. The members
of the Committee are independent in accordance with the independence
policy adopted by the board.
The Committee in its proceedings takes account of the Group’s Diversity &
Inclusion policy and progress in the diversity and inclusion arena, discussed
further below.
In 2014, the Committee:
– Continued regular executive and non-executive succession planning reviews.
– Considered the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committee’s
performance and supported the recommended actions.
– Reviewed the mix of skills required for non-executive directors and briefed
the search firm accordingly.
– Recommended to the board the appointment of Michael L’Estrange and
Megan Clark as non-executive directors.
– Received and considered a leadership assessment and development report
on senior management talent from Egon Zehnder, and discussed the same
with them.
– Considered, under the direction of John Varley, as senior independent
director, the chairman’s appointment as non-executive director and
chairman-designate of SABMiller plc, and its impact on his commitment
to Rio Tinto.
– Considered and recommended the appointment of Alfredo Barrios as
Aluminium product group chief executive.
– Reviewed the proposal to amend the service contracts of the chief
executive and chief financial officer to twelve months’ notice.
In 2015, the Committee will continue its regular executive and non-executive
succession planning reviews. In early 2015, the Committee considered the
findings from the 2014 evaluation of the Committee’s performance.
Board diversity
More information about the board’s process for the selection, appointment
and election of directors is available in the “Corporate governance” section of
the website.
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and
composition of the board.
In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks to continually
evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse and
complementary skills and perspectives, as well as experience which reflects
the geographic spread of the Group’s operations. Core skills required for non-
executive membership of the board are maintained. These skills may,
depending upon the circumstances, comprise international business, financial
or public policy experience, strategic acumen or mining or metals industry
experience. The board aspires to increase other aspects of diversity, including
gender and nationality, of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills,
experience and perspective to the governance of the Group. The board
recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term
process and weighs the various factors relevant to board balance and diversity
when vacancies arise.
In 2012 the board established two objectives relating to board diversity:
– The Nominations Committee will undertake a review of board diversity.
– For each director selection and appointment process, the external search
firm supporting the Nominations Committee will put forward at least one
credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
These objectives were met in 2013 and 2014.
Diversity and inclusion
Our commitment to diversity and inclusion
We are a global company and, wherever we operate and across every part of
our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference is
recognised and valued. By bringing together men and women from diverse
backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribute their
skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we are able to develop
the best solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable value for Rio Tinto
and its stakeholders.
The board received a presentation in 2014 on diversity and inclusion across
the whole Group.
What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto
– Embracing workforce diversity – age, gender, race, national or ethnic origin,
religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and physical ability.
– Valuing diversity of perspective – leveraging the diverse thinking, skills,
experience and working styles of our employees and other stakeholders.
– Building a flexible organisation – providing opportunities for work
arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at
different career and life stages.
– Respecting stakeholder diversity – developing strong and sustainable
relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees,
governments, customers and suppliers.
How we support diversity and inclusion
We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity
and inclusion:
– Governance models
– Policies, practices and targets
– Leadership and cultural competence
– Stakeholder relationships
– Education and communication
We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need and impact.
Read a summary of our Diversity and inclusion policy in the “Corporate
governance” section of our website.
Our current focus
Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and
communities in which we operate. Currently, our focus is to improve the
representation of women and of people from nationalities which are under-
represented in our workforce, and to continue to build an inclusive culture in
which all talent can thrive.
Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we undertook
during the year are:
– The development of executive-sponsored diversity and inclusion plans
within the product groups and geographies which align with business goals
and the Group Diversity and inclusion strategy, the aim being to increase
the diversity in our workforce at all levels and build a more inclusive
culture. Progress is evaluated each year by the Executive Committee and
Group Diversity Council and began in 2013.
– Embed diversity and inclusion scorecards to accompany the above plans
with metrics in three areas:
1. Who we are (demographics)
2. How we behave (performance and development)
3. What we stand for (values)
to be applied across Rio Tinto to help baseline, trend and track progress
as well as to address areas where we may be underperforming.
60 riotinto.com – Active involvement with Women in Mining groups, professional women’s
associations and other targeted recruiting efforts to raise awareness about
Rio Tinto and to increase the attraction, development and retention of
talented women wherever we operate.
– Expansion of our diversity champions network group to include additional
geographies and operations, and the establishment of several new
business unit diversity councils and committees across Rio Tinto. These
are increasing leadership engagement, cross-company collaboration, and
the sharing and replication of best practices.
– The expansion of training programmes aimed at countering unconscious
bias. These have targeted senior leaders, hiring managers and recruiters to
help minimise the impact of bias in recruitment and development
practices, as well as to improve the cross-cultural interactions and
relationship-building needed to globalise our business.
– The continuation of a three-year commitment by the chairman to
mentoring high-potential female board candidates through the FTSE100
Cross-company Mentoring Programme.
The chief executive became the chairman of the Group Diversity Council in
January 2015.
Proportion of women employees and board members
In 2014, the proportion of women on the board was 21.4 per cent (ie 3 out
of 14), in senior management 15.5 per cent and in the overall workforce
18.7 per cent.
Measurable objectives and progress
We established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce
diversity at the start of 2011.
Measurable objective Progress during 2014
Women to represent 20 per cent of our
senior management by 2015.
Women represented 15.5 per cent of
our senior management in 2014.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our
2015 graduate intake.
Women represented 31.8 per cent of
our 2014 graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate
intake to be nationals from regions
wherewearedeveloping
new businesses.
17.8 per cent of our 2014 graduate
intake were nationals from regions
wherewearedeveloping
new businesses.
Subsidiary board diversity
In addition to the measurable objectives described above, women also
represented 10.6 per cent of the directors of our principal controlled subsidiary
undertakings during 2014 (15 female; 126 male).
Other disclosures
Policies and standards
Rio Tinto’s commitment to integrity is set out in our global code of business
conduct: The way we work.Thiscontainsprinciplesandstandardsofconduct
which reaffirm the Group’s commitment to integrity. It is inspired by our four
core values: respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability. It is available on
the website.
It is supported by a number of policies and standards. Core policies are
adopted after wide consultation, externally and within the Group. Once
adopted, they are communicated to business units worldwide, together with
related standards, guidance notes and resources to support implementation.
Business unit management are required to devote the necessary effort to
implement and report on these policies and standards.
Rio Tinto policies and standards include policies on a variety of important
topics. They apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses. Where the Group does
not have operating responsibility for a business, Rio Tinto’s policies and
standards are communicated to its business partners and they are encouraged
to adopt similar policies of their own.
Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake training about the
requirements of The way we work and other core policies.
“Whistleblowing” programme
The board has adopted a confidential and independently operated
whistleblowing programme called Speak-OUT. This offers an avenue where
employees, contractors, suppliers and customers of Rio Tinto managed sites
can report concerns anonymously if they so choose, subject to local law. This
can include any significant concerns about the business, or behaviour of
individuals, including suspicion of violations of financial reporting, safety or
environmental procedures or business integrity issues generally. The
programme features web submission, a case management tool to better
manage cases, and a reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of case
statistics and reporting. Rio Tinto is also looking at ways to increase the
positive awareness of Speak-OUT. The Audit Committee receives a report
twice annually on Speak-OUT activity as does the Sustainability Committee
with regard to calls to Speak-OUT impacting sustainable development issues.
Dealing in Rio Tinto securities
Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto securities by
directors and employees with access to “inside information”. These rules
require those people to seek clearance before any proposed dealing and place
restrictions on when some people can deal.
Communication with stakeholders
Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication with
shareholders and the wider investment community.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for determining whether information
relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets.
Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure (unless an exemption applies allowing a
delay) to the relevant listing authorities in accordance with their rules of any
information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on
its share price. All information released to the markets is posted on the Media
section of the website.
In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto’s website features information on
corporate governance, and general investor information. Annual and half year
results, as well as any major presentations, are webcast and the materials are
available on the website. Presentation material from investor seminars is also
made available on the website.
The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a summary
business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent developments and to
give them the opportunity to ask questions. Generally, the chairs of all board
committees will be available to answer questions raised by shareholders and all
directors are expected to attend where possible. In 2014 all of the directors
attended the annual general meetings. Rio Tinto’s external auditors, PwC,
attend the annual general meetings and are available to answer questions
about the conduct of the external audit and the preparation and content of the
Independent auditors’ report. Any questions received and answers provided
ahead of the annual general meetings are made available to shareholders, who
also have the opportunity to meet informally with directors after the meetings.
The main channels of communication with the investment community are
through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who
have regular meetings with the Companies’ major shareholders. The
senior independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to
shareholders who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman,
chief executive or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns,
or for whom such contact is inappropriate. In his capacity as Remuneration
Committee chairman, the senior independent director meets shareholders to
discuss remuneration issues as described in his annual statement on pages
64 to 65.
riotinto.com 61
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued
During 2014, these meetings with the investment community focused on the
issues of strategy, board succession, corporate governance, executive
remuneration, and the operational and financial performance of the Group.
Regular investor seminars provide a two-way communication opportunity with
investors and analysts. On 24 November 2014, a corporate governance forum
was hosted in Sydney to provide investors with an opportunity to engage with
the chairman and the chairs of the board committees. A similar event will be
held in London on 17 March 2015. Feedback from such engagement is
routinely communicated to the board. Surveys of major shareholders’ opinions
are presented to the board by the Group’s investor relations advisers on a
regular basis.
Risk management
Rio Tinto’s overriding objective is to generate attractive, sustainable returns to
shareholders through a strategy of investing in long-life, low-cost, expandable
operations in the most attractive industry sectors. The directors recognise that
creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect Rio Tinto
is found on pages 14 to 17.
Risk policy and standard
The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business and
carefully considers the level of risk it is prepared to tolerate. The Group fosters a
risk-aware corporate culture in all decision-making, and is committed to
managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through competent risk
management that ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds. To
support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management
decisions taken at all levels within the organisation. The principles of the risk
analysis are set out in the Risk policy which is on the website.
Risk approach
The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework of risk
governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises the handling of
risk. Together with the policy, the framework provides an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Clear accountability for risk management is defined throughout the Group and
is a key performance area of line managers.
To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Risk
function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation for the
senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused functions.
Group Risk supports the Risk Management Committee in its review of risk.
Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness of
the Group’s risk management systems, the responsibility for identifying and
managing risks rests with the chief executive and all of Rio Tinto’s managers
and business leaders, who operate within a Group-wide framework that
ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
Internal controls
The directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal controls and
for reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system. This
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk
management procedures and their effectiveness. The directors have
completed their annual review and assessment for 2014.
Internal control systems
Two of the Group’s management committees, the Executive Committee and
the Disclosure Committee, regularly review reports related to the Group’s
control framework in order to satisfy the internal control requirements of the
Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. The Group Audit & Assurance function performs
reviews of the integrity and effectiveness of control activities and provides
regular reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and other
management committees.
Each year, the leaders of the Group’s businesses and functions complete a
representation letter confirming that adequate internal controls are in place,
are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and
weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
In 2014, information was reported by management to the Audit Committee to
enable it to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management and
internal control systems. In addition, as part of their role, the board and its
committees routinely monitor the Group’s material business risks.
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the process
for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business risks is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide reasonable, but
not absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss. Certain risks,
for example natural disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree
using internal controls. Such major risks are transferred to third parties in the
international insurance markets, to the extent considered appropriate. The
Group has material investments in a number of jointly controlled entities and
associates. Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it cannot
guarantee that local management of mining and related assets will comply
with Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Auditors and internal assurance
External auditors
As indicated in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 57 to 59, Rio Tinto
has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Group’s
external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting
and other professional services that might compromise their appointment as
independent auditors.
The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit services,
other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services, and certain other
services is pre-approved. Any engagement of the external auditors to provide
other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit
Committee or its chairman. For other services, because of their knowledge,
experience and/or for reasons of confidentiality, it can be more efficient or
necessary to engage the external auditor rather than another party.
At half year and year end, the chief financial officer and the external auditors
submit to the Audit Committee a schedule of the types of services that were
performed during the period. The Audit Committee may impose a financial
limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided. Any
non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected fee
exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Group’s normal
tender procedures.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to engage
the external auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if
the fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the
chairman of the Audit Committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
Further information on audit and non-audit fees of the Group’s external auditors
is set out in note 39 to the financial statements and in the Directors’ report.
62 riotinto.com Group Audit & Assurance
Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function which provides independent
and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s
systems for risk management, internal control and governance together
with recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the relevant systems
and processes. The function has an internal audit methodology which is
aligned with international auditing standards set by the Institute of Internal
Auditors (IIA).
The function operates independently of management, under a mandate
approved by the Audit Committee, and has full access to all functions, records,
property and personnel of the Group. The head of Group Audit & Assurance
administratively reports to the chief financial officer and has direct
communication lines with the chairs of both the Audit Committee and
Sustainability Committee and regularly attends their meetings.
A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high-risk areas
and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Committee and
Sustainability Committee for approval.
In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services of
external service providers. The function has a policy which addresses conflicts
of interest in relation to engagements of the service provider that are
requested by management. The policy complies with the IIA’s standards on
independence. Certain services are pre-approved under the policy as they
would not be in conflict with the internal auditor’s role. There is a list of
prohibited services which may not be undertaken without approval of the head
of Group Audit & Assurance, and guidance on the consideration of services
which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
Financial reporting
Financial statements
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial
period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at
the end of the financial period, and the profit or loss and cash flows for that
period. This includes preparing financial statements in accordance with UK
company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s
affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information
required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the
Australian Corporations Act 2001.
In addition, the Code requires that the board provides a fair, balanced and
understandable assessment of the company’s position and prospects in its
external reporting. The directors were responsible for the preparation and
approval of the Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014. They
consider the Annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and
understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the company’s performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, in
accordance with UK and Australian legislation. They have a general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities. The directors are also responsible for ensuring that appropriate
systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Group’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from current and future legislation in other
jurisdictions. The work carried out by the auditors does not involve
consideration of such developments and, accordingly, the external auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes, should any be made, to the financial
statements after they are made available on the website.
The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other
members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course of the
preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct themselves
with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the ethical standards of
their profession and the business.
The directors consider that the 2014 Annual report presents a true and fair
view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting
standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tinto’s
business, and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates. The
accounting policies have been consistently applied. The directors have
received a written statement from the chief executive and the chief financial
officer to this effect. In accordance with the internal control requirements of
the Code and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written
statement confirms that the declarations in the statement are founded on a
sound system of risk management and internal controls, and that the
system is operating effectively in all material respects in relation to financial
reporting risks.
Disclosure controls and procedures
The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term is
defined in US Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Management, with the
participation of the chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’s disclosure controls
and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the
period covered by this report and has concluded that these disclosure controls
and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
The management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting. The companies’ internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed under the supervision of their common chief executive and chief
financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the Group’s
published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).
The Group’s internal control over financial reporting includes policies and
procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets;
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and that
receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with
authorisations of management and directors of each of the Companies; and
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Group’s assets that could
have a material effect on our financial statements.
Due to inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot
provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all misstatements
whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014, based on the Internal Control
– Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO) issued in 2013, and concluded that it
was effective.
There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that
occurred during the period that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the internal controls over financial reporting of each
of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
riotinto.com 63
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration
Committee chairman
Dear shareholders
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2014 directors’
remuneration report (the Remuneration Report), for which we seek your
support at our annual general meetings (AGMs), in London in April, and in
PerthinMay.
The Remuneration Report is designed to demonstrate the link between our
Group’s strategy, its performance, and the remuneration outcomes for our
executives, particularly the executive directors.
With a view to delivering sustainable returns to shareholders over time,
Rio Tinto takes a long-term approach to its activities, and this means
concentrating on developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations that
are capable of providing competitive returns throughout business cycles. Our
executives’ performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable
legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of “key management
personnel”, being those persons having authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group. The key
management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director
members of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee comprises
the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group
executives. Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the
Executive Committee are collectively referred to as “executives”. They are
listed on pages 49 and 52, which also show the positions held during the year
and dates of appointment.
Shareholders will be aware that we have to comply with UK and Australian
legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules are different. We have
structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders vote on all
three resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of
remuneration policy, which summarises our compensation policies and
practices (the Remuneration Policy); and the annual report on remuneration,
which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been applied (the
Implementation Report).
The Remuneration Policy is once again subject to a binding vote at our 2015
AGMs for UK law purposes. The Implementation Report (including this
statement) is subject to an advisory vote for UK law purposes. The
Remuneration Report as a whole is subject to an advisory vote at the 2015
AGMs for Australian law purposes.
For the purposes of UK regulations on remuneration reporting, the
Remuneration Policy will, if the resolution is passed, become effective in
respect of payments to directors from the date of the second of our AGMs
(7 May 2015).
The board presented to shareholders a policy for the remuneration of its
directors for the first time at the 2014 AGMs. Following approval at the 2014
AGMs, the Remuneration Policy, for the purposes of the UK regulations,
became effective in respect of payments to directors from 8 May 2014. While
the board intended the Remuneration Policy put to shareholders at the 2014
AGMs to apply for three years, it has taken the decision to present you with an
updated Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding vote at the
2015 AGMs. This is because the board has decided to seek approval for the
proposed change to the contractual notice periods for the chief executive and
the chief financial officer announced, subject to shareholder consent, on
23 October 2014 by way of an update to the Remuneration Policy.
Furthermore, the board has decided to update the risk management section
of the Report to incorporate its policy relating to malus and claw back for
performance related payments. Both sections (being the only sections
containing material changes to the Remuneration Policy) are identified in
italics in this Report. Other minor clarification and contextual changes have
been made to reflect the revised Remuneration Policy becoming effective in
2015, but these are not marked. A version that shows the comparisons
between our 2013 and 2014 Policy Reports is, however, available on the
company’s website at riotinto.com.
In the absence of circumstances which may necessitate a change to the
Remuneration Policy, it is our intention that the Policy will next be put before
shareholders for a vote at our AGMs in 2018. The contextual changes referred
to above are designed to avoid the need to update the Remuneration Policy
before then.
Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy only applies to the
remuneration of our directors, it is the Committee’s intention that the broad
policy principles will continue to inform the way in which our non-director key
management personnel on the Executive Committee are remunerated.
The Remuneration Policy describes among other things: our executive
remuneration structure; the details of the discretions available to the
Committee; our approach to remuneration on recruitment; the details of
executives’ service contracts; and how we treat leavers.
Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form of
base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund and/or a cash
allowance to contribute to a pension fund, the receipt of certain benefits, and
performance-related remuneration. Each element is described in the
Remuneration Policy.
The majority of the remuneration of executives will normally be performance-
related, and is provided in the form of variable short and long-term incentives.
In relation to the short-term incentive plan (STIP), the Committee each year
sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, target and
outstanding. Target performance is intended to be stretching, and is typically
equivalent to budget for the year.
I want to remind you of our policy relating to the disclosure of measures,
weightings and targets. In relation to the long-term incentive plan (LTIP),
these will all be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of each five-year
performance period. In relation to the STIP, we will, when it comes to
disclosure, distinguish between safety, financial and individual goals. In the
area of safety goals, we have disclosed and will continue to disclose the
measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year. In the area of
financial and individual goals, we have disclosed, and will continue to disclose,
at the beginning of each year, the measures and weightings only, because we
regard the targets as commercially sensitive. However, as we said in the
Remuneration Report last year, we intended to disclose, and have in this
Implementation Report disclosed, the targets and outcomes for 2014
retrospectively. In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on
grounds of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why and give an
indication of when they would be disclosed.
The chart on page 85 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery of the
components of remuneration, using 2014 as an example. This emphasises the
long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
64 riotinto.com You will see several mechanisms in the Remuneration Report that are
intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and executives.
We have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of 50 per cent of any
annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vesting deferred for three
years. The performance measures under our long-term remuneration plans
are structured to support and incentivise the creation of long-term
shareholder value. In addition, should circumstances warrant, we have
reserved to the Committee such discretions as enable it to safeguard against
the return experience of shareholders being materially misaligned with the
reward experience of executives. We want the remuneration outcomes
properly to reflect the Group’s overall performance. We also have meaningful
share ownership requirements for our executives as described in the
Implementation Report.
There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of how our
dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committee’s decisions. In 2013,
we added a new performance measure to our Performance Share Plan (PSP),
namely the relative EBIT margin improvement measure. We did this because
many of our owners had expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate
some diversification beyond total shareholder return (TSR). We extended the
performance period of the PSP from four to five years and have materially
reduced the pay-out for threshold performance. We have ceased using share
options as a mechanism for long-term reward. We adjusted our safety
measures in our STIP targets to reflect lost time injuries and all injury
frequency rates. Meanwhile, as you will see in the Implementation Report, our
decisions relating to base pay changes for executive directors and executives
are now broadly guided by pay changes for the wider employee population.
2014 performance and remuneration
In terms of STIP for 2014, the Committee determined that the underlying
“unflexed” earnings target set by the board had not been met. However, the
“unflexed” free cash flow target and “flexed” earnings and free cash flow
targets have been exceeded. “Flexed” targets are designed to take into
account the impact of uncontrollable fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted
metals and other prices during the year, and as such may be higher or (as was
the case in 2014 – a year in which many commodity prices fell sharply) lower
than “unflexed” targets set by the board. This is reflected in the financial
component of the STIP awards at Group and product group level.
Disappointingly, the Group did not attain its goal of zero fatalities. However,
the Group’s all injury frequency rate reduced from 0.65 in 2013 to an all-time
low of 0.59 in 2014, bettering the Group target of 0.61. This has led to a total
safety score for the Group, excluding the impact of fatalities, of 138 per cent
out of a maximum of 200 per cent. Reductions have been applied as required
for executives with portfolios where a fatality has occurred.
The net effect of these outcomes, also taking into account the achievement of
individual objectives, is that STIP awards for Executive Committee members
have been made in a range from at or about target to above target levels.
The Committee considered the Group’s overall performance in the context of
the LTIP awards that were due to vest at the end of 2014. These were the 2011
award under the PSP, which had an indicative vesting of 73.5 per cent of face
value, and the 2012 grant under the Share Option Plan, which has an
indicative vesting of 100 per cent of face value. The Committee concluded that
the vesting of awards, based upon the achievement of the TSR measures, was
justified.
As previously announced, Jacynthe Côté, chief executive of the Aluminium
group, left the Group on 1 September. The details of her departure terms are
summarised on page 84.
2015 decisions
The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executives and, for the
executive directors and the majority of the Executive Committee, made
adjustments in line with the base salary budgets applying to the broader
employee population.
The base salary increases for Alan Davies and Jean-Se ´bastien Jacques are
specific adjustments which reflect the additional responsibilities and broader
portfolios transferred to them from the former Energy product group
announced on 27 February 2015. Details are set out on page 82 of the
Implementation Report.
The quantum of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2015 is
broadly similar to those made in 2014.
Safety, cost and capital expenditure reductions, and cash flow management
will continue to feature prominently in the individual objectives for executives
in 2015.
Further details are provided in the Implementation Report.
Governance and owners’ views
It has been and continues to be our intention to be alert to evolving best
practice and to the views and guidance given to us in the conversations we
have with our owners.
We are committed to a continuing dialogue with shareholders, including
listening to their views about this report, which are most welcome.
Yours sincerely,
John Varley
Remuneration Committee chairman
riotinto.com 65
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy
Remuneration Policy introduction
This Remuneration Policy applies to our executive and non-executive directors
and to the chairman. It also sets out, in conformance with Australian law, the
broad policy principles which generally apply to the non-director members of
the Executive Committee. The policy applying to our chairman and non-
executive directors is set out at the end of the Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders should note that this Remuneration Policy is binding only in so
far as it relates to directors.
Our remuneration policies, principles and practices
Our first objective is to spend remuneration resource wisely in pursuit of
the implementation of the Group’s strategy. We want our pay policies to
be regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike. Although we
have remuneration structures which are fit for purpose, the Committee
retains appropriate discretions, enabling it, if it thinks fit, to override
inappropriate mechanistic outcomes, but always within the confines of the
Remuneration Policy.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited
pool of talented executives. High-quality people, who are capable of achieving
stretching performance targets, are essential to generating superior returns
for the Group. Our compensation strategies aim to provide this support by
enabling the Group to attract and retain people whose contribution will
increase shareholder value over time.
We aim to engage our people over the long term by fostering diversity,
providing challenging work and development opportunities, and encouraging
strong delivery by good performance. This people strategy is underpinned by
our values of respect, integrity, teamwork and accountability and by our
commitment to provide sustainable growth and development for both
Rio Tinto and its employees.
Our policy is based on the principle of aligning remuneration outcomes with the
successful delivery of strategy. The remuneration strategy and the policies which
support it, together with a description of how we believe they will help Rio Tinto
achieve its vision, are set out below and under the heading “Executive
remuneration structure – policy table”. Complementary remuneration structures
are designed for other employees, drawing on these strategies and policies.
Competitive, performance-related, remuneration
We aim to provide competitive rewards that attract, retain and motivate
executives of the high calibre required to lead the Group, while ensuring that
rewards remain appropriate and proportionate when compared both to market
practice and to remuneration arrangements for other employees in the Group.
– The majority of remuneration is linked to demanding performance targets
over both the short and long term to ensure that executive rewards are
directed at delivering good performance for shareholders.
– For the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive
remuneration, the Committee refers to the FTSE30 (excluding financial
services companies) as the initial comparator group. The FTSE30 is
considered the most relevant comparator group as it largely comprises
organisations broadly comparable to the Group in terms of global reach,
revenue, market capitalisation and complexity. References are also made
to other relevant supplementary comparator groups, including a cross-
section of comparable international industrial organisations and other
international mining companies.
– Typically we aim to position base salaries at the median of these
comparator groups, while our incentive plans are designed with the
potential to deliver total remuneration outcomes across the full market
range according to business and individual performance.
– Benchmarking is undertaken periodically, but not annually, and our
intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data. We will take
salary increases in the broader employee population into account in
determining any change to the base pay of executives. We normally use
three-year average exchange rates, in order to mitigate the impact of
exchange rate volatility, to help determine the appropriate positioning of
executive remuneration against internal and external comparators.
– We regularly consult with shareholders on the design of our policies and
programmes, most recently on the subjects of the safety measure
component of the STIP, the ceasing of the use of share options as a
mechanism for long-term reward, and the performance conditions and the
performance period for the Performance Share Plan (PSP).
– Employee share plans provide the opportunity for employees to participate
in the voting on executive remuneration. Employees who are shareholders
– 25 per cent of the workforce at the date of this report – are able to vote
on the Remuneration Report. Employees have not been consulted on the
Remuneration Policy but are free to ask any questions they wish and to
offer any opinions they have through our normal employee
communications channels.
Safety
We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP targets.
– As an organisation, we strive for superior long-term shareholder value
creation in a healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way. These are
important elements of our licence to operate.
– Safety key performance indicators determine a significant portion of the
STIP for executives.
– Any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant
executives. Further details on the approach to fatalities are provided in the
Implementation Report.
66 riotinto.com Long-term focus
Consistent with our strategy of investing in and operating long-life, low-cost,
expandable operations in the most attractive industry sectors, we seek to
provide incentive plans that focus on longer-term performance.
– Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision-making
with a positive long-term impact while avoiding excessive risk.
– FiftypercentoftheSTIPforexecutivesisdeferredintoshareswhichvest
after three years, through the Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP).
– The performance-based options and shares awarded prior to 2013 have a
three and four-year performance period, respectively. The performance
period for performance shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 is five
years. However, as a transitional measure, awards granted in 2013 will
potentially vest 50 per cent after four years and 50 per cent after five years.
– Options are no longer granted, but existing options may be exercised
(subject to their vesting conditions) up to ten years after their grant.
– The Committee intends to keep the Group’s long-term incentive
arrangements under review.
Shareholder alignment
Our share ownership policy requires executives to build up and maintain a
meaningful shareholding as described in the Implementation Report under the
heading “Share ownership policy for executives”.
We reward executives for delivering shareholder value by using relative TSR as
one of the measures for our LTIP.
– For awards granted from 2013 under the PSP, a relative EBIT margin
improvement measure has complemented the existing relative TSR
measures, and incentivises executives to deliver long-term shareholder
value while maximising operational performance in the medium term. This
comprises one-third of the total value opportunity under the PSP awards.
– The reward opportunity under the remaining portion of the PSP awards is
delivered based on relative TSR performance against both the HSBC
Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as
measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI).
– The choice of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the
fact that Rio Tinto competes in a global market for investors as well as
within the mining sector, and is consistent with rewarding executives for
providing stable returns over the long term relative to the broader market
and the mining sector.
Risk management – Malus and claw back
(a)
The Committee has authority under the “malus” provisions of the PSP to
reduce or cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of gross misconduct
which may have a material effect on the value or reputation of the Group, a
materially adverse error in the Group’s or a product group’s financial
statements, exceptional events that have a materially detrimental impact
on the value of any Group company, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides in a particular case.
The Committee also has authority under the “claw back” provisions of the
PSP to recover the value of any vested awards made from 2013 in the event of
deliberate misconduct by a participant that may have a material impact on the
value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group company or for any other reason that
the directors decide in a particular case.
Malus and claw back can be applied by the Committee in relation to the STIP
and its deferral into BDP. The Committee evaluates the outcomes of the STIP
for fairness with the original targets and with shareholder experience, and may
make discretionary adjustments for executives using “malus” principles as
necessary. Any such adjustments are disclosed in the Implementation Report
for the relevant financial period.
The Committee retains discretion with respect to the vesting of BDP awards
made from 2013 onwards prior to their vesting dates, such that if an executive
resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason that the
Committee decides in the event of an executive terminating their
employment, BDP awards may be “clawed back” and consequently lapse.
The Committee reserves rights to exercise discretions more generally as
described under the heading “Discretions”.
(a) Material changes to the Remuneration Policy, such as those relating to malus and
claw back below, are identified in italics in this Report.
Executive remuneration structure – policy table
The Committee seeks to achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the
long-term nature of the business. The total remuneration package is therefore
designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable
components, with an emphasis on long-term variable pay. The remuneration
structure for executives, including the relationship between each element of
remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below. Further details
on the key performance indicators used to assess Group performance are
provided in the Strategic report under the heading “Key performance
indicators”. Shareholders should note that the following remuneration
structure is binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
Any commitment made before this Remuneration Policy takes effect or before
an executive became or becomes a director will be honoured even if it is not
consistent with this Remuneration Policy or any subsequent policy.
Remuneration arrangements – Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy
Base salary – Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
– Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or
inflation if higher, per annum. An increase may be higher than this for executives
who are not directors in the circumstances described below.
– Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases
applying to the broader employee population unless there were significant
changes to an individual’s role and/or responsibilities during the year. Any
increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual
performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an
assessment against relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
– An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not
directors may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in
responsibility or where the executive’s salary is significantly below
market positioning.
– We pay competitive salaries to hire,
motivate and retain highly
competent people.
– Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention
is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
riotinto.com 67
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued
Remuneration arrangements – Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy
Pension or
superannuation
– Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan,
superannuation fund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or
superannuation fund.
– We provide locally competitive post-
employment benefits in a cost-efficient
manner in order to hire and retain.
– The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive director’s
schemes annually is 35 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits – Other benefits include private healthcare cover for the executive and their
dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident
insurance, provision of Company-provided transport/chauffeur, professional advice,
participation in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits
(including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse
travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are
deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf).
– We provide competitive other benefits
in a cost-efficient manner to hire and
retain.
– Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits (for example, housing, tax
equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits
home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments)
may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
– Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there
is no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
Remuneration arrangements – Performance-related (At risk)
Short Term Incentive
Plan (STIP)
– If target performance is achieved under the STIP, the bonus opportunity is up to
120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base
salary for other executives. The award for achieving threshold performance is 50 per
cent of the target bonus opportunity and the maximum bonus award for
outstanding performance is 200 per cent of base salary. These percentages, with
the exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion
by the Committee.
– STIP focuses participants on achieving
demanding annual performance goals,
which are based on the Group’s KPIs, in
pursuit of the creation of sustainable
shareholder value.
– We demand that sustainable business
practices are adhered to, particularly in
the context of safety.
– When reviewing the outcome of the
awards under the STIP the Committee
will, when evaluating overall safety,
financial, Group and individual
performance, consider the overall
fairness against original expectations and
shareholder experience.
– Any discretionary adjustments for
directors will be disclosed in the
Implementation Report for the financial
period.
– A scorecard of key performance indicators (KPIs) is established for each executive
at the commencement of the financial year. The measures and the relative
weightings are selected by the Committee in order to drive business performance
for the current year, including the achievement of financial, safety and other
individual business outcomes that are priorities for the financial year in question.
– The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included
either prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report. The
Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and targets as
appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
– We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the
beginning of each year. In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the
beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we
regard the targets as commercially sensitive. However, we intend to disclose targets
and outcomes retrospectively. In the rare instances where this may not be prudent
on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an
indication of when they will be disclosed.
– Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP
measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
– The central case or “base” plan delivers what the board considers to be target
performance. Target performance is intended to be stretching. Probability factors
are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to
establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels. These threshold
(below target), target, and outstanding (above target) levels are determined by the
Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
– The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year-end determination of STIP
awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the
beginning of the year. This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being
made by the Committee (in particular to take account of events outside
management’s control), to ensure a like-for-like comparison. Both upward and
downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the
Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
– Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality
will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus Deferral Plan
(BDP)
– Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the
remainder delivered in cash.
– The BDP ensures ongoing alignment
between executives and shareholders
through deferral of 50 per cent of STIP
awards into Rio Tinto shares.
68 riotinto.com Remuneration arrangements – Performance-related (At risk) Link to Group performance and strategy
– The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year
to which it relates.
– The number of BDP shares which are awarded is increased by reference to the
dividends paid in the deferral period before vesting.
– BDP shares vest on a change of control.
Performance Share
Plan (PSP)
– A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
– Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base
salary (ignoring dividend equivalents as described below).
– The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants (Towers
Watson since 1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously) to have an expected value
of approximately 50 per cent of face value. Expected value is face value adjusted for
the probability of the performance target being met.
– Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in
the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
– The maximum expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is 219 per cent of
base salary (ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent). The threshold value is a maximum of
98.6 per cent of base salary (ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent).
– Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the
Implementation Report.
– Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching
performance conditions, comparing Rio Tinto’s performance against:
– One-third: TSR relative to the HSBC Global Mining Index;
– One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI); and
– One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining
comparators which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
– Each component of the award will be assessed independently. Details of the TSR
and EBIT margin measures (targets and vesting schedules) will be set out in the
Implementation Report each year. With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in
order to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been
appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary
basis, any specific, significant, unusual, “below the line” items (eg impairments)
reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine
comparability when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data.
The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
– The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the
award is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
– If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive
a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash
amount of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have
vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance
period.
– Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of
capital and other transactions. Subject to this policy, performance conditions may
be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed
performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
– If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions
are then satisfied. If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from
the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced
pro rata over that 36 months period. The Committee may, alternatively, with
agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards
over shares in the acquiring company.
– The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend or
waive performance conditions under the Plan rules.
– As described under the malus and claw back provisions set out earlier in this Policy
Report, the Committee retains the discretion to reduce or cancel awards before they
vest (malus) or to recover the value of awards after vesting (claw back).
– The PSP incorporates a simple
structure to align executive reward with
shareholder returns and business
strategy, to help drive performance
over a long-term horizon.
– Award levels are set to incentivise
executives to meet the long-term
strategic goals of the Group, to provide
retention for the executive team and to
contribute towards the competitiveness
of the overall remuneration package.
– TSR rewards the delivery of superior
returns to shareholders over the
long term.
– EBIT margin improvement rewards
sustained operational performance of
our business and the cost-competitive
operation of our mining assets, a core
part of our strategy.
– How performance is generated is as
important as what level of performance
is delivered. Before vesting, the
Committee must satisfy itself that
relative TSR and EBIT margin
performances are an appropriate
reflection of the underlying
performance of the business, and can
adjust vesting accordingly.
– Awards will normally have a five-year
performance period to provide long-
term alignment with the interests
of shareholders.
– As a transitional measure, awards
granted in 2013 will vest 50 per cent
after four years and 50 per cent after
five years.
– The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account
of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance conditions be
satisfied, can be paid out under this policy. The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details of the performance
conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
riotinto.com 69
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued
Total remuneration opportunity
The following charts provide an indication, based on 2015 remuneration and the upcoming 2015 PSP awards, of what can be achieved under the Remuneration
Policy for the executive directors at below threshold (A), threshold (B), target (C) and outstanding (D) performance levels, together with the proportion of the
package delivered through fixed and variable remuneration. The PSP, STIP deferred shares and STIP cash are all performance-related remuneration. UK legislation
requires that these charts are given in relation to the first year in which the Remuneration Policy applies.
Sam Walsh (chief executive)
Potential value of 2015 remuneration package
A$’000
Chris Lynch (chief financial officer)
Potential value of 2015 remuneration package
£’000
Key
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
A$15,940
A$10,063
A$6,512
A$3,390
STIP – cash
Superannuation
Benefits
Base salary
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
B
C
D
AB C D D C B A
Key
 PSP
 STIP – deferred shares
 STIP – cash
 Pension
 Benefits
 Base salary
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
B Threshold performance
C On-target performance
D Outstanding performance (Maximum)
1,373
2,059
£1,151
£2,461
£3,952
£6,418
Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered
through fixed and variable remuneration
%
Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered
through fixed and variable remuneration
%
Key
13 28 59
29 9 31 15 7 9
43 12 12 4 9 20
55 12 12 3 6 12
PSP
STIP – deferred shares
STIP – cash
Superannuation
Fixed
}
Benefits
Base salary
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
Threshold performance
On-target performance
Outstanding performance (Maximum)
B
C
D
AB C D D C B A
Key
 PSP
 STIP – deferred shares
 STIP – cash
 Pension
 Benefits
 Base salary
A Below threshold performance (Minimum)
B Threshold performance
C On-target performance
D Outstanding performance (Maximum)
}
Fixed 73 9 18
34 4 8 10 10 34
21 3 5 13 13 45
13 2 3 13 13 56
The following table provides the basis for the values included in the charts above:
Fixed (stated in ‘000) – shown as column A above
Base
salary
(a)
Superannuation
or pension
(b)
Benefits
(c)
Total
fixed
Sam Walsh A$1,992 A$450 A$948 A$3,390
Chris Lynch £836 £208 £107 £1,151
(a) Base salary is the latest known salary.
(b) Superannuation for Sam Walsh is measured on a basis consistent with the single figure superannuation figure as set out in the Implementation Report but assumes that Sam’s
accrued benefit at 31 December 2014 will receive investment earnings at the rate of six per cent. The final value for 2015 will depend on the actual investment earnings received
and may therefore be significantly different.
(c) Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables in the Implementation Report excluding amounts considered to be one-off in nature. One-off items for
Sam in 2014 of A$82,000 included a relocation related benefit for the removal of household goods into storage in Australia and immigration related services. Note that this number
for Sam includes expatriate benefits which are not capped and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
70 riotinto.com Performance-related (At risk)
Threshold STIP and LTIP
(a)
performance – shown as
column B above
– A STIP award of 50% of the target STIP
opportunity, ie 60% of base salary
– Threshold vesting of the PSP award at
22.5% of face value, calculated as 96.8%
of base salary
Target STIP and LTIP
performance – shown as
column C above
– A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP
opportunity, ie 120% of base salary
– Expected value of the PSP award of
50% of face value, calculated as 215%
of base salary
Outstanding STIP and LTIP
performance (Maximum) –
shown as column D above
– A maximum STIP award of 200% of
base salary
– Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated
as 430% of base salary
(a) Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2015 face value.
This does not constitute an estimate of the value of awards that may potentially
vest with respect to year end 31 December 2015. No assumption has been made for
increase in share price or payment of dividends.
Context for outstanding performance
Demanding performance targets are designed to ensure that the level of
remuneration is aligned with performance delivered for shareholders.
Outstanding business and individual performance is required to achieve the
maximum level of remuneration. This comprises:
– outstanding performance against all financial, health and safety, and
individual STIP measures;
– TSR outperformance against both the HSBC and MSCI indices by six per
cent per annum over five years; and
– EBIT margin improvement equal to or greater than the second ranked
company in the comparator group over five years.
The intention of the Committee is that if these levels of reward are achieved by
our executives then shareholders will benefit over time from superior share
price performance.
Discretions
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the outcomes of
the Group’s executive pay arrangements described in this Remuneration
Policy properly reflect the Group’s overall performance and the experience of
its shareholders and other stakeholders over the performance period.
The Committee undertakes to owners that it will exercise discretion diligently
and in a manner that is aligned with our strategy to create long-term
shareholder value. Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of short and
long-term incentive plans and the outcome of awards made under these
plans, the Committee will, when evaluating safety, financial, Group and
individual performance, consider the overall shareholder experience during the
performance period in question.
It is the Committee’s intention that the mechanistic outcome of performance
conditions relating to awards made under such plans will routinely be subject
to review to avoid outcomes which could be seen as contrary to shareholders’
expectations. To the extent provided for in the terms of any performance
condition or in accordance with any relevant amendment power under the
plan rules, the Committee may adjust and/or set different performance
measures if events occur (such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition
or divestment, a change in control or unexpected event) which cause the
Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate or in the
best interests of shareholders, and that the amendment is required so that the
measures achieve their original purpose. Committee discretion should not
operate as an automatic override, and it must be exercised judiciously.
To the extent that discretion is applied in any year, the Committee undertakes
that this will be clearly explained and disclosed to shareholders in the
Implementation Report.
Recruitment remuneration
Our approach to recruitment remuneration for executives (both external and
internal) is set out below. Shareholders are reminded that the following principles
are binding only in so far as they relate to the recruitment of directors.
We aim to position base salary at an appropriate level, taking into consideration a
range of factors including an executive’s current remuneration, experience,
internal relativities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and cost.
Other elements of remuneration will be established in line with the Remuneration
Policy set out earlier in this Policy Report in the executive remuneration structure
table. As such, annual variable remuneration for new appointees will comprise a
maximum award of 200 per cent of base salary under the STIP and a maximum
award of 438 per cent of base salary under the PSP.
In the event that an internal appointment is made, existing commitments will
be honoured.
If the Committee concludes that it is necessary and appropriate to secure an
appointment, relocation-related support and international mobility benefits
may also be provided depending on the circumstances. Any relocation
arrangements will be set out in the Implementation Report.
Any compensation provided to an executive recruited from outside the Group
for the forfeiture of any award under variable remuneration arrangements
entered into with a previous employer is considered separately to the
establishment of forward looking annual remuneration arrangements. Our
policy with respect to such “buy-outs” is to determine a reasonable level of
award, on a like-for-like basis, of primarily equity-based, but also potentially
cash or restricted stock, taking into consideration the quantum of forfeited
awards, their performance conditions and vesting schedules. The Committee
will obtain an independent external assessment of the value of awards
proposed to be bought out and retains discretion, subject to the above, to
make such compensation as it deems necessary and appropriate to secure the
relevant executive’s employment. The Committee’s intention is that buy-out
compensation should include, where appropriate, performance-tested equity.
No form of “golden hello” will be provided upon recruitment.
Executives’ service contracts and termination
(b)
The Committee will seek to honour any commitments made in respect of
termination of employment in the executive directors’ service contracts
predating this Remuneration Policy which are described in this section. This
section also sets out Rio Tinto’s policy on termination payments and notice
periods. Shareholders are reminded that such policy is binding only in so far as
it relates to directors.
For new appointments where the Company terminates by making a payment
in lieu of notice, the Committee will for executive directors (to the extent
permitted by relevant law) have regard to the executive director’s ability to
mitigate his loss in assessing the payment to be made.
The executive directors may have or may be offered service contracts which
can be terminated by either party with up to 12 months’ notice in writing, or
immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice. An
initial notice period of up to 24 months during the first two years of
employment, reducing to up to 12 months thereafter, may sometimes be
necessary to secure an external appointment. In some circumstances, it may
also be appropriate to use fixed-term contracts for executive directors.
On 23 October 2014, the Company announced its intention to change the
contractual notice periods for the executive directors. Subject to approval of
this Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGMs, both executive directors will
transfer from their current fixed term contracts to open-ended contracts with
no pre-determined end date and a 12-month notice period.
Other executives can be offered service contracts which can be terminated by
the Company with up to 12 months’ notice in writing, and by the employee
with six months’ notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by paying
the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
The current contract terms of both directors and the other executives are
included in the Implementation Report.
(b) Material changes to the Remuneration Policy, such as those relating to executive
service contracts above, are identified in italics in this Report.
riotinto.com 71
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued
Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or part of
their notice period and may receive their contractual salary, STIP and benefits
during the notice period (or the cash equivalent). Where applicable, tax
equalisation and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance with the
executive’s prevailing terms and conditions.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate employment
notice. Deferred bonus shares and outstanding awards under the LTIP may be
forfeited in these circumstances.
Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid out
on termination, in accordance with the relevant country legislation and
applicable practice applying to all employees. For eligible leavers (as defined
below), in Australia the value of the leave is calculated on the basis of base
salary, target STIP and car allowance. No STIP is included where the executive
is not an eligible leaver.
If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant local policy
may apply in the same way as for other local employees.
On termination, the Company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits as
agreed on the original expatriation and/or in accordance with its applicable
policies on travel and relocation. For example, Sam Walsh is provided with
expatriation benefits and allowances and on termination of his employment by
the Company repatriation expenses would be paid.
On termination other than for cause, the Company may make a payment in
consideration for entry by the departing executive director into appropriate
restrictive covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its shareholders. The amount of
such payment will be determined by the Committee based on the content and
duration of the covenant.
Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to exercise long-
term incentives awards under the conditions described in the sections
following. They and their dependants may also be eligible for post-retirement
benefits such as medical and life insurance. The Company may also agree to
continue certain other benefits for a period following termination where the
arrangements are provided under term contracts or in accordance with the
terms of the service contract, for example, payment for financial advice, tax
advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax year. In some cases, they may
receive a modest retirement gift.
The Company may pay such amount as it determines is reasonable to settle
any claims which in the Committee’s view are legitimate which the executive
director may have in connection with the termination of his employment. The
Company may also pay reasonable legal and other professional fees (including
outplacement support) to or in respect of a director in connection with the
termination of his employment. These may include legal fees incurred by him
in negotiating a settlement agreement with Rio Tinto. In assessing what is
reasonable, the Company will take account of prevailing rates for such advice
and support and determine appropriate level of contribution based on the
complexity of the issues.
Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination
The STIP and share plan rules govern the entitlements that executive
participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment.
The concept of an “eligible leaver” is defined in the relevant Plan rules. In
general terms, an eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Group by
reason of ill-health, injury, disability (as determined by the executive’s
employer); retirement; redundancy; transfer of the undertaking in which the
executive works; change of control of the executive’s employing company; or
death; and usually there is a discretion for the Remuneration Committee to
treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP)
If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a performance year, the
Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to award a pro rata
portion of the STIP based on the amount of the year served and based on
actual assessment of performance against targets. Any cash payment will be
made at the normal STIP payment date and no portion of the award will be
deferred into shares.
If an executive provides the Company notice of their resignation during the
performance year, but will not leave the Group until after the end of the
performance year, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion
to make an award under the STIP. In these circumstances, the executive will
only be eligible to receive the cash portion of the award and will forfeit the
deferred shares portion. Any cash payment will be made at the normal STIP
payment date.
No STIP award will be made where an executive who is not an eligible leaver
leaves the Group, resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the end of the
performance year.
Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP) (2013 onwards)
For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally
be retained and vest at the scheduled vesting date, save where the Committee
determines otherwise. There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any
dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason
that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
BDP (pre-2013)
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally vest at
thescheduledvestingdatesavewheretheCommitteedeterminesotherwise.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend equivalent
shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, awards will lapse.
For any BDP award, where required by law or regulation, and where the
Remuneration Committee so decides, cash may be provided in lieu of shares.
PSP (2013 onwards)
For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally
be retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting date. Unvested awards remain
subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions. Any dividend
equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
If the executive leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of
grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata
over that 36-month period.
Awards will vest immediately on death, but if an executive dies during the first
36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can
vestwillbereducedprorataoverthat36-monthperiod.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason
that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
PSP (pre-2013)
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be
retained and vest at the scheduled vesting date, although the Committee may
determine that awards should vest early. Unvested awards remain subject to
the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
72 riotinto.com Awards vest immediately on death. The number of shares vesting is
determined on the assumption that performance conditions are met at median
level or at the level to which they are actually satisfied at the date of death, if
higher. If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, awards will lapse.
For any PSP award, where permitted, and where the Remuneration Committee
so decides, awards may be made in cash in lieu of shares.
Share Option Plan (SOP) (pre-2013)
For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, awards will normally be
retained. If the executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards will lapse one year
from the date the executive leaves the Group and unvested awards will lapse
oneyearfromthevestingdateorsuchlongerperiodaspermittedbythe
Committee.AtthedateofthisreporttherearenoawardsundertheSOP
which remain subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards vest in full on death.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other reason, unvested awards and
vested awards that have not been exercised will lapse.
Management Share Plan (MSP)
AwardsundertheMSPareonlymadetoexecutivespriortotheirappointment
as an Executive Committee member. All retained awards will be reduced pro
rata to reflect the proportion of the period between the date of grant of the
award and the normal vesting date which has not elapsed at the time
employment ceased. Any dividend equivalent shares or cash equivalent will be
calculated on the vested shares. Awards vest on death, subject to the pro rata
reduction described above.
For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will normally
be retained, and vest, at the Committee’s discretion, at the scheduled vesting
date (although awards of US taxpayers may vest on leaving).
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any other reason
that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
All MSP awards granted prior to 2013 have vested.
Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration
Chairman
It is Rio Tinto’s policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a
competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the Group, as
assessed by the board.
The Committee determines the terms of service, including remuneration, of
thechairman.Thechairman’sfeesaresetbytheCommittee.Thechairman
has no part in the setting of his fees and is not present at any discussion at the
Committee about his fees.
The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional
fee or allowance either for committee membership or chairmanship, or for
travel. The chairman does not participate in the Group’s incentive plans.
The chairman is provided with a car and driver. Any use for transport
between home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit
to the chairman, and the Company pays any tax arising on the chairman’s
behalf. The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the Company for the
personal travel element.
Other benefits provided include private healthcare cover, accident insurance
(note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit), other minor benefits
(including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances), occasional
spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business
expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the
tax on his behalf. Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment
benefits to the chairman.
Non-executive directors
Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties and
responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make a
meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
The non-executive directors’ fees and other terms are set by the board upon
the recommendation of the Chairman’s Committee (which comprises the
chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer).
Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee,
committee membership or committee chairmanship fee or senior independent
director fee, as applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which
involve medium or long-distance air travel. They do not participate in any of
the Group’s incentive plans.
Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions
for Australian non-executive directors is required by Australian
superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the director’s
overall fee entitlements.
Non-executive directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs
incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice. These payments, if
made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive directors and the tax arising is
paid by the Company on the director’s behalf.
Otherbenefitsprovidedincludeaccident insurance (note this is neither
contractual nor a taxable benefit), other minor benefits (including modest
retirement gifts in applicable circumstances), occasional spouse travel in
support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are
deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits to non-
executive directors.
Appointment
The appointment of non-executive directors (including the chairman) is
handled through the Nominations Committee and board processes. The
current fee levels are set out in the Implementation Report.
Details of each element of remuneration paid to the chairman and non-
executive directors are set out in the Implementation Report in table 1b on
page 94.
The chairman’s letter of appointment from the Company stipulates his duties
as chairman of the Group. His appointment may be terminated without liability
on the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Group’s constitutional
documents dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or other
vacation from office. Otherwise, his appointment may be terminated by giving
12 months’ notice. There are no provisions for compensation payable on
termination of his appointment, other than if his appointment as chairman is
terminated by reason of his removal as a director pursuant to a resolution of
shareholders in general meeting in which case the Company shall be liable to
pay any fees accrued to the date of any such removal.
The non-executive directors’ letters of appointment from the Company
stipulate their duties and responsibilities as directors. Each non-executive
director is appointed subject to their election and annual re-election by
shareholders. Non-executive directors’ appointments may be terminated by
giving three months’ notice. There are no provisions for compensation
payable on termination of their appointment. The letters of appointment are
available for inspection at Rio Tinto plc’s registered office, and at its annual
general meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the Group’s constitutional documents, the
maximum aggregate fees payable to the non-executive directors (including
the chairman) in respect of any year, including fees received by the non-
executive directors for serving on any committee of the boards, and any travel
allowances received by the non-executive directors for attending meetings,
will not exceed £3,000,000. Non-monetary benefits are not included in this
limit.
riotinto.com 73
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
POLICY REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report
Implementation Report introduction
This Implementation Report is presented to shareholders for approval at the
AGMs. It outlines how our Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2014 and
how it is intended to be operated in 2015.
Remuneration for executives, set out in the single total figure of remuneration
tables on pages 86 and 87, is shown gross of tax and in the relevant currency
of award or payment. The information reported for executives in table 1a on
pages 92 and 93 is reported in accordance with Australian statutory disclosure
requirements and is shown gross of tax and in US dollars. Where applicable,
amounts have been converted using the relevant average exchange rates
included in the notes to table 3 on page 92
(a)
.
In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers the remuneration of
the chairman and the non-executive directors in table 1b on page 94. All
figures are shown gross of tax and in US dollars.
Remuneration Committee responsibilities
The Committee’s responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are
available in the corporate governance section of the Rio Tinto website. The
responsibilities of the Committee include:
– determining the Group’s remuneration structure and policies, and
assessing their cost, including pension and superannuation arrangements
for executives;
– determining the mix and use of short and long-term incentive plans
for executives;
– overseeing the operation of the Group’s short and long-term incentive
plans as they relate to executives, including the approval of awards, the
setting of performance criteria, where applicable, and the determination of
any vesting;
– determining contractual notice periods and termination commitments and
setting any retention and termination arrangements for executives;
– determining awards under the Group’s all-employee share plans; and
– determining the terms of service upon appointment and any subsequent
changes for the chairman and executives.
The Committee considers the level of pay and conditions throughout the
Group when determining executive remuneration and ensures that the
same principles are used when designing the broader employee
remuneration policies.
The members of the Committee are John Varley (chairman), Jan du Plessis,
Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
The membership and meeting attendances are detailed in the corporate
governance section on page 59. The Committee is supported by executives
and members of senior management who attend meetings to provide
information as requested by the Committee. These included Sam Walsh (chief
executive), Hugo Bague (Group executive, Organisational Resources), John
Beadle (global head, Performance and Reward) and Eleanor Evans (company
secretary). None of the attendees mentioned above was present when matters
associated with their own remuneration were considered by the Committee.
(a) UK and Australian remuneration figures are generally not comparable due to the
different methodologies required to calculate various parts of the remuneration
packages, most notably LTIP arrangements and the value of pension or
superannuation.
Independent advisers
The independent advisers engaged by the Committee during 2014 were Towers
Watson. Towers Watson reports to the Committee and not to management.
To ensure that “remuneration recommendations” (being advice relating to the
elements of remuneration for key management personnel, as defined under
the Australian Corporations Act) were made free from undue influence by key
management personnel to whom they may relate, the Committee established
a protocol for the engagement of and interaction with remuneration
consultants and has monitored compliance with its requirements throughout
2014. Declarations were given by Towers Watson to the effect that its
remuneration recommendations were made free from undue influence by key
management personnel to whom they related. The board has received
assurance from the Committee and is therefore satisfied that the
remuneration recommendations received from Towers Watson were made
free from undue influence.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as
such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct (the Code) in relation to
executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The Code is based upon
principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and
confidentiality. Towers Watson has confirmed that it adhered to the Code
throughout 2014 for all remuneration services provided to Rio Tinto. The Code
is available online at remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Towers Watson is the only remuneration consultant which provided
remuneration recommendations to the Committee during 2014. The
Committee is content that Towers Watson, in providing remuneration advice
to the Committee, did not have any connections with Rio Tinto that impaired
its independence.
During 2014, as part of its engagement, Towers Watson provided
remuneration recommendations to the Committee. Its services included
Committee meeting attendance and advice in relation to management
proposals. Towers Watson was paid US$349,905 for these services.
Towers Watson provided general and technical executive remuneration
services. These services included the provision of benchmarking data, the
giving of advice about remuneration of employees other than key
management personnel across the Group, and advice in relation to
preparation of the 2014 Remuneration Report. Towers Watson was paid
US$147,547 for these services.
Other services and publications were received from a range of advisers in
relation to remuneration data.
74 riotinto.com How the Committee spent its time in 2014
During 2014, the Committee met nine times. It fulfilled its responsibilities as
set out in its terms of reference.
In particular, its work in 2014 and in the early part of 2015 has included:
– reviewing and determining any base salary adjustments for executives;
– reviewing and determining threshold, target and outstanding performance
targets for the 2014 STIP;
– reviewing actual performance against the targets for the 2014 STIP and
assessing applicable adjustments;
– reviewing and determining the outcomes for LTIP awards vesting at the
end of 2014;
– reviewing and determining LTIP grants for the executives in 2015;
– reviewing the proposed change to the notice periods in the service
contracts for the chief executive (Sam Walsh) and the chief financial officer
(Chris Lynch);
– reviewing and determining the terms of appointment for the new chief
executive, Aluminium group (Alfredo Barrios);
– determining the terms of departure for the outgoing chief executive,
Aluminium group (Jacynthe Côté);
– reviewing the annual reports on the Group’s global benefit plans;
– reviewing progress towards compliance with the Group’s share
ownership requirements;
– an initial review of 2015 STIP targets; and
– preparing the Remuneration Report (including this Implementation Report).
The performance targets under the LTIP and the Company’s approach to
establishing the performance targets under the STIP are detailed in the
executive remuneration structure table on pages 67 to 69. The Committee’s
approach to the commercial sensitivity of certain targets is discussed below.
Performance review process for executives
Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance review process for all of its
executives. In the case of members of the Executive Committee, the chief
executive conducts the review. In the case of the chief executive, his
performance is assessed by the chairman of the board.
The key objectives of the performance review process are to:
– improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment between the
executive’s objectives and Rio Tinto’s strategy; and
– provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to measure,
recognise and reward executive performance.
All such reviews took place in 2014 or early 2015.
Share ownership policy for executives
TheGrouprecognisestheimportanceof aligning executives’ interests with
those of shareholders and they are therefore expected to build up and
maintain a meaningful shareholding. The Committee intends that executives
shouldaimtoreachashareownership(definedbelow)inRioTintoshares
equivalent in value to:
Share ownership requirement
Chief executive 4 x base salary
Other executives 3 x base salary
The Committee expects that this shareholding will be built up over a five-year
period by holding shares and share options that vest under the LTIPs. For new
hires, longer periods may be accepted, given the five-year vesting periods for
the PSP.
Shares will be treated as “owned” if they are not subject to restriction, and as
such include shares directly held by the executive and any shares where there
is a beneficial interest. A beneficial interest includes any shares where the
executive receives the benefit of ownership (such as a right to receive
dividends) without directly owning the shares. A value for vested, but
unexercised, share options is included, with a 50 per cent discount for the
likely effects of taxation, on the basis that executives with unexercised vested
options have a strong financial alignment with the share price and therefore
with shareholder interests.
Shareholding requirements also exist for senior management below the
Executive Committee.
Details of executives’ beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares are set out in
table 2 on page 95 and the details of awards of shares and options under long-
term incentive plans are set out in table 3 on pages 96 to 100.
Executives’ external and other appointments
Executives may be invited to become non-executive directors of other
companies. It is Rio Tinto’s policy that such appointments can broaden the
experience and knowledge of executives, to the benefit of the Group. This
policy limits each executive’s external appointment to one FTSE100 company
directorship or equivalent. Consequently, where there is no likelihood that
such an appointment will give rise to a conflict of interest, the board will
normally provide consent to the appointment. The executive is typically
permitted to retain any fees earned.
Details of all executives’ external appointments can be found on pages
49 to 52.
riotinto.com 75
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Performance and impact on 2014 STIP
Group financial and safety measures are included in the STIP for executive
directors and Group executives. The STIP measures for the product group
chief executive officers (PGCEOs) include product group financial and safety
measures in addition to the Group financial measures.
Safety measures for all executives in 2014 were split equally between all injury
frequency rate (AIFR) and lost time injuries (LTIs). The safety of our people is
core to everything we do. Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the
elimination of workplace fatalities. We are committed to reinforcing our strong
safety culture, and improving safety leadership.
The Committee selected the current financial measures of underlying earnings
and free cash flow because they are KPIs used in managing the business.
Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator used across the
Group. It gives insight into cost management, production growth and
performance efficiency. We are focused on aggressively reducing our costs
and increasing productivity to improve earnings and deliver greater value for
shareholders. Operating free cash flow is a complementary measure to
underlying earnings. It also provides insight into how we are managing costs
and increasing efficiency and productivity across the business. In measuring
financial performance against the annual plan, half is measured against the
original plan, and half is “flexed” to exclude the impact of uncontrollable
fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal and other prices. Earnings and
free cash flow results are therefore compared against equally weighted
“flexed” and “unflexed” targets.
The aggregate scores for Group safety and financial measures are set out in
the table below. The outcomes for the executive directors, with commentary
on key highlights on performance against individual objectives, are provided
onpages83and85.Additionaldetailsforotherexecutivesareprovidedon
page 87.
Group measures
Weight
(%)
Score
(out of 200%)
Weighted
score
Group safety
(a)
20.0 138 27.6
Underlying earnings 12.5 81 10.0
Underlying earnings – “flexed” 12.5 133 16.5
Free cash flow 12.5 200 25.0
Free cash flow – “flexed” 12.5 200 25.0
Group financial 50.0 153 76.5
Safety and financial measures
(b)
70.0 148.7 104.1
Individual measures
(c)
30.0 – –
Total
(c)
100.0 ––
(a) This excludes the impact of adjustments for fatalities in 2014 which vary
by executive.
(b) The weighted score represents the total Group safety and financial measures score
(out of a maximum of 200 per cent) weighted based on the total STIP opportunity of
70 per cent allocated to the safety and financial measures. This excludes the impact
of adjustments for fatalities in 2014 which vary by executive.
(c) The outcomes against individual measures and the total score (out of 200 per cent)
for executives are included in the following pages.
Safety performance
Regrettably, we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities in 2014. Two people
lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed operations. The fatalities
were caused by a train derailment due to a landslide at Iron Ore Company of
Canada, and an equipment incident during maintenance activities at the Gove
alumina refinery in Australia.
Our commitment to safety is the foundation of how we operate, as we work to
achieve our vision of everyone going home safe and healthy after each
working day. We believe we can prevent fatalities, injuries and illness by
effectively identifying and controlling risks in our business. We have a long
history of good safety performance and strive to improve on this year-on-year.
In 2014, we updated our safety strategy to confirm our focus on injury
reduction and strengthen our emphasis on fatality elimination and
catastrophic event prevention. This helps us drive effective risk management,
identify critical risks, verify that we have the necessary controls in place and
provide our people with appropriate training.
The Remuneration Committee sought guidance from the Sustainability
Committee on safety performance for 2014, as per our normal procedures.
Both committees noted the continued improvement in AIFR, with the Group’s
AIFR reducing from 0.65 in 2013 to an all-time low of 0.59 in 2014. This
bettered the Group target for 2014 of 0.61, but fell below the level of 0.51
which would have represented “outstanding”.
There were 381 lost time injuries in 2014 compared to 500 in 2013. This
bettered the Group target of 407 lost time injuries, but fell below the level of
361 lost time injuries which would have represented “outstanding”.
The combined performance meant that the overall Group result for safety was
between target and outstanding, with differentiated levels of safety
performance across the product groups. The total safety score for the Group
was 138 per cent (out of a maximum of 200 per cent). Reductions have been
applied as required for executives where a fatality has occurred.
Group financial performance
Highlights of 2014 include:
– Achieved US$1.5 billion of sustainable operating cash cost improvements
and exploration and evaluation savings in 2014, contributing to a total of
US$4.8 billion since 2012.
– Set production records for iron ore and Hunter Valley thermal coal,
and delivered a strong operational performance in bauxite, copper
and aluminium.
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$4.8 billion to US$8.2 billion in
2014, reflecting completion of existing major projects and continued
capital discipline.
– Decreased net debt by US$5.6 billion in 2014 to US$12.5 billion at
31 December 2014, with gearing of 19 per cent. This compares with
US$18.1 billion and 25 per cent gearing at 31 December 2013.
– Achieved underlying earnings of US$9.3 billion, nine per cent lower than
2013 despite the US$4.1 billion (post-tax) impact of lower prices.
Additional details on our progress against strategy are provided on pages
8 to 10.
The Group exceeded the earnings and cash flow targets set by the board, and
this is reflected in the financial component of the STIP awards both at the
Group and product group level.
76 riotinto.com The Group’s underlying earnings and free cash flow generated from operating
activities for 2014 were US$9.3 billion and US$6.9 billion respectively, against
targets of US$10.5 billion and US$3.0 billion respectively. The “flexed”
earnings and free cash flow targets (which take into account the impact of
uncontrollable fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal and other prices)
were US$8.1 billion and US$(1.3) billion respectively.
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year end determination of STIP
awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at
the beginning of the year. This resulted in the Committee making adjustments
to the targets to take account of events outside management’s control and to
ensure a like-for-like comparison. Both upward and downward adjustments
were made to the targets by reference to principles agreed by the Committee,
which have been consistently applied over several years, to ensure the
outcomes are fair.
The Group’s performance against the financial targets was 153 per cent (out of
a maximum of 200 per cent). This comprised an “unflexed” earnings result of
close to target, a “flexed” earnings result above target, and “outstanding” free
cash flow results on both a “flexed” and “unflexed” basis.
STIP individual measures for 2014
Individual measures were set by the chairman for the chief executive and by
the chief executive for other executives based on the following categories:
1. Business transformation
2. Cost reduction
3. Performance delivery
4. Leadership and engagement
Details of the outcomes against the individual measures are provided in the
following pages.
Performance and impact on LTIP vesting outcome for the period
ended 31 December 2014
The performance shares under the PSP awarded in 2011 had a four-year
performance period that ended on 31 December 2014. Conditional share
awards vest subject to the TSR performance condition which compares
Rio Tinto’s TSR against the HSBC Global Mining Index and the Morgan Stanley
Capital World Index (MSCI). Both indices are weighted equally.
Rio Tinto outperformed the HSBC Global Mining Index by 7.8 per cent per
annum compared to the level of outperformance required for maximum
vesting against this index of eight per cent per annum. The vesting outcome
against this index was therefore 147 per cent compared to the maximum of
150 per cent. The level of vesting against the MSCI was nil as Rio Tinto
underperformed this index.
This award therefore has a vesting of 73.5 per cent of face value (49 per cent
of maximum).
Share options under the SOP granted in 2012 had a performance period that
ended on 31 December 2014.
Options vest subject to the TSR performance condition which compares
Rio Tinto’s TSR against the HSBC Global Mining Index. Rio Tinto outperformed
the index by 30.3 per cent during the performance period, compared to the
level of outperformance required for full vesting of 15.8 per cent.
This award therefore had a vesting of 100 per cent of face value. The exercise
price for Rio Tinto plc options granted in 2012 is £35.179. There were no
options granted over Rio Tinto Limited shares in 2012 to any Executive
Committee members. Options can be exercised from 19 March 2015 until
19 March 2022.
The Committee considered the Group’s overall performance in the context of
the LTIP awards that were due to vest at the end of 2014 and concluded that
the vesting of awards based upon the achievement of the TSR measures set
by shareholders was justified.
Further details of the LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2014
and in prior years are provided on pages 89 and 90.
Sam Walsh (chief executive)
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of
2014 and prior years in accordance with UK legislation, stated in Australian
dollars, the currency of Sam Walsh’s arrangements. This is in addition to the
Australian statutory disclosure requirements set out in US dollars in table 1a
on pages 92 and 93. The remuneration details set out in table 1a include
theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration
packages, most notably LTIP arrangements, and require a different
methodology for calculating the superannuation value. Accordingly, the
figures below are not directly comparable with those in table 1a.
(stated in A$’000) 2014 2013 2012
Base salary paid
(a)
1,940 1,889 1,643
STIP payment – cash 1,721 1,371 1,075
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
1,721 1,370 1,075
Total short-term pay 5,382 4,630 3,793
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
3,161 3,121 2,225
Superannuation
(d)
841 1,322 745
Other benefits
(e)
1,030 997 232
Single total figure of remuneration 10,414 10,070 6,995
Percentage change in total
remuneration (2014 versus 2013;
2013 versus 2012) 3.4% 44.0% –
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as performance-related pay
(STIP and LTIP) 63.4% 58.2% 62.5%
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as non-performance-related
pay (base salary, pension and other
benefits) 36.6% 41.8% 37.5%
Percentage of maximum STIP
awarded
(f)
88.4% 72.1% 65.0%
Percentage of maximum STIP
forfeited 11.6% 27.9% 35.0%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 147.3% 120.2% 108.3%
Percentage of PSP award vesting 73.5% 75% 92.5%
Percentage SOP award vesting – – 100%
(a) Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are reviewed with effect
from 1 March. The salary and single figure of remuneration for 2012 relates to
Sam’s position as PGCEO, Iron Ore.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP.
(c) Based on the value of the LTIP awards which vested in respect of the performance
period that ended 31 December. The Rio Tinto Ltd share price used to calculate the
value of the award vesting on 16 February 2015 of A$63.55 was sourced from
Investis Ltd. The performance conditions for awards vesting for the period ending
31 December 2014 are detailed in the notes to table 3 on pages 96 to 100.
(d) Superannuation reflects the value of the superannuation accrued during the year
assuming that it was to come into payment immediately. This differs from the value
reported in table 1a which is calculated using an IAS19 methodology and
assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and salary increases.
(e) Includes international assignment benefits of A$810,000 for 2014 (2013:
A$786,000), allowance for professional tax services, car allowance, Company
provided transport, other contractual payments or benefits and for 2012, activities
in relation to Rio Tinto’s sponsorship of the medals for the 2012 London Olympics.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
riotinto.com 77
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Base salary
The Committee has increased Sam’s base salary by 2.3 per cent with effect
from 1 March 2015, consistent with the salary budget for other Australian
contracted employees in the Group.
2015 2014 % change
Base salary (stated in A$’000) 1,992 1,948 2.3
STIP individual objectives for 2014
Sam’s performance against his individual objectives is summarised below:
Category Performance
Business
transformation
– Continued delivery of the transformation
programme at multiple levels.
– Established a strong platform to engage with all
leaders and employees, and drive transformation
and cultural change.
– Increased discipline in capital management and
prioritisation, focus on costs and continued
delivery of record production output.
– Strengthened key governance models, such as the
investment and evaluation committees.
Capital and cost
reductions
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$4.8 billion to
US$8.2 billion in 2014.
– Achieved working capital improvements of
US$1.5 billion principally from lower inventories
and lower receivables.
– Achieved US$1.5 billion of sustainable operating
cash cost improvements and exploration and
evaluation savings in 2014, contributing to a total
of US$4.8 billion since 2012.
Performance
delivery
– Delivered good results from the Aluminium
business, having taken a more aggressive
transformation approach.
– Executed the curtailment of the Gove refinery in
an effective and responsible manner.
– Delivered value and optionality through the Pilbara
expansion programme.
– Finalised the Simandou investment framework
and the Ebola outbreak has been well managed.
Leadership and
engagement
– Engaged with a wide range of key stakeholders.
Increased level of engagement with investors
and interactions with key government leaders
at many levels.
– Continued to strengthen the Executive Committee.
The Committee, with input from the chairman of the board, assessed Sam’s
performance against his individual objectives as 190 per cent (out of 200 per
cent) for his individual contribution to the business during the year.
STIP outcomes for 2014
The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2014.
Measures
Weight
(%)
Score
(out of
200%)
Weighted
score
Safety
(a)
20 69.0 13.8
Group financial
(a)
50 153.0 76.5
Safety and financial 70 129.0 90.3
Individual 30 190.0 57.0
Total (% of target out of 200%) 100 – 147.3
(a) Refer to page 76 for further details of Group safety and financial performance. The
Group safety score of 138 per cent has been reduced by 50 per cent to 69 per cent
for the impact of fatalities in 2014.
As a result, Sam received a STIP award of 147.3 per cent of target, equivalent
to 176.8 per cent of base salary, 50 per cent to be delivered in cash in March
2015, and the remainder to be delivered in deferred shares, vesting in
December 2017.
LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2014
Sam received 45,387 shares in Rio Tinto Limited on 16 February 2015 from the
vesting of the PSP awarded in 2011. He also received a cash payment of
A$277,051 equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been paid on
the shares that vested had he owned them during that four-year period. No
dividends were paid in respect of the shares that lapsed.
In 2012, Sam elected to receive his full LTIP award under the PSP and as a
result he has no options under the SOP that were granted in 2012 and which
had a performance period that ended on 31 December 2014.
Further details of the awards vesting in 2015 and in prior years are provided on
page 89 and in table 3 on page 97.
LTIP award granted in 2014
The details of Sam’s 2014 LTIP award are summarised in the following table.
Type of
award Grant date
Face value
of award
(% of base
salary)
Face value
of award
(A$’000)
(a)
%vestingat
threshold
performance
End of the
performance
period over
which the
performance
conditions
have to be
fulfilled
(b)(c)
PSP
17 March
2014 420% 8,180 22.5% 31 Dec 2018
(a) The face value represents the maximum value of the award and resulted in an
award of 134,026 conditional shares based on the average share price over 2013
of A$61.029. The expected value of the award is 50 per cent of the face value or
A$4,090,000.
(b) The 2014 PSP award may vest after five years in 2019.
(c) The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in table 3 on
page 100.
LTIP award for 2015
Sam’s PSP award in 2015 will have a face value of 430 per cent of base salary
and an expected value of 215 per cent of base salary. The award may vest
after five years in 2020, subject to the Group’s relative TSR and relative EBIT
margin performance. The performance conditions for the award are
unchanged from 2014 and the full performance conditions are set out in detail
on page 83. As with other participants, Sam’s award in 2015 may be subject to
pro-rating depending on the date of his retirement from Rio Tinto.
Shareholding
Sam’s shareholding for the purposes of the share ownership policy, calculated
using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date each
year before the date of publication of this report was:
31 December
2014
31 December
2013
Increase in
shareholding/
value of
options
Holding of ordinary shares 146,993 94,444 55.6%
Value of vested but
unexercised options (‘000) A$809 A$1,073 (24.6%)
Multiple of base salary 5.2 4.0 1.2
The value of vested but unexercised options is calculated based on the share
price as at the relevant date in February each year less the exercise price and
with a 50 per cent discount for the effects of taxation.
78 riotinto.com Superannuation
Sam is provided with superannuation through an employer funded plan as
provided to Australian-based employees.
In line with Australian-based employees with defined benefit provision who
remain in service beyond age 62, Sam’s benefit is calculated as the greater of:
(a) 20 per cent of base salary, averaged over three years, for each year of
service and proportionate month with the Company to date of
retirement; or
(b) (i) his accrued benefit at age 62 of 4.05 times final base salary; plus
(ii) Company contributions required under Australian legislation
sufficient to meet the maximum contribution base as detailed
within the Superannuation Guarantee legislation, being at the
rate of 9.25 per cent for the period 1 January to 30 June 2014 and
9.5 per cent for the period 1 July to 31 December 2014, less tax;
plus
(iii) investment earnings at the rate the trustee of the superannuation
fund may determine from time to time for the period from age 62
to the date of retirement.
In line with typical market practice in Australia, Sam continues to receive an
additional Company contribution on a defined contribution basis of 20 per cent
of the lesser of:
(a) 50 per cent of the annual STIP award; or
(b) 20 per cent of base salary.
This benefit can be taken without employer or trustee consent and without
actuarial reduction on cessation of employment on or after age 62.
The accrued lump sum benefit as at 31 December 2014 was A$9,496,489
(31 December 2013: A$8,454,000). The accrued lump sum benefit as at
31 December 2014 calculated by reference to Sam’s base salary as set out in
(a) above was A$8,235,215 (31 December 2013: A$7,811,427). The additional
Company contribution on a defined contribution basis for 2014 was A$75,999
(2013: A$66,000). Sam elected to take the defined contribution element as a
cash amount less any applicable withholdings.
Fees received from external appointments
Sam received no fees from external appointments in 2014. In 2013 Sam
received A$27,282 in respect of his position as a non-executive director of
Seven West Media Limited from which he stood down in January 2013.
Service contract
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Position held during 2014 Date of appointment to position
Chief executive 17 January 2013
It is intended that Sam will transfer to a rolling contract which can be
terminated by either party with 12 months’ notice in writing, or immediately by
paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice. His initial contract
was due to end on 31 December 2015 with a break clause from 31 October
2014. Subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy at
Rio Tinto’s AGMs in 2015, the revised contract terms will come into effect
immediately thereafter.
Other
Sam receives a housing allowance and other assignment benefits during his
secondment to London. His remuneration is not subject to tax equalisation or
cost of living adjustments, both of which are standard provisions for other
international assignees in the Group. The amounts are included in note
(e) under the single total figure of remuneration table on page 77.
Sam will be eligible to receive the value of unused annual leave and long
service leave at the conclusion of his employment in accordance with
Australian legislation and applicable practice applying to all employees in
Australia; the value of this leave as at 16 February 2015 was A$1,139,000 and
A$1,703,000 respectively.
Chief executive’s pay and employee pay
The table below compares the changes from 2013 to 2014, in salary,
benefits and annual incentives paid for the chief executive and the Australian
workforce. We chose the comparison to the Australian workforce because it is
the country where approximately 40 per cent of the total workforce is based.
This comparator group has been selected due to the availability of
comparative data and to remove the impacts of year-on-year exchange
rate fluctuations. The underlying elements of the chief executive’s pay are
based on the values reported in the single total figure of remuneration table.
The chief executive’s base salary was increased by 2.5 per cent with effect
from 1 March 2014. The increase in annual incentive paid for the chief
executive reflects a higher base salary in 2013 resulting from his appointment
as chief executive in January 2013, and net higher overall safety, financial and
individual performance in 2013 compared to 2012.
Percentage
change in
salary paid
Percentage
change in
other
benefits paid
Percentage
change in
annual
incentive
paid
(b)
Chief executive 2.7% 3.3% 27.5%
Australian workforce
(a)
3.3% 2.8% 10.5%
(a) The percentage change in each element of remuneration for the workforce is
calculated on a per capita basis using average employee numbers.
(b) The percentage change in annual incentive compares amounts paid in 2014 with
respect to the 2013 performance year, to amounts paid in 2013 with respect to the
2012 performance year. Annual incentives for the workforce comprise a number of
different short-term incentive arrangements.
riotinto.com 79
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Chris Lynch (chief financial officer)
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of
2014 and the prior year in accordance with UK legislation, stated in pounds
sterling, the currency of Chris’s arrangements. This is in addition to the
Australian statutory disclosure requirements set out in US dollars in tables 1a
and 1b on pages 92 to 93. The remuneration details for 2014 set out in table
1a include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the
remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements, and require a
different methodology for calculating the pension value. Accordingly, the
figures below are not directly comparable with those in table 1a.
Remuneration for 2013 is split for the period Chris was a non-executive
director up until 28 February 2013 and for the period from 1 March 2013 (the
day he became an executive director) to 31 December 2013.
(stated in £’000) 2014
2013
(1 Mar to
31 Dec)
2013
(1 Jan to
28 Feb)
Base salary paid/fees
(a)
817 667 35
STIP payment – cash
(a)
746 457 –
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
746 456 –
Total short-term pay 2,309 1,580 35
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
0 0–
Pension
(d)
204 167 –
Other benefits
(e)
107 941 –
Single total figure of remuneration 2,620 2,688 35
Percentage change in total
remuneration (2014 versus 2013) (3.8%) ––
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as performance-related
pay (STIP and LTIP) 56.9% 34.0% –
Percentage of total remuneration
provided as non-performance-
related pay (base salary/fees,
pension and other benefits) 43.1% 66.0% 100%
Percentage of maximum STIP
awarded
(f)
91.0% 68.1% –
Percentage of maximum STIP
forfeited 9.0% 31.9% –
Percentage of target STIP awarded 151.7% 113.5% –
Percentage of PSP award vesting
(c)
– ––
Percentage SOP award vesting
(c)
– ––
(a) Salary/fees paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are reviewed with
effect from 1 March.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP.
(c) Chris had no LTIP awards vest in respect of the performance period that ended
31 December 2014 as he received no LTIP awards prior to the award made in 2013.
(d) Pension reflects the value of the pension contribution and payment in lieu of
pension paid during the year.
(e) Includes healthcare, allowance for professional tax services and car allowance. 2013
includes one-off costs of £896,000 associated with Chris’s relocation from
Melbourne, Australia to London.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
Base salary
The Committee has increased Chris’s base salary by 2.0 per cent with effect
from 1 March 2015, consistent with the salary budget for other UK contracted
employees in the Group.
2015 2014 % change
Base salary (stated in £’000) 836 820 2.0
STIP individual objectives for 2014
Chris’s performance against his individual objectives is summarised below:
Category Performance
Business
transformation
– Increased discipline in capital management and
prioritisation and focus on costs.
– Strengthened key governance models, such as the
Investment and Evaluation Committees.
Capital
and cost
reductions
– Reduced capital expenditure by US$4.8 billion to
US$8.2 billion in 2014.
– Achieved working capital improvements of
US$1.5 billion principally from lower inventories and
lower receivables.
– Achieved US$1.5 billion of sustainable operating
cash cost improvements and exploration and
evaluation savings in 2014, contributing to a total of
US$4.8 billion since 2012.
– Decreased net debt by US$5.6 billion in 2014 to
US$12.5 billion at 31 December 2014.
Performance
delivery
– Actively contributed to the Investment Committee,
Evaluation Committee, Plan Review Committee,
ExecutiveCommitteeandtheboard.
Leadership and
engagement
– Made new appointments within finance leadership
team.
– Increased level of engagement with investors.
The Committee, with input from the chief executive, assessed Chris’s
performance against his individual objectives as 181.5 per cent (out of
200 per cent) for his individual contribution to the business during the year.
STIP outcomes for 2014
The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2014.
Measures
Weight
(%)
Score
(out of
200%)
Weighted
score
Safety
(a)
20 103.5 20.7
Group financial
(a)
50 153.0 76.5
Safety and financial 70 138.9 97.2
Individual 30 181.5 54.5
Total (% of target out of 200%) 100 – 151.7
(a) Refer to page 76 for further details of Group safety and financial performance. The
Group safety score of 138 per cent has been reduced by 25 per cent to 103.5 per
cent for the impact of fatalities in 2014.
As a result, Chris received a STIP award of 151.7 per cent of target, equivalent
to 182.0 per cent of base salary, 50 per cent to be delivered in cash in March
2015, and the remainder to be delivered in deferred shares, vesting in
December 2017.
LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2014
Chris had no LTIP awards which had a performance period that ended on
31 December 2014, having become an executive director on 1 March 2013.
80 riotinto.com LTIP award granted in 2014
The details of Chris’s 2014 LTIP award are summarised in the following table.
Type of
award Grant date
Face value
of award
(% of base
salary)
Face
value
of award
(£’000)
(a)
%vestingat
threshold
performance
End of the
performance
period over which
the performance
conditions have
to be fulfilled
(b) (c)
PSP
17 March
2014 400% 3,280 22.5% 31 Dec 2018
(a) The face value represents the maximum value of the award and resulted in an
award of 104,312 conditional shares based on the average share price over 2013 of
£31.444. The expected value of the award is 50 per cent of the face value or
£1,640,000.
(b) The 2014 PSP award may vest after five years in 2019.
(c) The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in table 3 on
page 100.
LTIP award for 2015
Chris’s PSP award in 2015 will have a face value of 430 per cent of base salary
and an expected value of 215 per cent of base salary. The award may vest
after five years in 2020, subject to the Group’s relative TSR and the relative
EBIT margin performance. The performance conditions for the award are
unchanged from 2014 and the full performance conditions are set out in detail
on page 83.
Shareholding
Chris’s shareholding for the purposes of the share ownership policy, calculated
using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date each
year before the date of publication of this report was:
31 December
2014
31 December
2013
Increase in
shareholding
Holding of ordinary shares 9,050 8,960 1.0%
Multiple of base salary 0.4 0.4 0
Chris holds no options over Rio Tinto shares. He has until 2018 to build up his
ownership in shares to three times his salary as chief financial officer.
Pension
Chris is employed in the UK and is provided with pension benefits on a defined
contribution basis.
The Company paid a pension contribution to a funded UK company pension
arrangement of 25 per cent of £135,000, being the current maximum salary on
which pension contributions are based under that arrangement. The pension
contribution for 2014 was £33,750 (2013, pro rata for the period from 1 March
2013: £28,000).
Chris also received a cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the amount by
which his base salary exceeded £135,000, less any applicable withholdings.
The gross cash supplement for 2014 was £170,417 (2013, pro rata for the
period from 1 March 2013: £139,000).
Service contract
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Position held during 2014 Date of appointment to position
Chief financial officer 18 April 2013
It is intended that Chris will transfer to a rolling contract which can be
terminated by either party with 12 months’ notice in writing, or immediately by
paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice. His initial contract
was due to end on 28 February 2017 with a break clause from 31 December
2015. Subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy at
Rio Tinto’s AGMs in 2015, the revised contract terms will come into effect
immediately thereafter.
Other
As a UK contracted employee, Chris is not eligible for tax equalisation on his
remuneration, cost of living or any other ongoing assignment benefits such as
housing allowance.
Past-director payments
Guy Elliott retired on 31 December 2013. Upon his retirement, good leaver
treatment and pro-rating, where applicable, were applied to outstanding LTIP
awards in accordance with the plan rules.
Accordingly, Mr Elliott received 29,256 Rio Tinto plc shares on 16 February
2015 resulting from the vesting of the PSP awarded in 2011. In accordance
with the Remuneration Policy, he also received a cash payment of £109,488
equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been paid on those
shares had he owned them during the four-year performance period. No
dividends were paid in respect of the 10,549 shares which lapsed.
The market price of Rio Tinto plc shares at 16 February 2015, the latest
practicable date before the date of publication of this report, was £31.64. The
total value of the LTIP awards vesting with respect to the performance period
ending 31 December 2014, inclusive of the cash payment for dividends on the
2011 PSP, was therefore £1,034,000.
During 2014 Mr Elliott also received a payment for 23.5 days outstanding
unused annual leave of £66,704.
What we paid our chairman and non-executive directors
Annual fees payable
The table below sets out the annual fees paid in 2014 and payable in 2015 to
the chairman and the non-executive directors.
2015 2014 2013
Director fees
Chairman’s fee £730,000 £730,000 £715,000
Non-executive director base fee
(a)
£90,000 £90,000 £85,000
Senior independent director £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Committee fees
Audit Committee chairman £35,000 £35,000 £35,000
Audit Committee member £20,000 £20,000 £20,000
Remuneration Committee chairman £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Remuneration Committee member £15,000 £15,000 £15,000
Sustainability Committee chairman £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Sustainability Committee member £15,000 £15,000 £15,000
Nominations Committee member £7,500 £7,500 £7,500
Meeting allowances
Long distance
(flights over 10 hours per journey) £10,000 £10,000 £10,000
Medium distance
(flights of 5-10 hours per journey) £5,000 £5,000 £5,000
(a) The fees payable to non-executive directors are subject to review by the board on
the recommendation of the Chairman’s Committee. Following a review, taking into
account the demands on directors, market and related developments, the base fee
for non-executive directors was increased to £90,000 with effect from 1 January
2014. There have been no changes to other fees or allowances since 1 January
2012, save that the travel allowances are now based on length of flights
(unchanged) rather than whether the travel is overseas.
Details of each element of remuneration and the single total figure of
remuneration paid to the chairman and non-executive directors during
2014 and 2013 are set out in US dollars in table 1b on page 94. No
post-employment, termination payments or share-based payments were
made. Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation
contributions for non-executive directors is required by Australian
superannuation law, these contributions are deducted from the director’s
overall fee entitlements.
The total fee and allowances payments made to the chairman and non-
executive directors in 2014 are within the maximum aggregate annual amount
of £3 million set out in the Group’s constitutional documents approved by
shareholders at the 2009 annual general meetings.
riotinto.com 81
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Share ownership policy for non-executive directors
The board, in 2006, adopted a policy whereby non-executive directors are
encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their appointment
equal in value to one year’s base fee. Details of non-executive directors’ share
interests in the Group, including total holdings, are set out in table 2 on
page 95.
Non-executive directors’ share ownership
The non-executive directors’ shareholdings, calculated using the market price
of Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date before the date of publication
of this report were:
Director
Share ownership level
at 31 December 2014
as a multiple of base fee
JanduPlessis 1.3
Robert Brown 1.5
Megan Clark 0.1
Michael Fitzpatrick 2.3
Ann Godbehere 1.1
Richard Goodmanson 1.9
John Kerr 5.3
Anne Lauvergeon 1.2
Michael L’Estrange 0.1
Paul Tellier 7.4
Simon Thompson 2.6
John Varley 3.4
What we paid our other Executive Committee members
and why
Base salary
The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels and, for the majority of the
executives, made adjustments in line with the base salary budgets applying to
the broader employee population.
The increases for Alan Davies and Jean-Se ´bastien Jacques are specific
adjustments designed to reflect the additional responsibilities and broader
portfolios transferred to them from the former Energy product group. These
adjustments are compliant with our Remuneration Policy and are inclusive of
the 2 per cent salary budget for the broader employee population in the UK.
Stated in ‘000 2015 2014 % change
Hugo Bague £494 £484 2.0
Alfredo Barrios C$964 C$945 2.0
Alan Davies £540 A$791 Note (a)
Andrew Harding £571 £560 2.0
Jean-Sébastien Jacques £553 £512 8.0
Greg Lilleyman A$778 A$760 2.3
Debra Valentine US$696 US$682 2.0
(a) Alan Davies’ remuneration has been localised to the UK with effect from 1 March
2015. The effective base salary increase, in line with our principle of applying three-
year average exchange rates, as at September 2014, is 11.4%. The increase using
the average exchange rate for January 2015 is 28%. To comply with Australian
legislation, the Company will pay Alan’s accrued long-service leave, which is
currently valued at A$482,000. Alan will also receive a lump sum payment with an
estimated disclosable value of £263,000 in lieu of contractual commitments already
made in relation to his future, multi-year entitlements to Housing Allowance,
Education Assistance, Home Leave and a Resettlement Allowance.
STIP objectives and outcomes for 2014
Overview of STIP weightings and measures for 2014
The following table provides an overview of the measures and weightings used
to determine STIP awards for members of the Executive Committee in 2014:
Weighting for
executive
directors and
Group
executives
Weighting for
PGCEOs
Safety – split equally between AIFR and
LTIs adjusted for fatalities 20% 20%
Financial measures split equally between
underlying earnings and free cash flow for
the Group 50% 20%
Financial measures split equally between
underlying earnings and free cash flow for
the relevant product group 0% 30%
Individual measures based on key
strategic initiatives of each role and
contribution to overall company
performance 30% 30%
Although the Group safety score was above target, the average performance
against safety goals for individual Executive Committee members was below
target, and for individual financial goals, above target.
The individual performance of Executive Committee members who are not
executive directors was reviewed by the Committee against these measures
and, on average, was considered above target. This reflected, among other
things, the outstanding performance against the cost reduction targets set
for 2014.
2014 STIP Award
(% of Salary)
(a)
2014 STIP Award
(000’s)
Hugo Bague 146.0% £707
Alfredo Barrios
(b)
174.0% C$964
Jacynthe Côté
(c)
145.4% C$569
Alan Davies 174.8% A$1,382
Andrew Harding 123.6% £692
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 154.0% £789
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 95.4% £501
Greg Lilleyman 142.6% A$1,084
Debra Valentine 151.7% US$1,035
(a) Scores out of 200% have been rounded to one decimal place in the above table. As
the actual STIP awards do not use rounding conventions, small rounding variances
may occur.
(b) STIP Award for the period 1 June 2014 – 31 December 2014.
(c) STIP Award for the period 1 January 2014 – 31 May 2014. The full STIP award for
the period 1 January 2014 – 1 September 2014 was C$920,000.
Detailed commentary on the performance of each product group is provided in
the Annual report on pages 28 to 39. The average individual performance of
Executive Committee members who are not executive directors was adjudged
to be between target and outstanding.
LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2014
Details of the LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2014 are
providedonpages89and90.
82 riotinto.com LTIP awards granted in 2014
The maximum potential value of PSP awards granted in 2014 was 438 per cent
of base salary. The Committee decided that the PSP awards in 2014 would
have a face value of awards as shown in the table below. The eventual value of
the award will depend on the Group’s relative TSR and relative EBIT margin
performance during the years 2014-2018. The 2014 PSP award may vest after
five years in 2019. The performance conditions for the awards granted in 2014
are consistent with the performance conditions for awards to be granted in
2015 as set out below.
LTIP awards for 2015
The Committee has decided that the PSP awards in 2015 will have a face value
of awards as shown in the table below. The award levels have been set to
incentivise executives to meet the long-term strategic goals of the Group, to
provide retention and to contribute towards the competitiveness of the overall
remuneration package. The average face value of awards to be made to
Executive Committee members in 2015, excluding the executive directors, is
413 per cent of base salary.
Maximum value
(Percentage of 1 March base salary) 2015 2014
Hugo Bague 430 400
Alfredo Barrios
(a)
400 (a)
Alan Davies 420 400
Andrew Harding 420 430
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 420 430
Greg Lilleyman 400 380
Debra Valentine 400 400
Average 413 407
(b)
(a) A 2014 PSP award of 233 per cent of base salary was granted on 16 September
2014. This award was the annual equivalent of 400 per cent of base salary,
pro-rated for the period of service from 1 June 2014 to 31 December 2014.
(b) Average of Executive Committee members shown above.
The performance conditions for the awards made in 2015 and 2014 are the
same. The expected value of the awards in both years is equal to 50 per cent
of the face value. The percentage vesting at threshold performance in both
years is 22.5 per cent. The 2015 award may vest after five years in 2020,
subject to the Group’s relative TSR and relative EBIT margin performance.
For the TSR component (constituting two-thirds of the award), where TSR
performance is measured against both the HSBC Global Mining Index and the
broader market of large global companies as measured through the Morgan
Stanley Capital World Index, the award will vest as follows:
Outperformance of the index by 6 per cent
per annum
1.0 x award vests
Performance between equal to the index and
6 per cent outperformance
Proportionate vesting
between 0.225 x and
1.0 x vesting
Performance equal to the index 0.225 x award vests
Performance less than the index Nil vesting
For the EBIT margin measure, change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and each
of the comparator companies (measured on a “point-to-point” basis using the
last financial year in the performance period and the financial year prior to the
start of the performance period) will be calculated using independent third-
party data. Vesting will be subject to Rio Tinto’s interpolated ranking position
using the following schedule:
Equal to or greater than 2nd ranked company 1.0 x award vests
Between the 5th and 2nd ranked companies Proportionate vesting
between 0.225 x and 1.0 x
vesting
Above the 6th ranked company 0.225 x award vests
Equal to the 6th ranked company or below Nil vesting
The 2015 comparator group (unchanged from 2014) for the EBIT margin
measure is: Alcoa, Antofagasta, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton,
Freeport McMoRan, Glencore, Peabody, Teck Resources and Vale.
Share ownership
The following table illustrates the executive share ownership level for current
members of the Executive Committee in office at 31 December 2014 as a
multiple of salary as at the same date.
Share Ownership
level at 31 December 2014
as a multiple of base pay
Hugo Bague 4.0
Alfredo Barrios 0.2
Alan Davies 1.9
Andrew Harding 2.8
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 0.6
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 3.0
Greg Lilleyman 2.7
Debra Valentine 3.9
The share ownership level is calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto
shares on the latest practicable date each year before the date of publication of
this report. The value of any vested but unexercised options is calculated based
on the share price as at the relevant date in February less the exercise price and
with a 50 per cent discount for the effects of taxation. The recent vesting of the
2011 PSP has increased the multiples noted above for several executives.
Post-employment benefits
Executives may participate in pension, superannuation and post-employment
medical and life insurance benefits, which are typically offered to the broader
employee population in similar locations.
Service contracts
All other executives have service contracts which can be terminated by the
Company with 12 months’ notice in writing, and by the employee with six
months’ notice in writing, or immediately by the Company by paying the base
salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
riotinto.com 83
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Positions held and date of appointment to position
Name Position(s) held during 2014
Date of appointment
to position
Other executives
Hugo Bague Group executive,
Organisational Resources
1 March 2013
Alfredo Barrios Chief executive,
Rio Tinto Alcan
1 June 2014
Jacynthe Côté
(a)
Chief executive,
Rio Tinto Alcan
1 February 2009
Alan Davies Chief executive,
Diamonds & Minerals
1 September 2012
Andrew Harding Chief executive, Iron Ore 14 February 2013
Jean-Sébastien Jacques Chief executive, Copper 14 February 2013
Harry Kenyon-Slaney Chief executive, Energy 1 September 2012
Greg Lilleyman Group executive,
Technology & Innovation
1 January 2014
Debra Valentine Group executive,
Legal & Regulatory
Affairs
17 March 2009
(a) Jacynthe Côté stepped down from the Executive Committee on 31 May 2014.
Departures from the Executive Committee
Jacynthe Côté stepped down from the Executive Committee on 31 May 2014
and remained with the Group in an advisory role until 1 September 2014.
Jacynthe received her normal base salary and contractual benefits until
1 September 2014. The Committee exercised its discretion to treat her as an
eligible leaver. As such, she remained eligible for a pro rata STIP for the period
1 January 2014 to 1 September 2014, which has been calculated based on
actual business and individual performance and will be paid fully in cash in
March 2015. Outstanding LTIP awards were also treated, where required, in
accordance with eligible leaver provisions of each plan with pro rating, where
applicable, up to 1 September 2014.
Jacynthe is eligible to receive 24 months’ base salary and target STIP
opportunity, inclusive of notice to the extent paid , in line with entitlements
under her Alcan Inc. contract which the Company inherited on the acquisition
of Alcan Inc. Jacynthe has elected to take her termination payments in the
form of salary continuance for a two year period until 31 August 2016, which
will include the monthly payment of her base salary and target STIP and
ongoing participation in benefit programmes (pension accrual and other
benefits, including medical cover, Life, Accident and Critical Illness insurance).
Jacynthe will not accrue vacation, be eligible for short or long term disability
insurance, or be eligible to participate in employee share plans.
At any time during her period of salary continuance, Jacynthe may, with the
Company’s consent, leave the payroll and receive the balance of her payments
in a lump sum. However her membership in the benefit plans, which remain in
force after the termination date, will cease at the date she leaves the payroll.
As recently announced, Harry Kenyon-Slaney will leave the Group in March
2015. The remuneration associated with his departure will be determined in
accordance with our Remuneration Policy. Details of the terms of his
departure will be disclosed in the 2015 Implementation Report.
84 riotinto.com STIP measures, weightings and targets for 2015
As in 2014, the STIP measures and opportunities for executives will be
weighted 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for individual and 20 per cent
for safety measures. The financial and individual targets which have been set
for 2015 are regarded by the board to be commercially sensitive. As such, the
specific targets for these measures, and the performance against them, will be
described retrospectively in the 2015 Implementation Report. The Group
financial targets relate to earnings and free cash flow. The individual targets
include objectives relating to business transformation, cost reduction,
performance delivery and leadership and engagement.
The safety measures, weightings and targets for 2015 are outlined opposite.
2015 safety measures, weightings and targets
For 2015, the safety measures for all executives will continue to be split
equally between AIFR and LTIs. For the AIFR measure, target performance for
the Group has been set at an 8.5 per cent improvement compared with the
actual outcome for 2014 which is the threshold number for calculation
purposes. For the LTI measure, a higher improvement rate has been set
reflecting an increased focus on injury severity. The target has been set at a
14 per cent improvement compared with the actual outcome for 2014 which is
the threshold number for calculation purposes. Outstanding performance for
both measures has been set at twice the target improvement.
The safety STIP score will continue to be adjusted for fatalities. The
adjustment has been modified for the chief executive, chief financial officer,
Group executive, Organisational Resources, and Group executive, Legal &
Regulatory Affairs to reflect the exposure of these roles to the aggregated
Group fatalities. The adjustment for fatalities for 2015 in the event a fatality
occurs, will be:
– For the product group chief executives and the Group executive,
Technology & Innovation, the safety score is reduced by 50 per cent if a
fatality occurs within their respective product groups or function.
– For the chief executive and the Group executive, Organisational Resources,
the safety score is reduced by 25 per cent if a fatality occurs in the Group.
– For the chief financial officer and the Group executive, Legal & Regulatory
Affairs, the safety score is reduced by 15 per cent if a fatality occurs in the
Group.
The fatality adjustment for a multiple fatality incident, or multiple incidents
resulting in fatalities, will remain at the discretion of the board in respect of
Executive Committee members and the chief executive in respect of other
employees.
When remuneration is delivered
The following chart provides a timeline of when total remuneration is delivered, using 2014 as an example.
STIP and PSP
performance
measurement
commences
New base salary
effective; PSP
awards allocated
STIP award
approved
Jan
2014
PSP
STIP
Base salary
Mar
2014
Dec
2014
Feb
2015
Mar
2015
STIP cash
paid/BDP
shares
allocated
Performance measured
Performance measured Deferred shares (BDP)
5 years
3 years
riotinto.com 85
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Single total figure of remuneration
The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in respect of 2014 and 2013, stated in the currency of payment. While not required under UK or
Australian legislation, the information is presented for consistency with the disclosures for executive directors on pages 77 to 81. This is in addition to the
Australian statutory disclosure requirements set out in US dollars in table 1a on pages 92 and 93. The remuneration details set out in table 1a include theoretical
accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements, and require a different methodology for calculating the
pension and superannuation values. Accordingly, the figures below are not directly comparable with those in table 1a.
Hugo Bague Alfredo Barrios
(g)
Jacynthe Côté
(h)
(stated in ‘000) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Base salary paid
(a)
£482 £465 C$551 – C$391 C$930
STIP payment – cash £353 £305 C$482 – C$569 C$527
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
£354 £305 C$482 – C$0 C$527
Total short-term pay £1,189 £1,075 C$1,515 – C$960 C$1,984
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
£596 £916 C$283 – C$612 C$2,154
Pension or superannuation
(d)
£115 £110 C$110 – C$102 C$832
Other benefits
(e)
£36 £45 C$1,625 – C$23 C$48
Single total figure of remuneration £1,936 £2,146 C$3,533 – C$1,697 C$5,018
Percentage change in total remuneration (2014 versus 2013) (9.8%) – (66.2%)
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-related pay
(STIP and LTIP) 67.3% 71.1% 35.3% – 69.6% 63.9%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance-related pay
(base salary, pension and other benefits) 32.7% 28.9% 64.7% – 30.4% 36.1%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
73.0% 64.6% 87.0% – 72.7% 56.7%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 27.0% 35.4% 13.0% – 27.3% 43.3%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 146.0% 129.1% 174.0% – 145.4% 113.4%
Alan Davies
(i)
Andrew Harding Jean-Sébastien Jacques
(j)
(stated in ‘000) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Base salary paid
(a)
A$787 A$768 £557 £533 £500 £383
STIP payment – cash A$691 A$414 £346 £372 £394 £229
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
A$691 A$414 £346 £371 £395 £229
Total short-term pay A$2,169 A$1,596 £1,249 £1,276 £1,289 £841
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
A$564 A$764 £603 £1,074 £350 £236
Pension or superannuation
(d)
A$191 A$184 £143 £133 £117 £77
Other benefits
(e)
A$547 A$529 £493 £416 £31 £23
Single total figure of remuneration A$3,471 A$3,073 £2,488 £2,899 £1,787 £1,177
Percentage change in total remuneration (2014 versus 2013) 13.0% (14.2%) 51.8%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-related pay
(STIP and LTIP) 56.1% 51.8% 52.0% 62.7% 63.7% 58.9%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance-related pay
(base salary, pension and other benefits) 43.9% 48.2% 48.0% 37.3% 36.3% 41.1%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
87.4% 53.7% 61.8% 68.0% 77.0% 59.7%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 12.6% 46.3% 38.2% 32.0% 23.0% 40.3%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 174.8% 107.3% 123.6% 136.1% 154.0% 119.5%
86 riotinto.com Harry Kenyon-Slaney Greg Lilleyman Debra Valentine
(stated in ‘000) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Base salary paid
(a)
£523 £512 A$760 – US$681 US$668
STIP payment – cash £501 £291 A$542 – US$517 US$429
STIP payment – deferred shares
(b)
– £290 A$542 – US$518 US$428
Total short-term pay £1,024 £1,093 A$1,844 – US$1,716 US$1,525
Value of LTIP awards vesting
(c)
£882 £916 A$482 – US$960 US$1,451
Pension or superannuation
(d)
£125 £126 A$590 – US$226 US$214
Other benefits
(e)
£276 £298 A$236 – US$594 US$585
Single total figure of remuneration £2,307 £2,433 A$3,152 – US$3,496 US$3,775
Percentage change in total remuneration (2014 versus 2013) (5.2%) – (7.4%)
Percentage of total remuneration provided as performance-related pay
(STIP and LTIP) 59.9% 61.5% 49.7% – 57.1% 61.1%
Percentage of total remuneration provided as non-performance related
pay (base salary, pension and other benefits) 40.1% 38.5% 50.3% – 42.9% 38.9%
Percentage of maximum STIP awarded
(f)
47.7% 56.7% 71.3% – 75.8% 63.8%
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 52.3% 43.3% 28.7% – 24.2% 36.2%
Percentage of target STIP awarded 95.4% 113.5% 142.6% – 151.7% 127.6%
(a) Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December. Salaries are reviewed with effect from 1 March.
(b) Value of STIP deferred under the BDP.
(c) Based on the value of the LTIP awards (2011 PSP, 2012 SOP and 2012 MSP, where applicable) which vested in respect of the performance period that ended 31 December. The
Rio Tinto Ltd and Rio Tinto plc share prices used to calculate the value of the awards vesting on 16 February 2015 of A$63.55 and £31.64 respectively, were sourced from Investis
Ltd. Executives who were members of the Executive Committee at the time the 2011 PSP awards were granted (Hugo Bague, Jacynthe Côté, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney
and Debra Valentine) also received a cash payment equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been paid on the 2011 PSP shares that vested had they owned them
during the four-year performance period. No dividends were paid in respect of the shares that lapsed.
(d) For defined benefit plans, pension or superannuation reflects the value of the pension or superannuation accrued during the year assuming that itwastocomeintopayment
immediately. For defined contribution plans and cash paid in lieu of pension contributions it is the amount contributed in the year by the Company. This differs from the value
reported in table 1a which is calculated using an IAS19 methodology and assumptions on rates of investment return, inflation and salary increases.
(e) Includes healthcare, other post-employment benefits, allowance for professional tax services and car allowance or car. Will include active or legacy expatriate related benefits,
as relevant. For Alfredo Barrios this includes non-recurring lump sum payments as a contribution to housing and children education costs that may be incurred in Canada, as well
as other one-off benefits related to his relocation from Spain to Canada, home finding, shipment of goods and relocation flights.
(f) The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
(g) Remuneration details for 2014 reflect remuneration received for the period 1 June 2014 – 31 December 2014. The value of LTIP awards vesting in 2014 includes an award of
5,278 MSP shares granted on 16 September 2014 which vested on 31 October 2014. This award was made to Mr Barrios in lieu of forfeited and foreshortened vesting periods of
stock options from his previous employer.
(h) Remuneration details for 2014 reflect remuneration received for the period 1 January 2014 – 31 May 2014. Remuneration received for the period 1 June 2014 – 1 September 2014
was base salary of C$237,000, STIP of C$351,000, value of LTIP awards vesting of C$377,000, pension of C$0 and other benefits of C$13,000.
(i) Superannuation contributions for Alan Davies for 2013 have been restated as a Company contribution was incorrectly recorded as a personal contribution. The previous figure
disclosed for 2013 was A$174,000.
(j) Remuneration details for 2013 reflect remuneration received for the period 14 February 2013 – 31 December 2013.
Context to outcomes for the Executive Committee
The decrease in the single total figure of remuneration for most executives is due mainly to the lower value of LTIP awards vesting in 2014 compared to 2013,
partly offset by higher STIP payments in 2014 compared to 2013.
Hugo Bague, Jacynthe Côté, Andrew Harding and Debra Valentine all received less remuneration related to the vesting of 2011 PSP awards in 2014 comparedto
the vesting of 2010 PSP awards in 2013. While the vesting levels for the awards were similar (73.5 per cent for the 2011 PSP and 75 per cent for the 2010 PSP),the
number of PSP awards granted in 2011 was significantly lower than the PSP awards granted in 2010 because PSP awards are calculated based on the average
share price over the calendar year prior to the year of grant and the average 2009 share price was significantly lower than the average 2010 share price. In addition,
the share prices at the date the 2011 PSP awards vested in February 2015 were lower than the share prices at the date the 2010 PSP awards vested in February
2014. The value of SOP awards vesting with respect to both the 2014 and 2013 performance periods was nil as both the 2012 SOP and 2011 SOP options are
currently under water.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney elected to receive his full 2011 LTIP allocation in the form of PSP awards and hence he received a relatively larger number of 2011 PSP
awards compared to other executives. The reduction in his value of LTIP awards vesting is therefore less pronounced.
The decrease in remuneration for Jacynthe Côté reflects that her 2014 remuneration represents part-year remuneration for the period 1 January 2014 to
31 May 2014.
The significantly higher single total figure of remuneration for Jean-Sébastien Jacques reflects that his 2013 remuneration represents part year remuneration for
the period 14 February 2013 to 31 December 2013, a higher 2014 base salary and a higher 2014 STIP payment primarily due to higher product group financial
performance. The value of LTIP awards vesting was higher due to a larger number of MSP awards (granted prior to his appointment to the Executive Committee)
vesting with respect to the performance period that ended 31 December 2014.
riotinto.com 87
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Potential value of 2015 remuneration package
The table below shows the potential minimum and maximum value of the 2015 remuneration package and the threshold, target and maximum value of the 2015
STIP and LTIP awards.
Stated in ‘000 Currency Base salary
Superannuation
or pension
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Minimum
potential
remuneration
(c)
Threshold
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(d)
Target
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(e)
Maximum
value of
STIP and
LTIP awards
(f)
Maximum
potential
remuneration
Executive directors
Sam Walsh A$ A$1,992 A$450 A$948 A$3,390 A$3,122 A$6,673 A$12,550 A$15,940
Chris Lynch £ £836 £208 £107 £1,151 £1,310 £2,801 £5,267 £6,418
Other executives
Hugo Bague £ £494 £115 £36 £645 £725 £1,556 £3,112 £3,757
Alfredo Barrios C$ C$964 C$336 C$185 C$1,485 C$1,350 C$2,892 C$5,784 C$7,269
Alan Davies £ £540 £130 £681 £1,351 £780 £1,674 £3,348 £4,699
Andrew Harding £ £571 £143 £493 £1,207 £825 £1,770 £3,540 £4,747
Jean-Sébastien Jacques £ £553 £133 £31 £717 £799 £1,714 £3,429 £4,146
Greg Lilleyman A$ A$778 A$590 A$110 A$1,478 A$1,089 A$2,334 A$4,668 A$6,146
Debra Valentine US$ US$696 US$226 US$594 US$1,516 US$974 US$2,088 US$4,176 US$5,692
(a) Superannuation or pension is measured at the superannuation or pension figure in the single figure tables on pages 86 to 87, adjusted accordingly for Alfredo Barrios where the
value for 2014 did not represent a full year.
(b) Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables on pages 86 to 87, excluding any significant one-off items where applicable. One-off items for Alfredo
Barrios in 2014 included a housing allowance, an education assistance allowance and various other relocation related benefits for his relocation to Montreal. One-off items for Greg
Lilleyman in 2014 included benefits relating to his relocation from Perth to Brisbane. Note that this number includes expatriate benefits which are not capped and are subject to
exchange rate fluctuations.
(c) The sum of base salary, pension/superannuation and benefits is the minimum potential remuneration (fixed remuneration).
(d) Calculated based on threshold performance under the STIP (50 per cent of STIP target) and threshold PSP vesting (22.5 per cent of the face value of the 2015 PSP award).
(e) Calculated based on target performance under the STIP (100 per cent of STIP target) and target PSP vesting (50 per cent of the face value of the 2015 PSPaward).
(f) Calculated based on outstanding performance under the STIP (200 per cent of base salary) and maximum PSP vesting (100 per cent of the face value of the 2015 PSP award).
(g) Harry Kenyon-Slaney is not listed above as he ceased to be a member of the Executive Committee on 27 February 2015.
88 riotinto.com Long-term incentives – awards made prior to 2013
In 2012 and prior years, awards were made in the form of options under the
Share Option Plan (SOP) and/or performance shares under the PSP.
For 2011 and 2012, executives were able to express a preference regarding the
mix of their long-term incentive opportunity.
– They could choose either a mix of performance shares and share options
(with a maximum face value performance share award of 200 per cent of
base salary, and a performance “kicker” leading to a vesting up to 1.5
times for exceptional performance), together with a maximum share
option award of 300 per cent of base salary.
– Or alternatively, they could choose to receive the full award in
performance shares (with a maximum face value performance share award
of 292 per cent of base salary, and a performance kicker leading to a
vesting up to 1.5 times for exceptional performance).
– The maximum value of award from selecting the full award in performance
shares was therefore 438 per cent of base salary (292 per cent
x 150 per cent).
– The total expected value of awards made under either preference was the
same, at 190 per cent of base salary.
– Both awards were based solely on relative TSR performance to reward
executives for increasing the share price and delivering superior TSR
performance against other companies over a long-term timeframe.
Before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR
performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the
business and/or the health of the Group. The Committee may therefore adjust
vesting subject to the plan rules.
Long-term incentives – vesting outcomes for the period ended
31 December 2014
The awards with performance periods ending 31 December 2014 were the
2011 PSP awards and the 2012 SOP awards.
2011 PSP awards
Performance period (4 years) 1 January 2011 – 31 December 2014
Rio Tinto TSR 0.8%
Comparator index HSBC MSCI
Index TSR (34.2%) 62.5%
Outperformance per annum 7.8% (21.3%)
Vesting against index 147% 0%
% of shares vested 73.5% (49% of maximum)
% of shares forfeited 76.5% (51% of maximum)
The performance conditions for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 PSP awards are
included in the notes to table 3 on pages 96 to 100.
The methodology used to calculate the starting share prices for TSR
comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the 12-month average
prior to the commencement of the performance period.
The methodology used to calculate the ending share prices for TSR
comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the last 12 months in
the performance period. The usual conventions were also applied to set the
number of options awarded, based upon the prior year average share price.
riotinto.com 89
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
The table below summarises the average vesting of performance shares for
executive directors over the five-year period 2011– 2015.
Performance period Vesting year
%ofshares
vested
% of maximum
shares vested
2007 – 2010 2011 36.4 24.3
2008 – 2011 2012 0.0 0.0
2009 – 2012 2013 92.5 61.7
2010 – 2013 2014 75.0 50.0
2011 – 2014 2015 73.5 49.0
Average vesting – 55.5 37.0
2012 SOP awards
Performance period (3 years) 1 January 2012 – 31 December 2014
Rio Tinto TSR (10.9%)
HSBC Global Mining Index TSR (41.2%)
Rio Tinto outperformance 30.3%
Outperformance required for
full vesting 15.8%
% of options vested 100%
%ofoptionsforfeited 0%
Options awarded under the 2012 SOP can be exercised from 19 March 2015
until 19 March 2022.
The performance conditions for the 2012 SOP awards are included in the
notes to table 3 on page 100.
The methodology used to calculate the starting share prices for TSR
comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the 12-month average
prior to the commencement of the performance period.
The methodology used to calculate the ending share prices for TSR
comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the last 12 months in
the performance period. The usual conventions were also applied to set the
number of options awarded, based upon the prior year average share price.
The table below summarises the average vesting of share options for
executive directors over the five-year period 2011– 2015.
Performance period Vesting year
%ofoptions
vested
2008 – 2010 2011 0.0
2009 – 2011 2012 100.0
2010 – 2012 2013 100.0
2011 – 2013 2014 100.0
2012 – 2014 2015 100.0
Average vesting – 80.0
The SOP ceased operation from 2013. No awards of share options have been
made since 2012.
MSP awards
Although executives are not eligible to receive awards under the MSP after
their appointment as executives, Alan Davies, Jean-Sébastien Jacques and
Greg Lilleyman received grants prior to their appointments as PGCEOs.
Alfredo Barrios received an award of 5,278 MSP shares on 16 September 2014
which vested on 31 October 2014. This award was made in lieu of forfeited and
foreshortened vesting periods of stock options from his previous employer.
Plan period Plan period that ended 31 December 2014
Vesting period 19 March 2012 – 31 December 2014
% of shares vested 100
%ofsharesforfeited –
TSR and relevant index TSR
Relative TSR is the single performance measure used to determine the vesting
of awards made under the PSP and SOP prior to 2013. Rio Tinto’s TSR relative
to the relevant index over the performance period has a direct impact on the
levels of LTIP vesting.
The effect of this performance on shareholder wealth, as measured by TSR
delivered during the relevant calendar year, is detailed in the table.
Dividends
paid during
the year
Share price –
Rio Tinto plc
pence
Share price –
Rio Tinto
Limited
A$
Total
shareholder
return
(TSR)
Year
US cents
pershare 1Jan 31Dec 1Jan 31Dec Group %
2014 204.5 3,409 3,000 68.18 58.00 (9.7)
2013 178.0 3,512 3,409 66.01 68.18 2.1
2012 163.5 3,125 3,512 60.30 66.01 14.8
2011 117.0 4,487 3,125 85.47 60.30 (31.2)
2010 90.0 3,390 4,487 74.89 85.47 31.6
The graph below illustrates the TSR performance of the Group against the
HSBC Global Mining Index and the MSCI over the past five years to the end of
2014. These two indices are used to assess Rio Tinto’s relative TSR
performance for awards made under the PSP in 2011 and 2012. The HSBC
Global Mining Index alone is used to determine the vesting of awards made
under the SOP.
The graph has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts
and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) and is not an indication of the
likely vesting of awards granted under the PSP and SOP. The executive
remuneration structure policy table on pages 67 to 69 provides further details
of the performance conditions for the current PSP. The performance
conditions for the previous PSP and the SOP are provided in the notes to table
3 on pages 99 and 100.
Total return basis Index 2008 = 100
500
400
300
200
100
0
2008
Rio Tinto DLC
HSBC Index
MSCI World Index
2009
Key
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
TSR (US$) – Rio Tinto Group vs. the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices
90 riotinto.com Chief executive’s remuneration summary
Year
Chief
executive
(a)
Single total
figure of
remuneration
(‘000)
Annual
STIP award
against
maximum
opportunity
Long-term
incentive
vesting
against
maximum
opportunity
(SOP)
(b)(c)
Long-term
incentive
vesting
against
maximum
opportunity
(PSP)
(c)
2009 Tom Albanese £3,516 54.1% 0.0% 26.4%
2010 Tom Albanese £4,512 87.8% 0.0% 24.3%
2011 Tom Albanese £4,256 0.0% 100.0% 0.0%
2012 Tom Albanese £4,040 0.0% 100.0% 61.7%
2013 Tom Albanese £53 0.0% – –
Sam Walsh A$10,070 72.1% – 50.0%
2014 Sam Walsh A$10,414 88.4% – 49.0%
(a) Tom Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013, and left the
Group on 16 July 2013. The single total figure of remuneration for Tom Albanese for
2013 is for the period up until 17 January 2013. Sam Walsh took over as chief
executive from 17 January 2013, having previously been the chief executive, Iron
Ore and Australia.
(b) In 2011 and 2012, Sam Walsh elected to receive his full LTIP awards under the PSP
and as a result he has no options under the SOP that were granted in 2011 or 2012
and which had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2013 and
31 December 2014 respectively.
(c) All outstanding but unvested LTIP awards earned in previous years lapsed and were
forfeited when Tom Albanese left the Group.
Employee share plans
Management Share Plan (MSP)
The primary focus of the MSP is to support the Group’s ability to attract and
retain key staff below executive level in an increasingly tight and competitive
labour market. Executives are not eligible to participate in the MSP.
Retention of key individuals is also important given the long-term nature of
the delivery of the business strategy. MSP awards are conditional awards not
subject to a performance condition as they vest subject to continued
employment, at the end of three years, and thus act as an effective retention
tool. Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new
shares are issued.
All employee share plans
Executives may participate in broad-based share and share option plans which
are available to Group employees generally and for which performance
conditions do not apply. These plans form part of standard remuneration
practice whereby employees are offered participation in plans to encourage
alignment with the long-term performance of the Group.
Global employee share plan
The Committee believes that all employees should be given the opportunity to
become shareholders in our business. A global employee share purchase plan
is normally offered to all eligible employees across the world save for any local
jurisdictional restrictions. Under the plan, employees may acquire shares up to
the value of US$5,000 (or equivalent in other currencies) per year, capped at
ten per cent of base salary. Each share purchased will be matched by the
Company providing the participant holds the shares, and remains employed, at
the end of the three-year vesting period. The Committee believes this plan will
serve to engage, retain and motivate employees over the long-term.
Over 14,000 of our employees are shareholders.
Dilution
Awards under the SOP, PSP and all employee plans may be satisfied by
treasury shares, the issue of new shares or the purchase of shares in the
market. Currently, Rio Tinto plc satisfies these awards by the issue of new
shares or the transfer of shares from treasury. Rio Tinto Limited currently
satisfies these awards by the market purchase and delivery of shares to plan
participants. In the UK, institutions have issued corporate governance
guidelines in relation to the issue of new shares with which Rio Tinto plc
complies (they do not apply to Rio Tinto Limited). All other share awards are
satisfied by the use of shares which are purchased in the market. Further
information in respect of the number of shares issued under plan
arrangements can be found in note 44 to the financial statements.
Shareholder voting
The table below sets out the results of the remuneration-related resolutions
approved at the Group’s 2014 AGMs.
Resolution
Total votes
cast Votes for
Votes
against
Votes
withheld
(a)
Approval of the
Remuneration
Policy Report 1,249,331,713 1,175,047,346 64,668,462 9,615,905
94.8% 5.2%
Approval of the
Directors’ Report
on Remuneration
and Remuneration
Committee
chairman’s letter 1,249,331,990 1,188,612,802 34,629,544 26,089,644
97.2% 2.8%
Approval of the
Remuneration
Report 1,249,332,146 1,177,556,466 45,592,093 26,183,587
96.3% 3.7%
Approval of
potential
termination
benefits 1,249,327,387 1,223,287,903 22,255,938 3,783,546
98.2% 1.8%
(a) A vote “withheld” is not a vote in law, and is not counted in the calculation of the
proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Relative spend on remuneration
The table below sets out the details of total remuneration paid; distributions to
shareholders; purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets, and tax paid during the financial year.
Stated in US$m 2014 2013
Difference
in spend
Remuneration paid
(a)
6,659 7,568 (909)
Distributions to shareholders
(b)
3,710 3,322 388
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets
(c)
8,162 13,001 (4,839)
Corporate income tax paid
(c)
3,618 3,698 (80)
(a) Total employment costs for the financial year as per note 5 to the financial
statements.
(b) Dividends paid during the financial year as per note 11 to the financial statements.
(c) Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and corporate
income tax paid during the financial year are as per the Group cash flow statement
and are calculated as per note 1 to the financial statements. These additional items
were chosen by the directors as they represent other significant disbursements of
the Company’s funds.
riotinto.com 91
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration
Short-term benefits
Stated in US$‘000
(a)
Base salary Cash bonus
(b)
Other cash-
based
benefits
(c)
Non-
monetary
benefits
(d)(e)
Total short
term benefits
Other
long term
benefits
Executive directors
Sam Walsh 2014 1,751 1,411 150 784 4,096 –
2013 1,830 1,223 87 871 4,011 –
Chris Lynch 2014 1,346 1,162 306 114 2,928 –
2013 1,043 754 236 1,443 3,476 –
Other key management personnel
Hugo Bague 2014 795 550 167 28 1,540 –
2013 728 504 151 42 1,425 –
Alfredo Barrios
(k)
2014 500 416 77 1,361 2,354 –
Jacynthe Côté
(l)
2014 – ExCo 355 491 6 15 867 –
2013 903 495 1 45 1,444 –
Alan Davies 2014 711 567 180 385 1,843 –
2013 743 369 193 470 1,775 –
Andrew Harding 2014 919 539 175 870 2,503 –
2013 833 614 167 614 2,228 –
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 2014 823 614 170 12 1,619 –
2013 600 378 101 11 1,090 –
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2014 862 780 203 470 2,315 –
2013 802 480 150 462 1,894 –
Greg Lilleyman 2014 686 444 32 179 1,341 –
Debra Valentine 2014 681 517 26 571 1,795 –
2013 668 428 26 550 1,672 –
Notes to Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration
(a) The total remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2014 average exchange rates of A$1 = 0.90278 US$; £1 = 1.64785
US$; 1C$ = 0.90616 US$. The annual cash bonus payable under the STIP has been converted using the relevant 2014 year end exchange rates of A$1 = 0.81974 US$; £1 = 1.55690
US$; 1C$ = 0.86244 US$.
(b) “Cash bonus” relates to the cash portion of the 2014 STIP to be paid in March 2015.
(c) “Other cash based benefits” typically include cash in lieu of a car and fuel and, where applicable cash in lieu of Company pension or superannuation contributions. For Jacynthe
Côté, it includes a cash balance related to her 2012-2013 Flexible Perks entitlement and the 2014 cash amount paid out in 2014 for her 2014 flexible perquisites.
(d) “Non-monetary benefits” for executives include healthcare coverage, provision of a car, professional tax advice and flexible perquisites. For Executive directors, it includes the
value of company provided transport.
(e) “Non-monetary benefits” for executives living outside their home country, international assignment benefits comprising housing, education, relocation expenses, tax equalisation
and relocation payments made to and on their behalf are included. Non-monetary benefits for Alfredo Barrios include non-recurring lump sum payments as a contribution to any
and all housing and children’s education costs that may be incurred in Canada, as well as other one-off benefits related to his relocation from Spain to Canada, home-finding,
shipment of goods and relocation flights.
(f) The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 “Share-based Payment”. The fair value of
awards granted under the Share Option Plan (SOP), the Management Share Plan (MSP), the Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP), the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Share Savings
Plan (SSP) have been calculated at their dates of grant using valuation models provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP, including an independent lattice-
based option valuation model and a Monte Carlo valuation model which take into account the constraints on vesting and exercise attached to these awards. Further details of the
valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 44 (Share-based Payments) in the financial statements. The fair value of other share-based awards
is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market. The non-executive directors do not participate in the long-term incentive share schemes.
92 riotinto.com Long-term benefits
Value of share-based awards
(f)
Post-employment benefits
(i)
Stated in US$’000
(a)
BDP
(g)
PSP MSP SOP Others
(h)
Pension and
superannuation
Other post-
employment
benefits
Termination
benefits
Total
remuneration
(j)
Currency
of actual
payment
Executive directors
Sam Walsh 2014 1,002 3,645 – – 2 421 – – 9,166 A$
2013 1,189 3,386 – 160 2 453 – – 9,201 A$
Chris Lynch 2014 330 1,291 – – – 55 – – 4,604 £
2013 176 399 – – – 44 – – 4,095 £
Other key management personnel
Hugo Bague 2014 385 1,409 – 314 3 44 – – 3,695 £
2013 402 1,147 – 546 6 42 – – 3,568 £
Alfredo Barrios
(k)
2014 51 135 257 – – 23 – – 2,820 C$
Jacynthe Côté
(l)
2014 – ExCo 119 684 – 251 1 197 – – 2,119 C$
2013 433 1,543 – 745 1 510 – – 4,676 C$
Alan Davies 2014 286 880 92 – 2 25 – – 3,128 A$
2013 228 563 195 – 3 20 – – 2,774 A$
Andrew Harding 2014 423 1,597 – 318 5 61 – – 4,907 £
2013 455 1,390 – 566 10 56 – – 4,705 £
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 2014 216 785 154 – 1 44 – – 2,819 £
2013 115 212 310 – 4 37 – – 1,768 £
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2014 320 1,670 – 222 9 179 – – 4,715 £
2013 422 1,336 – 287 1 157 – – 4,097 £
Greg Lilleyman 2014 152 522 154 – – 169 – – 2,338 A$
Debra Valentine 2014 363 1,320 – 305 2 226 5 – 4,016 US$
2013 395 1,115 – 535 1 214 5 – 3,937 US$
(g) “BDP (Bonus Deferral Plan)” represents the deferral of the 2011 – 2014 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto Shares.
(h) “Others” include the Global Employee Share Plan (myShare), Share Savings Plan, Share Ownership Plan and Global Employee Share Plan as described in the Remuneration report
on page 72.
(i) The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defined contribution plans is the amount contributed in the year by the Company. The table 1a value of Jacynthe Côté’s pension benefits between 1 June and
1 September 2014 was US$118,000. For Alan Davies, we have restated the 2013 “Pension and superannuation” value as some Company contributions were incorrectly recorded as
employee contributions. The restated amount for 2013 is U$20,000 whilst the amount shown in the 2013 report was US$10,000.
(j) “Total remuneration” represents the disclosure of total emoluments and compensation required under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
(k) Alfredo Barrios joined Rio Tinto and became a member of the Executive Committee on 1 June 2014. Therefore, the amounts reported for him in table 1a relate to the period from
1 June 2014 to 31 December 2014. The MSP amount for Alfredo Barrios reflects the value of an award of 5,278 MSP shares which he received on 16 September 2014. This award
was made in lieu of forfeited and foreshortened vesting periods of stock options from his previous employer. The award vested on 31 October 2014.
(l) Jacynthe Côté stepped down from the Executive Committee on 31 May 2014 and remained with the Group in an advisory role until 1 September 2014. The amounts reported in
table 1a relate to the period when she was a member of the Executive Committee.
riotinto.com 93
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Table 1b – Non-executive directors’ remuneration
Stated in US$’000
(a)
Fees and
allowances
(b)
Non-monetary
benefits
(c)(d)
Single total
figure of
remuneration
(e)
Chairman
JanduPlessis 2014 1,203 92 1,295
2013 1,119 121 1,240
Non-executive directors
Robert Brown 2014 286 50 336
2013 246 74 320
Megan Clark
(f)
2014 21 – 21
Vivienne Cox
(g)
2014 54 16 70
2013 184 14 198
Michael L’Estrange
(h)
2014 91 – 91
Michael Fitzpatrick 2014 284 – 284
2013 294 – 294
Ann Godbehere 2014 251 23 274
2013 246 22 268
Richard Goodmanson 2014 350 20 370
2013 340 97 437
Anne Lauvergeon
(i)
2014 180 11 191
Lord Kerr 2014 218 13 231
2013 222 14 236
Paul Tellier 2014 309 67 376
2013 293 71 364
Simon Thompson 2014 172 3 175
John Varley 2014 342 10 352
2013 325 18 343
Notes to Table 1b – Non-executive directors’ remuneration
(a) The remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2014 average exchange rates of £1 = 1.64785 US$ and A$1 = 0.90278 US$ (1 Jan
to 31 Dec 2014) average.
(b) “Fees and allowances” comprise the total fees for the chairman and all non-executive directors and travel allowances for the non-executive directors (other than the chairman).
The payment of statutory minimum superannuation contributions for Australian non-executive directors is required by Australian superannuation law. These contributions are
included in the Fees and Allowances amount disclosed for Australian non-executive directors.
(c) “Non-monetary benefits” include, as in the previous year, amounts which are deemed by the UK tax authorities to be benefits in kind relating largely to the costs of non-executive
directors’ expenses in attending Board meetings held at the Company’s UK registered office (including associated hotel and subsistence expenses). Given these expenses are
incurred by directors in the fulfilment of their duties, the Company pays the tax on them.
(d) In 2014, the following additional amounts are included as noted for the relevant director. For Jan du Plessis, the value of company-provided transport and medical insurance
premiums. For Vivienne Cox, a gift received from Rio Tinto at retirement. For Richard Goodmanson, accountancy fees.
(e) Represents disclosure of the single total figure of remuneration under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations
2008 (as amended) and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
(f) The amounts reported for Megan Clark reflect the period when she was a member of the board from 20 November to 31 December 2014.
(g) The amounts reported for Vivienne Cox reflect the period when she was a member of the board from 1 January to 15 April 2014.
(h) The amounts reported for Michael L’Estrange reflect the period when he was a member of the board from 1 September to 31 December 2014.
(i) The amounts reported for Anne Lauvergeon reflect the period when she was a member of the board from 15 March to 31 December 2014.
94 riotinto.com Table 2 – Directors’ and executives’ beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares
Rio Tinto plc
(a)
Rio Tinto Limited Movements
1Jan
2014
(b)
31 Dec
2014
(c)
16 Feb
2015
(c)
1Jan
2014
(b)
31 Dec
2014
(c)
16 Feb
2015
(c)
Exercise of
options
(d)
Compensation
(e)
Other
(f)
Directors
Robert Brown 4,200 4,200 4,200 ––– –– –
Megan Clark
(g)
––– 165 165 1,715 – – 1,550
Vivienne Cox
(g)
2,912 2,912 – ––– –– –
Jan du Plessis 30,000 30,000 30,000 ––– –– –
Michael Fitzpatrick – – – 6,252 6,252 6,252 –– –
Ann Godbehere 2,981 3,100 3,100 ––– – – 119
Richard Goodmanson 15,443 5,512 5,512 ––– – – (9,931)
Lord Kerr 15,000 15,000 15,000 ––– –– –
Anne Lauvergeon
(g)
– 3,350 3,350 ––– – – 3,350
Michael L’Estrange
(g)
––– 303 303 303 –– –
Chris Lynch 2,070 2,160 2,160 6,890 6,890 6,890 –89 1
Paul Tellier 18,490 21,022 21,022 ––– – – 2,532
Simon Thompson
(g)
7,458 7,458 7,458 ––– –– –
John Varley 2,985 9,685 9,685 ––– – – 6,700
SamWalsh ––– 94,444 146,993 181,003 125 107,270 (20,836)
Executives
Hugo Bague 39,708 60,964 60,990 ––– 15,714 48,352 (42,785)
Alfredo Barrios
(g)
– 2,585 2,610 ––– – 5,311 (2,700)
Jacynthe Côté
(g)
39,899 57,967 – ––– – 34,657 (16,589)
AlanDavies ––– 15,920 23,521 23,547 323 13,617 (6,312)
Andrew Harding 4,466 8,618 8,618 24,684 36,605 36,605 – 31,177 (15,104)
Jean-Sébastien Jacques 4,528 9,565 11,402 ––– – 12,332 (5,448)
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 32,506 47,944 48,391 ––– 434 31,184 (15,733)
Greg Lilleyman
(g)
––– 23,133 31,226 34,865 – 13,548 (1,816)
Debra Valentine 33,926 50,571 50,599 – – – – 31,965 (15,292)
Notes to table 2
(a) Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares or American Depositary Shares.
(b) Or date of appointment, if later.
(c) Or date of retirement or at date no longer a member of the Executive Committee, if earlier.
(d) Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Share Option Plan. The number of shares retained may differ from the number of
options exercised.
(e) Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and/or vesting of awards under the PSP, MSP and BDP.
(f) Share movements due to sale or purchase of shares, shares received under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased/sold through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan or
non-executive directors’ Share Purchase Plan.
(g) Megan Clark, Anne Lauvergeon, Michael L’Estrange and Simon Thompson were appointed as directors on 20 November 2014, 15 March 2014, 1 September 2014 and 1 April 2014
respectively. Vivienne Cox retired as a director on 15 April 2014. Greg Lilleyman was appointed on 1 January 2014, Alfredo Barrios was appointed on 1 June 2014 and Jacynthe
Coté resigned from the Executive Committee on 31 May 2014.
(h) Interests in outstanding awards under LTIPs and option plans are set out in table 3.
riotinto.com 95
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentiveplans)
Conditional
award granted
Market
price at
award
1Jan
2014
(a)
Awarded
Lapsed/
cancelled
Dividend
shares Vested
31 Dec
2014
(b)
16 Feb
2015
(h)
Performance
period
concludes
Date of
election
Market
price at
election
Monetary
value of
vested
award
US$’000
Bonus Deferral Plan
Hugo Bague 19 Mar 2012 £36.15 7,069 – – 670 7,739 – – 1 Dec 2014 3 Dec 2014 £29.75 379,355
27 May 2013 £28.67 6,945 –– – – 6,945 6,945 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 9,669 – – – 9,669 9,669 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Jacynthe Côté 19 Mar 2012 £36.15 9,096 –– – – 9,096 N/A 1 Dec 2014 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 2,050 –– – – 2,050 N/A 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 9,036 – – – 9,036 N/A 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Alan Davies 19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 2,315 – – 189 2,504 – – 1 Dec 2014 8 Dec 2014 A$57.27 129,462
27 May 2013 A$53.11 6,702 –– – – 6,702 6,702 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.67 – 6,709 – – – 6,709 6,709 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Andrew Harding 19 Mar 2012 £36.15 7,096 – – 672 7,768 – – 1 Dec 2014 3 Dec 2014 £30.04 384,505
27 May 2013 £28.67 7,870 –– – – 7,870 7,870 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 11,776 – – – 11,776 11,776 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 518 – – 49 567 – – 1 Dec 2014 1 Dec 2014 £29.51 27,568
27 May 2013 £28.67 2,113 –– – – 2,113 2,113 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 8,259 – – – 8,259 8,259 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Harry
Kenyon-Slaney
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 6,729 – – 637 7,366 – – 1 Dec 2014 17 Dec 2014 £27.58 334,768
27 May 2013 £28.67 8,128 –– – – 8,128 8,128 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 9,217 – – – 9,217 9,217 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Greg Lilleyman 19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 1,877 – – 153 2,030 – – 1 Dec 2014 17 Dec 2014 A$53.38 97,827
27 May 2013 A$53.11 2,094 –– – – 2,094 2,094 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.67 – 2,754 – – – 2,754 2,754 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Chris Lynch 17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 14,479 – – – 14,479 14,479 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Debra Valentine 19 Mar 2012 £36.15 7,244 – – 686 7,930 – – 1 Dec 2014 3 Dec 2014 £29.68 387,777
27 May 2013 £28.67 7,173 –– – – 7,173 7,173 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.54 – 8,153 – – – 8,153 8,153 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Sam Walsh 19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 18,490 – – 1,512 20,002 – – 1 Dec 2014 3 Dec 2014 A$57.36 1,035,773
27 May 2013 A$53.11 18,413 –– – – 18,413 18,413 1 Dec 2015 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.67 – 22,226 – – – 22,226 22,226 1 Dec 2016 – – –
Performance Share Plan
Hugo Bague 22 Mar 2010 £37.30 31,531 – 7,883 – 23,648 – – 31 Dec 2013 27 Feb 2014 £34.02 1,325,781
6 May 2011 £41.51 22,943 –– – – 22,943 – 31 Dec 2014 16 Feb 2015 £31.30 869,755
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 22,056 –– – – 22,056 22,056 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 29,294 –– – – 29,294 29,294 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 29,295 –– – – 29,295 29,295 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 61,607 – – – 61,607 61,607 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Alfredo Barrios 15 Sep 2014 £31.44 – 43,568 – – – 43,568 43,568 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Jacynthe Côté 22 Mar 2010 £37.30 46,153 – 11,539 – 34,614 – – 31 Dec 2013 21 Feb 2014 £36.00 2,053,392
6 May 2011 £41.51 31,682 –– – – 31,682 N/A 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 30,056 –– – – 30,056 N/A 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 27,296 –– – – 27,296 N/A 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 27,297 –– – – 27,297 N/A 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 74,752 – – – 74,752 N/A 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Alan Davies 22 Mar 2010 A$75.03 9,750 – 2,438 – 7,312 – – 31 Dec 2013 19 Feb 2014 A$71.11 469,406
21 Mar 2011 A$81.00 6,228 –– – – 6,228 4,577 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 6,663 –– – – 6,663 6,663 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 27,047 –– – – 27,047 27,047 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 27,047 –– – – 27,047 27,047 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.03 – 51,817 – – – 51,817 51,817 31 Dec 2018 – – –
96 riotinto.com Conditional
award granted
Market
price at
award
1Jan
2014
(a)
Awarded
Lapsed/
cancelled
Dividend
shares Vested
31 Dec
2014
(b)
16 Feb
2015
(h)
Performance
period
concludes
Date of
election
Market
price at
election
Monetary
value of
vested
award
US$‘000
Performance Share Plan continued
Andrew Harding 22 Mar 2010 A$75.03 31,064 – 7,766 – 23,298 – – 31 Dec 2013 21 Feb 2014 A$70.27 1,477,987
6 May 2011 £41.51 23,219 –– – – 23,219 17,065 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 22,390 –– – – 22,390 22,390 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 35,547 –– – – 35,547 35,547 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 35,548 –– – – 35,548 35,548 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 76,539 – – – 76,539 76,539 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 4,793 –– – – 4,793 4,793 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 25,682 –– – – 25,682 25,682 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 25,683 –– – – 25,683 25,683 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 70,057 – – – 70,057 70,057 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Harry
Kenyon-Slaney
22 Mar 2010 £37.30 31,531 – 7,883 – 23,648 – – 31 Dec 2013 6 Mar 2014 £32.82 1,278,844
6 May 2011 £41.51 33,936 –– – – 33,936 24,942 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 22,390 –– – – 22,390 22,390 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 33,353 –– – – 33,353 33,353 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 33,354 –– – – 33,354 33,354 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 66,798 – – – 66,798 66,798 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Greg Lilleyman 22 Mar 2010 A$75.03 4,219 – 1,055 – 3,164 – – 31 Dec 2013 20 Mar 2014 A$60.80 173,669
6 May 2011 A$79.57 5,423 –– – – 5,423 3,985 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 5,585 –– – – 5,585 5,585 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 6,898 –– – – 6,898 6,898 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 6,898 –– – – 6,898 6,898 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.03 – 47,321 – – – 47,321 47,321 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Chris Lynch 27 May 2013 £28.67 52,084 –– – – 52,084 52,084 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 52,085 –– – – 52,085 52,085 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 104,312 – – – 104,312 104,312 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Debra Valentine 22 Mar 2010 £37.30 31,887 – 7,972 – 23,915 – – 31 Dec 2013 17 Mar 2014 £31.65 1,247,159
6 May 2011 £41.51 22,553 –– – – 22,553 16,576 31 Dec 2014 – – –
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 21,257 –– – – 21,257 21,257 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 26,274 –– – – 26,274 26,274 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 £28.67 26,275 –– – – 26,275 26,275 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 £31.44 – 55,522 – – – 55,522 55,522 31 Dec 2018
Sam Walsh 22 Mar 2010 A$75.03 55,842 – 13,961 – 41,881 – – 31 Dec 2013 19 Feb 2014 A$71.09 2,687,865
6 May 2011 A$79.57 61,752 –– – – 61,752 – 31 Dec 2014 16 Feb 2015 A$63.85 2,616,367
19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 63,540 –– – – 63,540 63,540 31 Dec 2015 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 66,627 –– – – 66,627 66,627 31 Dec 2016 – – –
27 May 2013 A$53.11 66,628 –– – – 66,628 66,628 31 Dec 2017 – – –
17 Mar 2014 A$61.03 – 134,026 – – – 134,026 134,026 31 Dec 2018 – – –
Management Share Plan
Alan Davies 21 Mar 2011 A$81.00 3,487 – – 200 3,687 – – 31 Dec 2013 19 Feb 2014 A$71.06 236,527
19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 3,997 –– – – 3,997 4,309 31 Dec 2014 – – –
Alfredo Barrios 15 Sep 2014 £31.44 – 5,278 5,278 – – 31 Oct 2014 6 Nov 2014 £29.50 256,537
Jean-Sébastien
Jacques
12 Sep 2011 £35.10 7,500 – – 825 8,325 – – 1 Jul 2014 24 Oct 2014 £30.19 414,161
19 Mar 2012 £36.15 2,875 –– – – 2,875 – 31 Dec 2014 16 Feb 2015 £31.46 162,893
Greg Lilleyman 21 Mar 2011 A$81.00 3,037 – – 174 3,211 – – 31 Dec 2013 20 Mar 2014 A$60.80 176,249
19 Mar 2012 A$65.85 3,351 –– – – 3,351 – 31 Dec 2014 16 Feb 2015 A$63.61 207,480
27 May 2013 A$53.11 4,598 –– – – 4,598 4,598 31 Dec 2015 – – –
riotinto.com 97
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Table 3 – Plan interests (awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans) continued
Date of grant 1 Jan 2014
(a)
Vested
during 2014 Exercised
Lapsed/
cancelled
Vested and
exercisable on
31 Dec 2014
(b)
Share Savings Plan
Hugo Bague 4 Oct 2011 425 – – – –
Alan Davies 5 Oct 2010 323 323 323 – –
Andrew Harding 20 Oct 2009 723 – – – –
5 Oct 2010 555 – – – –
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(q)
20 Oct 2009 434 – – – –
Greg Lilleyman 5 Oct 2010 555 – – – –
Sam Walsh
(q)
20 Oct 2009 125 – – – –
5 Oct 2010 457 – – – –
Share Option Plan
Hugo Bague 17 Mar 2009 15,714 – 15,714 – –
22 Mar 2010 47,297 – – – 47,297
6 May 2011 34,415 34,415 – – 34,415
19 Mar 2012 33,085 – – – –
Jacynthe Côté 17 Mar 2009 35,680 – – – 35,680
22 Mar 2010 69,230 – – – 69,230
6 May 2011 47,523 47,523 – – 47,523
19 Mar 2012 45,084 – – – –
Andrew Harding 17 Mar 2009 6,268 – – – 6,268
22 Mar 2010 46,597 – – – 46,597
6 May 2011 34,829 34,829 – – 34,829
19 Mar 2012 33,585 – – – –
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 17 Mar 2009 6,938 – – – 6,938
22 Mar 2010 47,297 – – – 47,297
19 Mar 2012 33,585 – – – –
Greg Lilleyman 22 Apr 2004 1,416 – 1,416 – –
9 Mar 2005 1,275 – – – 1,275
7 Mar 2006 2,186 – – – 2,186
17 Mar 2009 3,058 – – – 3,058
Debra Valentine 17 Mar 2009 13,558 – – – 13,558
22 Mar 2010 47,831 – – – 47,831
6 May 2011 33,830 33,830 – – 33,830
19 Mar 2012 31,886 – – – –
Sam Walsh 7 Mar 2006 48,079 – – – 48,079
17 Mar 2009 40,005 – – – 40,005
22 Mar 2010 83,763 – – – 83,763
Notes to table 3
(a) Or date of appointment, if later.
(b) Or date of retirement or at date no longer a member of the Executive Committee, if earlier.
(c) Alfredo Barrios was appointed on 1 June 2014.
(d) Jacynthe Côté stepped down from the Executive Committee on 31 May 2014.
(e) Awards denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto Limited shares. All
options granted over ordinary shares. Rio Tinto plc – ordinary shares of 10 pence each stated in sterling. Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares stated in Australian dollars. Each option
is granted over one share at no cost to participants. The exercise price represents the amount payable per share on the exercise of each option by participants.
(f) The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2014 under the BDP was £31.38 for Rio Tinto plc and A$61.32 for Rio Tinto Limited and for PSP was £22.71 for
Rio Tinto plc and A$44.40 for Rio Tinto Limited.
(g) Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any shares granted.
(h) The 2011 PSP awards granted on 6 May 2011 with a performance period that concluded on 31 December 2014 vested at 73.5 per cent. This award vested on 16 February 2015 as follows:
Hugo Bague, awarded 22,943, lapsed 6,080, vested 16,863, Hugo exercised his award on 16 February 2015; Alan Davies, awarded 6,228, lapsed 1,651 vested 4,577; Andrew Harding,
awarded 23,219, lapsed 6,154, vested 17,065; Harry Kenyon-Slaney, awarded 33,936, lapsed 8,994, vested 24,942; Greg Lilleyman awarded 5,423, lapsed 1,438, vested 3,985; Debra
Valentine, awarded 22,553, lapsed 5,977, vested 16,576; Sam Walsh, awarded 61,752, lapsed 16,365, vested 45,387, Sam exercised his award on 16 February 2015. The 2012 MSP awards
granted 19 March 2012 vested on 16 February 2015 as follows: Alan Davies awarded 3,997, dividend shares 312, vested 4,309; Jean-Sébastien Jacques awarded 2,875, dividend shares 267,
vested 3,142, Jean-Sébastien exercised his award on 16 February 2015; Greg Lilleyman awarded 3,351, dividend shares 262, vested 3,613, Greg exercised his award on 16 February 2015.
98 riotinto.com 31 Dec 2014
(b)
Vested and
exercisable on
16 Feb 2015 16 Feb 2015 Exercise price
Value of options
exercised
during 2014
Market price
on date of
exercise
Date from
which first
exercisable Expiry date
Share Savings Plan
Hugo Bague 425 – 425 £28.630 – – 1 Jan 2017 1 Jul 2017
Alan Davies –– – A$59.26 A$2,371 A$66.60 1 Jan 2014 1 Jul 2014
Andrew Harding 723 723 723 A$48.73 – – 1 Jan 2015 1 Jul 2015
555 – 555 £27.810 – – 1 Jan 2016 1 Jul 2016
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
(q)
434 – – £21.480 – – 1 Jan 2015 1 Jul 2015
Greg Lilleyman 555 – 555 A$59.26 – – 1 Jan 2016 1 Jul 2016
Sam Walsh
(q)
125 125 – A$48.73 – – 1 Jan 2015 1 Jul 2015
457 – 457 A$59.26 – – 1 Jan 2016 1 Jul 2016
Share Option Plan
Hugo Bague –– – £16.530 £285,995 £34.73 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
47,297 47,297 47,297 £37.050 – – 22 Mar 2013 22 Mar 2020
34,415 34,415 34,415 £42.450 – – 6 May 2014 6 May 2021
33,085 – 33,085 £35.179 – – 19 Mar 2015 19 Mar 2022
Jacynthe Côté 35,680 N/A N/A £16.530 – – 17 Mar 2012 1 Sep 2015
69,230 N/A N/A £37.050 – – 22 Mar 2013 1 Sep 2015
47,523 N/A N/A £42.450 – – 6 May 2014 1 Sep 2015
45,084 N/A N/A £35.179 – – 19 Mar 2015 19 Mar 2016
Andrew Harding 6,268 6,268 6,268 A$33.450 – – 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
46,597 46,597 46,597 A$76.150 – – 22 Mar 2013 22 Mar 2020
34,829 34,829 34,829 £42.450 – – 6 May 2014 5 May 2021
33,585 – 33,585 £35.179 – – 19 Mar 2015 19 Mar 2022
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 6,938 6,938 6,938 £16.530 – – 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
47,297 47,297 47,297 £37.050 – – 22 Mar 2013 22 Mar 2020
33,585 – 33,585 £35.179 – – 19 Mar 2015 19 Mar 2022
Greg Lilleyman –– – A$18.30 A$63,965 A$63.47 22 Apr 2009 22 Apr 2014
1,275 1,275 1,275 A$30.933 – – 9 Mar 2008 9 Mar 2015
2,186 2,186 2,186 A$54.951 – – 7 Mar 2009 7 Mar 2016
3,058 3,058 3,058 A$33.451 – – 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
Debra Valentine 13,558 13,558 13,558 £16.530 – – 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
47,831 47,831 47,831 £37.050 – – 22 Mar 2013 22 Mar 2020
33,830 33,830 33,830 £42.450 – – 6 May 2014 6 May 2021
31,886 – 31,886 £35.179 – – 19 Mar 2015 19 Mar 2022
Sam Walsh 48,079 48,079 48,079 A$54.950 – – 7 Mar 2009 7 Mar 2016
40,005 40,005 40,005 A$33.450 – – 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019
83,763 83,763 83,763 A$76.150 – – 22 Mar 2013 22 Mar 2020
(i) The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 was £30.00 and of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares at 31 December 2014 was A$58.00. The high and low
prices during 2014 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were £36.27 and £26.16 and A$70.88 and A$52.65 respectively.
(j) The exercise price represents the price payable on the options.
(k) The amount in US dollars has been converted at the rate of US$0.60685 = £1 and US$1.10768 = A$1, being the average exchange rates for 2014.
(l) As of 16 February 2015, members of the Executive Committee held 1,643,138 shares awarded and not vested under long-term incentive plans and 632,082 options to acquire
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares.
(m) Between 31 December 2014 and 16 February 2015 no options were granted to the executives.
(n) Details of performance conditions for the BDP are provided below. Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in cash and 50 per cent delivered in deferred shares under the BDP. The
BDP vests in December of the third year after the end of performance year to which they relate.
(o) Details of performance conditions for the PSP are provided below.
For 2011 and 2012 awards, the awards have a four-year performance period and from 2014, awards have a five-year performance period commencing on 1 January of the year of
grant. For 2013 awards only, 50 per cent of the award granted will be measured against the performance conditions after four years (at the end of 2016) and50percentofthe
awards granted will be measured against the performance conditions after five years (at the end of 2017).
For 2011 and 2012 awards, subject to the “mix” chosen, awards have a maximum face value of 292 per cent of base salary with the potential for 1.5 times of this value, ie 438 per
cent of base salary, for outstanding performance. The expected value of the 2011 and 2012 awards is 190 per cent of base salary. For awards granted from 2013, awards have a
maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary and a maximum expected value of 190 per cent of base salary. The actual award levels granted from 2013 varybyexecutive.
For 2011 and 2012 awards, conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tinto’s TSR performance against:
– 50 per cent: the HSBC Global Mining Index
– 50 per cent: the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI)
riotinto.com 99
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT:
REMUNERATION REPORT:
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued
Vesting of awards made in 2011 and 2012 is as follows:
Out-performance of the index by 8 per cent per annum 1.5x award vests
Performance between index and 8 per cent out-performance Proportionate vesting for performance between index and 8 per cent
out-performance of the index
Out-performance of the index by approximately 5 per cent per annum 1.0x award vests
Performance equal to index 0.35x award vests
Performance less than index Nil vesting
For awards granted from 2013, for the TSR component (constituting two-thirds of the award), where TSR performance is measured against both the HSBC Global Mining Index and
the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index, the award will vest as follows:
Out-performance of the index by 6 per cent per annum 1.0x award vests
Performance between equal to the index and 6 per cent out-performance Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting
Performance equal to index 0.225x award vests
Performance less than index Nil vesting
For the EBIT margin measure (constituting one-third of the award), change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and each of the comparator companies (measured on a “point-to-point”
basis using the last financial year in the performance period and the financial year prior to the start of the performance period) will be calculated using independent third-party
data. Vesting will be subject to Rio Tinto’s interpolated ranking position using the following schedule.
Equal to or greater than 2nd ranked company 1.0x award vests
Between the 5th and 2nd ranked companies Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting
Above the 6th ranked company 0.225x award vests
Equal to the 6th ranked company or below Nil vesting
For awards granted in 2011 and 2012, if vesting is achieved, a cash payment will be paid equal to the dividends that would have been received had the numberofshareswhich
have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period. For awards granted from 2013, if vesting is achieved, participants will be entitled
to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have
vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the period.
(p) Details of performance conditions for the SOP are provided below.
Three-year performance period.
Awards have a maximum face value of 300 per cent of base salary.
Options vest subject to the achievement of a stretching TSR performance condition, comparing Rio Tinto’s TSR performance to that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
Vesting of awards made in 2012 is as follows:
Outperformance of the index by 5 per cent per annum Awards vest in full
Performance between index and 5 per cent out-performance Proportionate vesting of residual award for performance between index and 5 per
cent out-performance of the index
Performance equal to index Awards of up to 20,000 options or one-third of the award (whichever is the higher)
Performance less than index Nil vesting
The SOP ceased to operate from 2013. No further awards of shares options will be made.
(q) Harry Kenyon-Slaney exercised 434 Share Savings Plan options on 14 February 2015. Sam Walsh exercised 125 Share Saving Plan options on 16 February 2015.
100 riotinto.com Audited information
Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended), the information
included in respect of: the single total figure of remuneration for each director;
details of the directors’ total pension entitlements; details of scheme interests
awarded to the directors during the financial year; details of payments to past
directors; and the statement of the directors’ shareholdings and share
interests, as set out in the Implementation Report are all auditable. The
Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order dated 9
January 2015 under which the Remuneration Report must be prepared and
audited in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001
applied on the basis of certain modifications set out in the order (as detailed
on page 183). The information provided in the Remuneration Report has been
audited as required by section 308(3C) of the Corporations Act.
Going concern
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have satisfied themselves
that no material uncertainties that cast significant doubt about the ability of
the Companies and the Group to continue as a going concern have been
identified, and they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has
adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. Therefore, these financial statements have been prepared
on a going concern basis.
Annual general meetings
The 2015 annual general meetings will be held on 16 April in London and
7 May in Perth. Separate notices of the 2015 annual general meetings are
produced for the shareholders of each Company.
Directors’ approval statement
The Directors’ report is delivered in accordance with a resolution of the board.
JanduPlessis
Chairman
4 March 2015
riotinto.com 101
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2014 Financial statements
Contents
Page
Primary financial statements
Group income statement 103
Group statement of comprehensive income 104
Group cash flow statement 105
Group balance sheet 106
Group statement of changes in equity 107
Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 109
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of
financial statements 109
Notes to the 2014 financial statements
Note 1 – Principal accounting policies 110
Group income statement
Note 2 – Operating segments 123
Note 3 – Operating segments – additional information 125
Note 4 – Net operating costs 127
Note 5 – Employment costs 127
Note 6 – Impairment charges and reversals 128
Note 7 – Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 130
Note 8 – Finance income and finance costs 130
Note 9 – Taxation 130
Note 10 – Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 131
Note 11 – Dividends 132
Group balance sheet
Note 12 – Goodwill 133
Note 13 – Intangible assets 134
Note 14 – Property, plant and equipment 135
Note 15 – Investments in equity accounted units 136
Note 16 – Inventories 137
Note 17 – Deferred taxation 137
Note 18 – Trade and other receivables 138
Note 19 – Assets and liabilities held for sale 139
Note 20 – Other financial assets 139
Note 21 – Cash and cash equivalents 139
Note 22 – Borrowings and other financial liabilities 140
Note 23 – Capitalised finance leases 141
Note 24 – Consolidated net debt 141
Note 25 – Trade and other payables 142
Note 26 – Provisions including post retirement benefits 142
Page
Capital and reserves
Note 27 – Share capital – Rio Tinto plc 143
Note 28 – Share capital – Rio Tinto Limited 144
Note 29 – Other reserves and retained earnings 144
Additional disclosures
Note 30 – Financial instruments and risk management 146
Note 31 – Contingencies and commitments 155
Note 32 – Average number of employees 156
Note 33 – Principal subsidiaries 157
Note 34 – Principal joint operations 159
Note 35 – Principal joint ventures 160
Note 36 – Principal associates 161
Note 37 – Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures,
associates and other interests in businesses 162
Note 38 – Directors’ and key management remuneration 163
Note 39 – Auditors’ remuneration 164
Note 40 – Related party transactions 165
Note 41 – Exchange rates in US$ 165
Note 42 – Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) 165
Note 43 – Events after the balance sheet date 165
Note 44 – Share based payments 166
Note 45 – Post retirement benefits 168
Note 46 – Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 174
Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet 175
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 178
Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief 183
Directors’ declaration 184
Auditor’s independence declaration 185
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited 186
Financial summary 2005-2014 192
Summary financial data 194
102 riotinto.com Group income statement
Years ended 31 December
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Continuing operations
Consolidated sales revenue 3 47,664 51,171 50,942
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) 4 (33,910) (36,104) (37,534)
Impairment charges net of reversals 6 (1,062) (7,315) (14,701)
Net (losses)/gains on consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses 2,37 (563) 787 845
Exploration and evaluation costs 13 (747) (948) (1,971)
(Loss)/profit relating to interests in undeveloped projects 13 (36) (161) 494
Operating profit/(loss) 11,346 7,430 (1,925)
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 7 625 698 1,056
Impairment charges net of reversals of investments in equity accounted units after tax 6 589 (216) (1,526)
Profit/(loss) before finance items and taxation 12,560 7,912 (2,395)
Finance items
Net exchange (losses)/gains on external debt and intragroup balances 24 (1,995) (3,672) 492
Net (losses)/gains on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (46) 59 88
Finance income 8 64 82 116
Finance costs 8 (649) (507) (293)
Amortisation of discount (382) (369) (439)
(3,008) (4,407) (36)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 9,552 3,505 (2,431)
Taxation 9 (3,053) (2,426) (589)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 6,499 1,079 (3,020)
Discontinued operations
Loss after tax from discontinued operations – –(7)
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 6,499 1,079 (3,027)
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (net earnings/(losses)) 6,527 3,665 (3,028)
– attributable to non-controlling interests (28) (2,586) 1
Basic earnings/(losses) per share
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 10 353.1c 198.4c (163.4c)
Loss from discontinued operations 10 – – (0.4c)
Profit/(loss) for the year per share 10 353.1c 198.4c (163.8c)
Diluted earnings/(losses) per share
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 10 351.2c 197.3c (163.4c)
Loss from discontinued operations 10 – – (0.4c)
Profit/(loss) for the year per share 10 351.2c 197.3c (163.8c)
The notes on pages 110 to 174 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
riotinto.com 103
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group statement of comprehensive income
Years ended 31 December
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 6,499 1,079 (3,027)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial (losses)/gains on post retirement benefit plans 45 (735) 2,260 (332)
Share of other comprehensive (losses)/income of equity accounted units, net of tax – (1) 1
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 9 215 (641) 83
(520) 1,618 (248)
Items that have been/may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Currency translation adjustment (2,004) (2,657) 727
Currency translation on companies disposed of, transferred to the income statement 53 81 (3)
Fair value movements:
– Cash flow hedge (losses)/gains (48) 195 (67)
– Cash flow hedge losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement 55 (92) 100
– (Losses)/gains on revaluation of available for sale securities (36) (101) 34
– Losses/(gains) on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 6 146 (355)
Share of other comprehensive loss of equity accounted units, net of tax (44) (44) (158)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 9 (9) (56) (26)
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax (2,547) (910) 4
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 3,952 169 (3,023)
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 4,322 3,261 (3,164)
– attributable to non-controlling interests (370) (3,092) 141
The notes on pages 110 to 174 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
104 riotinto.com Group cash flow statement
Years ended 31 December
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Cash flow from consolidated operations
(a)
18,896 19,531 15,999
Dividends from equity accounted units 298 600 522
Cash flows from operations 19,194 20,131 16,521
Net interest paid (981) (1,164) (824)
Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (309) (191) (422)
Tax paid (3,618) (3,698) (5,845)
Net cash generated from operating activities 14,286 15,078 9,430
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 37 – 4 (1,335)
Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 37 887 1,896 251
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2 (8,162) (13,001) (17,615)
Sales of financial assets 172 224 692
Purchases of financial assets (24) (75) (50)
Other funding of equity accounted units (117) (88) (223)
Other investing cash flows
(b)
741 94 37
Cash used in investing activities (6,503) (10,946) (18,243)
Cash flow before financing activities 7,783 4,132 (8,813)
Cash flow from financing activities
Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto 11 (3,710) (3,322) (3,038)
Proceeds from additional borrowings 442 3,954 8,569
Repayment of borrowings (3,476) (1,832) (682)
Proceeds from issue of equity to non-controlling interests
(c)
1,291 159 2,945
Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto – – (1,471)
Purchase of non-controlling interests 37 – – (76)
Other financing cash flows 17 107 77
Net cash flow (used in)/from financing activities (5,436) (934) 6,324
Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (156) (261) 16
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,191 2,937 (2,473)
Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 10,209 7,272 9,745
Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 21 12,400 10,209 7,272
(a)Cashflowfromconsolidatedoperations
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 6,499 1,079 (3,020)
Adjustments for:
– Taxation 3,053 2,426 589
– Finance items 3,008 4,407 36
– Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units (625) (698) (1,056)
– Impairment charges net of reversals of investments in equity accounted units after tax (589) 216 1,526
– Net losses/(gains) on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses 37 563 (787) (845)
– Impairment charges net of reversals 6 1,062 7,315 14,701
– Depreciation and amortisation 4,860 4,791 4,624
– Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 26 712 1,449 886
Utilisation of provisions 26 (973) (871) (840)
Utilisation of provision for post retirement benefits 26 (296) (635) (695)
Change in inventories 937 (330) (433)
Change in trade and other receivables 962 84 412
Change in trade and other payables (380) 803 266
Other items 103 282 (152)
18,896 19,531 15,999
(b) Other investing cash flows in 2014 mainly relate to the disposal of the Group’s St James’s Square properties.
(c) Cash proceeds from the issue of equity to non-controlling interests relates mainly to Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd’s rights issue at the beginning of 2014, which increased
non-controlling interests by US$1,158 million. The balance in 2012 included US$1.8 billion from the transfer of a 47 per cent interest in Simfer Jersey Limited, a Rio Tinto
subsidiary, to Chalco Iron Ore Holdings Limited, a consortium led by Chalco (and reimbursing Rio Tinto for historic project costs) plus subsequent cash calls to meet project costs,
and US$0.9 billion of proceeds from subscription by non-controlling interests in a rights offering by Turquoise Hill. Refer to the Group statement ofchangesinequityonpage107,
and to note 33.
The notes on pages 110 to 174 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
riotinto.com 105
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group balance sheet
At 31 December
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 12 1,228 1,349
Intangible assets 13 5,880 5,421
Property, plant and equipment 14 68,693 70,827
Investments in equity accounted units 15 4,868 3,957
Inventories 16 397 511
Deferred tax assets 17 3,540 3,555
Trade and other receivables 18 1,304 2,140
Other financial assets (including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units) 20 792 983
86,702 88,743
Current assets
Inventories 16 4,350 5,737
Trade and other receivables 18 3,623 4,667
Other financial assets (including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units) 20 417 710
Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 10,216
20,813 21,330
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 19 312 952
Total assets 107,827 111,025
Current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 22 (2,684) (3,926)
Trade and other payables 25 (7,437) (8,400)
Tax payable (800) (1,126)
Provisions including post retirement benefits 26 (1,299) (1,738)
(12,220) (15,190)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities 22 (22,535) (24,625)
Trade and other payables 25 (871) (576)
Tax payable (370) (468)
Deferred tax liabilities 17 (3,574) (4,140)
Provisions including post retirement benefits 26 (13,303) (12,343)
(40,653) (42,152)
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 19 (360) (181)
Total liabilities (53,233) (57,523)
Net assets 54,594 53,502
Capital and reserves
Share capital
–RioTintoplc 27 230 230
– Rio Tinto Limited 28 4,535 4,911
Share premium account 4,288 4,269
Other reserves 29 11,122 12,871
Retained earnings 29 26,110 23,605
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 46,285 45,886
Attributable to non-controlling interests 8,309 7,616
Total equity 54,594 53,502
The notes on pages 110 to 174 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 103 to 184 were approved by the directors on 4 March 2015 and signed on their behalf by
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
106 riotinto.com Group statement of changes in equity
Year ended 31 December 2014 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 5,141 4,269 12,871 23,605 45,886 7,616 53,502
Total comprehensive income for the year
(a)
– – (1,689) 6,011 4,322 (370) 3,952
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s
share capital
(b)
(376) – – – (376) – (376)
Dividends – – – (3,710) (3,710) (304) (4,014)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders to
satisfy share options – – (129) (31) (160) – (160)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements –19 – 3 22 – 22
Newly consolidated operations – ––– – 6 6
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto –– – 36 36 (29) 7
Equity issued to holders of
non-controlling interests
(c)
– – – – – 1,291 1,291
Companies no longer consolidated – – – – – (18) (18)
Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken
to the income statement – – 69 196 265 117 382
Closing balance 4,765 4,288 11,122 26,110 46,285 8,309 54,594
Year ended 31 December 2013 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 5,945 4,244 14,868 21,496 46,553 11,187 57,740
Total comprehensive income for the year
(a)
– – (1,984) 5,245 3,261 (3,092) 169
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s share
capital
(b)
(804) – – – (804) – (804)
Dividends – – – (3,322) (3,322) (196) (3,518)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto shareholders to
satisfy share options – – (77) (44) (121) – (121)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements – 25 – 55 80 – 80
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto – – – 102 102 (78) 24
Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests – – – – – 159 159
Companies no longer consolidated – – – – – (369) (369)
Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken
to the income statement – – 64 73 137 5 142
Closing balance 5,141 4,269 12,871 23,605 45,886 7,616 53,502
riotinto.com 107
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group statement of changes in equity (continued)
Year ended 31 December 2012 Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
Share
capital
(notes 27 and 28)
US$m
Share
premium
US$m
Other
reserves
(note 29)
US$m
Retained
earnings
(note 29)
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
US$m
Total
equity
US$m
Opening balance 5,816 4,208 14,745 27,430 52,199 6,685 58,884
Total comprehensive loss for the year
(a)
– – 103 (3,267) (3,164) 141 (3,023)
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s share
capital
(b)
133 – – – 133 – 133
Dividends – – – (3,038) (3,038) (422) (3,460)
Share buy-back schemes (4) – 4 (764) (764) – (764)
Own shares purchased for share options – – (62) (41) (103) – (103)
Treasury shares reissued and other movements – 36 – 3 39 – 39
Newly consolidated operations
(d) (e)
– – – – – 2,902 2,902
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto
(f)
– – – 1,128 1,128 166 1,294
Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests
(g)
– – – – – 1,595 1,595
Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken
to the income statement – – 78 45 123 120 243
Closing balance 5,945 4,244 14,868 21,496 46,553 11,187 57,740
(a) Refer to Group statement of comprehensive income.
(b) Refer to note 1 (d).
(c) Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interest in 2014 include US$1,158 million of proceeds from a rights issue by Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in January 2014.
(d) Rio Tinto gained control of the non-Oyu Tolgoi LLC (OT) assets of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd on 24 January 2012 when its share reached 51 per cent.
Within newly consolidated operations for 31 December 2012, US$2,678 million represents non-controlling interests in the non-OT assets, of which US$1,439 million is the
49 per cent non-controlling interest in net loans receivable from Rio Tinto Group companies. Refer to note 37.
(e) Rio Tinto acquired a controlling interest in Richards Bay Minerals (RBM) in 2012, with consolidation effective from 3 September 2012 (the acquisition date). US$224 million within
newly consolidated operations relates to the fair value of non-controlling interests at the acquisition date. Refer to note 37.
(f) The majority of the adjustments to equity interest held by Rio Tinto in 2012 arose from the acquisition by a consortium led by Chalco of shares in Simfer Jersey Limited, a Rio Tinto
subsidiary, as set out in the Simandou Joint Development Agreement. Chalco made a payment of US$1.35 billion on 24 April 2012 in exchange for an equity interest of 47 per cent
in Simfer Jersey, reimbursing Rio Tinto for historic project costs. The transfer on 24 April 2012 resulted in an adjustment to retained earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto of
US$1.05 billion, relating to the amount received over Rio Tinto’s carrying value of the interest transferred.
(g) Equity issued to holders of non-controlling interests in 2012 include US$0.9 billion of proceeds from a rights offering by Turquoise Hill, and cash calls of US$480 million following
the transfer described in (f), which resulted in the Chalco consortium being issued with additional equity interest in proportion to its interest.
108 riotinto.com Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as defined in note 1, which differs in certain respects from the version of
International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards (AAS).
Prior to 1 January 2004, the Group’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP. Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, goodwill on acquisitions
prior to 1998, which was eliminated directly against equity in the Group’s UK GAAP financial statements, has not been reinstated. This was permitted under the
rules governing the transition to IFRS set out in IFRS 1. The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, does not provide for the netting of goodwill against equity.
As a consequence, shareholders’ funds under AAS include the residue of such goodwill, which amounted to US$553 million at 31 December 2014
(2013: US$550 million).
Save for the exception described above, the Group’s financial statements drawn up in accordance with IFRS are consistent with the requirements of AAS.
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements
The Rio Tinto Group
These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (“Merger”), and presented
by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated accounts in accordance with both UK and Australian legislation and regulations.
Merger terms
On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which are listed respectively on Stock Exchanges in the UK and Australia, entered into a dual listed
companies (DLC) merger. This was effected by contractual arrangements between the companies and amendments to Rio Tinto plc’s Memorandum and Articles
of Association and Rio Tinto Limited’s Constitution.
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with neither assuming a dominant
role. In particular, the arrangements:
– confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a common economic interest in both groups;
– provide for common boards of directors and a unified management structure;
– provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions; and
– provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to take key decisions, including the election of directors, through an electoral procedure in
which the public shareholders of the two companies effectively vote on a joint basis.
The merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the ownership of any existing shares or
securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment by way of consideration, save for the issue by each company of
one special voting share to a trustee company which provides the joint electoral procedure for public shareholders. During 2002, each of the parent companies
issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Accounting standards
The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with IFRS as defined in note 1. The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK GAAP. As
permitted under the rules governing the transition to IFRS, which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business combinations that occurred before the
transition date of 1 January 2004. As a result, the DLC merger of economic interests described above continues to be accounted for as a merger under IFRS as
defined in note 1.
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition accounting is that the balance sheet of the merged Group includes the assets and liabilities of
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their carrying values prior to the merger, subject to adjustments to achieve uniformity of accounting policies, rather than at
their fair values at the date of the merger. For accounting purposes Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single public parent company (withtheir
respective public shareholders being the shareholders in that single company). As a result the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited
public shareholders are included in the amounts attributed to owners of Rio Tinto on the balance sheet, income statement and statement of comprehensive
income.
Australian Corporations Act
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued by the Australian Securities
and Investments Commission (ASIC) on 9 January 2015. The main provisions of the order are that the financial statements are prepared in accordance withthe
principles and requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS) and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS
to the Australian equivalents of IFRS (see above).
For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief see page 183.
riotinto.com 109
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements
1 Principal accounting policies
Corporate information
Rio Tinto’s business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources. Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, industrial minerals (borates,
titanium dioxide and salt), iron ore, thermal and metallurgical coal and uranium. Activities span the world and are strongly represented in AustraliaandNorth
America with significant businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in Australia and listed on the Australian
Stock Exchange. Rio Tinto plc’s registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, UK. Rio Tinto Limited’s registered office is at 120 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (together “the Companies”) and their respective subsidiaries (together
“the Group”) and include the Group’s share of joint arrangements and associates as explained in note 1(b) below. The Group’s financial statements for the year
ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors’ resolution on 4 March 2015.
Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Group’s subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on the Group’sother
related party relationships.
Basis of preparation of the financial statements
The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the Group’s 2014 financial statements are set out below.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under
International Financial Reporting Standards and in accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation and with:
– International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and interpretations issued from time to time by
the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) both as adopted by the European Union (EU) and which are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2014;
– IFRIC 21 “Levies” which has been adopted by the EU and is mandatory as at 31 December 2015 for EU reporting and is available for early adoption; and
– International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRIC which are mandatory as at
31 December 2014.
The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively referred to as “IFRS” in this report. The Group has not early adopted any other amendments,
standards or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet mandatory.
The Group’s financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements fortheyear
ended 31 December 2013 except for the implementation of IFRIC 21 and a number of minor amendments issued by the IASB which applied for the first time in
2014. These new pronouncements do not have a significant impact on the accounting policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group and
therefore prior period financial statements have not been restated for these pronouncements.
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2014.
Mandatory for 2015 and endorsed by the EU
Amendments to IAS 19 “Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions”. The objective of the amendment is to simplify the accounting for employee or third party
contributions that are independent of the number of years of employee service.
Certain Annual Improvements to IFRS 2010 to 2012 cycle
Annual Improvements to IFRS 2011 to 2013 cycle
Mandatory for 2016 and beyond (not yet endorsed by the EU)
Amendment to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosure Initiative”. The amendment provides clarification of guidance in IAS 1 on materiality and
aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38. The amendments provide clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation.
Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28. The amendments deal with the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture.
Amendments to IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”. The amendments deal with the accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
Annual improvements to IFRS 2012-2014 cycle
IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers”. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. The standard includes a single approach for the classification of financial assets, based on cash flow characteristics and the entity’s
business model. It introduces a new expected loss impairment model which requires expected losses to be recognised when financial instruments are first
recognised. The standard amends the rules on hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with the risk management practices of an entity.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these pronouncements which may have an impact on the Group’s earnings or shareholders’ funds in future years.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in applying accounting
policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous
experience, but actual results may differ materially from the amounts included in the financial statements. Key areas of judgment and estimation uncertainty are
highlighted below and further information is contained in the accounting policies and/or the Notes to the financial statements.
110 riotinto.com Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are:
– Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies (DLC) structure
(see Dual listed companies structure on page 109);
– Acquisitions – note 1(b) and note 37;
– Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill – note 1(e) and (i), note 6, note 12 and note 13;
– Estimation of asset lives – note 1(e) and (i);
– Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates – note 1(j);
– Provision for onerous contracts – note 1(i)
– Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations – note 1(k);
– Deferral of stripping costs – note 1(h);
– Uncertain tax positions – note 1(m);
– Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in acquisitions – note 1(m);
– Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 17(c), (e) and (g);
– Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs – note 1(f);
– Identification of functional currencies – note 1(d);
– Basis of consolidation – note 1(b);
– Contingencies – note 31; and
– Post-retirement cost assumptions – note 1(n) and note 45.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year are:
– Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill – note1(e) and (i), note 6, note 12 and note 13;
– Estimation of asset lives – note 1(e) and (i);
– Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates – note 1(j);
– Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and the timing of expenditure – note 1(k) and note 26;
– Estimation of obligations for post-retirement costs – note 1(n) and note 45;
– Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 17 (c), (e) and (g);
– Contingencies – note 31; and
– Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs – note 1(f).
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates on page 120.
(a) Accounting convention
The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, and for the related comparative periods, has been prepared
under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting
on the hedged item and the accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations. The Group’s policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
The Group’s financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million (US$m) unless otherwise stated.
Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or present them on the same basis as current period figures.
(b) Basis of consolidation (notes 33 to 36)
All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to bring their
accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies. Control exists where the Companies have: power over the entities, ie existing rights that give
them the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities (those that significantly affect the Companies’ returns); exposure, or rights, to variable
returns from their involvement with the entities; and the ability to use their power to affect those returns. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated fromthedateon
which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Joint Arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of
control such that decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement (those that significantly affect the Companies’ returns) require the unanimous consent
of the parties sharing control. The Group has two types of joint arrangement:
Joint Operations (JOs): A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating
to the arrangement. This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather than by receivingashareofthe
results of trading. In relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities; revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its
share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO; and its share of expenses. These are incorporated into the Group’s financial statements
under the appropriate headings.
Joint Ventures (JVs): A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. JVs are accounted
for using the equity accounting method.
Associates: An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is
presumed to exist where there is neither control nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated
that this is not the case. Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights if it has the power to participate in the
financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
riotinto.com 111
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
The Group uses the term “equity accounted units” (EAUs) to refer to associates and JVs collectively. For all EAUs, the carrying value will include any long-term
loans to the EAUs that in substance form part of the Group’s net investment.
Under the equity accounting method the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition. In subsequent periods the
carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to reflect the Group’s share of the EAUs’ retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
When the Group’s share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise
further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
Acquisitions (note 37)
Under the “acquisition” method of accounting for business combinations, the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
and contingent liabilities assumed (the identifiable net assets) on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control is
obtained.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of
the acquiree and any equity interests issued by the Group. Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity
interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Any shortfall is immediately recognised in the income
statement.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate
share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets or at fair value. In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill (see note (e)) and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained with any gain or loss
recognised in the income statement. The cash cost of the share purchase that gives rise to control is included within “Investing activities” in the cashflow
statement.
Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the differencebetweenthepurchasepriceandthecarryingvalueoftheshareofnetassets
acquired is recorded in equity. The cash cost of such purchases is included within “Financing activities” in the cash flow statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant
influence commences.
Disposals (note 37)
Individual non-current assets or “disposal groups” (ie groups of assets and liabilities) to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, are classified as
“held for sale” if the following criteria are met at the period end:
– the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use; and
– the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales; and
– the sale is highly probable.
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. The comparative balance sheet is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at the fair value determined at the acquisition date. For these assets acquired for resale no profits or losses
are recognised between the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income
statement. The retained interest may be subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, associate or financial asset depending on thefacts.Any
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has
ceased, may be recycled to the income statement in proportion to the interest disposed of. The cash proceeds of disposals are included within “Investing activities”
in the cash flow statement.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests where control is retained are recorded in equity. The cash proceeds of such disposals are included within
“Financing activities” in the cash flow statement.
(c) Sales revenue
Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts. All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for freight. If the Groupisacting
solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs. Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted
by the customer.
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. Mining royalties payable are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit-based tax,
within taxation.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are included in sales revenue. Sundry revenue, incidental to the main revenue-generating
activities of the operations, and which is a consequence of producing and selling the main products, is treated as a credit to operating costs.
Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and refining charges.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met:
– the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer;
– neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained;
112 riotinto.com – the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;
– it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group; and
– the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer. In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the
destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customer’s premises.
The Group’s products are sold to customers under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller proportion of ironore
volumes being sold on the spot market. Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period, based on the best available
information at the period end.
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer. In such cases, sales revenue is initially recognised on a
provisional basis using the Group’s best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Certain products are “provisionally priced”, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after
deliverytothecustomer.Thefinalpriceisbasedonthemarketpriceattherelevantquotationpointstipulatedinthecontract.
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally-priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on
relevant forward market prices. At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period
stipulated in the contract. For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and
freely-traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded
on that market.
The marking to market of provisionally-priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue. Information on provisionally-priced sales contracts is
included in note 30.
(d) Currency translation
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment inwhichthat
entity operates. For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they are located. Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies areretranslatedat
year end exchange rates. The Group’s accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1(p) (iii).
The Group’s financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as
a whole. On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where
the average is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date. Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period-end exchange
rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign
currency translation reserve. These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments
relating to Rio Tinto Limited’s share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Group’s net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the foreign
currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note (p) below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the
year in which they arise.
(e) Goodwill and intangible assets (excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure) (notes 12 and 13)
Goodwill is not amortised; it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Investments in EAUs including any goodwill are tested for impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been identified. The Group’s impairment
policy is explained in note 1(i).
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost. Finite-life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of
production basis, as appropriate. Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised;
they are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting
policy note 1(i).
The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period
over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. The factors considered in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights
for unlimited terms; or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of
the Group’s investment intentions. The life cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
(f) Exploration and evaluation (note 13)
Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to:
– researching and analysing existing exploration data;
– conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling;
– examining and testing extraction and treatment methods; and/or
– compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential. Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
riotinto.com 113
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential. Capitalisation of
evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, ie the project
will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow totheGroup.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed for impairment twice a year by management. In the case of undeveloped mining projects
(projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group) which have arisen through acquisition,
the allocation of the purchase price consideration may result in undeveloped properties being recognised at an earlier stage of project evaluation compared with
organic projects. The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the Group’s intentions for development. Subsequent expenditure on acquired
undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of confidence threshold discussed above.
In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production. Where this is the case, it is intended
that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the output when existing smelters and/or refineries
are closed.
(g) Property, plant and equipment (note 14)
Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure other than that on land,
buildings, plant, equipment and capital work in progress is capitalised under “Mining properties and leases” together with any amount transferred from
“Exploration and evaluation”. Ore reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of ore reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order
to refine the development case to maximise the project’s returns.
Costs of evaluation of a smelter or refinery prior to approval to develop are capitalised under “Capital works in progress”, provided that there is a high degree of
confidence that the project will be deemed to be commercially viable.
Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management,
are capitalised. Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future
economic benefit. Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate payable on project-specific debt if applicable, or
at the Group’s cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intendeduseare
complete.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property,
plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
(h) Deferred stripping (note 14)
In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping. During the development of a mine (or pit), before production commences,
stripping costs are capitalised as part of the cost of construction of the mine (or pit) and are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine (or pit) on a units of
production basis.
In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met:
– it must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a future accounting period because the stripping activity has improved access to the orebody; and
– it must be possible to identify the “component” of the orebody for which access has been improved; and
– it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the stripping activity.
A “component” is a specific section of the orebody that is made more accessible by the stripping activity. It will typically be a subset of the larger orebody that is
distinguished by a separate useful economic life eg a pushback.
Production phase stripping can give rise to two benefits: the extraction of ore in the current period and improved access to ore which will be extracted in future
periods. When the cost of stripping which has a future benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to
each of these activities based on a relevant production measure using a life of component strip ratio. The ratio divides the tonnage of waste mined for the
component for the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore mined for the component.In
some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for allocating costs, particularly where there are significant by-products. Stripping costs for the
component are deferred to the extent that the current period ratio exceeds the life of component ratio. The stripping activity asset is depreciated on a “units of
production” basis based on expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of the component unless another method is more appropriate.
The life of component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the mine (and for some mines, other mineral resources) and the annual mine plan; they are a
function of the mine design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the ratios. Changes in other technical or economic parameters
that impact the ore reserves (and for some mines, other mineral resources) may also have an impact on the life of component ratios even if they do not affect the
mine design. Changes to the ratios are accounted for prospectively.
It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible after the first phase has
taken place. Where applicable, the Group considers this on a mine-by-mine basis. Generally, the only ore attributed to the stripping activity asset for the purposes
of calculating a life of component ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be extracted from the originally identified component.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are accounted for
separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit. If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent
pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs. In such cases, the initial stripping (ie overburden and other waste removal) of the
second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping.
The Group’s judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mine’s specific circumstances.
The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately:
– If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
– If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
114 riotinto.com – If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
– If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
– If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, including the
co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation for the purpose of accounting for initial
stripping costs.
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case.
Deferred stripping costs are included in “Mining properties and leases” within “Property, plant and equipment” or within “Investments in equity accounted units”,
as appropriate. Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in “Depreciation on property, plant and equipment” within “Net operating costs” or in “Share of
profit after tax of equity accounted units”, as appropriate.
(i) Depreciation and impairment (notes 13 and 14)
Depreciation of non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is shorter and there is no
reasonable alternative use for the asset.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate. Where this is the case, the lives
of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally based on the expectedlifeofthe
orebody. The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan. Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on
the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets. Factors affecting the remaining
service potential of smelters, for example, include smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when power is not sourced from the company’s, or in
some cases a local government’s, electricity generating capacity.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of assets are reviewed annually and changes reflected prospectively.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production
and/or straight-line basis as follows:
Units of production basis
For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to production. Except as noted below,
these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total expected production in
current and future periods based on ore reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources. Other mineral resources may be included in depreciation
calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence that they can be extracted economically. This would be the case when the
other mineral resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the
responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historic reserve conversion rates.
Other mineral resources would usually only be included in unit of production calculations where there are very large areas of contiguous mineralisation, for which
the economic viability is not sensitive to likely variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and industrial minerals deposits. The required
level of confidence is unlikely to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore, (compared with the above) such as copper or gold. In these cases,
specific areas of mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their economic status can be predicted with confidence.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit current and future
mines then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines where there is a high degree of confidence
that they will be brought into production in the future. The quantum of mineral resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the
Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) code. The depreciation calculation, however, does not take into account future development costs for mines whicharenot
yet in production. Measured and indicated resources are currently incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Group’s Australian iron ore business.
Straight-line basis
Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the
related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Impairment charges/reversals of non-current assets
Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”, are identified as the
smallest identifiable asset or group of assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets. The existence of an
active market for intermediate products is also monitored and separate cash-generating units are identified even if the majority of those products are further
processed internally and therefore the cash flows are not independent. Impairment of financial assets is discussed in note (p).
In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations with independent cash-generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the lowest level within the
Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related business combination. All goodwill and
intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has
been an impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. The Group conducts an internal review of the asset values annually as at 30 September which is used as a source of information to assess for
indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses. External factors, such as changes in expected future prices, costs and other
market factors, are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses. If any such indication exists then
an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use (being the net present value of expected future
cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition) and fair value less costs of disposal (FVLCD).
riotinto.com 115
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is measured by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in accordance with the fair value
hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested. The Group considers that the best
evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement and, in this case, the recoverable amount is classified in the fair value
hierarchy as level 1. When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the
recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. No cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by reference to a recoverable
amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to reflect the amount
the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This is often estimated using
discounted cash flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed “life-of-mine”
and/or long term production plans. The latter may include brownfield expansions which have not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level in the
Group.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on management’s best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future cash costs of
production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental costs. For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a market participant’s perspective, the
cash flows incorporate management’s price and cost assumptions in the short and medium term. In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain
constant where appropriate; as it is considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term. The cash flow forecasts may
include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently qualify for inclusion in ore reserves. Such
non-reserve material is only included when there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction. This expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling
and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore reserves. Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserve status for
such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the
mine.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term production plan for
the cash-generating unit. This differs from value in use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its current condition and therefore does
not include future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an asset’s performance. Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD
calculations and therefore generally result in a higher value.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect the current life of
mine or long-term production plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output
and sequence of extraction. The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances,
chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used. The life-of-mine plan
and/or long term production plans are therefore the basis for forecasting production output and production costs in each future year.
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are generally based on Rio Tinto’s commodity price forecasts, which assume short-term market
prices will revert to the Group’s assessment of the long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years. For most commodities, these forecast commodity
prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities. These assessments
often differ from current price levels and are updated periodically. The Group does not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices provide a good
indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly influenced by spot prices. The price forecasts used for ore reserve estimation are generally consistent
with those used for impairment testing unless management deems that in certain economic environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tinto’s view
on prices, in which case management estimates the assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money
and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is used as a
starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units
operate. For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the Group’s weighted average cost of capital,
are used.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency. In estimating FVLCD,
internal forecasts for long-term exchange rates take into account spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are linked to price assumptions.
The great majority of the Group’s sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars. To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces
commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced. Management considers
that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar,
particularly against the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, and vice versa. However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not fully offset
each other.
IAS 36 requires that value in use be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
Non-current assets (excluding goodwill) that have suffered impairment are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment
loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased. If appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised. The carrying amount of the cash generating unit after
reversal must be the lower of (a) the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and (b) the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation
or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the cash-generating unit in prior periods.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets” as a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting
the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it. However, no provision is required provided that the related
assets, which may be the wider cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are not fully impaired.
116 riotinto.com (j) Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian
Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 (the “JORC code”, which is produced by the AustralasianJoint
Ore Reserves Committee).
Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment
charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets. The depreciation and
impairment policy above notes instances in which mineral resources are taken into account for accounting purposes. In addition, value may be attributed to
mineral resources in purchase price allocations undertaken for the purposes of business combination accounting.
(k) Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations (note 26)
The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal of residual materials
and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines and certain refineries and smelters. These provisions are based on all regulatory requirements and any other
commitments made to stakeholders. Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no known restrictions on their lives as the closure dates
cannot be reliably estimated. This applies primarily to certain North American smelters which have water rights or power agreements with local governments.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the
years following closure of the mine, refinery or smelter. Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Group’s businesses estimate their costs using
current restoration standards and techniques.
Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, based on the net
present value of the estimated future costs of restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post closure. Where appropriate, the provision is
estimated using probability weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios. The obligation may occur during development or during theproduction
phase of a facility.
Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance. The costs are
estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are reviewed six monthly during the life of the operation to reflect known developments. The estimates are subject to
formal review at regular intervals.
The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within “Property, plant and equipment”. Subsequent movements in the close-down and restoration
provisions for ongoing operations, including those resulting from new disturbance related to expansions or other activities qualifying for capitalisation, updated
cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of closure activities and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within
“Property, plant and equipment”. These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate. Changes in closure provisions relating to
closed operations are charged/credited to ‘’Net operating costs’ in the income statement.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding
continuous rehabilitation work at each balance sheet date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
The amortisation or “unwinding” of the discount applied in establishing the provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within “Finance items” in the income statement.
Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensationand
penalties. Provision is made for the estimated present value of such costs at the balance sheet date. These costs are charged to “Net operating costs”, except for
the unwinding of the discount which is shown within “Finance items”.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can
continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
(l) Inventories (note 16)
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis. Average costs are calculated by reference to the
cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory. The cost of raw materials and consumable stores is the purchaseprice.
The cost of partly-processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production, including:
– labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and
aluminium;
– the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and the production of
alumina and aluminium; and
– production overheads.
Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material. Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further
processing. If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as mined. If the ore will not be processed within
the 12 months after the balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
(m) Taxation (note 9 and note 17)
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted atthe
balance sheet date. It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods. Where the amount of tax payable or
recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions based on the Group’s judgment of the probable amount of the liability, or recovery.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12. The Group provides for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions. These adjustments
may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances. Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between
the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base (which may be US$nil). Even when there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains
tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, because it is expected
that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the assets and not from disposal.
riotinto.com 117
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
(n) Post-employment benefits (note 45)
The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees. For post-retirement
definedbenefitplans,thedifferencebetweenthefairvalueofanyplanassets and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in
the balance sheet.
The fair value of plan assets is the price that would be received to sell the assets in orderly transactions between market participants at the measurement date.
Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from theplan
or reductions in future contributions.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the discount rate, the inflation assumption and the mortality assumptions.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those of the post-retirement obligations as closely as
possible. Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used. The inflation assumption is used to project
increases in future benefit payments for those plans that have benefits linked to inflation. The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit
payments, which is then discounted to arrive at the net present value of the obligations.
Valuations of the obligations are carried out using the projected unit method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with allowance where appropriate
for future increases to pay and pensions. The values of the obligations are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement. The interest cost less
interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged to the income statement. All amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plansare
included within “Net operating costs” or in “Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units” as appropriate.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited/charged to the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of changes in actuarial
assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred. In particular, the
difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
(o) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and short-term, highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Bank overdrafts are shown as
current liabilities in the balance sheet.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
(p) Financial instruments (note 30)
(i) Financial assets
Classification
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale and held to maturity
investments. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. The Group’s policy with regard to financial risk management
is set out in note 30. Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term. When the Group enters into derivative
contracts these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they
are designated as effective hedging instruments. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they
are classified as non-current.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Trade receivables are
included within this category; however, trade receivables subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1(c) Sales revenue.
(c)Heldtomaturity
Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the intention and
ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify as loans and receivables. Assets in this category are classified as Other investments and are classified as
current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity.
(d) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date or the asset matures within
12 months.
Recognition and measurement
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are de-recognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs expensed in the
income statement , and are subsequently carried at fair value. Loans and receivables and held to maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus
transactions costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
118 riotinto.com Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. Where relevant market prices are available, these are used to determine fair values, adjusted where necessary for market liquidity, bid/offer
spreads and credit considerations. In other cases, fair values are calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation
techniques consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or
because they carry floating rates of interest. The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 30. Movements
on the hedging reserve are disclosed in note 29.
Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. If impairment is
identified for a financial asset carried at amortised cost the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the loss is
recognised in the income statement.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is “significant” or “prolonged” based on an
analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates.
If such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value,
less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
(ii) Financial liabilities
Borrowings and other financial liabilities (including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities) are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs
incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities (net of transaction costs) and the redemptionvalueis
recognisedintheincomestatementovertheperiodto maturity using the effective interest method.
The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets
or an appropriate market based yield curve. The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the
difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
(iii) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, derivatives and embedded derivatives may be designated as hedges.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income
statement. They are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains or losses on derivatives which are not designated as hedges are
taken to the income statement. The method of recognising the resulting gainorlossforderivativesdesignatedashedginginstrumentsdependsonthenature of
the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either; hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments (fair
value hedges) or, hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedges).
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the
fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or
written off immediately when the hedged item is de-recognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated inequityare
recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset , for example, property, plant and equipment, the gains and
losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset. The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income
statement when the non-financial asset is amortised or sold.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecast
transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised
intheincomestatementatthesametimeastheforecasttransaction.Whenaforecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that
is held in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement.
(q) Share-based payments (note 44)
The fair value of the Group’s share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto
plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions attached to the award. Non-market-
based vesting conditions (eg earnings per share targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest. The estimate of the number of
awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
riotinto.com 119
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to determine whether they should be accounted for as equity or cash settled. The Group no
longer operates any plans as cash-settled. However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in
cash. This is not standard practice. In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cash-settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws and
regulations. The value of these awards is immaterial.
The Group’s equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on market, or the use of
shares previously acquired as part of a share buy-back. If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the difference is taken
toretainedearningsorotherreservesasappropriate.
(r) Share capital (notes 27 and 28)
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, netoftax,from
the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Group’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental
costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received,
net of any directly-attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
(s) Segment reporting (notes 2 and 3)
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker (CODM). The CODM, who is
responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as Rio Tinto’s chief executive.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
(i)Duallistedcompaniesreporting
As described in the “Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements”, the consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group
deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries. Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
The 2014 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended by an order
issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 9 January 2015. The 2014 financial statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to the
Group’s consolidated profit/(loss), consolidated total comprehensive income/(loss) and consolidated shareholders’ funds as prepared under IFRSasdefinedon
page 110 that would be required under the version of International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian
Accounting Standards (AAS).
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Group’s global business performance.
(ii) Acquisitions (note 37)
The determination of the fair values of net identifiable assets acquired, and of any goodwill, involves significant judgment. This is particularly the case when the
acquisition involves little or no cash, for example when the Group gains control of a company in stages or by the issuance of shares. The allocation of fair value
between intangible assets, and the tangible assets with which they are used, is also judgmental. The Group engages third-party valuers to advise on thepurchase
price allocation for significant acquisitions.
(iii) Impairment review of asset carrying values (notes 6, 12 and 13)
Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
Estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions and the cost to complete asset construction are critical to determining the recoverable amounts for
cash-generating units.
Where the recoverable amounts of the Group’s cash-generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are also sensitive
to changes in estimates of long-term commodity prices, production timing and recovery rates, exchange rates, operating costs, reserve estimates and discount
rates.
Note 6 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 outline judgments in relationtothe
testing of cash-generating units containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets respectively.
(iv) Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates
Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to theperiodover
which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. The factors considered in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights for
unlimited terms; or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods intothefuturein
view of the Group’s investment intentions.
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in the JORC code (see note 1(j)). The
amounts presented under IFRS and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an appropriate mining method
and establish an extraction schedule. It also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount
rates and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences. There are many uncertainties in the estimation process and assumptions that are valid atthetimeof
estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological data, as well as changes in assumptions, may change ore reserve and mineral resource estimates and may ultimately result in their restatement.
Changes in ore reserves and, in some cases, mineral resources, could have an impact on: depreciation and amortisation rates; the carrying values of intangible
assets and property, plant and equipment; deferred stripping calculations; provisions for close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of deferred tax assets.
(v) Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations (note 26)
Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with,
where appropriate, probability weighting of the different remediation and closure scenarios. The ultimate cost of close-down and restoration is uncertain and
120 riotinto.com management uses its judgment and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations. Cost estimates can vary in response to many factors
including: changes to the relevant legal or local/national government ownership requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders; review of
remediation and relinquishment options; the emergence of new restoration techniques; the timing of the expenditures; and the effects of inflation. Experience
gained at other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration although elements of the restoration and rehabilitation of each site are relatively unique
to the site and, in some cases, there may be relatively limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical precedent against which to benchmark cost
estimates. Where appropriate, external experts support the cost estimation process.
Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation and must comply with the Group’s Capital Project Framework once the operation is ten years from
expected closure. The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes to expectations relating to
ore reserves and mineral resources, production rates, operating licences or economic conditions. Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue
for an extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements. Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect. The selection of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free discount rate used
for such obligations requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and environmental costs which would
affect future financial results. Increases and decreases in environmental obligations are charged or credited directly to the income statement. Increases and
decreases in close-down obligations for operating businesses are accounted for as indicated in note (k) above. An increase in capitalised close-downand
restoration provisions would increase the unwind of the discount and depreciation charges in the income statement in future years and increase the carrying value
of property, plant and equipment, potentially impacting any future impairment charges or reversals.
(vi) Deferral of stripping costs (note 14)
Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase of a surface mine or pit. The identification of components within a mine and oflifeof
component strip ratios is dependent on an individual mine’s design. Changes to that design may introduce new components and/or change the life of component
strip ratios. Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component strip ratiosevenif
they do not affect the mine’s design. Changes to the life of component strip ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The Group’s judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of a pit is deemed to
be pre-production or production phase stripping and therefore the amortisation base for those costs. The judgment depends on each mine’s specific
circumstances and the analysis requires judgment; another mining company could make a different judgment even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
(vii) Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in acquisitions
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions. These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not
eligible for income tax allowances. Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base (which may
be US$nil). Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred
tax liability for the assets, unless they are classified as held for sale, because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the
assets and not from disposal. For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts
attributed to goodwill. For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax was recognised in equity on transition to IFRS.
(viii) Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and development costs prior to the decision to mine/construct (note 13)
Under the Group’s accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not capitalised. Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence
that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A project’s commercial viability is determined based on whether it will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks. Once commercial viability has
been established, the Group will decide, at the appropriate authorisationlevel(ietheRioTintoInvestmentCommitteeandtheboardwhereappropriate) whether
the project should proceed. In determining whether to approve a mining project, the Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with
analyses of the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses for the key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to proceed. In these cases, evaluation
expenditure is capitalised if there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is commercially viable. The Group’s view is that a high
degree of confidence is greater than “more likely than not” (that is greater than 50 per cent certainty) and less than “virtually certain” (that is less than 90 per cent
certainty). Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially viable requires a
significant degree of judgment and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project; the project’s current stage; project timeline;
current estimates of the project’s net present value including sensitivity analyses for the key assumptions; and the main risks of the project. Development
expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that the Group will
determine that a project is commercially viable.
In accordance with IFRS 6 “Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources”, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are applied consistently from
period to period.
Subsequent recovery of the carrying value for evaluation costs depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project. If a project does not prove
viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
(ix) Identification of functional currencies
The functional currency for each subsidiary, joint operation and equity accounted unit, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other companies may make different judgments based on similar facts. For many of
Rio Tinto’s businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate. The Group reconsiders the functional currencyofits
businesses if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the balance sheet and, as a consequence, the amortisation of
those assets included in the income statement. It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.
riotinto.com 121
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
1 Principal accounting policies continued
(x) Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs (note 45)
The value of the Group’s obligations for post-retirement benefits is dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to the balance sheet
date. This amount will vary depending on the assumptions made about the future pay increases received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation (for
those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection), the number of individuals and how long individuals live in retirement. Most of the Group’s
defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the obligations relate to former employees. As a consequence, the carrying value of
the Group’s post-retirement obligations is less sensitive to assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future inflation. The
assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, combined with consensus views on future inflation,
and is derived using the same process at each reporting date. Changes to the assumption therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus views of future
inflation.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current mortality assumptions.
It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each country.
The discount rate used to value post-retirement obligations is based upon the yields on high quality corporate bonds in the relevant currency and whichhave
durations consistent with the nature of the obligations. The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements in corporate bondyields,but
at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation uncertainty. This rate is also used to calculate the interest cost on obligations and interest
income on plan assets.
Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes in the
assumptions are set out in note 45.
For 2014, the charge against income for post-retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$418 million. This charge included both pension
and post-retirement healthcare benefits. The charge is net of interest income of US$475 million after tax and non-controlling interests.
The weighted average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.6 per cent in 2014 and will be 3.3 per cent for 2015. The average discount rate
used was 4.4 per cent in 2014 and will be 3.5 per cent in 2015 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the currencies in which the Group
has pension obligations.
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the expected impact of post-retirement costs on the Group’s net
earnings in 2015 would be US$48 million more than in 2014. The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of
changes in benefits, number of employees and exchange rates.
The table below sets out the potential change in the Group’s 2014 net earnings (after tax and non-controlling interests) that would result from hypothetical
changes to post-retirement assumptions and estimates. The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one assumption is likely
to result in some offset elsewhere. The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings. Changing the assumptions would also have an
impact on the balance sheet and this is shown in note 45.
US$ million
Sensitivity of the Group’s 2014 underlying and net earnings to changes in:
Discount rate
increase of 0.5 percentage points 47
decrease of 0.5 percentage points (43)
Inflation
increase of 0.5 percentage points (33)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 31
Salary increases
increase of 0.5 percentage points (9)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 8
Demographic – allowance for additional future mortality improvements
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 18
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger (18)
(xi) Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets (note 17)
The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in UK, French, Canadian, US and Australian taxable entities that have the potential to
reduce tax payments in future years. Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future
taxable income of these taxable entities and after taking account of specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
(xii) Contingencies (note 31)
Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
(xiii) Basis of consolidation (notes 33 to 36)
Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
122 riotinto.com 2 Operating segments
Gross sales revenue
(a)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Iron Ore 23,281 25,994 24,279
Aluminium 12,123 12,463 12,170
Copper 6,282 5,916 6,661
Energy 4,308 5,454 6,062
Diamonds & Minerals 4,150 4,193 4,056
Other operations 241 1,761 3,898
Reportable segments total 50,385 55,781 57,126
Inter-segment transactions (344) (1,182) (1,560)
Product group total 50,041 54,599 55,566
Items excluded from underlying earnings – (24) 31
Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales (2,377) (3,404) (4,655)
Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 47,664 51,171 50,942
Depreciation and amortisation
(b)
Iron Ore 1,953 1,627 1,485
Aluminium 1,180 1,151 1,287
Copper 1,051 962 794
Energy 548 766 770
Diamonds & Minerals 484 513 421
Other operations 34 67 214
Reportable segments total 5,250 5,086 4,971
Other items 82 106 113
Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units (472) (401) (460)
Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,860 4,791 4,624
Underlying earnings
(c)
Iron Ore 8,107 9,858 9,247
Aluminium 1,248 557 54
Copper 912 821 1,059
Energy (210) 33 309
Diamonds & Minerals 401 350 149
Other operations (243) (281) (582)
Reportable segments total 10,215 11,338 10,236
Inter-segment transactions – (4) (8)
Other items (593) (730) (750)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups (156) (145) (97)
Net finance costs (161) (242) (112)
Underlying earnings 9,305 10,217 9,269
Items excluded from underlying earnings
(d)
(2,778) (6,552) (12,297)
Net earnings/(loss) attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 6,527 3,665 (3,028)
Tax charge
Iron Ore 3,698 5,290 4,273
Aluminium 303 (18) (205)
Copper 170 236 (67)
Energy (164) 12 8
Diamonds & Minerals 224 177 84
Other operations (132) (227) (235)
Reportable segments total 4,099 5,470 3,858
Other items (193) (302) (266)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups (34) (23) (26)
Net finance costs (396) (77) (81)
3,476 5,068 3,485
Tax credit excluded from underlying earnings
(d)
(423) (2,642) (2,896)
Tax charge per income statement 3,053 2,426 589
riotinto.com 123
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
2 Operating segments continued
Capital expenditure
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Capital expenditure
Iron Ore 4,211 6,814 7,152
Aluminium 2,021 2,226 2,755
Copper 1,958 2,813 4,455
Energy 224 732 1,877
Diamonds & Minerals 508 1,009 1,814
Other operations (56) 278 432
Reportable segments total 8,866 13,872 18,485
Other items (416) 145 161
Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units (1,032) (1,073) (1,071)
Capital expenditure per financial information by business units 7,418 12,944 17,575
Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 744 57 40
Capital expenditure per cash flow statement 8,162 13,001 17,615
Rio Tinto’s management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business. The chief
executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto. The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based
on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator. Finance
costs and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product. The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations
and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Diamonds & Minerals product group chief executive. The Copper group includes certain gold
operations in addition to copper.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 178 of these financial statements provides additional voluntary disclosure which the Group
considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
(a) Gross sales revenue
Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries) of US$2,533 million (2013: US$3,757 million,
2012: US$5,067 million) which are not included in consolidated sales revenue. Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$156 million (2013:
US$353 million, 2012: US$412 million) to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
(b) Depreciation and amortisation
Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tinto’s share of the
depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units. Rio Tinto’s share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to
arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4. These figures exclude impairment charges and reversals,whichare
excluded from underlying earnings.
(c) Underlying earnings
Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance
comparability of reporting periods.
The measure of underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups. Underlying earnings and net
earnings both represent amounts net of tax attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. The following items are excluded from net earnings in arriving at underlying
earnings each period irrespective of materiality:
– Net (losses)/gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses.
– Impairment charges and reversals.
– Profit/(loss) after tax from discontinued operations.
– Exchange and derivative gains and losses. This exclusion includes exchange gains/(losses) on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains/(losses) on
currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains/(losses) on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if of a similar type, are
of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
Rio Tinto’s share of the underlying earnings of equity accounted units amount to US$626 million in 2014 (2013: US$710 million; 2012: US$1,051 million). This
amount is attributable as follows: US$622 million profit to the Copper group and US$4 million profit to other product groups (2013: US$780 million profit
attributable to the Copper product group and US$70 million loss to other product groups; 2012: US$793 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and
US$258 million profit to other product groups). These amounts are included in underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the underlying
earnings of the Group’s tolling entities which process alumina. Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
The Copper product group’s underlying earnings in 2013 included US$131 million impairment after tax in relation to the group’s investment in NorthernDynasty
Minerals Ltd following a strategic review of this shareholding by the group.
The Energy product group’s underlying earnings in 2012 included US$258 million profit after tax in relation to the divestments of equity interest in Extract
Resources and Kalahari Minerals.
124 riotinto.com (d) Reconciliation of net earnings/(losses) to underlying earnings
Exclusions from underlying earnings
Pre-
tax
(j)
2014
US$m
Taxation
2014
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
2014
US$m
Net
amount
2014
US$m
Net
amount
2013
US$m
Net
amount
2012
US$m
Impairment charges net of reversals (note 6) (473) 335 – (138) (3,428) (14,360)
Net (losses)/gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses
(e)
(563) 203 11 (349) 847 827
Exchange and derivative (losses)/gains:
– Exchange (losses)/gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances (1,997) 164 (25) (1,858) (2,929) 425
– (Losses)/gains on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for
hedge accounting (39) 14 3 (22) 259
– Gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 15 15 – 30 196 66
(Write-off)/recognition of deferred tax asset following the MRRT repeal – (401) 39 (362) – 1,130
Gain on disposal of the Group’s St James’s Square properties 341 15 – 356 ––
Simandou IFRS 2 charge
(f)
(230) – 114 (116) ––
Restructuring costs including global headcount reductions (123) 37 4 (82) (367) (77)
Kennecott Utah Copper
(g)
–– – – (283) –
Clermont/Blair Athol
(h)
–– – – (173) –
Deferred tax asset write-off –– – – (114) (134)
Other exclusions
(i)
(263) 41 (15) (237) (303) (233)
Total excluded from underlying earnings (3,332) 423 131 (2,778) (6,552) (12,297)
Net earnings/(loss) 9,552 (3,053) 28 6,527 3,665 (3,028)
Underlying earnings 12,884 (3,476) (103) 9,305 10,217 9,269
(e) Pre-tax losses of US$563 million arose mainly from further adjustments in respect of contractual obligations for product sales and delivery which remain with the Group following
sale of the Group’s interest in the Clermont mine on 29 May 2014, the disposal of the Group’s interest in Rio Tinto Mozambique on 7 October 2014 and indemnities provided in
respect of prior disposals.
Net gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses during 2013 mainly related to US$590 million from the Group’s divestment of its remaining interest in
Constellium (formerly Alcan Engineering Products), and US$388 million from the disposal of interest in the Northparkes mine.
(f) A pre-tax charge of US$230 million before non-controlling interests, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share-based Payment”, which reflects the discount to an estimate of fair
value at which shares are transferrable to the Government of Guinea under the Investment Framework, ratified on 26 May 2014.
(g) On 10 April 2013, Kennecott Utah Copper’s, Bingham Canyon mine experienced a slide along a geological fault line of its north-eastern wall. Charges relating to the slide, which
have been excluded from underlying earnings, primarily comprise the write-off of certain deferred stripping assets and damaged equipment. Adjustments for settlement of
insurance claims have been made to the amount excluded from underlying earnings, and will continue as insurance claims are settled.
(h) Adjustments in relation to Clermont and Blair Athol arose in 2013 following reclassification to disposal groups held for sale, and reflect contractual obligations for product sales
and funding of closure activities, which will remain with the Group following completion of the divestments.
(i) Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate, if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying
business performance. In 2014, other exclusions include adjustments relating to the five year community support package for Nhulunbuy area and community following the Gove
refinery curtailment. In 2013, other exclusions included adjustments relating to inventory sold by Richards Bay Minerals during the period, which had been recognised at fair value
on initial consolidation in 2012.
(j) Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units, after tax, are included in the column “Pre-tax”.
3 Operating segments – additional information
Gross sales revenue by destination
(a)
2014
%
2013
%
2012
%
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
China 38.2 35.4 32.3 19,101 19,331 17,948
Japan 15.4 16.1 15.8 7,719 8,770 8,787
Other Asia 15.8 16.1 16.1 7,913 8,781 8,933
USA 12.9 13.1 12.7 6,439 7,142 7,085
Europe (excluding UK) 8.8 10.2 11.5 4,407 5,552 6,380
Canada 2.8 2.3 3.3 1,421 1,276 1,823
Australia 2.2 2.0 2.6 1,114 1,114 1,420
UK 1.0 1.1 1.2 481 617 678
Other 2.9 3.7 4.5 1,446 1,992 2,543
Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 50,041 54,575 55,597
Share of equity accounted units sales and inter-subsidiary equity accounted
units sales and items excluded from underlying earnings (2,377) (3,404) (4,655)
Consolidated sales revenue 47,664 51,171 50,942
(a) Gross sales revenue by geographical destination is based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known. If the eventual destination of the product sold through
traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the
UK and Australia.
riotinto.com 125
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
3 Operating segments – additional information continued
Gross sales revenue by product
Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Iron Ore 23,178 26,235 24,756
Aluminium 11,667 12,059 12,535
Copper 4,815 4,766 4,749
Coal 3,685 4,557 5,060
Industrial Minerals 3,238 3,330 3,460
Diamonds 901 859 754
Gold 1,007 402 614
Other 1,550 2,367 3,669
Total 50,041 54,575 55,597
Share of equity accounted units sales and inter-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from
underlying earnings (2,377) (3,404) (4,655)
Consolidated sales revenue 47,664 51,171 50,942
Non-current assets other than excluded items
The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below. This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the
assets.
Non-current assets other than excluded items
(b)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Australia 38,162 38,100
Canada 17,065 18,567
Mongolia 7,842 8,315
US 5,163 4,739
Africa 5,838 5,486
South America 3,552 3,146
UK 236 1,246
Indonesia 1,116 968
France 491 602
Europe (excluding France and the UK) 460 524
Other countries 1,417 782
81,342 82,475
Non-current assets excluded from analysis above:
Deferred tax assets 3,540 3,555
Derivatives and other financial assets (excluding tax recoverable) 722 899
Loans to equity accounted units
(c)
228 277
Tax recoverable 70 83
Accounts receivable 800 1,454
Total non-current assets per balance sheet 86,702 88,743
(b) Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets, and includes investments in equity accounted units totalling
US$4,640 million (2013: US$3,681 million) which represents the Group’s share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within “Loans to equity accounted
units” above.
(c) Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$228 million (2013: US$276 million) included in “Investments in equity accounted units” on the face of the
balance sheet and non-quasi equity loans of US$nil (2013: US$1 million) shown within “Other financial assets”.
126 riotinto.com 4 Net operating costs
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 11,044 11,164 13,056
Amortisation of intangible assets 13 237 255 310
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,623 4,536 4,314
Employment costs 5 6,659 7,568 8,671
Shipping and other freight costs 3,370 3,513 3,524
Decrease in finished goods and work in progress 1,284 199 100
Royalties 2,516 2,883 2,374
Amounts charged by equity accounted units
(a)
1,554 1,728 2,154
Net foreign exchange (losses)/gains (34) (71) 2
Other external costs 3,074 4,025 3,027
Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 26 1,138 1,449 886
Research and development 112 231 246
Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation (738) (582) (544)
Other operating income (929) (794) (586)
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) 33,910 36,104 37,534
(a) Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed
by the product group or sold to third parties. Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Group’s share of the equity accounted unit but in 2014, US$463 million
(2013: US$529 million; 2012: US$690 million) related to purchases of the other investor’s share of production.
Information on auditors’ remuneration is included in note 39.
5 Employment costs
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Total employment costs
– Wages and salaries 5,878 7,181 8,382
– Social security costs 467 421 156
– Net post retirement charge 45 590 805 823
– Share option charge 44 152 142 240
7,087 8,549 9,601
Less: charged within provisions (428) (981) (930)
Employment costs 4 6,659 7,568 8,671
riotinto.com 127
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
6 Impairment charges and reversals
Pre-tax
2014
US$m
Taxation
2014
US$m
Non-
controlling
interests
2014
US$m
Net
amount
2014
US$m
Pre-tax
amount
2013
US$m
Pre-tax
amount
2012
US$m
Aluminium – Kitimat (1,092) 292 – (800) (950) (613)
Aluminium – Pacific Aluminium 1,224 (175) – 1,049 – (1,382)
Aluminium – Other (46) 6 – (40) (847) (2,751)
Aluminium – Goodwill –– – – – (7,468)
Copper – Molybdenum Autoclave Process (559) 212 – (347) ––
Copper – Oyu Tolgoi –– – – (4,716) –
Copper – SouthGobi –– – – (269) –
Energy–RioTintoCoalMozambique –– – – (497) (3,269)
Diamonds –– – – – (659)
Other –– – – (252) (85)
Total impairment charge net of reversals (473) 335 – (138) (7,531) (16,227)
Allocated as:
Goodwill (note 12) – (1,149) (8,009)
Intangible assets (note 13) – (1,287) (1,817)
Property, plant and equipment (note 14) (1,034) (4,882) (4,686)
Investment in equity accounted units 589 (216) (1,526)
Other assets (28) 3 (189)
Total impairment charge net of reversals (473) (7,531) (16,227)
Comprising:
Impairment charges net of reversals of consolidated balances (1,062) (7,315) (14,701)
Impairment reversals/(charges) of investments in equity accounted
units (pre-tax) 841 (230) (2,217)
Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial information by
business unit (page 179) (221) (7,545) (16,918)
Taxation (including related to EAUs) 83 1,561 2,536
Non-controlling interests – 2,556 22
Total impairment net of reversals in the income statement (138) (3,428) (14,360)
Aluminium
Kitimat, Canada
During the first half of 2014, further revisions to future capital required to complete the modernisation project at Kitimat in British Columbia, and related impacts
on the project, led to a reduction in the recoverable value of the Kitimat cash-generating unit. Additional capital of US$1.5 billion was approved by the board in
August 2014, taking the total approved capital cost of the project to US$4.8 billion.
The recoverable amount for the Kitimat cash-generating unit at 30 June 2014 was determined to be US$2,184 million assessed by reference to a fair value less
cost of disposal (FVLCD) model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1(i). The reduction in the recoverable amount resulted in a pre-tax impairment
charge of US$1,092 million to property, plant and equipment. The recoverable amount is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD,
post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms were estimated over the useful economic life of the modernised smelter, which is the principal asset of the
cash-generating unit, and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.3 per cent (2013: 7.3 per cent).
First production from the Kitimat Modernisation Project is expected during the first half of 2015. The most critical assumption for the FVLCD calculation is the
forecast cost to complete the project which is unchanged since the half year. Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Kitimat is sensitive are:
the aluminium sales price (aluminium price plus regional and product premiums), discount rates, the Canadian dollar to US dollar exchange rate and
operating cost assumptions. The long-term aluminium price for impairment testing purposes was unchanged at 30 June 2014 in real terms from the prior year
(2013: decrease of 6.5 per cent), marginally above the mid-point of the range published for 2018 by market commentators of US$1,993 and US$2,469 per tonne,
with an average of US$2,246 per tonne. No subsequent impairment indicators have been identified in the second half of 2014 in relation to the Kitimat
Modernisation Project.
In 2013, the annual impairment review of the Group’s Aluminium cash-generating units with indefinite-lived intangible assets resulted in a pre-tax impairment
charge of US$950 million in the Kitimat cash-generating unit. The indefinite-lived intangible assets relating to water rights at Kitimat were fully impaired following
the allocation of this impairment loss.
Pacific Aluminium, Australia and New Zealand
The annual review of asset values at 30 September 2014 of the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit provides evidence that the impairment losses primarily
recorded in respect of Tomago, Bell Bay, Gladstone Power Station and Boyne Smelters in 2011 and 2012 have reversed as a result of significant cost
improvements and high regional and product premiums. There has also been a regulatory change in Australia with carbon tax legislation being repealed on 17 July
2014 for a period of five years with effect from 1 July 2014.
128 riotinto.com A pre-tax impairment reversal of US$635 million has been recorded against the property, plant and equipment of Tomago, Bell Bay and Gladstone Power Station
and a post-tax impairment reversal of US$589 million relating to Boyne Smelters has been recorded against investments in equity accounted units. The
recoverable amount of these assets has been determined on a FVLCD basis, classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, modelled with cash flows expressed in
real terms and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.2 per cent. The recoverable amount of the assets is greater than the amount at which these
assets would have been carried, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods and therefore the impairment reversal is based on
the latter amount.
The Tiwai Point smelter in New Zealand, also part of the Pacific Aluminium cash-generating unit, is currently profitable as a result of high regional and product
premiums and operational cost improvements; however, operational uncertainties indicate that the impairment losses previously recognised are yet to reverse.
Aluminium Other and 2012 impairments
In 2014, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$46 million was recorded in relation to other aluminium businesses.
In 2013, a pre-tax impairment loss of US$847 million was recorded in the Group’s Aluminium business relating to the full write-off of property, plant and
equipment at the Gove alumina refinery following the decision to curtail operations and at the Shawinigan aluminium smelter following the decision to close
the plant.
In 2012 the Group’s Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at the segmentlevel.
This goodwill was fully written off in 2012 and the remaining loss allocated to specific cash-generating units including Kitimat and Pacific Aluminium. The 2012
impairment testing of the Group’s Aluminium business resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$7,468 million to goodwill, a pre-tax impairment charge of
US$229 million to intangible assets, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$3,944 million to property, plant and equipment, a post-tax impairment charge of
US$379 million to investments in equity accounted units, and a pre-tax adjustment of US$194 million to other assets and liabilities.
Copper
Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US
A review of the investment case for the Molybdenum Autoclave Process project in Utah, US has concluded that the project, which has been on care and
maintenance since early 2013, will be terminated. The recoverable amount has been determined based on the anticipated net disposal proceeds. As a result, a
pre-tax impairment charge of US$559 million has been recorded against property, plant and equipment.
Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia
The annual review of cash-generating units identified indicators that an impairment loss may have occurred at the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit, primarily as a
result of delays in developing the underground mine. The recoverable amount for Oyu Tolgoi was determined by reference to a FVLCD model and exceeded the
US$8.2 billion carrying value of the cash-generating unit at 30 September 2014. No further impairment indicators were identified subsequent to the annual testing
date. As such, no impairment charge has been recognised in the income statement (2013: pre-tax impairment charge of US$4,716 million).
The recoverable amount of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows
expressed in real terms have been estimated until the end of the life of mine plan and discounted using an asset specific post-tax real discount rate of 8.3 per cent
(2013: 8.7 per cent).
The assumption subject to the most estimation uncertainty for the FVLCD calculation is the timing of the underground project. If this is further delayed, it would
have an adverse impact upon the recoverable amount at the testing date due to the delay in commencing full underground production, partially offset by delaying
project spend. To illustrate this sensitivity, the recoverable amount would be reduced by US$0.5 billion (2013: US$0.8 billion) if the timing of first drawbell ore were
delayed by 12 months compared with the forecast timing of related cash flows in Rio Tinto’s FVLCD model as of 30 September 2014. The recoverable amount in
this illustration would continue to exceed the carrying value of the cash-generating unit. The year-on-year decrease in sensitivity is primarily theresultofmine
plan optimisation which has been undertaken while construction of the underground has been delayed.
Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are: long-term copper prices, discount rates and operating costs. Other
assumptions include the long-term gold price, and Mongolian tugrik and Chinese yuan exchange rates against the US dollar. Future selling prices and operating
costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1(i).
SouthGobi, Mongolia
The expansion and undeveloped properties in SouthGobi were recognised in accordance with the requirement in IFRS as defined in note 1, to fair value assets on
first consolidation and were therefore recorded as an accounting uplift when Rio Tinto obtained control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd on 24 January 2012. These
assets were not amortised and were fully written-off as a result of the 2013 impairment testing.
Energy
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
As described in note 37, the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique was completed during 2014. In previous years, the annual review of carrying values resulted in
impairment losses based on recoverable amounts assessed by reference to FVLCD models, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1(i).
In 2013, a post-tax impairment loss of US$216 million (2012: US$1,147 million) was allocated to the Benga cash-generating unit, which was included in
investments in equity accounted units, and a pre-tax impairment loss of US$259 million (2012: US$1,581 million) was allocated to the Zambeze cash-generating
unit intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of US$22 million (2012: no impairment charge). The impairment loss recorded in 2012 also included the
full write-off of goodwill of US$541 million which was monitored and tested at the business unit level.
riotinto.com 129
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share
(a)
2,852 4,113 5,498
Operating costs (1,804) (2,871) (3,779)
Profit before finance items and taxation 1,048 1,242 1,719
Finance items (49) (97) (68)
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 30 31 47
Profit before taxation 1,029 1,176 1,698
Taxation (404) (478) (642)
Profit for the year (Rio Tinto share) 625 698 1,056
(a) Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
Additional information relating to the Group’s interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
8 Finance income and finance costs
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Finance income from equity accounted units (Rio Tinto share) 10 14 14
Other finance income (including bank deposits and other financial assets) 54 68 102
Total finance income 64 82 116
Interest payable and similar charges
(a)
(1,119) (1,234) (1,059)
Amounts capitalised 14 470 727 766
Total finance costs (649) (507) (293)
(a) Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings. This includes a fair value gain on interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of
US$199 million (2013: US$266 million loss; 2012: US$25 million loss) and a fair value loss on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$200 million (2013:
US$257 million gain; 2012: US$13 million loss).
9 Taxation
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Taxation charge
- Current 3,402 4,102 3,887
- Deferred 17 (349) (1,676) (3,298)
3,053 2,426 589
Prima facie tax reconciliation Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Profit/(loss) before taxation 9,552 3,505 (2,431)
Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units (625) (698) (1,056)
(Deduct)/add: (impairment reversal)/impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units
(a)
(589) 216 1,526
Parent companies’, subsidiaries’ and joint operations profit/(loss) before tax 8,338 3,023 (1,961)
Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 21% (2013: 23%; 2012: 24%) 1,751 695 (471)
Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 1,038 1,411 838
Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings:
Impairment charges net of reversals (112) 135 1,683
Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses (85) (199) (185)
Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 231 77 (44)
Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets
(b)
401 – (1,205)
Other exclusions (35) (7) 157
Impact of changes in tax rates and laws (11) 12 (5)
Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 5 (63) (74)
Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances (121) (103) (121)
Research, development and other investment allowances (34) (49) (57)
Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets (106) – (84)
Unrecognised current year operating losses 73 339 200
Other items
(c)
58 178 (43)
Total taxation charge
(d)
3,053 2,426 589
(a) Impairment reversals/impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of a tax charge of US$252 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: tax
credit of US$14 million; 31 December 2012: tax credit of US$691 million).
130 riotinto.com (b) The remaining Minerals Resource Rent Tax (MRRT) starting base deferred tax asset was derecognised on repeal of the tax in Australia effective 30 September 2014.
(c) Other items include various adjustments to provisions for taxation in prior periods.
(d) This tax reconciliation relates to the Group’s parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations. The Group’s share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of
US$404 million (31 December 2013: US$478 million; 31 December 2012: US$642 million).
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
2012
Total
US$m
Tax on exchange adjustments (3) (17) (1)
Fair value movements:
– Cash flow hedge fair value losses/(gains) 2 (34) 26
– Cash flow hedge gains/(losses) transferred to the income statement – 19 (50)
– Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 1 26
– (Losses)/gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement (1) (20) 1
Currency translation reclassified – ––
Tax credit/(charge) on actuarial losses/(gains) on post retirement benefit plans 215 (641) 83
Other (8) (6) (8)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss/(income) for the year
(a)
206 (697) 57
(a) This comprises deferred tax credit of US$205 million (2013: charge of US$697 million; 2012: credit of US$54 million) and current tax credit of US$1 million (2013: US$nil; 2012:
credit of US$3 million), plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately. See note 17.
10 Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
2014
Earnings
US$m
2014
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2014
Per share
amount
(cents)
2013
Earnings
US$m
2013
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2013
Per share
amount
(cents)
Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of
Rio Tinto – continuing operations
(a)
6,527 1,848.4 353.1 3,665 1,847.3 198.4
Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto
– continuing operations
(b)
6,527 1,858.7 351.2 3,665 1,857.7 197.3
2012
Loss
US$m
2012
Weighted
average
number of
shares
(millions)
2012
Per share
amount
(cents)
Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto – continuing operations (3,021) 1,849.1 (163.4)
Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto – discontinued operations (7) 1,849.1 (0.4)
Total basic loss per share – profit for the year
(a)
(3,028) 1,849.1 (163.8)
(a) The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,413.0 million (2013:
1,411.6 million; 2012: 1,413.4 million) plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 435.4 million (2013: 435.7 million; 2012: 435.8 million). No Rio Tinto
Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
(b) For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 10.3 million shares (2013: 10.4 million shares) is added to the weighted average
number of shares described in (a) above. This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method. The Group’s only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which
terms and conditions are described in note 44.
In accordance with IAS 33 “Earnings per share”, the effects of anti-dilutive potential have not been included when calculating diluted loss per share for the year
ended 31 December 2012. As a result the dilutive loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto is the same as the basic loss per share
attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto.
riotinto.com 131
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
11 Dividends
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,533 1,311 1,295
Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,299 1,213 1,054
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 473 406 380
Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 405 392 309
Dividends paid during the year 3,710 3,322 3,038
Dividends per share: paid during the year 204.5c 178.0c 163.5c
Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 119.0c 108.5c 94.5c
Dividends
per share
2014
Dividends
per share
2013
Dividends
per share
2012
RioTintoplcpreviousyearfinal(pence) 65.82p 60.34p 57.33p
Rio Tinto plc interim (pence) 56.90p 54.28p 46.43p
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 120.14c 91.67c 84.20c
Rio Tinto Limited interim – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 103.09c 93.00c 68.51c
Number of
shares
2014
(millions)
Number of
shares
2013
(millions)
Number of
shares
2012
(millions)
RioTintoplcpreviousyearfinal 1,413.2 1,411.9 1,417.6
Rio Tinto plc interim 1,413.8 1,412.5 1,410.9
Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 435.6 435.8 435.8
Rio Tinto Limited interim 435.7 435.5 435.8
The dividends paid in 2014 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2013 final – 108.5 cents, 2014 interim – 96.0 cents (2013 dividends paid: 2012
final – 94.5 cents, 2013 interim – 83.5 cents; 2012 dividends paid: 2011 final – 91.0 cents, 2012 interim – 72.5 cents).
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares and those held by employee share trusts which waived
the right to dividends. Employee share trusts waived dividends on 207,766 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2013 final dividend and on 90,304 Rio Tinto plc
ordinary shares for the 2014 interim dividend (2013: 150,361 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2012 final dividend and 124,636 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for
the 2013 interim dividend, 2012: 248,955 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2011 final dividend and 153,119 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares for the 2012interim
dividend). In 2014, 2013 and 2012, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to dividends. Employee
share trusts waived dividends on 183,981 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2013 final dividend and on 24,046 Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2014 interim dividend
(2013: There were no applicable waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2012 final dividend. Dividend waivers applied to 222,439 Rio Tinto Limited
shares for the 2013 interim dividend, 2012: There were no applicable dividend waivers in respect of Rio Tinto Limited shares for the 2011 final dividend and 2012
interim dividend).
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 119.0 cents per share on 12 February 2015. This is expected to result in payments of
US$2,202 million (Rio Tinto plc: US$1,683 million, Rio Tinto Limited US$519 million). The dividends will be paid on 9 April 2015 to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2015.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during
2015.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax group’s retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of
credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2014 (after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the
2014 final dividend declared), is US$18,290 million.
132 riotinto.com 12 Goodwill
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 1,349 2,774
Adjustment on currency translation (121) (253)
Company no longer consolidated – (23)
Impairment charges
(a)
– (1,149)
At 31 December 1,228 1,349
–cost 20,122 22,678
– accumulated impairment (18,894) (21,329)
At 1 January
–cost 22,678 24,451
– accumulated impairment (21,329) (21,677)
At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Net book value
Richards Bay Minerals 591 656
Pilbara 409 445
Other 228 248
1,228 1,349
(a) During 2013, the goodwill impairment charge of US$1,149 million represented the full impairment of goodwill allocated to Oyu Tolgoi. Refer to note 6 for further details.
Impairment tests for goodwill
Richards Bay Minerals
The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012. Goodwill arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS, as defined in note 1, to recognise
a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base and is retranslated at each
period end for changes in the South African rand. The recognition of Richards Bay Minerals’ identifiable assets and liabilities in the balance sheet was based on fair
values at the acquisition date determined with the assistance of an independent third party valuer.
Richards Bay Minerals’ annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2014 (2013: no impairment charge). The recoverable amount has been
assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1(i) and classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. FVLCD was determinedby
estimating cash flows until the end of the life of mine plan including anticipated expansions. In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 9.2 per cent (2013:
7.3 per cent) has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set out below:
US$ million
5% decrease in the titanium slag price 174
1% increase in the discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 296
10% strengthening of the South African rand 770
Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices and operating costs. Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with
the policy set out in note 1(i). The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
Pilbara
The recoverability of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Robe River and monitored at the Pilbara CGU level has been assessed by reference to FVLCDusing
discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1(i) and is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax
discount rate of 7.2 per cent (2013: 7.3 per cent) has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms. The recoverable amounts were determined
to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be
impaired.
Other
The recoverability of the Other goodwill has been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1(i).
The recoverable amounts were determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause
the remaining goodwill to be impaired by a significant amount.
riotinto.com 133
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
13 Intangible assets
Year ended 31 December 2014
Exploration
and
evaluation
(a)
US$m
Trademarks,
patented and
non-patented
technology
US$m
Contract
based
intangible
assets
(b)
US$m
Other
intangible
assets
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421
Adjustment on currency translation (86) (21) (195) (55) (357)
Expenditure during the year 142 – – 307 449
Amortisation for the year
(c)
– (20) (116) (101) (237)
Disposals, transfers and other movements
(d)
686 (1) (66) (15) 604
At 31 December 2014 2,596 156 2,454 674 5,880
–cost 2,770 294 4,341 1,536 8,941
– accumulated amortisation and impairment (174) (138) (1,887) (862) (3,061)
Year ended 31 December 2013
Exploration
and
evaluation
(a)
US$m
Trademarks,
patented and
non-patented
technology
US$m
Contract
based
intangible
assets
(b)
US$m
Other
intangible
assets
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880
Adjustment on currency translation (96) 7 (290) (47) (426)
Expenditure during the year 368 – 9 159 536
Amortisation for the year
(c)
– (21) (123) (111) (255)
Impairment charges
(e)
(379) – (908) – (1,287)
Disposals, transfers and other movements (92) – 23 42 (27)
At 31 December 2013 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421
–cost 4,507 334 4,830 1,357 11,028
– accumulated amortisation and impairment (2,653) (136) (1,999) (819) (5,607)
(a) Exploration and evaluation assets’ useful lives are not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment. The reduction in cost and accumulated amortisation and
impairment from 2013 to 2014 mainly relates to the disposal of the fully impaired assets of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique (RTCM) (see note 37). The impairment charge in 2013 of
US$379 million mainly related to exploration and evaluation assets within RTCM and SouthGobi Resources Limited (see note 6).
(b) The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights. The water rights are expected to
contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to
amortisation but are tested annually for impairment. These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in “Contract based intangible assets”.
(c) Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate. Where amortisation is calculated on a
straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined:
Trademark, patented and non-patented technology
Trademarks: 14 to 20 years
Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years
Contract based intangible assets
Power contracts: 2 to 39 years
Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years
Other intangible assets
Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years
Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years
(d) Disposals, transfers and other movements for exploration and evaluation include US$700 million previously classified as non-current receivables pending ratification of the
Simandou project Investment Framework. The incorporation of the Investment Framework into Guinean law was completed following ratification by the Guinean National
Assembly, Presidential promulgation and its publication in August 2014. The project partners are continuing to work towards the completion of a bankable feasibility study,
completion of which has been delayed due to the Ebola outbreak, and are aiming to establish a funding consortium to build the infrastructure necessary to develop the Simandou
project.
(e) The US$908 million 2013 impairment charge to the contract based intangible asset class related to the full write-off of the water right indefinite-lived intangible assets at the
Kitimat cash-generating unit (see note 6).
The remaining carrying value of the water rights (US$1,981 million) as at 31 December 2014 relates wholly to the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit. The Quebec smelters
cash-generating unit was tested for impairment and it was determined that its recoverable amount on a FVLCD basis exceeds the carrying amount by US$3,311 million.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy. In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been
estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.2 per cent (2013: 7.3 per cent).
134 riotinto.com The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for the Quebec smelters is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set out below:
US$ million
0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 659
5% decrease in aluminium and alumina prices 1,220
5% strengthening of the Canadian dollar 396
5% increase in operating costs 914
Each of the sensitivities has been determined by assuming that the relevant key assumption moves in isolation, except where modifying the aluminium price
directly affects the price assumption for certain input costs, and further assumes that there is no mitigating action by management. The recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each of these sensitivities in isolation.
In 2012 and previous years, the Group’s Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at
the segment level. The remaining goodwill was fully impaired in 2012. Refer to note 6 for further details.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Net expenditure in the year (net of proceeds of US$11 million (2013: US$27 million; 2012: US$217 million) on
disposal of undeveloped projects) (872) (1,317) (2,608)
Changes in accruals (including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$nil (2013: US$159 million;
2012: US$nil)and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects) (53) (160) 207
Amount capitalised during the year 142 368 924
Netchargefortheyear (783) (1,109) (1,477)
Reconciliation to income statement
Exploration and evaluation costs (747) (948) (1,971)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects (36) (161) 494
Netchargefortheyear (783) (1,109) (1,477)
At 31 December 2014, a total of US$2.9 billion had been capitalised related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed. This comprised evaluation
costs of US$2.6 billion included above and US$0.3 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment (31 December 2013: a total of
US$2.3 billion had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$1.9 billion included above and US$0.4 billion of early works expenditure within property,
plant and equipment).
14 Property, plant and equipment
Year ended 31 December 2014
Mining
properties
and leases
(a)
US$m
Land
and
buildings
(b)
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Capital
works in
progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2014 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827
Adjustment on currency translation (687) (564) (2,918) (545) (4,714)
Adjustments to capitalised closure costs (note 26) 525 – – – 525
Interest capitalised
(c)
(note 8) – – 2 468 470
Additions 554 302 1,369 5,571 7,796
Depreciation for the year
(a) (d)
(649) (432) (3,542) – (4,623)
Impairment (charges), net of reversals
(e)
139 (10) 277 (1,440) (1,034)
Disposals – (162) (61) (14) (237)
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated –– (31) – (31)
Transfers and other movements
(f)
1,151 541 6,248 (8,226) (286)
At 31 December 2014 11,913 7,085 39,810 9,885 68,693
–cost 23,045 10,845 69,835 11,544 115,269
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (11,132) (3,760) (30,025) (1,659) (46,576)
Non-current assets held under finance leases
(g)
–12 1 – 13
Other non-current assets pledged as security
(h)
1,261 173 2,823 259 4,516
riotinto.com 135
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
14 Property, plant and equipment continued
Year ended 31 December 2013
Mining
properties
and leases
(a)
US$m
Land
and
buildings
(b)
US$m
Plant and
equipment
US$m
Capital
works in
progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value
At 1 January 2013 16,902 7,187 31,601 21,295 76,985
Adjustment on currency translation (1,303) (629) (3,670) (1,612) (7,214)
Adjustments to capitalised closure costs (note 26) 391 – – – 391
Interest capitalised
(c)
(note 8) – – 2 725 727
Additions 397 214 1,444 9,879 11,934
Depreciation for the year
(a) (d)
(816) (439) (3,281) – (4,536)
Impairment (charges), net of reversals
(e)
(3,976) (67) (676) (163) (4,882)
Disposals (1) (5) (89) (27) (122)
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated (401) (62) (274) (334) (1,071)
Transfers and other movements
(f)
(313) 1,211 13,409 (15,692) (1,385)
At 31 December 2013 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827
–cost 21,521 11,328 68,429 14,487 115,765
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (10,641) (3,918) (29,963) (416) (44,938)
Non-current assets held under finance leases
(g)
–14 9 –23
Other non-current assets pledged as security
(h)
1,435 175 2,872 97 4,579
(a) At 31 December 2014, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1.8 billion, with US$1.4 billion within Property, plant and equipment and a
further US$0.4 billion within Investments in equity accounted units (2013 total of US$1.3 billion with US$0.9 billion in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$0.4 billion
within Investments in equity accounted units). During the period capitalisation of US$0.7 billion was partly offset by depreciation of US$0.2 billion. Amortisation of deferred
stripping costs of US$84 million (2013: US$70 million; 2012: US$105 million) is included within “Depreciation for the year”.
(b) At 31 December 2014, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,899 million (2013: US$6,847 million); long leasehold US$186 million
(2013: US$562 million); and no short leasehold (2013: US$1 million).
(c) Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Group’s cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable. The Group’s average borrowing rate used for
capitalisation of interest is 4.0 per cent (2013: 4.0 per cent).
(d) Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are
depreciated on a straight line basis as follows:
Land and buildings
Land: Not depreciated
Buildings:5to50years
Plant and equipment
Other plant and equipment: 3 to 50 years
Power assets: 25 to 50 years
Capital work in progress: Not depreciated
(e) During 2014 and 2013 impairment charges primarily related to the aluminium and copper business. In 2014, impairment charges, of US$1,669 million were offset by
US$635 million of impairment reversals.
(f) “Transfers and other movements” includes reclassifications between categories, including transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
(g) The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23.
(h) Excludes assets held under finance leases. Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$587 million (2013: US$865 million) of
loans, which are included in note 22.
15 Investments in equity accounted units
Summary balance sheet (Rio Tinto share)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Rio Tinto’s share of assets
Non-current assets 6,605 5,860
Current assets 901 1,197
7,506 7,057
Rio Tinto’s share of liabilities
Current liabilities (681) (791)
Non-current liabilities (1,957) (2,309)
(2,638) (3,100)
Rio Tinto’s share of net assets
(a) (b)
4,868 3,957
(a) Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
136 riotinto.com (b) The impact of impairment charges and impairment reversals on the Group’s investments in equity accounted units are summarised in note 6.
(c) At 31 December 2014 and 2013 the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
(d) At 31 December 2014, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$922 million (2013: US$991 million).
16 Inventories
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Raw materials and purchased components 726 1,116
Consumable stores 1,411 1,596
Work in progress 1,490 1,721
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,120 1,815
4,747 6,248
Comprising:
Expected to be used within one year 4,350 5,737
Expected to be used after more than one year 397 511
4,747 6,248
Inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$94 million (2013: US$201 million; 2012: US$208 million) were recognised during the year.
17 Deferred taxation
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
At 1 January 585 1,669
Adjustment on currency translation (36) (201)
Credited to the income statement (note 9) (349) (1,676)
(Credited)/charged to statement of comprehensive income
(a)
(205) 697
Newly consolidated operations (note 37) – 1
Disposals 10 –
Other movements
(b)
29 95
At 31 December 34 585
Comprising:
– deferred tax liabilities
(c) (d)
3,574 4,140
– deferred tax assets
(c) (e) (f) (g)
(3,540) (3,555)
Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
Total
2014
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Deferred tax liabilities arising from:
Capital allowances 6,018 6,391
Unremitted earnings
(d)
659 637
Capitalised interest 368 348
Unrealised exchange gains 255 91
Other temporary differences 248 761
7,548 8,228
Deferred tax assets arising from:
Tax losses
(e)
(2,276) (2,496)
Provisions (2,096) (2,084)
Capital allowances
(f)
(877) (1,289)
Post retirement benefits (1,165) (1,036)
Unrealised exchange losses (658) (184)
Other temporary differences (442) (554)
(7,514) (7,643)
riotinto.com 137
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
17 Deferred taxation continued
Total
2014
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Credited/(charged) to the income statement
Unrealised exchange losses (365) (566)
Tax losses 72 (563)
Provisions (122) (434)
Capital allowances 272 (44)
Tax on unremitted earnings 2 (3)
Post retirement benefits 34 68
Other temporary differences (242) (134)
(349) (1,676)
(a) The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income include provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of
the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes, and on post retirement healthcare plans.
(b) “Other movements” include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
(c) The deferred tax liability of US$3,574 million (2013: US$4,140 million) includes US$3,555 million (2013: US$4,139 million) due in more than one year. The deferred tax asset of
US$3,540 million (2013: US$3,555 million) includes US$3,405 million (2013: US$3,426 million) receivable in more than one year. All amounts are shown as non-current on the face
of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12.
(d) Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that
there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future. If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$202 million (2013: US$183 million) would be payable.
(e) There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is two years, for the recovery of US$1,347 million (2013: US$1,384 million) of tax losses and other tax assets which have been
recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
(f) As at 31 December 2013, deferred tax assets arising from capital allowances included amounts arising following the introduction of the MRRT on 1 July 2012. At 31 December
2014, no deferred tax is recognised in respect of MRRT following the repeal of MRRT during 2014. Refer to note 9.
(g) Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$6,885 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$ 17,755 million). Of this total,
US$3,540 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets (2013: US$3,555 million), leaving US$3,345 million (2013: US$14,200 million) unrecognised, as recovery is not
considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
Recognised Unrecognised
At 31 December
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
UK 131 104 150 215
France
(i)
377 444 1,184 1,339
Canada 491 297 371 181
US 932 560 16 16
Australia
(ii)
1,324 1,880 287 11,000
Other 285 270 1,337 1,449
Total
(iii)
3,540 3,555 3,345 14,200
(i) US$1,184 million (2013: US$1,274 million) of the unrecognised assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition. The amount
recognised takes account of legislation which restricts the recovery of losses.
(ii) The recognised and unrecognised amounts for 2013 include temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of MRRT. At 31 December 2014 the recognised and
unrecognised amounts for MRRT are US$nil following the repeal of MRRT.
(iii) US$688 million (2013: US$652 million) of the unrecognised assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in
future years. There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$353 million of the unrecognised assets (2013: US$343 million).
18 Trade and other receivables
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Non-current
2013
US$m
Current
2013
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Trade receivables
(a)
5 2,483 2,488 5 2,987 2,992
Other receivables
(b)
435 884 1,319 1,150 1,212 2,362
Prepayment of tolling charges to equity accounted units
(c)
387 – 387 479 – 479
Pension surpluses (note 45) 353 – 353 290 – 290
Amounts due from equity accounted units –36 36 – 136 136
Other prepayments 124 220 344 216 332 548
1,304 3,623 4,927 2,140 4,667 6,807
(a) At 31 December 2014, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$39 million (2013: US$12 million). Amounts of US$35 million
(2013: US$10 million) were impaired; the majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.
138 riotinto.com (b) As at 31 December 2013 non-current other receivables included a capitalised prepayment on an intangible asset of the Simandou iron ore project of US$700m. This was
transferred to intangible assets (see note 13) in 2014 on the ratification of the settlement agreement.
(c) Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina. These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as
processing takes place.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
The fair value of current trade and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets approximates their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2014, trade receivables of US$82 million (2013: US$178 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing of these receivables is as follows:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
less than 30 days overdue 34 57
between 30 and 60 days overdue 11 71
between 60 and 90 days overdue 30 47
more than 90 days overdue 7 3
82 178
These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet
their payment obligations.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale
At 31 December 2014 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Group’s 71.2 per cent interest in the Blair Athol coal project (Blair Athol) and its
28.4 per cent indirect interest in SouthGobi Resources Limited, which was acquired as part of the gain of control of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd in 2012.
At 31 December 2013 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised the Group’s 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont Joint Venture (Clermont), its 71.2percent
interest in Blair Athol, and Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), which was acquired with Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique in 2011. At 31 December 2014 ZAC was no
longer held for sale. On 25 October 2013, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement to sell its interest in Clermont to GS Coal Pty Ltd, a
company jointly owned by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation, for US$1,015 million. The sale was completed on 29 May 2014.
20 Other financial assets (including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units)
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Non-current
2013
US$m
Current
2013
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Derivative financial instruments 393 43 436 403 63 466
Equity shares and quoted funds 103 96 199 157 122 279
Other investments, including loans 226 61 287 339 167 506
Loans to equity accounted units –7171 19394
Tax recoverable 70 146 216 83 265 348
792 417 1,209 983 710 1,693
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,146 1,548
Money market funds and other cash equivalents 11,277 8,668
Balance per Group balance sheet 12,423 10,216
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (unsecured) 22 (23) (7)
Balance per Group cash flow statement 12,400 10,209
Cash and cash equivalents of US$631 million (2013: US$570 million) are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances. Of this balance
US$455 million (2013: US$402 million) could be used to repay subsidiaries’ third party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$404 million (2013: US$652 million) of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned
entities and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place. Of this balance US$24 million
(2013: US$119 million) could be used to repay subsidiaries’ third party borrowings.
riotinto.com 139
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities
Borrowings at 31 December Note
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Non-current
2013
US$m
Current
2013
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
USD Commercial Paper –– – – 156 156
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014
(a)
–– – – 1,907 1,907
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.2% due 2014
(a)
–– – – 499 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015 – 500 500 500 – 500
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.125% 2015 – 500 500 499 – 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.55% 2015 – 250 250 250 – 250
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.0% due 2015
(a)
– 496 496 499 – 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 2.500% 2016 698 – 698 698 – 698
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 2.250% 2016 498 – 498 498 – 498
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.375% 2016 998 – 998 996 – 996
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.84% 2016 500 – 500 499 – 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.0% 2017 499 – 499 499 – 499
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 1.625% 2017 1,245 – 1,245 1,243 – 1,243
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018
(a)
1,935 – 1,935 1,979 – 1,979
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.250% 2018 1,239 – 1,239 1,238 – 1,238
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,474 – 1,474 1,467 – 1,467
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 996 – 996 995 – 995
Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020
(a) (b)
934 – 934 999 – 999
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 998 – 998 996 – 996
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021 1,144 – 1,144 1,145 – 1,145
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 3.5% 2022
(a)
995 – 995 992 – 992
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.875% 2022
(a)
988 – 988 985 – 985
Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024
(a) (b)
646 – 646 639 – 639
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028
(a)
1,008 – 1,008 934 – 934
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 106 – 106 107 – 107
Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bonds 4.0% due 2029
(a) (b)
774 – 774 822 – 822
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 429 – 429 430 – 430
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 6.125% due 2033 745 – 745 739 – 739
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.75% due 2035 279 – 279 284 – 284
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 5.2% 2040 1,145 – 1,145 1,147 – 1,147
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 4.75% 2042 490 – 490 490 – 490
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 4.125% 2042 726 – 726 725 – 725
Loans from equity accounting units –52 52 977 86
Other secured loans 376 211 587 651 214 865
Other unsecured loans 497 627 1,124 551 1,049 1,600
Finance leases 23 49 5 54 39 7 46
Bank overdrafts 21 –23 23 –7 7
Total borrowings including overdrafts
(c)
22,411 2,664 25,075 24,544 3,916 28,460
(a) These borrowings are subject to the hedging arrangements summarised below.
(b) Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion (2013: US$10 billion) European Debt Issuance Programme (EDIP) against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.3 billion equivalent at
31 December 2014 (2013: US$2.6 billion). The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.4 billion (2013: US$ 2.5 billion) in aggregate.
(c) The Group’s borrowings of US$25.1 billion (2013: US$28.5 billion) include some US$3.5 billion (2013: US$3.3 billion) which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without
recourse to the Group, of which US$0.6 billion (2013: US$0.7 billion) are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance
as at 31 December 2014.
Other financial liabilities
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Non-current
2013
US$m
Current
2013
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Derivative financial instruments 67 14 81 31 10 41
Other financial liabilities 57 6 63 50 – 50
Total other financial liabilities 124 20 144 81 10 91
Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 22,535 2,684 25,219 24,625 3,926 28,551
Swap arrangements
At 31 December 2014, US$3.7 billion (2013: US$4.2 billion) US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollar rates and
US$1.5 billion (2013: US$1.6 billion) US dollar notional equivalent of euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates.
140 riotinto.com During the year fair value hedge accounting has been applied to items marked (a) in the above table except for: US$750 million (2013: US$750 million) of the
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$250 million (2013: US$1,000 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 3.5% due 2022,
US$250 million (2013: US$1,000 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds 2.875% due 2022, US$75 million (2013: US$75 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance
(USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028, US$250 million (2013: US$250 million) of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014 and US$200 million
(2013: US$200 million) of the Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.2% due 2014. These portions are held at amortised cost.
The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.8 billion (2013: US$0.8billion) US dollar notional equivalent of sterling was fully swapped to fixed
US dollar rates. Cash flow hedging was applied to the annual interest coupons and principal of this bond. The hedge was fully effective in 2014 and 2013 financial
years.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2014 was US$200 million (2013: US$192 million) asset and US$54 million
(2013: US$14 million) liability, respectively. These are included in “Other financial assets” and “Other financial liabilities” in the balance sheet.
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
23 Capitalised finance leases
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Present value of minimum lease payments
Total minimum lease payments 55 48
Effect of discounting (1) (2)
14 54 46
Payments under capitalised finance leases
Due within 1 year 5 7
Between 1 and 3 years 29 13
Between 3 and 5 years 6 11
More than 5 years 14 15
14 54 46
24 Consolidated net debt
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt
(a)
Opening balance (18,055) (19,192)
Adjustment on currency translation 1,039 2,051
Exchange losses charged to the income statement
(b)
(1,070) (2,120)
Cash movements excluding exchange movements 5,357 1,076
Other movements 234 130
Closing balance (12,495) (18,055)
Total borrowings in balance sheet (note 22) (25,075) (28,460)
Derivatives related to net debt (included in “Other financial assets/liabilities”) (note 30) 146 173
Equity accounted unit funded balances excluded from net debt
(c)
11 16
Adjusted total borrowings (24,918) (28,271)
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 12,423 10,216
Consolidated net debt (12,495) (18,055)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Exchange (losses)/gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from underlying earnings
Exchange (losses)/gains on US dollar net debt (1,056) (2,098) 416
Exchange (losses)/gains on intragroup balances (940) (1,574) 54
Exchange gains on loans from equity accounted units 1 –4
Exchange gains on settlement of dividend – –18
(Charged)/credited to income statement (1,995) (3,672) 492
(a) Consolidated net debt is stated net of the impact of certain funding arrangements between equity accounted units and partially owned subsidiaries (equity accounted unit funded
balances). This adjustment is required in order to avoid showing borrowings twice in the net debt disclosure, where funding has been provided to an equity accounted unit by the
Group and subsequently on lent by the equity accounted unit to a consolidated Group subsidiary.
(b) Exchange losses taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from underlying earnings.
(c) Equity accounted unit funded balances are defined as amounts owed by partially owned subsidiaries to equity accounted units, where such funding was provided to the equity
accounted unit by the Group.
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
riotinto.com 141
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
25 Trade and other payables
Non-current
2014
US$m
Current
2014
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Non-current
2013
US$m
Current
2013
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
Trade payables 5 2,592 2,597 2 3,095 3,097
Accrualsanddeferredincome 248 2,123 2,371 146 2,481 2,627
Other payables
(a)
359 1,201 1,560 164 1,112 1,276
Employee entitlements – 905 905 – 861 861
Royalties and mining taxes 2 526 528 2 682 684
Amounts owed to equity accounted units 147 78 225 135 155 290
Government grants deferred 110 12 122 127 14 141
871 7,437 8,308 576 8,400 8,976
(a) “Other payables” include deferred consideration of US$29 million (2013: US$54 million) relating to acquired assets. All other accounts payable and accruals are non-interest
bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
26 Provisions (including post retirement benefits)
Pensions
and post
retirement
healthcare
(a)
US$m
Other
employee
entitlements
(b)
US$m
Close down
and
restoration/
environmental
(c)(d)(e)
US$m
Other
US$m
Total
2014
US$m
Total
2013
US$m
At 1 January 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981
Adjustment on currency translation (223) (47) (584) (109) (963) (1,081)
Adjustments to mining properties (note 14)
– changes in estimate – – 525 – 525 391
Charged/(credited) to profit:
– increases to existing provisions 236 132 125 430 923 1,171
– new provisions – 87 5 202 294 455
– unused amounts reversed 2 (31) (46) (95) (170) (169)
– exchange gains/(losses) on provisions – – 42 49 91 (8)
– amortisation of discount – 2 356 26 384 377
Utilised in year (296) (339) (368) (266) (1,269) (1,506)
Actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in equity 776 – – – 776 (2,204)
Newly consolidated operations (note 37) – 1 10 – 11 18
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated – – – 23 23 (260)
Transfers to assets held for sale (6) (1) (20) 4 (23) (104)
Transfers and other movements (2) (146) 3 64 (81) 20
At 31 December 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081
Balance sheet analysis:
Current 117 430 355 397 1,299 1,738
Non-current 3,969 169 8,275 890 13,303 12,343
Total 4,086 599 8,630 1,287 14,602 14,081
(a) The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding
payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45.
(b) The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$354 million (2013: US$314 million), based on the relevant entitlements in certain
Group operations and includes US$113 million (2013: US$193 million) of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
(c) The Group’s policy on close-down and restoration costs is described in note 1(k) and in paragraph (v) under “Critical accounting policies and estimates” on pages 117 and 120.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the
mine, refinery or smelter. Remaining lives of operations and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of around 18
years (2013: 21 years). Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Group’s businesses estimate their respective costs based on current restoration standards and
techniques. Provisions of US$8,630 million (2013: US$8,582 million) for close-down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations are based on risk adjusted cash
flows. These estimates have been discounted to their present value at a real risk free rate of 2 per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of
borrowing.
(d) Non-current provisions for close down and restoration/environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$341 million (2013: US$327 million)
expected to take place between one and five years from the balance sheet date, and US$798 million (2013: US$909 million) expected to take place later than five years after the
balance sheet date.
(e) Close-down and restoration/environmental liabilities at 31 December 2014 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$108 million (2013: US$142 million) relating to insurance
recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
142 riotinto.com 27 Share capital – Rio Tinto plc
2014
Number
(million)
2013
Number
(million)
2012
Number
(million)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each
At 1 January 1,425.377 1,425.376 1,453.400 230 230 234
Ordinary shares issued
(a) (c)
0.001 0.001 – – ––
Ordinary shares purchased but uncancelled on 1 January
(b)
– – (1.800) – ––
Own shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
– – (26.224) – –(4)
At 31 December 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376 230 230 230
Shares held by public
At 1 January 1,412.695 1,411.257 1,436.542
Shares reissued from treasury
(a)
1.451 1.437 0.939
Shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
– – (26.224)
Ordinary shares issued
(a) (c)
0.001 0.001 –
At 31 December 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257
Shares repurchased and held in treasury 11.231 12.682 14.119
Shares held by public 1,414.147 1,412.695 1,411.257
Total share capital 1,425.378 1,425.377 1,425.376
Other share classes
Special Voting Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
DLC Dividend Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
Equalisation Share of 10p each
(d)
1only 1only 1only
(a) 971 Ordinary shares were issued in 2014 under the Global Employee Share Plan. 1,450,659 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise
of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans, with exercise prices between £10.979p and £36.275p per share (2013: 951 ordinary shares were issued, and
1,436,542 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between £10.43p and £35.76p per share; 2012: no new ordinary shares issued and 939,423 Ordinary shares
reissued from treasury with exercise prices between £10.43p and £39.46p per share).
(b) The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2014 annual general meeting. No shares were bought back and held in treasury in 2013 and 2014.
From January to March 2012, 26,223,910 shares were bought back and cancelled and 1,800,000 shares purchased and awaiting cancellation at 31 December 2011 were cancelled.
(c) The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the Global Employee Share Plan was US$0.05 million (2013 restated: US$0.04 million; 2012 restated: US$nil). The
differencebetweenthenominalvalueandtheissuepriceofthesharesissued was credited to the share premium account. The aggregate consideration received for treasury
shares reissued was US$22 million (2013 restated: US$32 million; 2012: US$39 million). No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc
employee share based payment plans in 2014, 2013 and 2012.
(d) The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger. The “DLC
Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required
under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
During 2014, US$49.5 million of shares and ADRs (2013: US$42 million of shares and ADRs; 2012: US$41 million of shares) were purchased by employee share
ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest. At 31 December 2014, 794,330 shares and 25,502 ADRs were
held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44 on share based payments.
riotinto.com 143
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
28 Share Capital – Rio Tinto Limited
2014
Number
(million)
2013
Number
(million)
2012
Number
(million)
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital
At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,911 5,715 5,582
Adjustment on currency translation – –– (376) (804) 133
At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,535 4,911 5,715
– Special Voting Share
(a)
1only 1only 1only
– DLC Dividend Share
(a)
1only 1only 1only
Total share capital
(a)
435.76 435.76 435.76
(a) The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger. The “DLC
Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required
under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2014 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market
purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Group’s behalf.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Capital redemption reserve
(a)
At 1 January 28 28 24
Own shares purchased and cancelled – –4
At 31 December 28 28 28
Hedging reserves
(b)
At 1 January 3 (68) (44)
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge fair value (losses)/gains (48) 149 (60)
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement 55 (69) 47
Tax on the above 2 (9) (11)
At 31 December 12 3 (68)
Available for sale revaluation reserves
(c)
At 1 January (117) (179) 193
Losses on available for sale securities (19) (67) (25)
Losses/(gains) on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 6 146 (355)
Tax on the above – (17) 8
At 31 December (130) (117) (179)
Other reserves
(d)
At 1 January 11,766 11,778 11,765
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options (129) (77) (62)
Employee share options: value of services 69 64 78
Deferred tax on share options (2) 1(3)
At 31 December 11,704 11,766 11,778
Foreign currency translation reserve
(e)
At 1 January 1,191 3,309 2,807
Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments (1,690) (2,138) 664
Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments (43) (44) (158)
Currency translation reclassified on disposal 53 81 (3)
Tax on the above (3) (17) (1)
At 31 December (492) 1,191 3,309
Total other reserves per balance sheet 11,122 12,871 14,868
144 riotinto.com 2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Retained earnings
(f)
At 1 January 23,605 21,496 27,430
Parent and subsidiaries’ profit/(loss) for the year 5,243 2,796 (3,859)
Equity accounted units’ profit after tax for the year 1,284 869 831
Actuarial (losses)/gains
(g)
(720) 2,211 (311)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 204 (631) 72
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 6,011 5,245 (3,267)
Share buy-back scheme – – (764)
Dividends paid (3,710) (3,322) (3,038)
Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 36 102 1,128
Own shares purchased/treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements (28) 11 (38)
Employee share options: value of services and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 196 73 45
At 31 December 26,110 23,605 21,496
(a) The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006 (previously section 170 of the Companies Act 1985) when shares of a company
are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the company’s profits. Balances reflect the amount by which the Company’s issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this
section.
(b) The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 (p) (iii).
(c) The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 (p) (i) (d).
(d) Other reserves include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where
applicable, the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised. The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to
acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
Other reserves also include US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights
issue completed in July 2009. No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act
1985.
(e) Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Group’s net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in
note 1(d). The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
(f) Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Group’s share of joint operations.
(g) In 2014, there were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units (2013: US$nil; 2012: US$nil).
riotinto.com 145
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management
Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, and
excludes those of equity accounted units. The information is grouped in the following sections:
A – Financial assets and liabilities by categories
B – Derivative financial instruments
C–Fairvalues
A (a) Financial assets and liabilities by categories
At 31 December 2014 Note
Total
US$m
Loans and
receivables
US$m
Available
for sale
securities
US$m
Held at
fair value
US$m
Held to maturity
assets/other
financial
liabilities
US$m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 12,423 – – –
Trade and other receivables
(a)
3,727 3,715 – 12 –
Equity shares and quoted funds 20 199 – 199 – –
Other investments, including loans 20 287 118 – 164 5
Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges
(b)
20 17 – – 17 –
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt:
not designated as hedges
(b)
20 219 – – 219 –
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
20,22,24 200 – – 200 –
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 299 299 – – –
Total financial assets 17,371 16,555 199 612 5
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(c)
(6,155) (24) (6,131)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 (2,664) – (2,664)
Medium and long term borrowings 22 (22,411) – (22,411)
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
22,24 (54) (54) –
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as
hedges
(b)
22 (27) (27) –
Other financial liabilities 22 (63) – (63)
Total financial liabilities (31,374) (105) (31,269)
146 riotinto.com At 31 December 2013 Note
Total
US$m
Loans and
receivables
US$m
Available
for sale
securities
US$m
Held at
fair value
US$m
Held to maturity
assets/other
financial
liabilities
US$m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,216 10,216 – – –
Trade and other receivables
(a)
5,412 5,412 – – –
Equity shares and quoted funds 20 279 – 279 – –
Other investments, including loans 20 506 179 – 322 5
Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges
(b)
20 21 – – 21 –
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt:
not designated as hedges
(b)
20 253 – – 253 –
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
20,22,24 192 – – 192 –
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 370 370 – – –
Total financial assets 17,249 16,177 279 788 5
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
(c)
(6,899) – (6,899)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 (3,916) – (3,916)
Medium and long term borrowings 22 (24,544) – (24,544)
Derivatives related to net debt
(b)
22,24 (19) (19) –
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as
hedges
(b)
22 (22) (22) –
Other financial liabilities 22 (50) – (50)
Total financial liabilities (35,450) (41) (35,409)
(a) This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to equity accounted units and other prepayments and specific items within other receivables and will therefore not
agreetonote18.
(b) These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22.
(c) Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore notagreetonote25.
A (b) Financial risk management
Funding and exposure management
The Group’s policies on financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied. They are a fundamental part of the Group’s long-term strategy
covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management.
The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance regional positions and
to balance the loading on production facilities.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle. The relationship
between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides a further natural hedge in the long term. Production
of minerals, aluminium and alumina is an important contributor to the gross domestic products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large
presence. As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high. In addition, US dollar
floating interest rates have historically also tended to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence the Group’s interest rate policy is to
generally borrow and invest, after the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates. However, in certain circumstances the Group may decide to maintain a higher
proportion of borrowings at fixed rates. These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging. Such
hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operations
Treasury operates as a service to the businesses of the Group and not as a profit centre. Strict limits on the size and type of transactions permitted are laid down
by the board and are subject to rigorous internal controls. Senior management is advised of corporate cash and debt positions, as well as commodity, currency and
interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
Treasury policy
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes; nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such
trading or speculative holdings through its investments in equity accounted units. Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from
currency exposure and interest rate management. Bank counterparty exposures are managed within allocated credit limits. Investment, funding and cash
management activities are managed and co-ordinated by Treasury.
(i) Foreign exchange risk
Management policy
The Group’s shareholders’ equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Group’s sales and
the countries in which it operates. The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Group’s sales are denominated. Operating costs are
influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Group’s mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of
riotinto.com 147
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
imported equipment and services are determined. The Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important currencies (apart from the US dollar) influencing
costs. In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tinto’s financial results. A strengthening of the US dollar against the
currencies in which the Group’s costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Rio Tinto’s underlying earnings.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Group’s affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internallyand
externally. It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Group’s operations. Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either
directly or through the use of derivatives.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the
subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities. These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Group’s income statement except to the extent that they
can be taken to equity under the Group’s accounting policy which is explained in note 1(d). Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on all intragroup balances
are excluded from Underlying earnings. Other exchange gains and losses are included in underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Group’s net debt is denominated in US dollars. The table below summarises, by currency, the
net debt, after taking into account relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts:
Net funds/(debt) by currency
Cash and
cash
equivalents
US$m
Total borrowings
in note 22
US$m
Derivatives
related to net
debt
US$m
EAU funded
balances excluded
from net debt
US$m
Net funds/
(debt)
2014
US$m
Net funds/
(debt)
2013
US$m
US dollar 11,605 (23,895) 146 – (12,144) (17,359)
Australian dollar 364 (500) – 11 (125) (376)
Euro 18 (145) – – (127) (218)
South African rand 239 (324) – – (85) (201)
Canadian dollar 23 (192) – – (169) (115)
Sterling 4 – – – 4 95
Other 170 (19) – – 151 119
Total 12,423 (25,075) 146 11 (12,495) (18,055)
Hedging strategy
Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term benefits to
shareholders. The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability. Currency protection
measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as
acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by the board. A monthly treasury report is provided to senior management
which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the impact of derivatives. Refer to section B for the details of currency forward, cross currency
interest rate and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2014.
Sensitivities
The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of
the US dollar against significant currencies. The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, underlying earnings and equity, assumingthateach
exchange rate moves in isolation. The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2014, where balances are not
denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units. These
balances will not remain constant throughout 2015, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 December 2014
Gains/(losses) associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar
Currency exposure
Closing
exchange
rate
US cents
Effect
on net
earnings
US$m
Of which
amount
impacting
underlying
earnings
US$m
Net
impact
on equity
US$m
Australian dollar 82 (855) 27 5
Canadian dollar 86 (1,537) 22 (1)
Euro 122 48 (16) –
New Zealand dollar 78 28 – –
148 riotinto.com At 31 December 2013 (restated)
Gains/(losses) associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar
Currency exposure
Closing
exchange
rate
US cents
Effect
on net
earnings
US$m
Of which
amount
impacting
underlying
earnings
US$m
Net
impact
on equity
US$m
Australian dollar 89 (1,450) 19 20
Canadian dollar 94 (1,603) 16 –
Euro 138 330 (24) 6
New Zealand dollar 82 51 – –
Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management deems to be reasonably probable (on an annual basis over the long run) for one of the
Group’s significant currencies and as such provides an appropriate representation.
(ii) Interest rate risk
Management policy
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate due to changes in market
interest rates. The Group’s interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates. This approach is based on a historical
correlation between interest rates and commodity prices. However, in certain circumstances the Group may decide to maintain a higher proportion of borrowings
at fixed rates.
Hedging strategy
As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies. The market value of such instruments
moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as an alternative source of funding. The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to
monetise in-the-money instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage counterparty credit risk. During 2014 and 2013, no
interest rate swaps were closed out in this manner.
At the end of 2014, US$17.6 billion (2013: US$20.4 billion) of the Group’s adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into account interest and
currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 71 per cent fixed to 29 per cent floating (2013: 72 per cent fixed to 28 per cent floating). On
a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 139 per cent fixed liability to (39) per cent floating asset (2013: 111 per cent fixed liability to (11) per cent
floating asset). The weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 December 2014 was 3.7 per cent (2013: 3.8 per cent) and the weighted
average maturity was approximately 8 years (2013: 8 years). The weighted average maturity and weighted average effective interest rate are based on current
interest rates and the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2014 and 2013 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group and the impact of
borrowings held at fixed rates.
See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2014.
Sensitivities
Based on the Group’s net debt (refer to note 24) and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2014, the effect on net earnings of a
half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an increase of US$20 million (2013: increase of
US$9 million) reflecting the high level of cash at the period end. The Group has an exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders’ equity arising from fair
value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve. These derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling and US dollar rates. With all factors remaining
constant and based on the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2014, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest
rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by US$112 million charge (2013: US$106 million charge) for sterling and US$108 million
credit (2013: US$101 million credit) for US dollar. A 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction. These balances will not
remain constant throughout 2015, and therefore this information should be used with care.
(iii) Commodity price risk
Management policy
The Group’s normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices. Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the boardandtorigid
internal controls.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot
market. The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange (LME) and COMEX in New
York. Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply. Gold is
also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought. Newly mined gold is only one source of supply;
investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are “provisionally priced”, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery to the
customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on
estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices. At each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked
to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract. For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for those products
such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as the
LME, and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
riotinto.com 149
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
At the end of 2014, the Group had 331 million pounds of copper sales (2013: 254 million pounds) that were provisionally priced at US 288 cents per pound (2013:
US 333 cents per pound). The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2015. A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the
provisionally priced sales, all other factors held constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by US$51 million (2013: US$49 million).
Hedging strategy
Rio Tinto’s exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging
would provide a long term benefit to shareholders. The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers. Details of commodity
derivatives held at 31 December 2014 are set out in section B.
Sensitivities
The Group’s commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in
electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2014. A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings by US$97 million
(2013: US$164 million), and a ten per cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$84 million (2013: US$93 million). A ten per cent change in
prices would impact equity, before tax, by US$4 million (2013: US$8 million).
The Group’s “own use contracts” are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39. Such contracts to buy or sell non-financial
items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the
business unit’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
(iv) Credit risk
Treasury management policy
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is
exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily from customer receivables) and from its financing activities, including investments in government
securities, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial
instruments.
Credit risks related to receivables
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk
management. Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria. Where customers are rated by an independent credit
rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits. In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed
based on an extensive credit rating scorecard. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior
management. High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had approximately 105 customers (2013: 120 customers) that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances
accounted for approximately 77 per cent (2013: 93 per cent) of all receivables owing. There were 22 customers (2013: 46 customers) with balances greater than
US$20 million accounting for just over 43 per cent (2013: just over 65 per cent) of total amounts receivable. Details of trade and other receivables pastduebutnot
impaired are provided in note 18.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets (refer to table of financial assets and liabilities
reported above). The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits
Credit risk from investments in government securities (primarily US Government treasuries and funds) or money market funds and balances with banks and
financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved
counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty mainly based upon specific assessment criteria. Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by
the board at least annually. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through
counterparty failure.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group’s financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows:
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Cash and cash equivalents 21 12,423 10,216
Trade and other receivables 3,727 5,412
Investments 20 287 506
Derivative assets 20 436 466
Total 16,873 16,600
(v) Liquidity and capital risk management
Management policy
The Group’s overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for shareholders. Inpractice,
this involves regular reviews by the board and senior management. These reviews take into account the Group’s strategic priorities, economic and business
conditions and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and the focus on the progressive dividend policy, and other
forms of shareholder return whilst also striving to maintain the Group’s “A-” credit rating. The resulting capital structure provides the Group withahighdegreeof
financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
To maintain an “A-” credit rating, the Group considers various financial metrics including the overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels,
total capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
150 riotinto.com The Group’s total capital, which is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt, amounted
to US$67.1 billion at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$71.6 billion).
Total capital
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (see Group balance sheet) 46,285 45,886
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests (see Group balance sheet) 8,309 7,616
Netdebt(note24) 12,495 18,055
Total capital 67,089 71,557
Net debt is a measure used by management and the board of directors to manage the Group’s capital structure and liquidity risks and therefore is linked tothe
Group’s financial and operational excellence strategic driver. It is also used to manage the Group’s interest rate risks and foreign exchange risks on borrowings and
cash. Net debt is disclosed and defined in note 24. Net debt decreased from US$18.1 billion at 31 December 2013 to US$12.5 billion at 31 December 2014 as
operating cash inflows, working capital improvements and divestment proceeds were partly offset by outflows relating to capital expenditure and theincreasein
the dividend. At 31 December 2014 net debt to total capital was 19 per cent (2013: 25 per cent) and interest cover was 13 times (2013: 13 times).
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are
automatically guaranteed by the other. The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
2014 2013
Standard & Poor’s (S&P)
Long term rating A- A-
Short term rating A-2 A-2
Outlook
(a)
Stable Negative
Moody’s
Long term rating A3 A3
Short term rating P-2 P-2
Outlook Stable Stable
(a) On 27 February 2014, S&P revised its Rio Tinto outlook to ‘stable’.
The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial Paper and credit
facilities. The Group did not issue any listed debt in 2014 under the various finance programmes listed. In June 2013, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group
issued four Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Plc bonds: US$1,000 million 1.375% bond due 2016, US$1,250 million 2.250% bond due 2018, US$250 million LIBOR plus
0.55% bond due 2015 and US$500 million LIBOR plus 0.840% bond due 2016.
Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered into new facility agreements for the aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion on 15 November 2013 as
borrowers with a syndicate of banks. The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. The facilities comprise a US$1,875 million three-year
multi-currency revolving credit facility and a US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility (including a US$ denominated same day access
swing-line facility). Both facilities have been extended for one year on the first anniversary and can be extended for a further year on the second anniversary of the
date of the facility agreements by mutual agreement of the parties to the agreement. The funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for the
general corporate purposes of the Group. The new facilities replaced the US$6 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility dated 12 November 2010 and the
US$2 billion bilateral bank facility agreements entered in the last quarter of 2012 which were closed out on 15 November 2013.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum based on LIBOR (or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW) in relation to any euro, Canadian dollar or
Australian dollar loans, respectively plus a margin (which is dependent on the Group’s long-term credit rating as determined by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s
and the level of drawdown). The facility agreements contain no financial covenants. At 31 December 2014, the facilities were undrawn.
During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bilateral bank facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate. The facilities were denominated
in US dollars and had a term of one year that was extendable, at the Group’s option, by a further 364 days. Any borrowings under either facility were at prevailing
LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group. The facilities were not subject to financial covenants.
The facilities were undrawn and closed out on 15 November 2013.
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion multi-currency committed revolving credit facility maturing in November 2015 with its relationship banks.
Any borrowings under this facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility was not subject to any financial covenants. The overall agreement also enabled same day access to a US$ swing-line facility. The funds available under
the facility agreement could have been used for general corporate purposes of the Group. The facility was undrawn and closed out on 15 November 2013.
Further details of the Group’s credit facilities are set out in note 22.
riotinto.com 151
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
A (c) Financial liability analysis
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date tothe
contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the
amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2014
(Outflows)/inflows
Within 1
year or on
demand
US$m
Between
1and2
years
US$m
Between
2and3
years
US$m
Between
3and4
years
US$m
Between
4and5
years
US$m
After
5years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (5,640) (515) – – – – (6,155)
Borrowings before swaps (2,664) (2,868) (1,973) (3,139) (1,524) (12,535) (24,703)
Expected future interest payments
(a)
(927) (883) (838) (816) (608) (5,492) (9,564)
Other financial liabilities (49) (67) (3) (1) – – (120)
Derivative financial liabilities
(b)
Derivatives related to net debt – gross settled
(a)
:
gross inflows 36 36 36 36 36 1,614 1,794
gross outflows (28) (28) (28) (28) (28) (1,705) (1,845)
Derivatives not related to net debt – net settled (11) (8) – (1) – – (20)
Derivatives not related to net debt – gross settled:
grossinflows 423 –––– – 423
gross outflows (423) –––– – (423)
Total (9,283) (4,333) (2,806) (3,949) (2,124) (18,118) (40,613)
At 31 December 2013
(Outflows)/inflows
Within 1
year or on
demand
US$m
Between
1and2
years
US$m
Between
2and3
years
US$m
Between
3and4
years
US$m
Between
4and5
years
US$m
After
5years
US$m
Total
US$m
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (6,585) (314) – – – – (6,899)
Borrowings before swaps (4,011) (1,926) (2,844) (1,984) (3,022) (14,684) (28,471)
Expected future interest payments
(a)
(1,007) (928) (889) (857) (804) (6,164) (10,649)
Other financial liabilities (39) (67) (18) – (1) (1) (126)
Derivative financial liabilities
(b)
Derivativesrelatedtonetdebt–netsettled
(a) (b)
––––– (5) (5)
Derivatives related to net debt – gross settled
(a)
:
gross inflows 516 20 20 20 20 797 1,393
gross outflows (510) (12) (12) (12) (12) (720) (1,278)
Total (11,636) (3,227) (3,743) (2,833) (3,819) (20,777) (46,035)
(a) Interest payments have been projected using interest rates at the end of the applicable financial year. Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are
subject to change in line with market rates.
(b) The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
(c) The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$3.3 billion (2013: US$3.2 billion).
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. There were no material amounts
offset in the balance sheet and no material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
152 riotinto.com B Derivative financial instruments
The Group’s derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2014, are summarised below:
Total fair value
2014 2013
Derivatives designated as hedges
Asset
US$m
Liability
US$m
Asset
US$m
Liability
US$m
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
17 – 21 –
Interest rate swaps
(b)
189 – 138 –
Cross currency interest rate swaps
(c)
11 (54) 54 (14)
Total derivatives designated as hedges 217 (54) 213 (14)
Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m
Currency forward contracts and swaps –(5) 4(1)
Aluminium forward contracts
(d)
13 (20) 6 (19)
Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
15 – 85 (2)
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts
(a)
182 – 128 –
Other embedded derivatives 9– 30 –
Other commodity contracts –(2) ––
Currency options embedded in borrowing contracts –– –(5)
Total derivatives not designated as hedges 219 (27) 253 (27)
Total derivative instruments 436 (81) 466 (41)
Analysed by maturity:
Less than 1 year 43 (14) 63 (10)
Between 1 and 5 years 102 (13) 109 (11)
More than 5 years 291 (54) 294 (20)
Total 436 (81) 466 (41)
Total net derivative instruments 355 425
Reconciliation to balance sheet
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
– non-current assets (note 20) 393 403
– current assets (note 20) 43 63
– current liabilities (note 22) (14) (10)
– non-current liabilities (note 22) (67) (31)
Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 355 425
(a) Aluminium embedded derivatives (forward contracts and options) are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts. These contracts reduce the
Group’s margin exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
(b) The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate. For further details, see note 22.
(c) The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings. For further details see note 22.
(d) The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash. In 2014, $15 million ineffective portion arising from cash flow
hedges was recognised in the income statement (2013: nil).
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash are not designated as hedges as they largely
offset.
C Fair values
The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 are shown in the following table. The fair values of the Group’s cash and loans to equity accounted units approximate
their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair
value
US$m
Carrying
value
US$m
Fair
value
US$m
Short term borrowings (note 22) (2,664) (2,711) (3,916) (3,924)
Medium and long term borrowings (note 22) (22,411) (23,657) (24,544) (25,746)
Borrowings with a carrying value of US$23.2 billion (2013: US$25.2 billion) relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$24.5 billion (2013: US$26.2 billion) and are
categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable
market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
riotinto.com 153
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
30 Financial instruments and risk management continued
C (a) Valuation hierarchy
The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2014:
Total Level 1
(a)
Level 2
(b)
Level 3
(c)
Not held
at fair value
Assets
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 199 56 85 12 46
Other investments, including loans
(d)
(note 20) 287 108 – 56 123
Trade receivables
(e)
2,488 12 – – 2,476
2,974 176 85 68 2,645
Derivatives
(f)
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B) 17 – – 17 –
Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges (Section B) 192 (2) (3) 197 –
Derivatives related to net debt (Section B) 146 – 146 – –
3,329 174 228 282 2,645
The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2013:
Total Level 1
(a)
Level 2
(b)
Level 3
(c)
Not held
at fair value
Assets
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 279 139 79 15 46
Other investments, including loans
(d)
(note 20) 506 106 1 215 184
785 245 80 230 230
Derivatives
(f)
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B) 21 – – 21 –
Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges (Section B) 231 2 19 210 –
Derivatives related to net debt (Section B) 173 – 173 – –
1,210 247 272 461 230
(a) Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
(b) Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are
not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
(c) Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
(d) Other investments, including loans, comprise: cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds and royalty amounts receivable. The royalty receivables are valued based
on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
(e) Trade receivables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at
the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the
contract. Not included within the balance above are provisionally priced trade payables of US$24 million, wherein the fair value of the expected final price has fallen below the
initial consideration received.
(f) Level 3 derivatives consist of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2015 and 2030 (2013: 2014 and 2040).
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques. Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$196 million
at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$196 million) are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivative extends beyond the forward curve for alumnium.
Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract. The range of market prices are
US$2,320 per metric tonne in 2025 to US$2,578 in 2030 (2013: US$2,413 per metric tonne in 2024 to US$3,157 in 2040).
The other contracts with a fair value of US$18 million at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$35 million) are categorised as level three as the market premium assumptions used
represent unobservable inputs.
(g) Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads. Currency interest
rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates. A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
(h) There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2014 or the year ended 31 December 2013.
154 riotinto.com C (b) Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities
The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Group’s Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December
2014 and 31 December 2013.
31 December 2014
Level 3 financial assets
and financial liabilities
31 December 2013
Level 3 financial assets
and financial liabilities
Opening balance 461 189
Currency translation adjustments (17) (8)
Total realised (losses) or gains included in:
– Consolidated sales revenue – (20)
– Net operating costs (8) 150
Total unrealised gains or (losses) included in:
– Consolidated sales revenue – 2
– Net operating costs 18 127
Total unrealised (losses) or gains transferred into other comprehensive income (5) 21
Additions 8 –
Disposals/maturity of financial instruments (175) –
Closing balance 282 461
Total (losses)/gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held
at year end (11) 130
Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives
Forward contracts and options whose carrying value are valued using unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted cashflow and option model
valuation techniques. The most significant of these assumptions relate to long term pricing wherein internal pricing assumptions are used after the ten year LME
curve. A ten per cent increase in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$39 million (31 December 2013: US$165 million) decrease in carrying
value. A ten per cent decrease in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$71 million (31 December 2013: US$94 million) increase in carrying value.
31 Contingencies and commitments
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Capital commitments excluding the Group’s share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments
Within 1 year 1,838 5,098
Between 1 and 3 years 96 364
Between 3 and 5 years 23 6
After 5 years 30 31
Total 1,987 5,499
Group’s share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments
Within 1 year 782 831
Between 1 and 3 years 331 789
Between 3 and 5 years – 127
After 5 years – –
Total 1,113 1,747
Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to joint ventures
For Minera Escondida Limitada and Sohar Aluminium Company L.L.C. the Group, along with the other joint venturers, has made various commitments to provide
shareholder funding as required, subject to approved thresholds. In particular, Minera Escondida Limitada holds a shareholder line of credit for US$225 million
(Rio Tinto share) which is currently undrawn. This line of credit was also available in 2013.
The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion (which may be different to the Group’s ownership interest) of the output of Sohar Aluminium
Company LLC, an aluminium smelter in which the Group is a joint venturer. The Group subsequently sells the purchased products to third parties.
Operating leases
The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Within 1 year 429 439
Between 1 and 3 years 690 667
Between 3 and 5 years 460 540
After 5 years 766 832
Total 2,345 2,478
riotinto.com 155
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
31 Contingencies and commitments continued
Purchase obligations
The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was:
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Within 1 year 2,912 3,178
Between 1 and 2 years 2,434 2,434
Between 2 and 3 years 2,026 2,202
Between 3 and 4 years 1,660 1,865
Between 4 and 5 years 1,479 1,743
After 5 years 19,572 14,359
Total 30,083 25,781
Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or
minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transactions. Purchase obligations between
subsidiaries and joint arrangements are included to the extent that they relate to other venturers.
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Contingent liabilities (subsidiaries and joint operations)
Indemnities and other performance guarantees
(a) (b)
239 489
(a) Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual
arrangements (for example undertakings related to supplier agreements) not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the guaranteesorindemnitiesbeingcalled
is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
(b) There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Group’s joint ventures and associates.
There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.NomateriallosstotheGroupisexpectedtoresultfromtheseclaims.
Guarantees by parent companies
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by wholly ownedfinance
subsidiaries: US$18.5 billion (31 December 2013: US$20.5 billion) Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited and Rio Tinto Finance (USA) plc Bonds with maturitydatesupto
2042; US$nil (31 December 2013: US$157 million) Rio Tinto America Inc Commercial Paper; and US$2.3 billion (31 December 2013: US$2.5 billion) on the
European Debt Issuance Programme. In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an aggregate
amount of US$7.5 billion (31 December 2013: US$7.5 billion); the facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Contingent assets
The Group has various insurance claims outstanding with reinsurers including claims relating to the Manefay slide at Kennecott Utah Copper in April 2013.
An interim progress payment was received on this claim in 2013. Further receipts are considered probable but the amount cannot currently be reliably estimated.
32 Average number of employees
Subsidiaries and joint
operations
Equity accounted units
(Rio Tinto share)
(a)
Group total
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
The principal locations of employment were:
Australia and New Zealand 23,447 24,740 25,301 711 749 808 24,158 25,489 26,109
Canada 12,187 12,830 13,688 – –– 12,187 12,830 13,688
Europe 3,499 4,210 5,760 88 2,427 3,184 3,587 6,637 8,944
Africa 5,699 6,787 7,055 1,560 1,505 2,226 7,259 8,292 9,281
United States 3,503 4,039 4,564 – 285 375 3,503 4,324 4,939
Mongolia 3,212 3,289 2,904 – –– 3,212 3,289 2,904
Indonesia 2,959 2,467 2,467 – –– 2,959 2,467 2,467
South America 356 511 235 1,509 1,409 1,307 1,865 1,920 1,542
Other countries 1,045 980 1,143 – 103 202 1,045 1,083 1,345
55,907 59,853 63,117 3,868 6,478 8,102 59,775 66,331 71,219
(a) Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies. Employee numbers for joint operations and equity
accounted units are proportional to the Group’s interest under contractual agreements. Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companiesacquiredordisposed
of during the year.
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis. Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
156 riotinto.com 33 Principal subsidiaries
At 31 December 2014
Company and country of
incorporation/operation Principal activities
Class of
shares held
Proportion of
class held (%)
Group
interest (%)
Non-controlling
interest (%)
Australia
Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 –
Coal & Allied Industries Limited
(a)
Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20
Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64
Energy Resources of Australia
Limited
Uranium mining Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61
Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 –
Queensland Coal Pty Limited
(b)
Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Aluminium (Holdings)
Limited
Bauxite mining; alumina production;
primary aluminium smelting
Ordinary 100 100 –
Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd
(c)
Iron ore mining Class A 40
}
Class B 76.36
60 40
North Mining Limited
(c)
Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 –
Brazil
Alcan Alumina Ltda.
(d)
Alumina production and bauxite
mining
Quota 100 100 –
Canada
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium
Corporation
Uranium projects Common shares 100 100 –
Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc.
(e)
Iron ore mining; iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 41.28
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock; high Common shares 100 100 –
purity iron and steel Class B preference shares 100 100 –
CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining; alumina refining;
aluminium smelting
Common shares 100 100 –
Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals
Canada Holding Inc.
(f)
Diamond mining and processing Class A, B, C
Class P1 preferred
100
100
100
100
–
–
Guinea
Simfer Jersey Limited
(g)
Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47
Madagascar
QIT Madagascar Minerals SA
(h)
Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 15
Investment certificates n/a 5
Mongolia
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd Copper and gold mining Common Shares 50.79 50.79 49.21
(including Oyu Tolgoi LLC and
SouthGobi Resources Ltd)
(i)
Namibia
Rössing Uranium Limited
(j)
Uranium mining B N$1 71.16
}
C N10c 70.59
68.58 31.42
South Africa
Richards Bay Titanium
(Proprietary) Limited
(k)
Titanium dioxide/high purity iron
production
B Ordinary 100
}
B preference 100 74 26
Parent Preference shares 100
Richards Bay Mining
(Proprietary) Limited)
(k)
Ilmenite, rutile and zircon
mining
B Ordinary 100
}
B Preference 100 74 26
Parent Preference Shares 100
United States of America
Kennecott Holdings Corporation
(including Kennecott Utah Copper,
Kennecott Land and Kennecott
Exploration)
Copper and gold mining, smelting and
refining, land development and
exploration activities
Common US$0.01 100 100 –
U.S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of
borates
Common US$0.10 100 100 –
riotinto.com 157
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
33 Principal subsidiaries continued
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those companies that have a more
significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) Of the Group’s 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit. Coal & Allied
forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Through a series of intermediate companies, Coal & Allied holds interests in Bengalla (40 per cent), Mount Thorley (80 per cent) and Warkworth (55.6 percent).TheGroup’s
beneficial interests are therefore: Bengalla: 32 per cent; Mount Thorley: 64 per cent; Warkworth: 44.5 per cent. These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities; the
Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements. Coal & Allied also owns 100 per cent of Hunter Valley Operations.
(b) Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Group’s interests in Hail Creek (82 per cent), Blair Athol (71.2 per cent) and Kestrel (80 per cent). These are
unincorporated arrangements that are not entities; the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements. Queensland Coal
forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
(c) Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd (which is 60 per cent owned by the Group) holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates (‘Robe River’). North Mining Ltd (which is wholly
owned by the Group) holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River. Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest. The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in Robe River.
(d) Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Group’s 10 per cent interest in Consórcio De Alumínio Do Maranhão, a joint operation in which the Group participates but is not a joint operator.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
(e) Iron ore Company of Canada Inc. is incorporated in the United States of America, but operates in Canada.
(f) Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada Holdings Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Group’s 60 per cent interest in the Diavik Diamond Mine (Diavik), an unincorporated
arrangement that is not an entity. The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
(g) Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 87.88 per cent interest in Simfer S.A. the company that operates the
Simandou mining project in Guinea. The Group therefore has a 46.57 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S.A. These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred
to as the Simandou iron ore project.
(h) The Group’s shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights, a further 5 per cent economic interest
is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent. The non-controlling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent
of the total voting rights.
(i) The Group obtained a controlling interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited) on 24 January 2012. Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources
Ltd. (Turquoise Hill) on 2 August 2012. Refer to note 37 for further details relating to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill in 2012. The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in
Turquoise Hill which holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi (OT) and a 47.91 per cent interest in SouthGobi Resources Ltd (SouthGobi); these companies are subsidiaries of
Turquoise Hill. The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT and a 28.4 per cent indirect economic interest in SouthGobi. SouthGobi is consolidated by virtue of
Turquoise Hill’s ability, in practice, to control the majority of effective votes at general meetings.
This entity is incorporated in Canada but operates in Mongolia.
(j) The Group’s shareholding in Rössing Uranium Limited holds 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights; the non-controlling interests hold 64.46 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rössing is consolidated by virtue of board control. The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia, this is
considered to be a protective right. Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rössing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
(k) Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary) Limited and Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary) Limited representing non-controlling interests are not
shown. The Group’s total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium (Proprietary) Limited and Richards Bay Mining (Proprietary) Limitedis74percent.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in
accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore
Company
of Canada
2014
Iron Ore
Company
of Canada
2013
Energy
Resources of
Australia
2014
Energy
Resources of
Australia
2013
Simfer
Jersey
(a)
2014
Simfer
Jersey
(a)
2013
Turquoise
Hill
(b)
2014
Turquoise
Hill
(b)
2013
Revenue 1,696 2,258 345 339 – – 1,765 237
Profit/(loss) after tax 222 485 (167) (132) (334) (87) (156) (5,080)
– attributable to non-controlling interests 93 200 (54) (41) (171) (44) (164) (3,203)
– attributable to Rio Tinto 129 285 (113) (91) (163) (43) 8 (1,877)
Other comprehensive loss (192) (61) (38) (114) – – (34) (96)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 30 424 (205) (246) (334) (87) (190) (5,176)
Non-current assets 2,944 3,209 565 793 1,769 1,702 8,337 8,536
Current assets 442 501 372 563 53 107 1,382 1,192
Current liabilities (332) (414) (75) (141) (36) (45) (409) (2,771)
Non-current liabilities (949) (904) (427) (573) (16) (34) (595) (425)
Net assets 2,105 2,392 435 642 1,770 1,730 8,715 6,532
– attributable to non-controlling interests 871 988 138 203 877 862 4,010 3,052
– attributable to Rio Tinto 1,234 1,404 297 439 893 868 4,705 3,480
Cashflow from operations 506 924 (61) (4) (98) (93) 864 (807)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (120) (106) – – – – – –
(a) During 2013 Chalco sold its interest to Chinalco, its parent company. These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey and Simfer S.A. which together form
theSimandouIronOreproject.
(b) Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd holds controlling interests in OT and SouthGobi. Turquoise Hill’s rights issue at the beginning of 2014 increased non-controlling interests by
US$1,158 million.
158 riotinto.com Robe River
Mining Co
Pty Ltd
2014
Robe River
Mining Co
Pty Ltd
2013
Other
companies
and
eliminations
(c)
2014
Other
companies
and
eliminations
(c)
2013
Robe River
2014
Robe River
2013
Revenue 1,687 2,074 1,968 2,417 3,655 4,491
Profit after tax 766 1,021 1,036 1,093 1,802 2,114
– attributable to non-controlling interests 300 398 – – 300 398
– attributable to Rio Tinto 466 623 1,036 1,093 1,502 1,716
Other comprehensive loss (364) (620) (187) (348) (551) (968)
Total comprehensive income 402 401 849 745 1,251 1,146
Non-current assets 4,444 4,545 5,296 5,329 9,740 9,874
Current assets 73 149 86 176 159 325
Current liabilities (112) (213) (271) (396) (383) (609)
Non-current liabilities (287) (314) (2,969) (2,436) (3,258) (2,750)
Net assets 4,116 4,167 2,142 2,673 6,258 6,840
– attributable to non-controlling interests 1,620 1,645 – – 1,620 1,645
– attributable to Rio Tinto 2,496 2,522 2,142 2,673 4,638 5,195
Cashflow from operations 1,438 1,570 1,578 1,801 3,016 3,371
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (181) (78) – – (181) (78)
(c) ‘Other companies and eliminations’ includes the branch of North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, that accounts for its interest in Robe River and the
goodwill of US$409 million (2013: US$445 million) that arose on acquisition of the Group’s interest in Robe River. During 2014, US$1,354 million was transferred from the branch
to the company. Cumulatively, US$2,251 million has been transferred and this amount is shown within liabilities above.
34 Principal joint operations
At 31 December 2014
Name and country of operation Principal activities
Group
interest (%)
Australia
Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6
Kestrel Coal mining 80
Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1
Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50
Queensland Alumina Limited
(a) (b)
Alumina production 80
New Zealand
New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited
(a) (b)
Aluminium smelting 79.4
Canada
Alouette Aluminium production 40
Indonesia
Grasberg expansion
(c)
Copperandgoldmining 40
United States of America
Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc
(b) (d)
Aluminium smelting 50.3
The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those jointoperations
that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Group’s joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities
that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
(b) Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of
output to the parties sharing joint control; this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets. The liabilities of the arrangements are
in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties; this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities. It is these facts and
circumstances that give rise to the classification for these entities as Joint Operations.
(c) Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg
facilities since 1998.
(d) Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie de Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
riotinto.com 159
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
35 Principal joint ventures
At 31 December 2014
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities
Number of
shares held
Class of
shares held
Proportion of
class held (%)
Group
interest (%)
Chile
Minera Escondida Limitada
(a)
Copper mining and refining 30 30
Oman
Søhar Aluminium Company L.L.C.
(b)
Aluminium smelting/power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those joint ventures that
have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Group’s principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
(a) Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in Minera Escondida Limitada, participant and management agreements allow for an Owners’ Council whereby significant
commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP
Billiton (holders of a 57.5 per cent interest). It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June. The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are however based on accounts of Minera
Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
(b) Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Søhar Aluminium Company L.L.C., decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated
require agreement of all parties to the arrangement. It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures’ financial statements prepared in
accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Minera
Escondida
Limitada
(c)
2014
Minera
Escondida
Limitada
(c)
2013
Rio Tinto
Benga
(Mauritius)
Limited
(d)
2014
Rio Tinto
Benga
(Mauritius)
Limited
(e)
2013
Revenue 7,607 8,553 91 135
Depreciation and amortisation (1,027) (720) – (43)
Impairment charges
(e)
– – – (354)
Other operating costs (3,237) (3,697) (220) (289)
Operating profit/(loss) 3,343 4,136 (129) (551)
Finance expense (33) 17 (11) (3)
Income tax (1,237) (1,543) – 22
Profit/(loss) after tax 2,073 2,610 (140) (532)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 2,073 2,610 (140) (532)
Non-current assets 12,093 9,823 – 389
Current assets 2,453 2,653 – 166
Current liabilities (1,567) (1,031) – (136)
Non-current liabilities (2,170) (2,152) – (328)
Net assets 10,809 9,293 – 91
Assets and liabilities above include:
Cash and cash equivalents 263 319 – –
Current financial liabilities (203) (56) – (54)
Non-current financial liabilities (1,060) (1,084) – (223)
Dividends received from Joint Venture (Rio Tinto share) 251 432 – –
Reconciliation of the above amounts to the Investment recognised in the Group balance sheet.
Group interest 30% 30%
(d)
65%
Net assets 10,809 9,293 – 91
Group’s ownership interest 3,243 2,788 – 59
Other adjustments (6) 2 – –
Carrying value of Group’s interest 3,237 2,790 – 59
160 riotinto.com (c) In addition to its ‘Investment in Equity Accounted Unit’, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$546 million (2013: US$511 million) relating to tax on unremitted
earnings.
(d) On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of Mozambique.
SeeNote37.
(e) In 2013, the Group recognised a US$216 million post tax impairment of its investment in Rio Tinto Benga (Mauritius) Limited. The investment was recognised at fair value on
acquisition and it is this investment that was impaired.
36 Principal associates
At 31 December 2014
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities
Number of
shares held
Class of
shares
held
Proportion of
class held (%)
Group
interest (%)
Australia
Boyne Smelters Limited
(a)
Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4
Brasil
Mineração Rio do Norte S.A.
(b)
Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary
}
12.5
}
12
47,000,000 Preferred 11.8
United States of America
Halco (Mining) Inc (c) 4,500 Common 45 45
The Group’s principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those associates that
have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
(a) The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several
combinations of the parties; although each combination requires Rio Tinto’s approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11. Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have
significant influence over this company.
(b) Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of Mineraça ¯o Rio do Norte S.A., it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and
operating policy decisions. It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
(c) Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis. It represents the amounts shown in the associate’s financial statements prepared in
accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne
Smelters
Limited
(d)
2014
Boyne
Smelters
Limited
(d)
2013
Revenue – –
Profit/(loss) after tax
(f)
1,072 (47)
Other comprehensive loss
(e)
(82) –
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 990 (47)
Non-current assets
(f)
1,813 1,086
Current assets 86 111
Current liabilities (108) (101)
Non-current liabilities (1,369) (1,697)
Net assets 422 (601)
(d) Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation; as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls. Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain
prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina; these are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
(e) “Other comprehensive loss” is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
(f) In 2014, a post tax impairment reversal of US$589 million has been recorded. See note 6.
Group interest 59% 59%
Net assets 422 (601)
Group’s ownership interest 251 (357)
Loans to equity accounted units 228 276
Carrying value of Group’s interest 479 (81)
riotinto.com 161
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
36 Principal associates continued
Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group
Joint
Ventures
2014
Joint
Ventures
2013
Associates
2014
Associates
2013
Carrying value of Group’s interest 403 405 749 784
Profit/(loss) after tax 16 (29) 30 102
Other comprehensive loss (30) (7) (14) (38)
Total comprehensive (loss)/ income (14) (36) 16 64
37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses
2014 acquisitions
There were no material acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2014.
2013 acquisitions
There were no material acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2013.
2012 acquisitions
Consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
On 24 January 2012, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Turquoise Hill to a controlling 51.01 per cent interest (31 December 2014: 50.79 per cent
interest). The acquisition gave Rio Tinto control of the assets in Turquoise Hill other than those relating to Oyu Tolgoi (OT), control of which the Group had
previously gained in 2010.
Total consideration to acquire the controlling interest in Turquoise Hill amounted to US$839 million, comprising US$678 million relating to the fair value of the
Group’s interest in Turquoise Hill prior to the acquisition date, and US$161 million of cash price paid to acquire the controlling interest after adjusting for amounts
attributable to OT and net intragroup balances between Rio Tinto and Turquoise Hill. Fair values on acquisition of Turquoise Hill were determined and finalised
during 2012.
Consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals
On 7 September 2012, Rio Tinto increased its holding in RBM to 74 per cent with consolidation effective from 3 September 2012, following the completion of its
acquisition of BHP Billiton’s entire interests including BHP Billiton’s 37 per cent indirect equity voting interests in the RBM operating companies.
The acquisition price was US$1.9 billion before contractual adjustments for cash payments made by RBM to BHP Billiton since the acquisition trigger date of
1 February 2012. This price included US$0.6 billion for BHP Billiton’s 37 per cent equity interest in RBM, US$1.0 billion for a 50 per cent interest in outstanding
RBM shareholder financing arrangements and US$0.3 billion for a royalty stream.
Provisional fair values recognised on acquisition were finalised by 3 September 2013, 12 months after the consolidation date. No adjustments were made to
provisional fair values as a result of finalisation.
2014 disposals
On 29 May 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont Joint Venture to GS Coal for US$1,015 million (before finalisation of net
debt and working capital adjustments). The net assets and liabilities of Clermont were included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale in the
Group balance sheet at 31 December 2013.
On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique, which comprises the Benga coal mine and other projects in the Tete province of
Mozambique, to International Coal Ventures Private Limited for US$50 million (before net debt and working capital adjustments).
Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent share in Søral to Norsk Hydro Aluminium ASA on 31 October 2014 and the sale of its 46.67 per cent share in
Alucam to the Government of Cameroon on 31 December 2014.
On 26 May 2014, Rio Tinto and its Simandou project partners signed an Investment Framework with the Government of Guinea and agreed to transfer an equity
interest in Simfer S.A., to the state. The arrangement allows the Government of Guinea to acquire equity interests of up to 25 per cent of Simfer S.A. at a discount
to fair value and a further 10 per cent at full fair value. Arrangements to transfer an interest in a subsidiary undertaking at a discount to fair value are considered to
be a share-based payment. The discount provided or value given on the 25 per cent interest in Simfer S.A. has been calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 “Share
based payment” as a loss of US$230 million.
The first tranche of shares comprising 7.5 per cent Non-Contributory Shares was transferred free of charge to the Government of Guinea on 26 May 2014.
A second tranche comprising 10 per cent Ordinary Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of historical mining cost. The third tranche
of shares comprising 7.5 per cent Non-Contributory Shares may be transferred at any time after 22 April 2016 free of charge. The remaining two tranches of
5 per cent Ordinary Contributing Shares may be acquired by the Government of Guinea at market value at any time after 22 April 2026 and 22 April 2031
respectively.
Disposals in the cash flow statement are presented net of cash on disposal and after adjusting for working capital and other items as specified under the sale
agreement.
2013 disposals
Significant divestments and disposals of interests in businesses during the year ended 31 December 2013 are summarised below:
On 1 December 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 80 per cent interest in Northparkes Mine to China Molybdenum Co. Ltd for consideration of
US$820 million.
162 riotinto.com On 23 May 2013, the initial public offering of Constellium (formerly Alcan Engineered Products) was launched, resulting in Rio Tinto reducing its holding from
36.6 per cent to 27.5 per cent. Rio Tinto subsequently divested the remainder of its holding in two further tranches. Total consideration from these transactions
was US$671 million, inclusive of a special dividend and proceeds from sale of Rio Tinto’s equity shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity
accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Group’s cash flow statement.
On 31 July 2013 Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company for US$373 million. The purchaser of was a consortium
comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd., a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto, completed the sale of its 50 per cent interest in Altynalmas Gold and 57 per cent
interest in Inova Resources Limited on 29 November 2013 and 1 November 2013 respectively. Sumeru Gold B.V. (consideration paid of US$ 235 million) and
Shanxi Donghui Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co. (consideration paid of US$81 million) were the respective buyers.
On 17 July 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in the Eagle nickel-copper project to Lundin Mining Corporation for consideration of
US$315 million.
2012 disposals
Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea (GoG) for the Simandou iron ore project
On 24 April 2012, Rio Tinto and Chalco, a listed subsidiary of The Aluminium Corporation of China (Chinalco), completed the formation of their joint venture to
develop and operate the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, following the completion of all Chinese regulatory approvals. To complete earn in to a 44.65 per cent
net economic interest in the Simandou project, a consortium led by Chalco made a payment to Rio Tinto of US$1.35 billion, in line with an agreement reached with
Rio Tinto on 29 July 2010. In late 2013 Chalco completed the transfer of 65 per cent of their interest in Simandou to their holding company, Chinalco, who now
holds the Simandou interest directly.
Under the Settlement Agreement signed by Rio Tinto and the GoG on 22 April 2011, the GoG has an option to take an interest of up to 35 per cent in Simfer
S.A.(Simfer), the Rio Tinto subsidiary that will undertake the mining portion of the Simandou project.
The Settlement Agreement provides for the transfer of ownership of railway and port infrastructure from Simfer to a newly formed infrastructure entity (InfraCo) in
which the GoG had indicated its intention to fund a 51 per cent interest.
Amendment to Simfer’s mining convention and the terms of a new infrastructure convention, required to give effect to the Settlement Agreement (including the
GoG participation in the project), need to be finalised and will require legislative ratification.
The eventual basis of accounting for InfraCo remains to be determined pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
Other disposals
During 2012, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Cable, the Specialty Alumina businesses, and the Lynemouth Power Station. Finalisation of working capital
adjustments took place where applicable and did not result in a material impact on the Group.
38 Directors’ and key management remuneration
Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows:
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
2012
US$’000
Emoluments 11,090 14,061 11,165
Long term incentive plans 5,304 3,719 –
16,394 17,780 11,165
Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 55 108 66
Gains made on exercise of share options – 5,888 1,668
The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of theExecutiveCommittee.TheExecutiveCommitteecomprisestheexecutive
directors, product group chief executive officers (PGCEOs) and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$6,653,000 (2013: US$11,451,000; 2012: US$7,357,000). The aggregate
pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$55,000 (2013: US$44,000, 2012: US$nil). The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions
and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$9,796,000 (2013: US$6,437,000; 2012: US$3,874,000). The aggregate
pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil (2013: US$64,000; 2012: US$66,000).
During 2014, one director (2013: three; 2012: three) accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director (2013: two; 2012: one)
accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus payments which,
together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3, onpages64to
100 of the 2014 Annual report.
riotinto.com 163
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
38 Directors’ and key management remuneration continued
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Group’s key management, including directors, was as
follows:
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
2012
US$’000
Short term employee benefits and costs 30,137 30,696 27,164
Post employment benefits 1,449 2,741 5,121
Share based payments 19,676 26,392 32,435
51,262 59,829 64,720
The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by
the employer as a direct additional cost of hire. In total, they amount to US$2,870,000 (2013: US$2,897,000; 2012: US$2,863,000) and although disclosed here, are
not included in table 1 of the Remuneration report.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 to 3 on pages 64 to 100 of the
2014 Annual report.
39 Auditors’ remuneration
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Group Auditors’ remuneration
(a)
Audit of the company 4.0 3.8 3.1
Audit of subsidiaries 10.7 11.5 14.1
Total audit 14.7 15.3 17.2
Audit related assurance services 1.1 1.2 1.5
Other assurance services
(b)
1.0 3.0 3.8
Total assurance services 2.1 4.2 5.3
Tax compliance
(c)
0.4 0.5 0.3
Tax advisory services
(c)
0.5 0.4 0.4
Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above
– services in connection with bond issues/capital raising 0.1 0.4 0.6
– services in connection with divestment programme – 0.5 0.3
Other non-audit services not covered above 0.3 0.4 0.5
Total non-audit services 1.3 2.2 2.1
18.1 21.7 24.6
Audit fees payable to other accounting firms
Audit of the accounts of the Group’s subsidiaries 2.7 3.0 2.9
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.4 0.3 0.1
3.1 3.3 3.0
(a) The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee. The committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and
approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments
made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the payments made by joint operations. Non-audit services arise largely
from assurance and/or regulation related work.
(b) Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and assurance over the “Taxes paid” report.
(c) “Taxation services” includes tax compliance and advisory services. Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services includes advice on non-recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
164 riotinto.com 40 Related party transactions
Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below:
Subsidiary companies and joint operations
Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33. Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units
Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below. Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely
to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium. Sales relate largely to charges for supply of
coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
Income statement items
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Purchases from equity accounted units (1,835) (1,953) (2,283)
Sales to equity accounted units 625 1,569 1,742
Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m
Net funding of equity accounted units (117) (88) (223)
Balance sheet items US$m US$m US$m
Investments in equity accounted units (note 15)
(a)
4,868 3,957 3,941
Loans to equity accounted units 71 94 282
Loans from equity accounted units (52) (86) (116)
Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units 423 615 722
Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units (note 25) (225) (290) (357)
(a) Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
Pension funds
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 45.
Directors and key management
Details of directors’ and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration report on pages 64 to 100.
41 Exchange rates in US$
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2014 financial statements are:
Annual average Year end
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012
Sterling 1.65 1.56 1.58 1.56 1.65 1.62
Australian dollar 0.90 0.97 1.04 0.82 0.89 1.04
Canadian dollar 0.91 0.97 1.00 0.86 0.94 1.00
South African rand 0.092 0.104 0.122 0.086 0.096 0.122
Euro 1.33 1.33 1.29 1.22 1.38 1.32
42 Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL)
The Group owns 53.83 per cent of the issued share capital of BCL. Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989. Safe access by company
employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made. Considerable funding
would be required to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mine’s closure in 1989. An Order of Magnitude study completed by BCL
in 2013 indicated an estimated capital requirement of US$5.2 billion to reopen the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced. Rio Tinto does not have
control over BCL under IFRS, as defined in note 1, as it does not have the current ability to direct the activities that affect its returns, being the mining and sale of
ore from the Panguna mine; it is therefore not a subsidiary.
On 18 August 2014, in light of developments in Papua New Guinea, including the new mining legislation passed earlier that month by the Autonomous
Bougainville Government, the Group announced a strategic review of all options in relation to the 53.83 per cent stake in BCL.
43 Events after the balance sheet date
On 12 February 2015, the Group announced a share buy-back of US$2 billion comprising a A$500 million (c US$0.4 billion) off-market share buy-back tender of
Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion as an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares. Ordinary shares of Rio Tinto plc have
been bought back since 18 February 2015 and announcements have been made to the relevant stock exchanges. Shares so purchased have been cancelled.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares have been purchased at the date of this report.
Other than the items above, no events were identified after the balance sheet date which could be expected to have a material impact on the consolidated
financial statements.
riotinto.com 165
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the Financial Statements continued
44 Share based payments
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (the Companies) have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tinto’s share-based compensation plans, and the related liability (for cash-settled plans), is
set out in the table below.
Charge/(credit) recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Equity-settled plans 152 142 243 – –
Cash-settled plans – –(3) 1 1
Total 152 142 240 1 1
The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows:
Share Savings Plans
Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly. The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a lattice-based
option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plan in 2012. Charges will continue to be
incurred until prior period awards have vested.
Share Option Plan
The Group has a policy of settling awards made under the Share Option Plan in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions. The performance conditions in
relation to Total Shareholder Return (TSR) have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between
Rio Tinto’s TSR and that of the HSBC Global Mining Index. The relationship between Rio Tinto’s TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to
derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans as the LTIP arrangements have been simplified and awards are now only made under the Performance
Share Plan. Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards have vested.
UK Share Plan (formerly the Share Ownership Plan)
The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase. These awards are settledin
equity.
Performance Share Plan
Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards and therefore the Plan is accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to
equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the fair value of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into
account the TSR performance conditions. One-third of the 2013 and 2014 awards must satisfy an earnings target relative to ten global mining comparators for
vesting. As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors’
expectations for the proportion vesting. As at 31 December 2014 it was assumed 100 per cent of awards subject to the condition would vest. Forfeitures are
assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Management Share Plan
The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management. The vesting of these awards is dependent on
service conditions being met. In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting. The awards are
accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends. Forfeitures are
assumed prior to vesting at seven per cent per annum of outstanding awards (2013: five per cent per annum).
Bonus Deferral Plan
The Bonus Deferral Plan was originally introduced during 2009 for the mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product group executives
and for other executives. Additional Bonus Deferral Awards have been made each year since 2011 (made in respect of the 2010 bonus) for the mandatory deferral
of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and product group executives and ten per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met. In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends
accumulated from date of award to vesting. The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions. The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividendsvesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Global Employee Share Plan
The Global Employee Share Plan was introduced during 2012. The company provides matching shares for each share purchased. The vesting of these matching
awards is dependent on service conditions being met. These awards are settled in equity. The fair value of each matching share on the day of grant is equalto
share price on the date of purchase. Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
166 riotinto.com Summary of options outstanding
A summary of the status of the Companies’ equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2014 is presented below.
Options outstanding at 31 December 2014 Number
Weighted
average
exercise price
per option
£/A$
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years
Aggregate
intrinsic
value 2014
US$m
Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan (exercise price £21 – £29) 299,561 26.32 0.8 2
Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan (exercise price A$48 – A$60) 609,426 53.40 1.1 2
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (exercise price £15 – £43) 1,438,972 32.31 5.2 8
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (exercise price A$30 – A$77) 450,964 51.43 3.5 4
2,798,923 16
As at 31 December 2013 there were 4,216,531 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$57 million.
Options exercisable at 31 December 2014
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (exercise price £15 – £43) 1,128,973 31.52 4.7 8
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (exercise price A$30 – A$77) 450,964 51.43 3.5 4
1,579,937 12
As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
The Management Share Plan, Performance Share Plan, Bonus Deferral Plan, Global Employee Share Plan and UK Share Plan together represent 93 per cent (2013:
91 per cent) of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2014.
Performance Share Plan
Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Ltd awards
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2014
£
2013
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2013
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2014
A$
2013
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2013
A$
Non-vested shares at
1 January 3,161,952 27.91 2,705,545 30.40 2,023,519 53.29 1,541,776 60.46
Awarded 950,148 22.73 949,588 19.06 626,072 44.40 651,435 36.17
Forfeited (230,496) 20.98 (303,008) 31.20 (127,726) 40.31 (137,408) 57.40
Failed performance
conditions (233,736) 36.33 (14,070) 13.61 (124,431) 75.65 (2,423) 32.74
Vested (719,867) 36.27 (176,103) 13.91 (372,558) 75.66 (29,861) 32.74
Non-vested shares at
31 December 2,928,001 24.05 3,161,952 27.91 2,024,876 45.87 2,023,519 53.29
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2014
£
2013
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2013
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2014
A$
2013
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2013
A$
Shares issued in respect of
vested awards during the
year 719,867 33.24 176,103 34.69 355,548 65.98 29,861 69.03
Vested awards settled in
cash during the year –– –– 17,010 65.98 ––
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 1,261 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2014. The total liability for
these awards at 31 December 2014 was less than US$1 million (2013: less than US$1 million).
riotinto.com 167
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
44 Share based payments continued
Management Share Plan, Bonus Deferral Plan, Global Employee Share Plan and UK Share Plan (combined)
Rio Tinto plc awards Rio Tinto Ltd awards
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2014
£
2013
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2013
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2014
A$
2013
Number
Weighted
average
fair value at
grant date
2013
A$
Non-vested awards at 1 January 2,277,219 32.72 2,073,129 37.21 2,058,902 61.64 1,574,153 71.73
Awarded 1,420,588 31.87 1,420,445 29.09 1,357,091 61.74 1,301,055 55.36
Forfeited (191,039) 30.67 (237,265) 34.13 (206,134) 58.86 (165,591) 62.36
Expired –– (5,172) 36.97 –– (219) 76.02
Vested (759,422) 36.70 (973,918) 36.61 (630,778) 70.93 (650,496) 73.17
Non-vested awards at
31 December 2,747,346 30.89 2,277,219 32.72 2,579,081 59.83 2,058,902 61.64
Comprising of
– Management Share Plan 1,807,727 32.16 1,708,472 33.38 1,638,119 59.46 1,505,507 62.93
– Bonus Deferral Plan 202,651 33.58 206,336 32.20 199,724 58.24 205,242 59.10
– Global Employee Share Plan 693,230 26.72 353,049 29.93 741,238 61.08 348,153 57.57
– UK Share Plan 43,738 31.82 9,362 29.11
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2014
£
2013
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2013
£
2014
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2014
A$
2013
Number
Weighted
average
share price
2013
A$
Shares issued in respect of
vested awards during the year
(including dividend shares
applied on vesting)
– Management Share Plan 631,359 31.84 843,009 33.82 461,835 63.70 582,493 65.09
– Bonus Deferral Plan 144,916 29.44 106,335 32.23 128,528 58.48 65,297 64.77
– Global Employee Share Plan 42,910 31.10 12,335 30.92 32,780 60.70 10,324 60.34
– UK Share Plan 4,096 32.77 35,250 29.72
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 16,985 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2014. The total liability for
these awards at 31 December 2014 was less than US$1 million (2013: less than US$1 million).
45 Post retirement benefits
Description of plans
The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world. Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are
defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks:
Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Group’s liabilities for post retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid
out. This in turn will depend on the future pay increases, the level of inflation (for those benefits that are subject to
some form of inflation protection) and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit
payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of
cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years. In some
countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some
extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Group’s direct control. In addition the Group is also
exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution arrangements instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries. For unionised employees some plans remainopenbut
others are closed.
The Group does not usually participate in multiemployer plans in which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans. The Group’s participation in
such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed disclosures are provided in this note.
168 riotinto.com Pension plans
The majority of the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and are closed to new entrants. Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in
negotiation with unions and are typically either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of service. Some of these plans have been closed
to new entrants but some remain open at present. The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant
provinces and territories (predominantly Quebec). Pension Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with the
relevant regulations. The Pension Committees generally have a number of members appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases there is also an independent Committee member.
The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed to new members. New employees are admitted to defined contribution
sections. The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to UK pension plans. Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a
manner that is compliant with UK regulations. Trustee boards have a number of directors appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan
participants. In some cases there is also an independent trustee director.
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US entities. Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and closed to new
entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary amount per year of service. A Benefits
Governance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US regulations. Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France. The largest single plan is in Switzerland and providesbenefits
linked to final average pay. The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Foundation Board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by retirees.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid
in lump sum form. The defined benefit sections are closed to new entrants.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
Post retirement healthcare plans
Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their
beneficiaries and covered dependants. Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria. These arrangements are generally unfunded, and are
included in the figures below.
Plan assets
The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a diversified range of equities, bonds and property. Consequently the funding level of the pension
plans is affected by movements in the level of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates. The Group monitors its exposure to changes in interest
rates and equity markets and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a Value at Risk approach. These measures are considered when deciding whether
significant changes in investment strategy are required. Asset-liability studies are conducted on a periodic basis for the main pension plans to determine the
optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Group’s tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and the views of the Pension Committees
and Trustee boards who are legally responsible for the investments of the plans. In Canada, the UK and Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure
that the investment policy adopted is consistent with the Group’s tolerance for risk. In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy,subjectto
the local investment regulations.
The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were:
2014 2013
Equities 39.1% 45.3%
–Quoted 35.4% 42.1%
–Private 3.7% 3.2%
Bonds 46.9% 40.4%
–Governmentfixedincome 13.6% 10.7%
– Government inflation-linked 11.8% 10.3%
– Corporate and other publicly quoted 20.7% 18.5%
–Private 0.8% 0.9%
Property 10.1% 8.7%
– Quoted property funds 6.0% 4.6%
– Unquoted property funds 4.0% 4.0%
– Directly held property 0.1% 0.1%
Qualifying Insurance Policies 0.5% 1.7%
Cash & Other 3.4% 3.9%
100.0% 100.0%
The assets of the plans are managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers. These managers may invest in the Group’s securities subject to
limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation. The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans is US$22 million
(2013: US$40 million).
The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds. These equity portfolios
are well diversified in terms of the geographic distribution and market sectors.
The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of the country in which a pension plan is situated. Corporate and other quoted bonds are
usually of investment grade. Private debt is mainly in North America.
riotinto.com 169
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
45 Post retirement benefits continued
The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of properties. The directly held property is owned by the Swiss pension fund and is predominantly
invested in properties in and around Zurich.
The holdings of Cash and Other are predominantly cash and short-term money market instruments.
Investments in private equity, private debt, unquoted property funds and directly held property are less liquid than the other investment classes listed above and
therefore the Group’s investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its pension plans. However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge currency movements
within their portfolios and, in the case of bond managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations
An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
%
2013
Total
%
2012
Total
%
Proportion relating to current employees 25% 22% 25% 25% 29%
Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 11% 2% 11% 11% 11%
Proportion relating to retirees 64% 76% 64% 64% 60%
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Average duration of obligations (years) 14.0 13.0 13.9 13.3 14.1
Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations
An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
%
2013
Total
%
2012
Total
%
Canada 47% 44% 46% 45% 49%
UK 29% 2% 27% 27% 23%
US 12% 52% 15% 14% 15%
Switzerland 5% 0% 5% 6% 5%
Eurozone 4% 0% 4% 5% 5%
Australia 2% 0% 2% 2% 2%
Other 1% 2% 1% 1% 1%
Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Total expense recognised in the income statement
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
2012
Total
US$m
Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans (187) (9) (196) (284) (270)
Past service income/(cost) –66 66 1(4)
Curtailment (losses)/gains (1) – (1) 44 59
Settlement gains 22 – 22 2–
Netinterestcostondefinedbenefitliability (83) (50) (133) (209) (240)
Non-investment expenses paid from the plans (19) – (19) (22) (20)
Total defined benefit expense (268) 7 (261) (468) (475)
Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans (328) (1) (329) (337) (348)
Total expense recognised in the income statement (596) 6 (590) (805) (823)
The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs. In 2014, US$2 million (pre-tax) of curtailment and settlement gains
relating to the closure of a site have been excluded from underlying earnings (2013: US$21 million, 2012: US$34 million, both relating to divestments).
The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount reductions at various operations and divestments during 2014 and previous years.
The settlement gains in 2014 and 2013 relate mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested participants were offered a one-time lump sum payment in
place of their future pension payments. The other benefits past service income during 2014 relates to design changes to US post-retirement medical plans.
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Actuarial (losses)/gains (1,853) 1,092 (1,235)
Return on assets (net of interest on assets) 1,127 1,212 903
Loss on application of asset ceiling (9) (44) –
Total (loss)/gain recognised in other comprehensive income (735) 2,260 (332)
170 riotinto.com Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December:
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 15,219 – 15,219 15,527
Present value of obligations – funded (16,869) – (16,869) (16,699)
Present value of obligations – unfunded (983) (1,047) (2,030) (2,093)
Present value of obligations – total (17,852) (1,047) (18,899) (18,792)
Effect of asset ceiling (53) – (53) (44)
Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet (2,686) (1,047) (3,733) (3,309)
Comprising:
– Deficits (3,039) (1,047) (4,086) (3,599)
– Surpluses 353 – 353 290
Net deficits on pension plans (2,686) – (2,686) (2,215)
Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation – (1,047) (1,047) (1,094)
The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet as Trade and other receivables. See note 18.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions (including post retirement benefits). See note 26.
Funding policy and contributions to plans
The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum level required
in each country. In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation. In the UK and Switzerland the minimum is negotiated with the local Trustee
or Foundation in accordance with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators. In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group
takes into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that the Group might
obtain by accelerating contributions. The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
2012
Total
US$m
Contributions
Contributions to defined benefit plans 291 62 353 734 727
Contributions to defined contribution plans 309 1 310 317 328
Contributions to industry-wide plans 19 – 19 20 20
Total 619 63 682 1,071 1,075
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2015 are estimated to be around US$375 million. This is kept under regular review and actual contributions will
be determined in line with the Group’s wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant minimum funding requirements. As contributions to many plans are
reviewed on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2015 and subsequent years cannot be determined in advance and may be higher or lower than this.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments net of participant contributions. The Group’s
contributions are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2014.
Movements in the net defined benefit liability
A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown in the first table below. The subsequent tables provide a more detailed analysis of the
movements in the present value of the obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participateinthe
plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements. Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the
amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group. Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Change in the net defined benefit liability:
Net defined benefit liability at start of the year (2,215) (1,094) (3,309) (6,051)
Amounts recognised in Income (268) 7 (261) (468)
Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (668) (67) (735) 2,260
Employer contributions 291 62 353 734
Divestments/newly included arrangements 13 – 13 19
Currency exchange rate movements 161 45 206 197
Net defined benefit liability at end of the year (2,686) (1,047) (3,733) (3,309)
riotinto.com 171
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
45 Post retirement benefits continued
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Change in present value of obligation:
Present value of obligation at start of the year (17,698) (1,094) (18,792) (20,722)
Current employer service cost (187) (9) (196) (284)
Past service cost –66 66 1
Curtailments (1) – (1) 44
Settlements 326 – 326 131
Interest on obligations (733) (50) (783) (776)
Contributions by plan participants (32) (5) (37) (41)
Benefits paid 975 67 1,042 1,086
Experience gain 27 29 56 90
Changes in financial assumptions (loss)/gain (1,624) (94) (1,718) 965
Changes in demographic assumptions (loss)/gain (189) (2) (191) 37
Arrangements divested 58 – 58 94
Currency exchange rate gain 1,226 45 1,271 583
Present value of obligation at end of the year (17,852) (1,047) (18,899) (18,792)
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 15,527 – 15,527 14,671
Settlements (304) – (304) (129)
Interest on assets 655 – 655 567
Contributions by plan participants 32 5 37 41
Contributions by employer 291 62 353 734
Benefits paid (975) (67) (1,042) (1,086)
Non-investment expenses (19) – (19) (22)
Return on plan assets (net of interest on assets) 1,127 – 1,127 1,212
Arrangements divested (45) – (45) (75)
Currency exchange rate loss (1,070) – (1,070) (386)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 15,219 – 15,219 15,527
Pension
benefits
Other
benefits
2014
Total
US$m
2013
Total
US$m
Change in the effect of the asset ceiling:
Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year (44) – (44) –
Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling (5) – (5) –
Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling (9) – (9) (44)
Currency exchange rate gain 5– 5 –
Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year (53) – (53) (44)
In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules specific toeach
pension plan. The calculation takes into account any minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, whether any reduction in future Group
contributions is available, and whether a refund of surplus may be available. Where the plan rules and legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of
surplus the asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case that a refund will only be available many years in the future.
172 riotinto.com Main assumptions (rates per annum)
The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Canada UK US Switzerland Eurozone Australia
Other
(mainly
Africa)
(a)
At 31 December 2014
Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% 3.8% 3.6% 2.3% 2.1% 4.0% 9.1%
Rate of increase in pensions 0.7% 2.6% – 0.0% 1.5% 2.1% 7.1%
Discount rate 3.9% 3.4% 3.8% 0.9% 1.8% 2.7% 9.0%
Inflation
(b)
1.8% 3.0% 2.1% 1.3% 1.7% 2.1% 7.1%
At 31 December 2013
Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 5.0% 3.8% 2.3% 2.6% 4.4% 9.0%
Rate of increase in pensions 0.8% 3.0% – 0.2% 1.5% 2.7% 7.0%
Discount rate 4.6% 4.4% 4.6% 2.2% 3.4% 4.1% 9.1%
Inflation
(b)
2.0% 3.4% 2.3% 1.3% 1.9% 2.7% 7.0%
(a) The assumptions vary by location for the ‘Other’ plans. Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
(b) The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index. The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2014 was 2.0 per cent (2013: 2.4 per cent).
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 3.9 per cent (2013:
4.6 per cent), medical trend rate: 6.7 per cent reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022 broadly on a straight line basis (2013: 6.8 per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent
by the year 2022), claims costs based on individual company experience.
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity. The mortality tables
used imply that a man aged 60 at the balance sheet date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 years (2013: 25 years) and that a man aged 60 in
2034 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 28 years (2013: 27 years).
Sensitivity
The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting
those payments. In order to estimate the sensitivity of the obligations to changes in assumptions we calculate what the obligations would be if we were to
make small changes to each of the key assumptions in isolation. The difference between this figure and the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is
an indication of the sensitivity to changes in each assumption. The results of this sensitivity analysis are summarised in the table below. Note that this
approach is valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
2014 2013
Approximate (increase)/
decrease in obligations
Approximate (increase)/
decrease in obligations
Assumption Change in assumption
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Pensions
US$m
Other
US$m
Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,166 63 1,095 62
decrease of 0.5 percentage points (1,250) (68) (1,169) (66)
Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points (653) (23) (626) (32)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 620 20 594 29
Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points (100) (2) (100) (3)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 97 2 97 2
Demographic – allowance for future
improvements in longevity
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of
individuals who are one year older 477 18 437 16
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of
individuals who are one year younger (477) (18) (437) (16)
Medical cost trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points –(41) – (59)
decrease of 1.0 percentage points –35 –54
Information on the sensitivity of the Group’s earnings to the main assumptions is set out in note 1 (Critical accounting policies and estimates section(x))on
page 122.
riotinto.com 173
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2014 financial statements continued
46 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures
As at 31 December
2014
A$m
2013
A$m
Assets
Current assets 16,523 1,490
Non-current assets 11,302 11,480
Total assets 27,825 12,970
Liabilities
Current liabilities (8,230) (1,336)
Non-current liabilities (38) (329)
Total liabilities (8,268) (1,665)
Net assets 19,557 11,305
Shareholders’ equity
Share capital 4,113 4,113
Other reserves 377 272
Retained earnings 15,067 6,920
Total equity 19,557 11,305
Profit of the parent company 9,121 4,861
Total comprehensive income of the parent company 9,122 4,861
Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and IFRS as
defined in note 1.
Rio Tinto Limited guarantees
Rio Tinto Limited provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Group’s external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme
and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled A$25.4 billion at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: A$26.0 billion); in addition these entities also jointly
guarantee the Group’s undrawn credit facility which was A$9.1 billion at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: A$8.4 billion).
Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed external debt held by Rio Tinto Group entities which totalled A$0.1billion at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013:
A$0.1 billion) and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of A$6 million at 31 December 2014
(31 December 2013: A$nil).
In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of certain obligations of Rio Tinto Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations
incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
174 riotinto.com Rio Tinto plc
Company balance sheet
At 31 December
Note
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Fixed assets
Investments B 36,139 36,107
36,139 36,107
Current assets
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 940 119
Cash at bank and in hand 3 3
943 122
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries C (11,922) (13,082)
Dividends payable (17) (9)
(11,939) (13,091)
Net current liabilities (10,996) (12,969)
Total assets less current liabilities 25,143 23,138
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year – (58)
Net assets 25,143 23,080
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital D 230 230
Share premium account E 4,288 4,269
Other reserves E 11,982 11,982
Profit and loss account E 8,643 6,599
Equity shareholders’ funds 25,143 23,080
(a) The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). Note A explains the principal accounting
policies.
(b) Profit after tax for the year amounted to US$4,821 million (2013: US$1,805 million profit). As permitted by section 408 of the United Kingdom CompaniesAct2006,noprofitand
loss account for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown. The company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996). The company
is also not required under the terms of FRS 8 to disclose related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes were approved by the directors on 4 March 2015 and the balance sheetis
signed on their behalf by
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
Rio Tinto plc
Registered number: 719885
riotinto.com 175
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto plc continued
A Principal accounting policies under UK GAAP
a Basis of Accounting
The Rio Tinto plc entity financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP using the historical cost convention, except for financial guarantees which have
been measured at fair value as set out in note (e) below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006. The directors
have reviewed the Company’s existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18
“Accounting Policies” and with last year. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and are set out below.
b Deferred tax
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except that deferred tax assets are
only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply
in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis. There are no unprovided amounts relating to deferred tax.
c Currency translation
The Company’s local or ‘functional’ currency is the US dollar. Transactions denominated in other currencies, including the issue of shares, are translated at the
rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling
at the end of the financial year. Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements (see
note 41). Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
d Investments
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less impairment provisions. Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstancesindicate
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present
value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or disposal value if higher. The discount rate applied is based upon the Company’s
weighted average cost of capital, with appropriate adjustment for the risks associated with the relevant unit.
e Financial guarantees
Obligations for financial guarantees issued by the Company to other Group companies are reflected as liabilities at fair value, in accordance with FRS 26 “Financial
instruments – measurement”. Such obligations result in corresponding increases in the carrying value of amounts owed by subsidiaries. Payments received are set
off against the asset recognised which is initially recorded at fair value.
f Share based payments
The fair value of the grant is recognised as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work. The fair value is
recognised over the relevant vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to the profit and loss account reserve. Payments received from the Company’s
subsidiaries in respect of these share based payments result in a credit to reduce the cost of the investment. The fair value of the share plans is determined at the
date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the award (eg total shareholder return). When market prices are not available,
the Company uses fair values provided by independent actuaries using a lattice based option valuation model.
Non-market vesting conditions (eg earnings per share targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest. The estimate ofthe
number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actualawards
issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
g Revenue recognition
Interest is accounted for on the accruals basis. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
h Dividends
Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation (ie when they have been approved).
i Treasury shares
The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders’ funds through the profit
and loss account reserve.
B Rio Tinto plc fixed assets
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Fixed asset investments
Shares in Group companies:
At 1 January 36,107 36,111
Additions 78 69
Other adjustments (46) (73)
At 31 December 36,139 36,107
The directors believe that the carrying value of the individual investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
176 riotinto.com C Amounts owed to subsidiaries
Amounts owed to subsidiaries are subject to interest rates based on LIBOR and are unsecured and repayable on demand.
D Rio Tinto plc called up share capital
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Allotted and fully paid up share capital
(a)
At 1 January 230 230
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled
(b)
– –
At 31 December 230 230
(a) 971 new shares were issued during the year (2013: 951 new shares), and 1,450,659 shares (2013: 1,436,542 shares) were reissued from treasury pursuant to share plans.
(b) During the year no shares were purchased from Rio Tinto Limited (2013: nil).
E Rio Tinto plc share premium and reserves
At 31 December 2014
Share
premium
account
US$m
Other
reserves
US$m
Profit and
loss
account
US$m
At 1 January 4,269 11,982 6,599
Adjustment for share based payments and other items
(a)
19 – 80
Profit for the financial year – – 4,821
Dividends paid –– (2,857)
At 31 December 4,288 11,982 8,643
At 31 December 2013
Share
premium
account
US$m
Other
reserves
US$m
Profit and
loss
account
US$m
At 1 January 4,244 11,982 7,259
Adjustment for share based payments and other items 25 – 49
Profit for the financial year – – 1,805
Dividends paid – – (2,514)
At 31 December 4,269 11,982 6,599
(a) Other reserves include US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue
completed in July 2009.
F Rio Tinto plc guarantees
Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Group’s external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme
and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled US$20.8 billion at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: US$23.2 billion); in addition these entities also jointly
guarantee the Group’s undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: US$7.5 billion). Rio Tinto plc has provided
guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability position of US$55 million at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: US$47 million).
Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various pension funds. Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto plc would pay any contributions due
from Group companies participating in these funds in the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements. The guarantees were not called
upon in 2014. The aggregate of the company contributions to these plans in 2014 was US$65 million.
Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto plc in relation to Rio Tinto Group entities as at 31 December 2014 amount to US$439 million (31 December 2013:
US$445 million), included within this balance is US$59 million (31 December 2013: US$53 million) in relation to non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations
incurred by the other or guaranteed by the other.
G Events after the balance sheet date
On 12 February 2015, the Group announced a share buy-back of US$2 billion comprising a A$500 million (c US$0.4 billion) off-market share buy-back tender of
Rio Tinto Limited shares and the balance of approximately US$1.6 billion as an on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares. Ordinary shares of Rio Tinto plc have
been bought back since 18 February 2015 and announcements have been made to the relevant stock exchanges. Shares so purchased have been cancelled.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares have been purchased at the date of this report.
riotinto.com 177
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto financial information by business unit
Gross revenue
(a)
for the year ended 31 December
EBITDA
(b)
for the year ended 31 December
Net earnings
(c)
for the year ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Iron Ore
Pilbara (d) 21,482 23,633 22,185 13,701 16,511 15,143 7,956 9,568 9,142
Iron Ore Company of Canada 58.7 1,696 2,258 1,972 516 927 665 144 305 230
Product group operations 23,178 25,891 24,157 14,217 17,438 15,808 8,100 9,873 9,372
Evaluation projects/other 103 103 122 27 4 (129) 7 (15) (125)
23,281 25,994 24,279 14,244 17,442 15,679 8,107 9,858 9,247
Aluminium (e)
Bauxite 1,956 2,012 1,710 752 765 648 429 377 326
Alumina 2,158 2,090 2,274 (54) (226) (237) (209) (265) (343)
Intrasegment (834) (739) (687)
Bauxite & Alumina 3,280 3,363 3,297 698 539 411 220 112 (17)
Primary Metal 5,867 5,771 5,623 1,604 976 806 629 200 65
Pacific Aluminium 2,483 2,348 2,447 524 252 66 291 126 (92)
Intersegment & Other (2,087) (2,087) (2,006) (43) 8 (53) (6) 15 (18)
Integrated Operations 9,543 9,395 9,361 2,783 1,775 1,230 1,134 453 (62)
Other Product Group Items 2,373 2,866 2,650 36 32 74 26 28 52
Product group operations 11,916 12,261 12,011 2,819 1,807 1,304 1,160 481 (10)
Evaluation projects/other 207 202 159 111 87 66 88 76 64
12,123 12,463 12,170 2,930 1,894 1,370 1,248 557 54
Copper
Kennecott Utah Copper 100.0 2,186 2,194 2,412 958 840 977 523 428 511
Escondida 30.0 2,282 2,566 2,566 1,292 1,453 1,597 612 777 835
Grasberg joint venture (f) 49 39 17 6 22 (17) (21) (17)
Oyu Tolgoi (g) 1,736 55 – 401 (225) – (14) (90) –
Palabora (h) – 526 1,072 – 105 64 – 42 3
Northparkes (h) – 351 453 – 227 247 – 141 144
Product group operations 6,253 5,731 6,520 2,657 2,402 2,887 1,104 1,277 1,476
Evaluation projects/other 29 185 141 (321) (652) (1,040) (192) (456) (417)
6,282 5,916 6,661 2,336 1,750 1,847 912 821 1,059
Energy
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (i) 3,560 4,413 4,998 450 1,041 1,030 21 367 402
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique (j) 59 88 10 (96) (114) (64) (93) (142) (92)
Rössing 68.6 221 309 352 10 44 3 (7) 4 (21)
Energy Resources of Australia 68.4 345 339 416 (97) 67 65 (119) (95) (131)
Product group operations 4,185 5,149 5,776 267 1,038 1,034 (198) 134 158
Evaluation projects/other 123 305 286 (16) (132) 218 (12) (101) 151
4,308 5,454 6,062 251 906 1,252 (210) 33 309
Diamonds & Minerals
Diamonds (k) 901 852 741 315 257 106 104 53 (25)
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (l) 2,168 2,251 2,232 689 728 793 248 264 409
Rio Tinto Minerals 675 657 656 212 205 215 121 131 140
Dampier Salt 68.4 398 404 416 67 43 23 18 7(4)
Product group operations 4,142 4,164 4,045 1,283 1,233 1,137 491 455 520
Simandou iron ore project – –– (97) (71) (328) (55) (43) (262)
Evaluation projects/other 8 29 11 (42) (77) (129) (35) (62) (109)
4,150 4,193 4,056 1,144 1,085 680 401 350 149
Other Operations (m) 241 1,761 3,898 (291) (401) (527) (243) (281) (582)
Intersegment transactions (344) (1,182) (1,560) – (4) (10) – (4) (8)
Product Group Total 50,041 54,599 55,566 20,614 22,672 20,291 10,215 11,334 10,228
Refer to notes (a) to (p) on page 182.
178 riotinto.com Gross revenue
(a)
for the year ended 31 December
EBITDA
(b)
for the year ended 31 December
Net earnings
(c)
for the year ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Product Group Total 50,041 54,599 55,566 20,614 22,672 20,291 10,215 11,334 10,228
Other items (755) (995) (928) (593) (730) (750)
Exploration and evaluation (194) (168) (118) (156) (145) (97)
Net interest (161) (242) (112)
Underlying EBITDA/earnings 19,665 21,509 19,245 9,305 10,217 9,269
Items excluded from underlying
EBITDA/earnings
– (24) 31 (825) (556) 350 (2,778) (6,552) (12,297)
EBITDA/net earnings 18,840 20,953 19,595 6,527 3,665 (3,028)
Reconciliation to Group income
statement
Share of equity accounted unit
sales and intra-subsidiary/
equity accounted units sales (2,377) (3,404) (4,655)
Depreciation & amortisation in
subsidiaries excluding
capitalised depreciation (4,828) (4,470) (4,563)
Impairment charges (221) (7,545) (16,918)
Depreciation & amortisation in
equity accounted units (472) (401) (460)
Taxation and finance items in
equity accounted units (759) (625) (49)
Consolidated sales revenue/
profit/(loss) on ordinary
activities before finance
items and tax 47,664 51,171 50,942 12,560 7,912 (2,395)
Refer to notes (a) to (p) on page 182.
riotinto.com 179
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto financial information by business unit continued
Capital expenditure
(n)
for the year
ended 31 December
Depreciation
& amortisation
for the year
ended 31 December
Operating assets
(o)
as at 31 December
Employees
for the year
ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
Number
2013
Number
2012
Number
Iron Ore
Pilbara (d) 4,038 6,480 6,410 1,789 1,461 1,356 19,524 19,498 19,367 12,032 12,143 10,913
Iron Ore Company of Canada 58.7 173 334 742 164 166 129 1,460 1,553 1,674 2,580 2,620 2,591
Other – –– – –– 3 11 16 – 18 18
4,211 6,814 7,152 1,953 1,627 1,485 20,987 21,062 21,057 14,612 14,781 13,522
Aluminium (e)
Bauxite 122 144 190 126 130 128 1,366 1,454 1,590 2,613 2,525 2,381
Alumina 166 166 369 212 232 239 3,166 3,609 4,385 2,228 2,163 2,310
Bauxite & Alumina 288 310 559 338 362 367 4,532 5,063 5,975 4,841 4,688 4,691
Primary Metal 1,781 1,767 1,980 692 666 717 11,455 12,165 12,477 9,270 10,414 10,896
Pacific Aluminium 129 134 196 135 109 183 1,421 405 690 2,395 2,377 2,444
Intersegment and Other (177) 15 20 15 14 20 889 1,181 1,319 311 318 583
Integrated Operations 2,021 2,226 2,755 1,180 1,151 1,287 18,297 18,814 20,461 16,817 17,797 18,614
Copper
Kennecott Utah Copper 100.0 642 783 896 324 296 300 2,603 2,634 2,490 1,976 2,093 2,438
Escondida 30.0 947 947 765 308 216 249 2,999 2,524 1,913 1,344 1,248 1,151
Grasberg joint venture (f) 193 176 136 36 38 31 878 761 618 2,955 2,441 2,463
Oyu Tolgoi (g), (o) 157 749 2,271 340 272 67 4,693 4,863 5,323 2,854 2,831 2,431
Palabora (h) – 18 45 – –71 – –– – 1,145 2,290
Northparkes (h) – 18 61 – 25 44 – – 405 – 269 373
Other 19 122 281 43 115 32 (592) 1,288 1,572 711 1,146 1,230
1,958 2,813 4,455 1,051 962 794 10,581 12,070 12,321 9,840 11,173 12,376
Energy
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (i) 165 547 1,527 406 486 432 3,099 3,945 5,628 3,187 3,826 3,954
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique (j) 2 32 109 – 28 29 7 119 556 183 263 312
Rössing 68.6 37 47 75 25 23 30 65 99 141 850 1,141 1,528
Energy Resources of Australia 68.4 17 106 166 110 229 279 66 120 129 389 513 624
Other 3 –– 7 –– 557 589 715 729 27 19
224 732 1,877 548 766 770 3,794 4,872 7,169 5,338 5,770 6,437
Diamonds & Minerals
Diamonds (k) 148 319 680 168 168 144 1,124 1,279 1,307 1,268 1,255 1,622
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (l) 185 274 274 233 264 205 4,424 4,859 5,300 4,787 4,955 4,426
Rio Tinto Minerals 69 115 97 41 36 31 650 669 593 1,024 1,110 1,246
Dampier Salt 68.4 21 28 46 28 29 30 193 228 291 479 512 497
Simandou iron ore project 85 273 717 14 14 10 864 808 567 958 1,011 977
Other – –– – 21 53 57 3 78 92 88
508 1,009 1,814 484 513 421 7,308 7,900 8,061 8,594 8,935 8,856
Other Operations (m) (56) 278 432 34 67 214 418 544 979 849 3,891 7,359
Product Group Total 8,866 13,872 18,485 5,250 5,086 4,971 61,385 65,262 70,048 56,050 62,347 67,164
Intersegment transactions 238 276 213
Net assets of disposal groups held for
sale (p) – –– – –– (48) 771 351 – ––
Other items (416) 145 161 82 106 113 (2,784) (2,352) (4,836) 3,725 3,984 4,055
Less: equity accounted units (1,032) (1,073) (1,071) (472) (401) (460)
Total 7,418 12,944 17,575 4,860 4,791 4,624 58,791 63,957 65,776 59,775 66,331 71,219
180 riotinto.com Capital expenditure(n)
for the year
ended 31 December
Depreciation
& amortisation
for the year
ended 31 December
Operating assets
(o)
as at 31 December
Employees
for the year
ended 31 December
Rio Tinto
interest
%
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
2014
Number
2013
Number
2012
Number
Total 7,418 12,944 17,575 58,791 63,957 65,776
Add back: Proceeds from disposal of
property, plant and equipment 744 57 40
Total capital expenditure per cash
flow statement 8,162 13,001 17,615
Less: Net debt (12,495) (18,055) (19,192)
Less: EAU funded balances excluded
from net debt (11) (16) (31)
Equity attributable to owners of
Rio Tinto 46,285 45,886 46,553
riotinto.com 181
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to financial information by business unit
Business units are classified according to the Group’s management structure. Where presentational revisions are made, comparative amounts are adjusted
accordingly.
(a) Includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ sales revenue and the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for salesto
subsidiaries).
(b) EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Group’s share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation
and amortisation charged to the income statement in the year. Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying
earnings.
(c) Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. Business unit earnings are stated before finance items but after the
amortisation of discount related to provisions. Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying
earnings.
(d) Pilbara represents the Group’s 100 percent holding in Hamersley and 65 per cent holding of Robe River Iron Associates. 30 per cent of Robe River Iron
Associates is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary and therefore the Group’s net beneficial interest is 53 per cent.
(e) Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities between Bauxite and Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and Other integrated
operations (which in total reflect the results of the integrated production of aluminium) and Other product group items which relate to other
commercial activities. Following reintegration in 2013, the four aluminium smelters and the Gove bauxite mine previously grouped within Pacific
Aluminium in Other Operations are included within the Aluminium group. The Gove alumina refinery is reported within Other Operations.
(f) Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and
developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998.
(g) Rio Tinto’s interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC is held indirectly through its 50.8 per cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. which in turn owns
66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi.
(h) Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company on 31 July 2013 and of its 80 per cent interest in the
Northparkes mine on 1 December 2013.
(i) Includes Rio Tinto’s 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied, through which Rio Tinto holds its beneficial interests in Bengalla, Mount Thorley and
Warkworth of 32 per cent, 64 per cent and 44.5 per cent respectively.
(j) On 7 October 2014, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique (RTCM), including its interests in the Benga project, a 65:35 joint
venture with Tata Steel Limited. Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), which was retained, is reported within Other Energy.
(k) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Argyle (100 per cent), Diavik (60 per cent) and Murowa (77.8 per cent).
(l) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (100 per cent), QIT Madagascar Minerals (80 per cent) and Richards Bay Minerals (attributable
interest of 74 per cent).
(m) Other Operations include Rio Tinto’s 100 per cent interest in the Gove alumina refinery (refer to note e) and Rio Tinto Marine.
(n) Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and
purchases less disposals of other intangible assets. The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ capital expenditure and Rio Tinto’s share
of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
(o) Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies
(i.e. inclusive of such companies’ debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies). In addition, Oyu Tolgoi’s operating assets are shown
net of Turquoise Hill’s public shareholders’ interest in intragroup receivables from Oyu Tolgoi, previously shown in Other Copper. Comparative
amounts have been adjusted accordingly.
(p) Comprising Rio Tinto’s interests in the Blair Athol thermal coal mine and assets and liabilities relating to the anticipated disposal of SouthGobi
Resources Limited. Net assets held for sale at 31 December 2013 comprised the Clermont and Blair Athol thermal coal mines, and ZAC which is no
longer reported as held for sale. Amounts are presented after deducting non-controlling interests, including the non-controlling interests’ shareof
third party net debt and balances owed with Rio Tinto Group subsidiaries.
182 riotinto.com Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief
Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 (‘Corporations Act’), the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order dated 9 January
2015 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the Company’s financial statements and associated
reports. The order essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since the formation of the Group’s Dual Listed Companies (DLC) structure in
1995. The order applies to Rio Tinto Limited’s financial reporting obligations for the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its controlled entities, the
order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities are treated as a single
economic entity. In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared:
– in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU IFRS) rather than the
Australian Accounting Standards (AAS) (except for one limited instance in the case of any concise report), and in accordance with United Kingdom financial
reporting obligations generally;
– on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
should be applied using the combined financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities under
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for
using ‘merger’, rather than ‘acquisition’, accounting (reflecting that neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the other, and
meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather than fair values, of assetsandliabilitiesatthetimeoftheDLCmergerwereusedtomeasurethoseassets
and liabilities at formation);
– on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single company (with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single
company); and
– with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total consolidated income for the financial year
and total consolidated equity at the end of the financial year (see page 109).
Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in relation to their compliance with relevant Australian and United Kingdom requirements. Rio Tinto
Limited must also prepare a Directors’ report which satisfies the content requirements of the Corporations Act (applied on the basis that for these purposes the
consolidated entity is the Group, and the consolidated financial statements cover the Group). This includes a Remuneration report (see pages 64 to 100) prepared
in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act.
Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act (including timing requirements) in
relation to those consolidated financial statements (including any concise financial statements), the Auditor’s report and the Directors’ report. The Corporations
Act also requires that a non-binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report be voted on by shareholders at the Company’s annual general meeting.
Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities. Rio Tinto Limited is also not required
to prepare and lodge parent entity financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year.
However, Rio Tinto Limited must in accordance with the Corporations Act include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a note, various parent
entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited (including in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders’ equity, profit and loss, income, guarantees, contingent
liabilities, and contractual commitments) prepared in accordance with AAS (see page 174).
riotinto.com 183
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors’ declaration
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to the Group financial statements, Rio Tinto plc financial statements and
Rio Tinto Limited financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
UK and Australian company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under UK laws the directors have elected to prepare
the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and the Rio Tinto plc
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law).
Under Australian law, the directors are also required to prepare certain Rio Tinto Limited parent company financial statements in accordance with Australian
Accounting Standards (AAS). In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
Under UK and Australian company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair viewofthe
state of affairs of the Group and the companies as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the companies and Group for the period (as
applicable).
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
– state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, applicable UK Accounting Standards and AAS have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the companies will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the companies and the Group
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the companies and the Group and enable them to ensure that:
– the Group financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 2006, the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation,
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006;
– the Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures comply with the Corporations Act as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission
Order dated 9 January 2015; and
– the Remuneration Report complies with the Companies Act 2006 and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission Order dated 9 January 2015.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the companies and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website. Legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ between jurisdictions in which the Group reports.
Each of the current directors, whose names and function are listed on pages 49 to 51 in the Governance section confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
– the Rio Tinto Group financial statements and notes, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Corporations Act 2001 as
amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation,
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group;
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and notes, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practicegivea
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company;
– the Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures, which have been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AAS) and Corporations Act
2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit of the company;
– the Overview and Performance sections of the Annual report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position ofthe
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; and
– there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of the Rio Tinto Group, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited will be able to pay its debts as and when they
become due and payable.
The directors have been given the declarations by the chief executive and chief financial officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001asamended
by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 9 January 2015.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Thedirectorsinofficeatthedateofthisreporthaveeachconfirmedthat:
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information.
This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the board.
Jan du Plessis Sam Walsh AO Chris Lynch
Chairman Chief executive Chief financial officer
4 March 2015 4 March 2015 4 March 2015
184 riotinto.com Auditor’s independence declaration
As lead auditor for the audit of Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended 31 December 2014, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been:
(a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and
(b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and the entities it controlled during the period.
Paul Bendall
Partner
PricewaterhouseCoopers
Melbourne
4 March 2015
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation
riotinto.com 185
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers to the
members of Rio Tinto Limited
For the purpose of this report, the terms “we” and “our” denote PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities
and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers in relation to Australian legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities
and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
The relevant legislation governing the companies is the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the
ASIC order dated 9 January 2015 (the “ASIC Order”) for Rio Tinto Limited.
Report on the financial statements
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on the financial statements to the members of Rio Tinto plc
In our opinion:
– The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of Rio Tinto plc’s affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the
Group’sprofitandcashflowsfortheyearthenended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted bythe
European Union;
– the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers on the financial report to the members of Rio Tinto Limited
In our opinion:
– the financial report of Rio Tinto Limited is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including:
i. giving a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position as at 31 December 2014 and of its performance for the year ended on that date;
ii. complying with the Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations Regulations 2001;
and
– The Group’s financial report also complies with IFRSs as disclosed in note 1.
What we have audited
The Rio Tinto Group financial statements comprise:
– the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014;
– the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
– the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended;
– the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
– notes 1 – 46 to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information;
– the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements; and
– the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit.
The Group’s financial statements and the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements are referred to in this report as the “financial statements”.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are cross-referenced
from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Rio Tintoplc
company balance sheet and the related notes. PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards and the Rio Tinto
Limited financial report, which comprises the financial statements and the Directors’ declaration on page 184.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United Kingdom, applicable
law in Australia as amended by the ASIC Order (described in the Annual Report under the heading “Australian Corporations Act – Summary of ASIC relief”) and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
186 riotinto.com Our audit approach
Overview
Materiality Overall group materiality: $600 million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying
earnings (as defined in note 2 to the financial statements).
Scope We identified 3 business units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their
size or their risk characteristics. Those business units were Hamersley Iron, Robe River and Escondida.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 14 business units.
Areas of focus – Impairment assessments (including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal) of indefinite-lived intangible assets
(Rio Tinto Alcan) and property, plant & equipment (both Rio Tinto Alcan and Oyu Tolgoi).
– Taxation including provisions for uncertain tax positions and accounting for the consequences of the repeal of the Mineral
Resource Rent Tax (MRRT).
– Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations.
– Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits.
– Impact of finance transformation, including shared services transition, on the control environment.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) and Australian Auditing Standards
(“ASAs”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we looked at where
the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether
there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as “areas of focus” in
the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Impairment/reversal of impairment assessment
Rio Tinto has goodwill of $1,228 million, indefinite-lived intangible assets of
$1,981 million and property, plant & equipment of $68,693 million as at
31 December 2014, contained within 54 cash generating units (“CGUs”).
Impairment charges to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and property,
plant & equipment have been recognised in prior periods.
For the CGUs which contain Rio Tinto’s goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets
and property, plant and equipment, the determination of recoverable amount,
being the higher of value-in-use and fairvaluelesscoststodispose,requires
judgement on the part of management in both identifying and then valuing the
relevant CGUs. Recoverable amounts are based on management’s view of
variables such as future commodity prices, timing and approval of future capital
and operating expenditure and the most appropriate discount rate.
All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be
tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other assets
including property, plant & equipment when impairment indicators are identified.
As at 30 September 2014, being management’s testing date, the Oyu Tolgoi CGU
had a carrying value of $8,163 million and management identified an impairment
indicator due to the ongoing delays in the development of the underground
project and therefore performed a full impairment assessment to determine the
recoverable amount of these assets.
As well as considering indicators of impairment, for assets other than goodwill
and indefinite-lived intangible assets management must determine whether any
indicators of reversal of previous impairments are apparent. In particular, for
certain business units within Rio Tinto Alcan, management assessed whether
previously recorded impairments against property, plant & equipment should be
reversed in light of improved profitability and cash flows.
Refer to note 6 for management’s conclusions.
We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of management’s
identification of the Group’s CGUs and controls over the impairment
assessment process, including indicators of impairment and
impairment reversal.
We benchmarked key market related assumptions in management’s
valuation models, including commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and
discount rates, against external data where available, using our valuations
expertise.
We verified the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreed
relevant data to the latest Life of Mine/production plans and budgets.
For Oyu Tolgoi we also read the latest feasibility study and assessed through
sensitivity analysis the potential impact of further delays to the restart of the
underground project.
In assessing potential impairment reversals within the Primary Metal – Pacific
Aluminium CGU of Rio Tinto Alcan, we considered the sustainability of cost
improvements and regional and product price premia in the determination of
the CGU’s recoverable amount.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 of the
financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to
Oyu Tolgoi.
riotinto.com 187
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and
PricewaterhouseCoopers to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Taxation
Provisions for uncertain tax positions:
The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to
periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the
normal course of business including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and
transaction related tax matters. As at 31 December 2014, the Group has current
and non-current taxes payable of $1,170 million. Where the amount of tax
payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto establishes provisions based on the
Group’s judgement of the probable amount of the liability or recovery.
Minerals Resource Rent Tax:
In 2014 the Australian government repealed the Minerals Resource Rent Tax
(MRRT) with effect from 30 September 2014. The nature of MRRT and the
complexity of the associated accounting considerations made this an area of
focus.
We assessed the Group’s process for identifying uncertain tax positions and
the related accounting policy of provisioning for tax exposures.
We used our specialist tax knowledge to gain an understanding of the current
status of tax investigations and monitored changes in ongoing disputes by
reading recent rulings and correspondence with local tax authorities, as well
as external advice received by the Group where relevant, to establish that the
tax provisions had been appropriately adjusted to reflect the latest external
developments.
We verified the accuracy of the utilisation of the MRRT deferred tax asset
from 1 January 2014 to the date of repeal and the subsequent write-off of the
remaining MRRT deferred tax asset at that date.
We also satisfied ourselves that the classification of the write-off of the MRRT
deferred tax asset as an exclusion from underlying earnings was consistent
with the Group’s accounting policies and appropriately disclosed in the
financial statements.
Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations
Rio Tinto has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental
obligations of $8,630 million at 31 December 2014.
The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in
estimating these future costs, given the unique nature of each site and the
potential associated obligations, taking into account for example likely advances
in technology prior to the work commencing and determining the timing of any
such work taking place. These calculations also require management to
determine an appropriate rate to discount these future costs back to their net
present value.
The judgement required to estimate such costs is further compounded by the
fact that the restoration and rehabilitation of each site is relatively unique and
there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical
precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future costs.
The Group reviews the close-down, restoration and environment obligations on a
semi-annual basis, using experts to provide support in its assessment as
appropriate. This review incorporates the effects of any changes in local
regulations and management’s expected approach to restoration and
rehabilitation.
We assessed management’s process for the review of provisions, and
performed detailed testing of the movements in the provision during the year
for 5 business units based on the associated risk of misstatement and
materiality.
As part of our testing, we evaluated the legal and/or constructive obligations
with respect to the restoration and rehabilitation for each of these business
units to assess the appropriateness of the intended method of restoration
and rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
We also considered the competence and objectivity of management’s
experts, whether internal or external to Rio, who produced the cost estimates.
We validated the accuracy of calculations and the appropriateness of the
discount rate.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits
The Group has approximately 60 defined benefit pension plans. The total fair
value of plan assets is $15,219 million, and total present value of obligations is
$17,852 million, which are significant in the context of the overall balance sheet
of the Group.
The valuation of the pension liabilities requires judgement in determining
appropriate assumptions, such as inflation levels, discount rates and mortality
rates. Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the
determination of the liability. Management uses external actuaries to assist in
assessing these assumptions.
Judgement is also involved in the measurement of the fair value of certain
pension assets.
We used our actuarial expertise to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions
used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, including comparing salary
increases and mortality rate assumptions, were consistent with relevant
national and industry benchmarks. We also verified that the discount and
inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension liabilities were consistent
with our internally developed benchmarks and with other companies
reporting as at 31 December 2014.
For pension plan assets, we obtained third party confirmations of ownership
and valuations of pension assets, and re-performed a sample of the
valuations independently.
188 riotinto.com Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Finance transformation – Shared services transition
The shared services transition element of Rio Tinto’s Finance transformation
programme includes the centralisation and outsourcing of certain back office
finance activities (excluding key controls) to a third-party provider. The
programme commenced in 2014 and is expected to run during 2015 and
into 2016.
Certain of the activities being transitioned were previously undertaken in
Rio Tinto’s own shared services centres. A number of business unit finance
processes have also been, or are being, transitioned.
This centralisation of processes and transfer of responsibilities creates a risk of
loss of knowledge which could adversely affect the controls during the transition
period. There is also a risk that controls over financial reporting, which rely on
those activities that have been, or are to be, transitioned may not be designed
and/or operate effectively.
We obtained a detailed understanding of the Group’s shared services
transition plans, including the timing of business unit transitions and extent
of activities being transferred. We assessed the implementation of
management’s plans through the following procedures:
– We visited the outsourced shared service centre to observe the manner in
which the knowledge transfer was being conducted.
– We assessed the design effectiveness of internal controls over financial
reporting in the processes impacted at both the Group and business
unit levels.
– We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls which operate within
Rio Tinto’s retained organisation.
– In respect of the third-party outsourced service provider:
– We evaluated the ‘Statement of Works’ governing the service level
agreements with Rio Tinto and the associated key performance indicators.
– We obtained a report from an independent third party on the Service
Organisation Controls performed in accordance with the Statement on
Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16. This provided
evidence about the operating effectiveness of governance and entity
level controls operated by the outsourced service provider.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into
account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into five product groups being Aluminium, Copper, Diamonds & Minerals, Energy, and Iron Ore, which are all supported by centralised
functions. Each product group is made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate business units. The Group financial statements are a
consolidation of business units, comprising the Group’s operating businesses and centralised functions. Based on this, we determined the appropriate business
units to perform work over based on factors such as the size of the balances, the areas of focus as noted above, known or historical accounting issues and the
desire to include some unpredictability in our audit procedures.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at business units by us, as the Group
engagement team, or component auditors from either other PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction. Where the work was performed
by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those business units to be able to conclude whether
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole. In 2014, we identified3business
units which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics. Those business units were
Hamersley Iron, Robe River and Escondida. Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 14 business units.
We performed work centrally in the areas of IT general controls, manual journals, taxation, pensions and treasury related procedures. In 2014, we also performed
procedures on the shared services transition as noted above.
Our Group engagement team involvement included site visits, conference calls with our component audit teams, review of our component auditor work papers,
attendance at component audit clearance meetings, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance of the component
and the extent of accounting and audit issues arising.
Materiality
The scope of our audit is influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative
considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of
misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality $600 million (2013: $600 million).
Howwedeterminedit 5% of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings (as defined in note 2 to the
financial statements).
Rationale for benchmark applied We consider an adjusted measure to be the most relevant in assessing the recurring financial performance of
the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $50 million (2013: $50 million) as well as
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement, set out on page 101, in relation to going concern. We have nothing to report having
performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of
accounting. The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Parent Companies (in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited) have adequate resources
to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As part of our audit we
have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
riotinto.com 189
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and
PricewaterhouseCoopers to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Parent Companies’ ability to
continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting – PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Information in the Annual Report is:
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the
course of performing our audit; or
– otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
The statement given by the directors on page 63, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”),
that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for
members to assess the Group’s and Rio Tinto plc’s performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our
knowledge of the group and company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
The section of the Annual Report on page 57, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions
to report arising from
this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
– the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and
returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Rio Tinto plc’s compliance with ten provisions of the
UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Other required reporting – PricewaterhouseCoopers
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report – Corporations Act 2001 opinion
Under the Corporations Act 2001 (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited) we are required to express an opinion on the Directors’ Remuneration Report, based on our audit
conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and presentationofthe
Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report included in the accompanying Annual Report complies with the requirements of section 300A of the CorporationsAct
2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Directors’ report
Consistency of information in Directors’ report – Corporations Act 2001 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements.
Independence
In conducting our audit, we have complied with the independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 184, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of the financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland) and Australian Auditing
Standards. Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors and relevant ethical requirements relating to
audit engagements in Australia.
190 riotinto.com This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance with Chapter 3
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 (in respect of Rio Tinto plc) and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited)
and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the Companies’ circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether
due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion onthe
effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the
disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for ustodraw
conclusions. We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Webelievethattheauditevidencewehaveobtained is sufficient and appropriate toprovideabasisforourauditopinion.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements
and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Hughes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London, United Kingdom
4 March 2015
Paul Bendall, Partner
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Melbourne, Australia
4 March 2015
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto Group website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the
website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom and Australia governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
riotinto.com 191
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial summary 2005-2014
US$m 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Gross sales revenue
(a)
20,742 25,440 33,518 56,905 42,734 59,008 65,298 55,597 54,575 50,041
Share of equity accounted
units’ sales revenue and
items excluded from
underlying earnings (1,709) (2,975) (3,818) (4,044) (2,472) (3,837) (4,769) (4,655) (3,404) (2,377)
Consolidated sales
revenue 19,033 22,465 29,700 52,861 40,262 55,171 60,529 50,942 51,171 47,664
Underlying profit before
interest and tax (PBIT) 7,301 9,912 10,517 17,683 9,843 21,128 23,662 13,467 16,039 13,851
Finance costs
(c)
(207) (193) (570) (1,706) (1,058) (909) (759) (616) (794) (967)
Exchange differences and
derivatives
(d)
(191) 83 253 (322) 528 529 2 695 (3,362) (2,021)
Other exclusions from
Underlying earnings 409 438 (364) (6,477) (1,453) (257) (9,633) (15,977) (8,378) (1,311)
Profit/(loss) before tax
(PBT) 7,312 10,240 9,836 9,178 7,860 20,491 13,272 (2,431) 3,505 9,552
Tax on Exclusions 33 (357) 60 988 (91) 42 135 2,896 2,642 423
Tax on Underlying PBT (1,847) (2,016) (2,150) (4,730) (1,985) (5,338) (6,607) (3,485) (5,068) (3,476)
Loss after tax from
discontinued operations – – – (827) (449) (97) (10) (7) – –
Attributable to non-
controlling interests (283) (429) (434) (933) (463) (860) (955) (1) 2,586 28
Net earnings/(loss) 5,215 7,438 7,312 3,676 4,872 14,238 5,835 (3,028) 3,665 6,527
Underlying/Adjusted
earnings
(b)
4,955 7,338 7,443 10,303 6,298 13,987 15,572 9,269 10,217 9,305
Earnings/(loss) per share
(basic) – continuing
operations
(n)
312.6c 456.2c 464.9c 286.8c 301.7c 731.0c 303.9c (163.4)c 198.4c 353.1c
Underlying earnings per
share (basic) – continuing
operations
(n)
297.0c 450.1c 473.2c 656.2c 357.1c 713.3c 809.7c 501.3c 553.1c 503.4c
Dividends per share:
declared for year
(e)
Rio Tinto shareholders
(US cents) 65.46c 85.07c 111.23c 111.22c 45.00c 108.00c 145.00c 167.00c 192.00c 215.00c
Rio Tinto plc (pence) 36.91p 44.22p 56.20p 67.49p 28.84p 67.35p 90.47p 106.77p 120.10p 134.88p
Rio Tinto Limited
(Aus. cents) 86.26c 110.69c 125.72c 146.22c 51.56c 111.21c 134.01c 160.18c 213.14c 256.07c
Net assets
Fixed assets
(f)
20,848 25,803 75,888 67,651 72,706 83,895 91,529 90,580 81,554 80,669
Other assets less liabilities 2,587 3,026 11,609 8,469 10,078 4,394 1,632 8,478 8,224 4,596
Provisions (including
deferred tax) (6,383) (7,007) (16,013) (14,987) (17,998) (19,706) (25,935) (22,126) (18,221) (18,176)
Net debt (1,313) (2,437) (45,191) (38,672) (18,861) (4,071) (8,342) (19,192) (18,055) (12,495)
Non-controlling interests (791) (1,153) (1,521) (1,823) (2,094) (6,265) (6,685) (11,187) (7,616) (8,309)
Equity attributable to
owners of Rio Tinto 14,948 18,232 24,772 20,638 43,831 58,247 52,199 46,553 45,886 46,285
Capital expenditure
(g)
(2,590) (3,992) (5,000) (8,574) (5,388) (4,591) (12,573) (17,615) (13,001) (8,162)
Acquisitions (2) (303) (37,539) (9) (396) (907) (4,156) (1,335) 4 –
Disposals 323 24 13 2,572 2,424 3,800 386 251 1,896 887
Net cash generated from
operating activities
(h)
6,717 7,803 8,491 14,883 9,212 18,277 20,235 9,430 15,078 14,286
Cash flows before
financing activities
(i)
4,460 3,714 (34,251) 8,702 5,855 16,566 3,245 (8,813) 4,132 7,783
Ratios
Operating margin
(j)
37% 42% 34% 32% 24% 37% 37% 25% 30% 28%
Netdebttototalcapital
(k)
8% 11% 63% 63% 29% 6% 12% 25% 25% 19%
Underlying earnings:
owners’ equity
(l)
37% 44% 35% 45% 20% 27% 28% 19% 22% 20%
Interest cover
(m)
59 89 20 10 9 27 27 13 13 13
192 riotinto.com (a) Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ sales revenue and the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounts units (after adjusting for sales to
subsidiaries)
(b) Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its IFRS (as defined in note 1) results to provide greater understanding of the
underlying business performance of its operations. It is defined in note 2 to the Financial Statement. Underlying profit before interest and tax (PBIT) is similar to underlying
earnings except that it is stated before tax and interest.
(c) Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount.
(d) Under IFRS, as defined in note 1, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Group’s Net earnings. These items are excluded from
underlying earnings.
(e) Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year. These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a Final dividend paid after the end of
the year. The Special dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table. 2005 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number of
shares which reflects the discounted price of the July 2009 rights issues (the bonus factor).
(f) Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units.
(g) Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals of property, plant and equipment.
(h) Net cash generated from operating activities represents the cash generated by the Group’s consolidated operations, after payment of interest, taxes, and dividends to non-
controlling interests in subsidiaries.
(i) Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to owners of Rio Tinto.
(j) Operating margin is the percentage of underlying PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue.
(k) Total capital comprises equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus net debt and non-controlling interests.
(l) Underlying earnings: owners’ equity represents underlying earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
(m) Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable (excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest) is covered by Underlying
operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units. Underlying operating profit is similar to underlying earnings but is stated before tax,
interest and share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
(n) 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the
July rights issues (the bonus factor). 2004 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.
riotinto.com 193
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Summary financial data in Australian dollars, Sterling and
US dollars
2014
A$m
2013
A$m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
55,430 56,353 30,367 34,882 Gross sales revenue 50,041 54,575
52,797 52,838 28,925 32,706 Consolidated sales revenue 47,664 51,171
10,581 3,619 5,797 2,240 Profit before tax from continuing operations 9,552 3,505
7,199 1,114 3,944 690 Profit for the year from continuing operations 6,499 1,079
7,230 3,784 3,961 2,342 Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 6,527 3,665
10,307 10,550 5,647 6,530 Underlying earnings
(a)
9,305 10,217
391.1c 204.9c 214.3p 126.8p Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations
(b)
353.1c 198.4c
557.6c 571.1c 305.5p 353.5p Basic underlying earnings per ordinary share
(a)(b)
503.4c 553.1c
Dividends per share to owners of Rio Tinto
223.23c 184.67c 122.72p 114.62p – paid 204.5c 178.0c
152.98c 120.14c 77.98p 65.82p – proposed final dividend 119.0c 108.5c
8,621 4,267 4,723 2,641 Cash flow before financing activities 7,783 4,132
(15,243) (20,240) (8,026) (10,929) Net debt (12,495) (18,055)
56,463 51,438 29,729 27,775 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 46,285 45,886
(a) Underlying earnings exclude net impairment and other charges of US$2,778 million (2013 charges: of US$6,552 million), which are analysed on page 125.
(b) Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic underlying earnings per ordinary share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue.
The financial data above has been extracted from the financial information set out on pages 103 to 174. The Australian dollar and Sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts,
retranslated at average or closing rates as appropriate, except for the dividends which are the actual amounts payable.
194 riotinto.com Metals and minerals production
2014 Production 2013 Production 2012 Production
Rio Tinto
%share
(a)
Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
ALUMINA (‘000 tonnes)
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) (Canada) (b) 100.0 1,444 1,444 1,439 1,439 1,397 1,397
Queensland Alumina (Australia) 80.0 3,568 2,854 3,384 2,707 3,693 2,954
São Luis (Alumar) (Brazil) 10.0 3,639 364 3,425 343 3,409 341
Yarwun (Australia) 100.0 2,688 2,688 2,446 2,446 2,175 2,175
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) specialty plant (Canada) 100.0 108 108 103 103 101 101
7,458 7,037 6,968
Other Aluminium
Gove refinery (Australia) (c) 100.0 676 676 2,270 2,270 2,742 2,742
Specialty plants (France/Germany) (d) – –– – – 331 331
676 2,270 3,073
Rio Tinto total 8,134 9,307 10,041
ALUMINIUM (‘000 tonnes)
Alma (Canada) 100.0 455 455 440 440 208 208
Alouette (Sept-Îles) (Canada) 40.0 583 233 582 233 593 237
Alucam (Edéa) (Cameroon) (e) – 93 43 75 35 52 24
Arvida (Canada) 100.0 173 173 175 175 177 177
Arvida AP60 (Canada) (f) 100.0 59 59 99 – –
Bécancour (Canada) 25.1 446 112 435 109 429 107
Bell Bay (Australia) 100.0 188 188 187 187 185 185
Boyne Island (Australia) 59.4 553 328 561 333 569 338
Dunkerque (France) 100.0 270 270 258 258 256 256
Grande-Baie (Canada) 100.0 222 222 224 224 223 223
ISAL (Reykjavik) (Iceland) 100.0 206 206 197 197 190 190
Kitimat (Canada) 100.0 125 125 172 172 182 182
Laterrière (Canada) 100.0 244 244 239 239 233 233
Lochaber (UK) 100.0 42 42 44 44 45 45
Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne (France) (g) – –– 85 85 93 93
Shawinigan (Canada) (h) 100.0 –– 74 74 81 81
Sohar (Oman) 20.0 364 73 354 71 360 72
SØRAL (Husnes) (Norway) (i) – 76 38 89 45 92 46
Tiwai Point (New Zealand) 79.4 327 260 324 257 325 258
Tomago (Australia) 51.6 561 289 545 281 546 281
3,361 3,468 3,236
Other Aluminium
Lynemouth (UK) (j) 100.0 –– – – 15 15
Sebree (US) (k) – –– 87 87 205 205
87 220
Rio Tinto total 3,361 3,555 3,456
See notes on page 198.
riotinto.com 195
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Metals and minerals production continued
2014 Production 2013 Production 2012 Production
Rio Tinto
%share
(a)
Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
BAUXITE (’000 tonnes)
Gove (Australia) 100.0 6,528 6,528 8,029 8,029 7,944 7,944
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) 12.0 16,376 1,965 15,729 1,887 15,512 1,861
Sangaredi (Guinea) 23.0
(l)
15,803 7,111 15,437 6,947 14,001 6,301
Weipa (Australia) 100.0 26,266 26,266 26,341 26,341 23,257 23,257
Rio Tinto total 41,871 43,204 39,363
BORATES (’000 tonnes) (m)
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) 100.0 508 508 495 495 453 453
Rio Tinto Minerals – Tincalayu (Argentina) (n) – –– –– 9 9
Rio Tinto total 508 495 463
COAL (hard coking) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Hail Creek Coal (Australia) 82.0 6,492 5,324 6,839 5,608 7,174 5,882
Kestrel Coal (Australia) 80.0 2,163 1,730 2,553 2,043 2,468 1,974
Total Australian hard coking coal 7,054 7,651 7,857
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (o) – 641 416 867 564 289 188
Rio Tinto total hard coking coal 7,471 8,214 8,044
COAL (semi-soft coking) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Hunter Valley (Australia) 80.0 1,935 1,548 2,634 2,107 2,119 1,695
Mount Thorley (Australia) 64.0 1,952 1,250 1,846 1,182 1,584 1,014
Warkworth (Australia) 44.5 933 415 1,281 569 1,296 576
Rio Tinto total semi-soft coking coal 3,213 3,859 3,286
COAL (thermal) (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla (Australia) 32.0 8,558 2,739 8,232 2,634 7,026 2,248
Blair Athol (Australia) (p) 71.2 –– – – 2,587 1,843
Clermont (Australia) (q) – 4,832 2,421 11,782 5,903 8,189 4,103
Hail Creek Coal (Australia) (r) 82.0 2,304 1,890 191 157 – –
Hunter Valley (Australia) 80.0 11,924 9,539 11,002 8,802 9,836 7,869
Kestrel Coal (Australia) 80.0 564 451 463 371 350 280
Mount Thorley (Australia) 64.0 2,241 1,434 2,357 1,508 2,497 1,598
Warkworth (Australia) 44.5 6,803 3,027 6,995 3,110 5,477 2,435
Total Australian thermal coal 21,501 22,485 20,376
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (o) – 593 385 754 490 419 272
Rio Tinto total thermal coal 21,886 22,975 20,648
See notes on page 198.
196 riotinto.com 2014 Production 2013 Production 2012 Production
Rio Tinto
%share
(a)
Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
COPPER (mined) (’000 tonnes)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 204.3 204.3 211.0 211.0 163.2 163.2
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 1,137.6 341.3 1,121.5 336.5 1,047.4 314.2
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s) 40.0 19.2 7.7 15.7 6.3 0.0 0.0
Northparkes (Australia) (t) – –– 50.6 40.4 53.8 43.1
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (u) 33.5 148.4 49.8 76.7 25.7 – –
Palabora (South Africa) (v) – –– 22.2 11.6 49.1 28.3
Rio Tinto total 603.1 631.5 548.8
COPPER (refined) (’000 tonnes)
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 301.5 90.5 305.3 91.6 310.3 93.1
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 204.1 204.1 193.6 193.6 162.7 162.7
Palabora (South Africa) (v) – –– 25.8 14.9 40.9 23.6
Rio Tinto total 294.6 300.1 279.4
DIAMONDS (’000 carats)
Argyle (Australia) 100.0 9,188 9,188 11,359 11,359 8,471 8,471
Diavik (Canada) 60.0 7,233 4,340 7,243 4,346 7,230 4,338
Murowa (Zimbabwe) 77.8 442 344 414 322 403 313
Rio Tinto total 13,872 16,027 13,122
GOLD (mined) (’000 ounces)
Barneys Canyon (US) 100.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 1.2 1.2
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 259.8 259.8 206.7 206.7 199.8 199.8
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 90.1 27.0 94.2 28.3 97.6 29.3
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s) 40.0 5.6 2.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Northparkes (Australia) (t) – –– 61.6 49.3 72.2 57.7
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (u) 33.5 588.7 197.3 157.0 52.6 – –
Palabora (South Africa) (v) – –– 5.5 3.1 10.9 6.3
Rio Tinto total 486.8 340.4 294.3
GOLD (refined) (’000 ounces)
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 252.2 252.2 192.3 192.3 279.2 279.2
IRON ORE (’000 tonnes)
Hamersley mines (Australia) (w) 163,163 163,163 143,347 143,347 135,932 135,932
Hamersley – Channar (Australia) 60.0 10,913 6,548 11,047 6,628 10,947 6,568
Hope Downs (Australia) 50.0 42,715 21,358 33,788 16,894 30,793 15,396
Iron Ore Company of Canada (Canada) 58.7 14,775 8,676 15,368 9,024 14,079 8,267
Robe River – Pannawonica (Australia) 53.0 34,535 18,304 33,308 17,654 32,304 17,121
Robe River – West Angelas (Australia) 53.0 29,264 15,510 29,093 15,419 29,404 15,584
Rio Tinto total 233,557 208,966 198,869
MOLYBDENUM (’000 tonnes)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 11.5 11.5 5.7 5.7 9.4 9.4
SALT (‘000 tonnes)
Dampier Salt (Australia) 68.4 9,938 6,793 9,841 6,728 9,996 6,833
SILVER (mined) (’000 ounces)
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 2,935 2,935 2,876 2,876 2,086 2,086
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 4,883 1,465 4,032 1,210 3,501 1,050
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s)(x) 40.0 00 0000
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (u) 33.5 893 299 489 164 – –
Others – 00 687 515 685 521
Rio Tinto total 4,699 4,765 3,657
See notes on page 198.
riotinto.com 197
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Metals and minerals production continued
2014 Production 2013 Production 2012 Production
Rio Tinto
%share
(a)
Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share Total
Rio Tinto
share
SILVER (refined) (’000 ounces)
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 2,811 2,811 2,158 2,158 2,451 2,451
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK (’000 tonnes)
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium
(Canada/South Africa) (y)(z) 100.0 1,443 1,443 1,622 1,622 1,594 1,594
URANIUM (’000 lbs U
3
O
8
)
Energy Resources of Australia (Australia) (aa) 68.4 2,569 1,757 6,525 4,462 8,179 5,594
Rössing (Namibia) (bb) 68.6 3,401 2,333 5,312 3,643 5,951 4,082
Rio Tinto total 4,089 8,105 9,675
Production data notes:
Mine production figures for metals refer to the total quantity of metal produced in
concentrates, leach liquor or doré bullion irrespective of whether these products are then
refined onsite, except for the data for bauxite and iron ore which can represent
production of marketable quantities of ore plus concentrates and pellets. Production
figures are sometimes more precise than the rounded numbers shown, hence small
differences may result from calculation of Rio Tinto share of production.
(a) Rio Tinto percentage share, shown above, is as at the end of 2014. The footnotes
below include all ownership changes over the three years. The Rio Tinto share
varies at individual mines and refineries in the “others” category and thus no value
is shown.
(b) Jonquière’s (Vaudreuil’s) production shows smelter grade alumina only and
excludes hydrate produced and used for specialty alumina.
(c) The curtailment of production at the Gove refinery was completed on 28 May 2014.
(d) Rio Tinto sold its interest in these specialty alumina assets with an effective date of
1 August 2012. Production data are shown up to that date.
(e) Rio Tinto sold its 46.7 per cent interestintheAlucam(Edéa)smelterwithan
effective date of 31 December 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(f) Rio Tinto started production at the Arvida AP60 Technology Centre in the fourth
quarter of 2013.
(g) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne smelter
with an effective date of 16 December 2013. Production data are shown up to that
date.
(h) The Shawinigan smelter ceased production on 29 November 2013.
(i) Rio Tinto sold its 50 per cent interest in the SØRAL (Husnes) smelter with an
effective date of 31 October 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(j) Rio Tinto closed the Lynemouth aluminium smelter on 29 March 2012.
(k) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Sebree aluminium smelter with an
effective date of 1 June 2013. Production data are shown up to that date.
(l) Rio Tinto has a 22.95 per cent shareholding in the Sangaredi mine but benefits
from 45.0 per cent of production.
(m) Borate quantities are expressed as B
2
O
3
.
(n) Rio Tinto sold its interest in Borax Argentina with an effective date of 21 Aug 2012.
Production data are included up to that date.
(o) Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and its 65 per cent
interest in the Benga mine with an effective date of 7 October 2014. Production
data are shown up to that date. Commercial production had commenced in the
third quarter of 2012.
(p) Blair Athol closed in the last quarter of 2012. Rio Tinto agreed to sell its 71.2 per
cent interest in Blair Athol in October 2013.
(q) Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont mine with an effective date
of 29 May 2014. Production data are shown up to that date.
(r) Hail Creek commenced production of thermal coal from a processing plant by-
product stream following completion of a successful trial in the third quarter
of 2013.
(s) Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan (FCX), Rio Tinto is
entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of
expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. Total
production reflects the quantities attributable to the joint venture.
(t) Rio Tinto sold its 80 per cent interest in Northparkes with an effective date of
1 December 2013. Production data are shown up to that date.
(u) Rio Tinto owns a 33.52 per cent indirect interest in Oyu Tolgoi through its
50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. Production included in the
table is from 1 May 2013.
(v) The sale of Rio Tinto’s 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora Mining Company
was completed on 31 July 2013. Production data have been reported up to
30 June 2013.
(w) Includes 100 per cent of production from Paraburdoo, Mt Tom Price, Marandoo,
Yandicoogina, Brockman, Nammuldi and the Eastern Range mines. Whilst
Rio Tinto owns 54 per cent of the Eastern Range mine, under the terms of the
joint venture agreement, Hamersley Iron manages the operation and is obliged to
purchase all mine production from the joint venture and therefore all of the
production is included in Rio Tinto’s share of production.
(x) The 2014 silver production from Grasberg did not exceed the metal attributable to
PT Freeport Indonesia per the joint venture agreement for the year. Accordingly,
Rio Tinto’s share of joint venture silver production was zero for the year 2014.
(y) On 7 September 2012, Rio Tinto increased its stake in Richards Bay Minerals
(RBM)from37percentto74percentthrough the acquisition of BHP Billiton’s
interest in RBM.
(z) Quantities comprise 100 per cent of Rio Tinto Fer et Titane and Rio Tinto’s share of
Richards Bay Minerals’ production. Ilmenite mined in Madagascar is being
processed in Canada.
(aa) ERA production has been restated from “produced ready for packing” to
“drummed” U
3
O
8
, in line with production reported by Energy Resources of
Australia Ltd to the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX).
(bb) Rössing production has been restated from “produced ready for packing” to
“drummed” U
3
O
8
, to allow reporting of aggregated production.
198 riotinto.com Ore reserves
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources for Rio Tinto managed operations are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results,
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2012 (the JORC Code) as required by the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). Codes or guidelines similar to
JORC with only minor regional variations have been adopted in South Africa, Canada, the US, Chile, Peru, the Philippines, the UK, Ireland and Europe. Together
these Codes represent current best practice for reporting Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
The JORC Code envisages the use of reasonable investment assumptions, including the use of projected long-term commodity prices, in calculating Ore Reserve
estimates. However, for US reporting, the US Securities and Exchange Commission requires historical price data to be used. For this reason, some Ore Reserves
reported to the SEC in the Form 20-F may differ from those reported below.
Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource information in the tables below is based on information compiled by Competent Persons (as defined by JORC), most of whom
are full time employees of Rio Tinto or related companies. Each has had a minimum of five years’ relevant estimation experience and is a member of a recognised
professional body whose members are bound by a professional code of ethics. Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion in this report of information they
have provided in the form and context in which it appears. Competent Persons responsible for the estimates are listed on pages XX and XX, by operation, along
with their professional affiliation, employer and accountability for Ore Reserves and/or Mineral Resources. Where operations are not managed by RioTinto,theOre
Reserves are published as received from the managing company. The Ore Reserve figures in the following tables are as of 31 December 2014. Summary data for
year end 2013 are shown for comparison. Metric units are used throughout. The figures used to calculate Rio Tinto’s share of Ore Reserves are often more precise
than the rounded numbers shown in the tables, hence small differences might result if the calculations are repeated using the tabulated figures.
Proved ore reserves
at end 2014
Probable ore reserves
at end 2014
Total ore reserves 2014
compared with 2013
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine
(a)
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Recoverable
Mineral
2014 2013 2014 2013
BAUXITE (b)
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Al
2
O
3
%Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Gove (Australia) O/P 135 49.4 11 49.2 146 150 49.4 49.3 100.0 146
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) O/P 73 49.3 22 49.9 94 104 49.5 49.5 12.0 11
Sangaredi (Guinea) O/P 98 49.4 180 49.5 278 303 49.4 49.6 23.0 64
Weipa (Australia) O/P 501 52.2 983 52.7 1,485 1,511 52.5 52.5 100.0 1,485
Total 1,706
Marketable
product
BORATES (c)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) O/P 11 11 22 23 100.0 22
Reserves Marketable reserves Marketable reserves
Marketable
coal quality
Average %
yield
to give
marketable
reserves
Coal
type
(d)
Proved
Probable
at end
2014 Proved
Probable
at end
2014
Total
2014
Total
2013
(e) (e)
Marketable
reserves
COAL (f)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Calorific
value
MJ/kg
Sulphur
content
%
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla (g) (h) O/C SC 163 106 131 86 217 120 27.40 0.50 81 32.0 69
Clermont (i) O/C SC – 153 – –– – –
Hail Creek (j) O/C SC + MC 107 20 72 13 85 60 25.74 0.35 67 82.0 70
Hunter Valley Operations (k) (h) O/C SC + MC 391 190 274 130 404 277 29.25 0.56 69 80.0 323
Kestrel Coal U/G MC 37 95 32 79 110 112 31.60 0.59 84 80.0 88
Mount Thorley Operations (l) O/C SC + MC 19 7 13 5 18 21 29.78 0.44 68 64.0 12
Warkworth (m) O/C SC + MC 192 154 125 101 226 233 29.80 0.45 65 44.5 100
Sub-total 662
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (n) O/C SC + MC – 112 – –– – –
Total reserves at operating mines 662
Other undeveloped reserves (o)
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Mount Pleasant (p) (h) O/C SC 625 474 474 326 27.24 0.50 76 80.0 379
See notes on page 202.
riotinto.com 199
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ore reserves continued
Proved ore reserves at
end 2014
Probable ore reserves
at end 2014
Total ore reserves 2014
compared with 2013
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine
(a)
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Interest %
Recoverable
metal
2014 2013 2014 2013
COPPER
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Cu %Cu
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US)
– open pit and stockpiles O/P 226 0.40 467 0.47 693 748 0.45 0.47 88 100.0 2.717
Escondida (Chile)
– sulphide O/P 3,506 0.74 1,603 0.59 5,109 5,063 0.69 0.71 83 30.0 8.856
– sulphide leach (q) O/P 1,613 0.45 607 0.39 2,220 2,004 0.43 0.44 32 30.0 0.922
– oxide (r) O/P 84 0.80 48 0.64 133 152 0.74 0.79 67 30.0 0.199
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 804 1.17 1,464 0.93 2,269 2,358 1.02 1.01 88 (s) 6.773
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Oyut open pit (t) O/P 383 0.54 612 0.40 995 1,014 0.45 0.46 79 33.5 1.195
–Oyutstockpiles(u)(t) 26 0.37 26 18 0.37 0.37 83 33.5 0.027
Total 20.689
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 1.66 464 460 1.66 1.80 92 33.5 2.371
– Hugo Dummett North Extension (v) U/G 35 1.59 35 31 1.59 1.73 92 30.0 0.153
Total 2.524
Recoverable
diamonds
DIAMONDS (b)
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
carats
per tonne
millions
of carats
Reserves at operating mines
Argyle (Australia) (w) U/G 41 2.4 41 49 2.4 2.4 100.0 97.6
Diavik (Canada) (x) O/P + U/G 13 3.0 5.0 2.7 18 16 2.9 2.9 60.0 32.0
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (y) O/P 4.0 1.0 4.0 4.4 1.0 0.9 77.8 3.0
Total 132.6
Recoverable
metal
GOLD
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
millions
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US)
– open pit and stockpiles O/P 226 0.14 467 0.19 693 748 0.18 0.19 67 100.0 2.615
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 804 1.00 1,464 0.74 2,269 2,358 0.83 0.84 67 (s) 11.904
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Oyut open pit (t) O/P 383 0.39 612 0.23 995 1,014 0.29 0.31 70 33.5 2.200
–Oyutstockpiles(u)(t) 26 0.23 26 18 0.23 0.21 79 33.5 0.051
Total 16.770
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 0.34 464 460 0.34 0.37 83 33.5 1.408
– Hugo Dummett North Extension (v) U/G 35 0.55 35 31 0.55 0.62 84 30.0 0.156
Total 1.564
See notes on page 202.
200 riotinto.com Proved ore reserves
at end 2014
Probable ore reserves
at end 2014
Total ore reserves 2014
compared with 2013
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine
(a)
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Marketable
product
2014 2013 2014 2013
IRON ORE
(b) (z)
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Fe %Fe
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Brockman 2 (Brockman ore) (aa) O/P 30 62.7 32 62.8 62 41 62.8 61.9 100.0 62
– Brockman 4 (Brockman ore) O/P 365 62.3 151 60.7 516 516 61.9 62.0 100.0 516
– Marandoo (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 170 63.6 23 61.4 193 205 63.3 63.2 100.0 193
– Mt Tom Price (Brockman ore) (bb) O/P 11 64.0 36 63.8 46 53 63.8 63.6 100.0 46
– Mt Tom Price (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 8 60.9 1 58.8 9 9 60.8 60.8 100.0 9
– Nammuldi (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 73 62.9 91 62.4 164 165 62.6 62.6 100.0 164
– Paraburdoo (Brockman ore) (cc) O/P 8 61.7 8 63.6 16 14 62.7 63.5 100.0 16
– Western Turner Syncline (Brockman ore) O/P 241 62.4 78 61.2 319 331 62.1 62.0 100.0 319
– Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) (dd) O/P 246 58.7 1 59.1 247 298 58.7 58.7 100.0 247
Channar JV (Australia)
– Brockman ore (ee) O/P 27 62.8 33 61.4 60 40 62.0 62.9 60.0 36
Eastern Range JV (Australia)
– Brockman ore (ff) O/P 45 62.3 14 61.3 59 47 62.0 62.7 54.0 32
Hope Downs JV (Australia)
– Hope Downs 1 (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 5 61.4 206 61.6 212 225 61.6 61.6 50.0 106
– Hope Downs 4 (Brockman ore) (gg) O/P 64 63.0 90 63.2 154 138 63.1 63.1 50.0 77
Robe River JV (Australia)
– Pannawonica (Pisolite ore) (hh) O/P 128 57.2 88 56.3 216 260 56.8 56.9 53.0 115
– West Angelas (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 129 62.0 56 60.2 185 196 61.5 61.5 53.0 98
Iron Ore Company of Canada (Canada) (ii) O/P 276 65.0 280 65.0 556 592 65.0 65.0 58.7 326
Total 2,363
Reserves at development projects
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Koodaideri (Brockman ore) (jj) O/P 253 62.1 213 61.5 467 418 61.8 61.8 100.0 467
– Silvergrass East (Marra Mamba ore) O/P 113 62.7 33 60.4 146 144 62.1 62.2 100.0 146
– Turee Central (Brockman ore) O/P 72 62.0 6 61.4 78 78 61.9 61.9 100.0 78
Simandou (Guinea) (kk) O/P 1,844 65.5 1,844 1,844 65.5 65.5 46.6 859
Total 1,549
Recoverable
metal
MOLYBDENUM
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Mo %Mo
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine
Bingham Canyon (US)
– open pit and stockpiles (ll) O/P 226 0.035 467 0.036 693 748 0.036 0.043 67 100.0 0.165
Total 0.165
SILVER
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
millions
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines
Bingham Canyon (US)
– open pit and stockpiles O/P 226 1.75 467 2.19 693 748 2.04 2.08 67 100.0 30.499
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G 804 4.58 1,464 4.18 2,269 2,358 4.32 4.26 70 (s) 77.868
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (mm)
– Oyut open pit (t) O/P 383 1.41 612 1.12 995 – 1.23 – 76 33.5 10.026
–Oyutstockpiles(u)(t) 26 0.35 26 – 0.35 – 77 33.5 0.076
Total 118.469
Reserves at development projects
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (mm)
– Hugo Dummett North U/G 464 3.37 464 – 3.37 – 86 33.5 14.579
– Hugo Dummett North Extension (v) U/G 35 3.72 35 – 3.72 – 86 30.0 1.079
Total 15.657
See notes on page 202.
riotinto.com 201
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ore reserves continued
Proved ore reserves
at end 2014
Probable ore reserves
at end 2014
Total ore reserves 2014
compared with 2013
Average
mill
recovery
%
Rio Tinto
share
Type of
mine
(a)
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Interest
%
Marketable
product
2014 2013 2014 2013
TITANIUM DIOXIDE
FEEDSTOCK (nn)
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 405 3.8 78 3.1 483 519 3.7 3.7 80.0 6.4
RBM (South Africa) D/O 1,049 2.1 798 2.5 1,847 1,909 2.3 2.3 74.0 13.9
RTFT (Canada) (oo) O/P 121 83.9 121 143 83.9 83.1 100.0 44.7
Total 65.0
Recoverable
metal
URANIUM
millions
of tonnes % U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
%U
3
0
8
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
Energy Resources of Australia
(Australia)
– Ranger #3 stockpiles 5.0 0.123 5.0 5.5 0.123 0.123 84 68.4 0.004
Rössing SJ (Namibia) (pp) O/P 15 0.031 106 0.035 121 148 0.034 0.032 82 68.6 0.024
Total 0.027
Marketable
Product
ZIRCON (qq)
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Zircon %Zircon
millions
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 405 0.2 78 0.1 483 519 0.2 0.2 80.0 0.5
RBM (South Africa) D/O 1,049 0.3 798 0.4 1,847 1,909 0.3 0.3 74.0 3.2
Total 3.7
Notes
(a) Type of mine: O/P = open pit, O/C = open cut, U/G = underground, D/O = dredging
operation.
(b) Reserves of iron ore, bauxite and diamonds are shown as recoverable Reserves of
marketable product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill
recoveries are therefore not shown.
(c) Reserves of borates are expressed in terms of marketable product (B
2
O
3
)afterall
mining and processing losses.
(d) Coal type: SC: steam/thermal coal, MC: metallurgical/coking coal.
(e) Coals have been analysed on an “air dried” moisture basis in accordance with
Australian Standards and gross calorific value and sulphur content are reported
here on that basis. Marketable Reserves tonnages are reported on a product
moisture basis.
(f) For coal, the yield factors shown reflect the impact of further processing, where
necessary, to provide marketable coal.
(g) The increase in Bengalla Marketable Reserves tonnes follows the conversion of
Resources to Reserves.
(h) Bengalla, Hunter Valley Operations and Mount Pleasant have had material
Reserves changes since previous publication. A JORC table 1 in support of these
changes was released to the market on 28 November 2014 and a copy can be
found at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(i) Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont mine with an effective date
of 29 May 2014.
(j) Hail Creek Marketable Reserves tonnes increased due to the inclusion of a thermal
coal product derived from coarse plant rejects. A JORC table 1 in support of this
change will be released to the market contemporaneously with the release of this
Annual report and can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(k) Reserves tonnes have increased at Hunter Valley Operations following
re-optimisation and the subsequent inclusion of the Southern Pit and extension of
the Cheshunt Pit. The end 2014 Reserves include production depletion and mine
design changes subsequent to the JORC table 1 release.
(l) Marketable Reserves tonnes at Mount Thorley Operations decreased following
ex-pit production.
(m) An appeal of the project approval for Warkworth Reserves west of Wallaby Scrub Road
was upheld (disapproved) by the NSW Land and Environment Court in April 2013.
A 350 metre modification within this area was subsequently secured in January 2014
and Rio Tinto Coal Australia management are working through a process that should
result in further approval in 2015. Should this not occur, there is a potential reduction
in Reserves of approximately 113 million tonnes ROM (consisting of 30 million tonnes
ROM Proved and 83 million tonnes ROM Probable).
(n) Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and its 65 per cent
interest in the Benga mine with an effective date of 7 October 2014.
(o) The term “other undeveloped reserves” is used here to describe material that is
economically viable on the basis of technical and economic studies but for which
mining and processing permits may have yet to be requested or obtained. There is
a reasonable, but not absolute, certainty that the necessary permits will be issued
and that mining can proceed when required.
(p) The increase in Marketable Reserves at Mount Pleasant follows a re-optimisation
ofthemineplan.
(q) Escondida – sulphide leach Reserves tonnes increased due to a model update and
reclassification of material.
(r) Escondida – oxide Reserves tonnes decreased following a model update.
(s) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX,
Rio Tinto is entitled to a direct 40 per cent share in Reserves discovered after
31 December 1994 and it is this entitlement that is shown.
(t) Oyut was previously reported as South Oyu.
(u) Oyut stockpiles Reserves increased following ex-pit production.
(v) Hugo Dummett North Extension Reserves tonnes increased following a
model update.
(w) Argyle Reserves tonnes have decreased following production depletion, mine and
operational design changes along with adjustments to geotechnical performance,
dilution and recovery assumptions. Argyle Reserves are based on a nominal
1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final re-crushing size of 8 millimetres
202 riotinto.com (x) Diavik Reserves tonnes increased following the conversion of A21 Pipe Resources
to open pit Reserves which are reported for the first time. A JORC table 1 summary
supporting this Reserve increase will be released to the market
contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and can be viewed at
riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC. Diavik Reserves are based on a nominal 1 millimetre
lower cut-off size and a final re-crushing size of 5 millimetres.
(y) Murowa Reserves are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a final
re-crushing size of 19 millimetres.
(z) Australian and Guinean iron ore Reserves tonnes are reported on a dry
weight basis.
(aa) The Brockman 2 (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes increase is due to an updated
geological model and pit design modifications.
(bb) Mt Tom Price (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes decreased following production
depletion and updated geological models.
(cc) Paraburdoo (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes decreased following production
depletion and updated geological models.
(dd) Production depletion reduced the Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) Reserves tonnes.
(ee) The Channar JV – Brockman ore Reserves tonnes increase is a result of cut-off
grade changes, updated geological models and pit redesign.
(ff) The Eastern Range JV – Brockman ore Reserves tonnes increase is a result of
cut-off grade changes and updated geological models.
(gg) The Hope Downs 4 (Brockman ore) Reserves tonnes increase follows updated
pit designs.
(hh) The Reserves tonnage decrease at Pannawonica follows a geological model update
and production depletion.
(ii) Reserves at Iron Ore Company of Canada are reported as marketable product
(60 per cent pellets and 40 per cent concentrate for sale) at a natural moisture
content of two per cent using process upgrade factors derived from current IOC
concentrating and pellet operations. The marketable product is obtained from
mined material comprising 686 million dry tonnes at 38.5 per cent iron (Proved)
and 703 million dry tonnes at 37.9 per cent iron (Probable).
(jj) The increase in Reserves tonnes at Koodaideri follows pit design modifications and
updated geological models. A JORC table 1 in support of this change will be released
to the market contemporaneously with the release of this Annual report and can be
viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(kk) With the signing of the Investment Framework in May 2014, the Republic of Guinea
acquired a 7.5 per cent share in Simandou with all other joint venture partners’
shares decreasing proportionally. Subsequently Rio Tinto’s interest in Simandou
decreased from 50.4 per cent to 46.6 per cent.
(ll) Bingham Canyon Reserves molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration
drilling assays have been factored based on a long reconciliation history to blast
hole and mill samples. The grade factor applied in 2014 was decreased based on
an update of the reconciliation between resource and production drilling and mill
sample assays. A further reduction in molybdenum recovery has also been applied
based on modified processing assumptions.
(mm) Silver is reported here for the first time to align with the reporting policies of the
Oyu Tolgoi mine operators.
(nn) This year titanium dioxide feedstock Reserves are expressed as in situ tonnes. The
marketable product (TiO
2
slag) is shown after all mining and processing losses.
To improve reporting clarity and consistency, Rio Tinto now also reports Ti
minerals aggregated grade across these operations. The equivalent 2013 figures
have been included for comparison.
(oo) RTFT Reserve tonnes decreased following a pit redesign.
(pp) Rossing SJ Reserves tonnes have decreased following adjustments to processing
and recovery assumptions.
(qq) To improve reporting clarity and consistency, Rio Tinto now reports zircon across
these operations. The equivalent 2013 figures have been included for comparison.
riotinto.com 203
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mineral resources
As required by the Australian Securities Exchange, the following tables contain details of other mineralisation that has a reasonable prospect of being economically
extracted in the future but which is not yet classified as Proved or Probable Ore Reserves. This material is defined as Mineral Resources under the JORC Code.
Estimates of such material are based largely on geological information with only preliminary consideration of mining, economic and other factors. While in the
judgment of the Competent Person there are realistic expectations that all or part of the Mineral Resources will eventually become Proved or Probable Ore
Reserves, there is no guarantee that this will occur as the result depends on further technical and economic studies and prevailing economic conditions in the
future. As in the case of Ore Reserves, managed operations’ estimates are completed using or testing against Rio Tinto, long-term pricing and market forecasts/
scenarios. Mineral Resources are stated as additional to the Ore Reserves reported earlier. Where operations are not managed by Rio Tinto, the Mineral Resources
are published as received from the managing company. Where new project Mineral Resources or Ore Reserves are footnoted as being reported for the first time,
additional information about them can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website.
Likely
mining
method
(a)
Measured resources
at end 2014
Indicated resources
at end 2014
Inferred resources
at end 2014
Total resources 2014
compared with 2013
Rio Tinto
Interest
% Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
BAUXITE
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
2014
millions
of tonnes
2013
millions
of tonnes
2014
%Al
2
O
3
2013
%Al
2
O
3
Gove (Australia) O/P 16 49.2 32 49.4 3.7 50.1 52 48 49.4 49.6 100.0
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) O/P 293 49.6 40 48.9 134 49.9 468 440 49.6 50.0 12.0
Sangaredi (Guinea) O/P 62 45.5 4,088 47.5 1,537 46.3 5,687 5,771 47.1 46.5 23.0
Weipa (Australia) O/P 95 49.4 1,320 51.4 490 52.0 1,905 1,965 51.5 51.3 100.0
BORATES (b)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) (c) O/P – 0.1 100.0
Jadar (Serbia) U/G 18 18 18 100.0
Coal
type
(d)
Coal resources at end 2014 Total resources 2014 compared with 2013
Measured Indicated Inferred 2014 2013
COAL (e)
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
Rio Tinto Coal Australia
Bengalla(f)(g) O/C+U/G SC+MC 57 49 80 187 246 32.0
Blair Athol (h) O/C SC 10 0.2 10 10 71.2
Clermont (i) O/C SC – 15 –
HailCreek O/CSC+MC 607933 172 172 82.0
Hunter Valley Operations (j) (g) O/C + U/G SC + MC 269 379 725 1,373 904 80.0
Kestrel Coal U/G MC 3 3 3 80.0
Kestrel West U/G SC 106 33 139 139 80.0
Lake Elphinstone O/C SC + MC 120 42 162 162 82.0
Mount Pleasant O/C + U/G SC + MC 97 217 257 571 612 80.0
Mount Thorley Operations O/C + U/G SC + MC 19 94 113 113 64.0
Oaklands O/C SC 596 584 90 1,270 1,270 80.0
Valeria O/C SC 698 64 762 762 71.2
Warkworth O/C + U/G SC + MC 6 125 343 475 475 44.5
Winchester South O/C MC 17 175 192 192 75.0
Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique
Benga (k) O/C SC + MC – 360 –
Zambeze (l) O/C SC + MC – 1,988 –
See notes on page 208.
204 riotinto.com Likely
mining
method
(a)
Measured resources
at end 2014
Indicated resources
at end 2014
Inferred resources
at end 2014
Total resources 2014
compared with 2013
Rio Tinto
Interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2014 2013 2014 2013
COPPER
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes % Cu
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Cu %Cu
Bingham Canyon (US)
–OpenPit(m) O/P 400.30 260.26 140.20 80 1.7 0.27 0.27 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1.0 3.50 9.0 3.60 10 3.70 20 20 3.65 3.65 100.0
Escondida (Chile)
– Chimborazo – sulphide O/P 139 0.50 84 0.60 223 223 0.54 0.54 30.0
– Escondida – sulphide (n) O/P 39 0.61 412 0.41 10,232 0.51 10,683 6,909 0.51 0.51 30.0
– Escondida – mixed (n) O/P 2.0 0.50 75 0.44 77 89 0.44 0.45 30.0
– Escondida – oxide (n) O/P 20 0.53 9.0 0.57 36 0.58 65 41 0.56 0.54 30.0
– Pampa Escondida – sulphide O/P 294 0.53 1,150 0.55 6,000 0.43 7,444 7,444 0.45 0.45 30.0
– Pinta Verde – sulphide O/P 23 0.50 37 0.45 60 60 0.47 0.47 30.0
– Pinta Verde – oxide O/P 109 0.60 64 0.53 15 0.54 188 188 0.57 0.57 30.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (o) O/P + U/G 472 0.75 2,017 0.65 77 0.39 2,567 2,749 0.66 0.60 (p)
La Granja (Peru) O/P 130 0.85 4,190 0.50 4,320 4,390 0.51 0.52 100.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (q)
– Heruga ETG (r) U/G 1,700 0.39 1,700 910 0.39 0.48 30.0
– Heruga OT (s) U/G 117 0.41 117 60 0.41 0.48 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North (t) U/G 41 1.56 365 1.15 807 0.77 1,213 1,006 0.91 1.07 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North
Extension (u) U/G 89 1.57 173 0.99 263 180 1.19 1.43 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South (v) U/G 839 0.77 839 490 0.77 1.05 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit (w) O/P 12 0.39 90 0.34 389 0.29 491 624 0.30 0.34 33.5
– Oyut Underground (w) U/G 14 0.40 94 0.35 158 0.39 265 – 0.38 – 33.5
Resolution (US) U/G 1,766 1.51 1,766 1,737 1.51 1.52 55.0
DIAMONDS
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
carats
per tonne
carats
per tonne
Argyle (Australia)
– AK1 pipe (x) U/G 11 3.5 22 3.7 6.1 3.6 40 42 3.6 3.6 100.0
Bunder (India) (y) O/P 47 0.7 47 42 0.7 0.7 100.0
Diavik (Canada) (z) O/P + U/G 0.4 2.6 3.1 2.6 3.5 7.3 2.6 2.7 60.0
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (aa) O/P 4.6 0.3 4.6 4.3 0.3 0.3 77.8
GOLD
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
Bingham Canyon (US)
–OpenPit(m) O/P 400.18 260.15 140.11 80 1.7 0.16 0.13 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1.0 2.10 9.0 1.70 10 1.50 20 20 1.62 1.62 100.0
Escondida (Chile)
– Pampa Escondida –
sulphide (bb) O/P 294 0.07 1,150 0.10 6,000 0.04 7,444 – 0.05 – 30.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (o) O/P + U/G 472 0.66 2,017 0.58 77 0.31 2,567 2,749 0.59 0.54 (p)
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (q)
– Heruga ETG (r) U/G 1,700 0.37 1,700 910 0.37 0.49 30.0
– Heruga OT (s) U/G 117 0.29 117 60 0.29 0.37 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North (t) U/G 41 0.41 365 0.30 807 0.27 1,213 1,006 0.28 0.31 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North
Extension (u) U/G 89 0.53 173 0.35 263 180 0.41 0.43 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South (v) U/G 839 0.07 839 490 0.07 0.09 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit (w) O/P 12 0.36 90 0.23 389 0.16 491 624 0.18 0.31 33.5
– Oyut Underground (w) U/G 14 0.77 94 0.59 158 0.32 265 – 0.44 – 33.5
Wabu (Indonesia) (cc) O/P – 44 – 2.47 (p)
See notes on page 208.
riotinto.com 205
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mineral resources continued
Likely
mining
method
(a)
Measured resources
at end 2014
Indicated resources
at end 2014
Inferred resources
at end 2014
Total resources 2014
compared with 2013
Rio Tinto
Interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2014 2013 2014 2013
IRON ORE (dd)
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes % Fe
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Fe %Fe
Hamersley Iron (Australia)
– Brockman (ee) O/P 426 62.8 520 62.6 2,051 61.7 2,998 2,317 62.0 62.0 100.0
– Brockman Process Ore (ee) O/P 329 57.6 180 57.3 628 57.3 1,137 813 57.4 57.4 100.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 216 62.4 439 61.8 813 61.6 1,468 1,401 61.8 61.7 100.0
– Detrital (ee) O/P 3 63.4 142 61.2 497 61.2 642 560 61.2 61.2 100.0
– Channel Iron Deposit O/P 830 57.4 216 57.7 2,312 57.0 3,358 3,334 57.2 57.2 100.0
Channar JV (Australia)
– Brockman (ff) O/P 36 61.9 23 61.7 1 61.5 60 34 61.8 61.7 60.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 21 58.0 7 58.0 28 29 58.0 57.9 60.0
Eastern Range JV (Australia)
– Brockman (gg) O/P 15 62.2 8 61.6 8 61.7 31 28 61.9 61.7 54.0
– Brockman Process Ore (gg) O/P 20 57.3 7 57.2 3 57.9 30 41 57.3 57.2 54.0
Hope Downs JV (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 12 61.7 104 62.2 424 62.3 540 522 62.3 62.2 50.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 58 56.8 89 56.8 194 56.6 341 319 56.7 56.7 50.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 5 61.1 128 62.1 262 61.7 395 414 61.9 61.8 50.0
– Detrital (hh) O/P 3 59.9 50 59.3 53 47 59.4 59.1 50.0
Rhodes Ridge JV (Australia)
– Brockman O/P 565 63.9 1,476 62.5 2,041 2,043 62.9 62.9 50.0
– Brockman Process Ore O/P 176 57.6 460 56.5 636 636 56.8 56.8 50.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 404 62.4 1,912 62.0 2,316 2,339 62.1 62.1 50.0
– Detrital O/P 65 60.5 226 60.1 291 292 60.2 60.2 50.0
Robe JV (Australia)
– Brockman (ii) O/P 46 61.9 46 15 61.9 61.3 53.0
– Brockman Process Ore (ii) O/P 32 57.0 32 15 57.0 57.1 53.0
– Marra Mamba O/P 101 62.0 190 61.5 288 61.5 579 581 61.6 61.6 53.0
– Detrital (ii) O/P 3 59.7 95 60.6 98 68 60.6 60.8 53.0
– Channel Iron Deposit (jj) O/P 213 56.7 1,740 58.4 2,320 55.7 4,273 3,757 56.8 57.4 53.0
Iron Ore Company of Canada
(Canada) (kk) O/P 375 38.6 1,626 37.8 705 37.3 2,706 3,193 37.8 37.6 58.7
Simandou (Guinea) (ll) O/P 5 67.1 107 64.3 723 65.1 835 796 65.0 65.1 46.6
LITHIUM
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Li
2
O %Li
2
O
Jadar (Serbia) U/G 117 1.8 117 118 1.8 1.8 100.0
See notes on page 208.
206 riotinto.com Likely
mining
method
(a)
Measured resources
at end 2014
Indicated resources
at end 2014
Inferred resources
at end 2014
Total resources 2014
compared with 2013
Rio Tinto
Interest
%
Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
2014 2013 2014 2013
MOLYBDENUM
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes % Mo
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Mo %Mo
Bingham Canyon (US)
– Open Pit (mm) (m) O/P 40 0.063 26 0.077 14 0.008 80 1.7 0.058 0.028 100.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (q)
– Heruga ETG (r) U/G 1,700 0.011 1,700 910 0.011 0.014 30.0
– Heruga OT (s) U/G 117 0.011 117 60 0.011 0.013 33.5
Resolution (US) U/G 1,766 0.035 1,766 1,737 0.035 0.035 55.0
NICKEL
millions
of tonnes % Ni
millions
of tonnes % Ni
millions
of tonnes % Ni
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Ni %Ni
Sulawesi (Indonesia) (nn) O/P – 162 – 1.62 –
SILVER
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
grammes
per tonne
grammes
per tonne
Bingham Canyon (US)
–OpenPit(m) O/P 401.60 261.50 141.42 80 1.7 1.54 1.53 100.0
– North Rim Skarn U/G 1.0 20.00 9.0 21.00 10 21.00 20 20 20.95 20.95 100.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (o) O/P + U/G 472 3.80 2,017 3.56 77 1.75 2,567 2,749 3.55 3.39 (p)
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia) (q)
– Heruga ETG (r) U/G 1,700 1.39 1,700 – 1.39 – 30.0
– Heruga OT (s) U/G 117 1.56 117 – 1.56 – 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North (t) U/G 41 3.71 365 2.84 807 2.34 1,213 – 2.54 – 33.5
– Hugo Dummett North
Extension (u) U/G 89 4.07 173 2.72 263 – 3.18 – 30.0
– Hugo Dummett South (v) U/G 839 1.78 839 – 1.78 – 33.5
– Oyut Open Pit (w) O/P 12 1.21 90 1.06 389 0.87 491 – 0.91 – 33.5
– Oyut Underground (w) U/G 14 1.16 94 1.19 158 0.86 265 – 0.99 – 33.5
Wabu (Indonesia) (cc) O/P – 44 – 2.33 (p)
TITANIUM DIOXIDE
FEEDSTOCK (oo)
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes
%Ti
Minerals
%Ti
Minerals
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 56 3.6 1,109 4.2 186 3.2 1,351 1,323 4.0 4.0 80.0
RBM (South Africa) (pp) D/O + O/P 17 15.3 17 36 15.3 19.3 74.0
RTFT (Canada) O/P 11 84.9 11 11 84.9 84.9 100.0
URANIUM
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes % U
3
O
8
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %U
3
O
8
%U
3
O
8
Energy Resources of Australia
(Australia)
– Jabiluka U/G 1.2 0.887 14 0.520 10 0.545 25 25 0.547 0.547 68.4
– Ranger #3 mine (qq) U/G 2.8 0.321 6.3 0.276 3.5 0.245 13 10 0.277 0.328 68.4
– Ranger #3 stockpiles (rr) 38 0.047 38 50 0.047 0.046 68.4
Rössing (Namibia)
– Rössing SJ O/P 8.7 0.026 120 0.023 6.5 0.021 135 144 0.023 0.023 68.6
– Rössing Z20 O/P 87 0.028 115 0.026 202 202 0.027 0.027 68.6
ZIRCON (ss)
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes % Zircon
millions
of tonnes
millions
of tonnes %Zircon %Zircon
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 56 0.2 1,109 0.3 186 0.3 1,351 1,323 0.3 0.3 80.0
RBM (South Africa) (pp) D/O + O/P 17 8.5 17 36 8.5 11.3 74.0
See notes on page 208.
riotinto.com 207
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mineral resources continued
Notes
(a) Likely mining method: O/P = open pit; O/C = open cut; U/G = underground; D/O =
dredging operation.
(b) Borates Resources are reported as in situ B
2
O
3
, rather than marketable product as
in Reserves.
(c) The Resources at Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron have been reclassified as Probable
Reserves following completion of a drilling and assaying campaign.
(d) Coal type: SC=steam/thermal coal, MC=metallurgical/coking coal.
(e) RioTintoreportscoalResourcesonaninsitumoisturebasis.
(f) The decrease in Bengalla Resources reflects conversion of Resources to Reserves.
(g) Bengalla and Hunter Valley Operations have had material Resources changes
since previous publication. A JORC table 1 in support of these changes was
released to the market on 28 November 2014 and a copy can be found at
riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(h) Blair Athol closed in the last quarter of 2012. Rio Tinto agreed to sell its 71.2 per
cent interest in Blair Athol in October 2013 and completion of the sale is expected
within the first half of 2015.
(i) Rio Tinto sold its 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont mine with an effective date
of 29 May 2014.
(j) Hunter Valley Operations Resources have increased following re-evaluation of
mining options resulting in the transfer of former underground Resources into
open cut Resources.
(k) Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and its 65 per cent
interest in the Benga mine with an effective date of 7 October 2014.
(l) Rio Tinto completed the sale of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and its 100 per cent
interest in Zambeze with an effective date of 7 October 2014.
(m) Bingham Canyon – Open Pit Resources increased significantly with the transfer of
Reserves now excluded from the mine design following a geotechnical review.
(n) The increase in Resources and improved Resources confidence at Escondida
resulted from a revised estimate that included 303,000m of additional drill hole
data. This increase was published on 16 April 2014 in the BHP Billiton Operational
Review for the Nine Months Ended 31 March 2014, along with a JORC table 1, and
is available to view at bhpbilliton.com.
(o) The Grasberg Resources grade increase resulted from the implementation of a
new model depletion methodology for the block cave operations which returns
higher average grades.
(p) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX,
Rio Tinto is entitled to a direct 40 per cent share in Resources discovered after
31 December 1994.
(q) The Oyu Tolgoi project Resources were formally updated and released to the
market by Turquoise Hill Resources in October 2014 within a Canadian Instrument
43-101 technical report which can be viewed at www.turquoisehill.com. Silver is
reported here for the first time to align with the reporting policies of the Oyu Tolgoi
mine operators.
(r) Changes in Heruga ETG Resources tonnes and grade reflect a lowering of the cut-
off grade following an economic re-evaluation.
(s) Heruga OT was previously reported as Heruga IVN. Changes in Heruga OT
Resources tonnes and grade reflect a lowering of the grade following an economic
re-evaluation.
(t) Changes in Hugo Dummett North Resources tonnes and grade reflect a lowering of
the cut-off grade following an economic re-evaluation. Measured Resources are
reported for the first time based on infill drilling, a new block model and
classification method.
(u) Changes in Hugo Dummett North Extension Resources tonnes and grade reflect a
lowering of the cut-off grade following an economic re-evaluation.
(v) Changes in Hugo Dummett South Resources tonnes and grade reflect a lowering
of the cut-off grade following an economic re-evaluation.
(w) Oyut Open Pit was previously reported as South Oyu. The open pit Resources
tonnes and grade decreased following a transfer of material to underground
Resources which are now reported for the first time at a higher cut-off grade.
(x) AK1 pipe Resources are based on a nominal 0.5 millimetre lower cut-off size and a
final re-crushing size of 6 millimetres.
(y) Bunder Resources are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a
final re-crushing size of 6 millimetres. Following a review of potential mine designs
an increase in Resources tonnes is reported.
(z) Supported by technical and economic studies and additional drilling, Diavik
Resources decreased following transfer of the A21 Pipe Resources to open pit
Reserves. Diavik Resources are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size
and a final re-crushing size of 5 millimetres.
(aa) Murowa Resources are based on a nominal 1 millimetre lower cut-off size and a
final re-crushing size of 19 millimetres.
(bb) Pampa Escondida is a classed as a copper deposit, however gold is declared for the
first time as a potential by-product.
(cc) The Wabu Resource is no longer reported by Rio Tinto following advice from PT
Freeport Indonesia that it has no intention to mine Wabu in the future.
(dd) Australian and Guinean iron ore Resources tonnes are reported on a dry
weight basis.
(ee) Hamersley Iron – Brockman, Brockman Process Ore and Detrital Resources tonnes
have increased as a result of additional drilling and updated geological models.
These figures also include the first declaration of Yandi Braid deposit. A JORC table
1 in support of these will be released to the market contemporaneously with the
release of this Annual report and can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(ff) Channar JV – Brockman Resources tonnes have increased as a result of additional
drilling, updated geological models and pit design modifications.
(gg) Eastern Range JV – Brockman Resources tonnes increased and Brockman Process
Ore tonnes decreased as a result of additional drilling, updated geological models
and modifications to pit designs.
(hh) Hope Downs JV – Detrital Resources tonnes have increased as a result of
additional drilling and updated geological models.
(ii) Robe JV – Brockman, Brockman Process Ore and Detrital Resources tonnes have
increased as a result of additional drilling, updated geological models and pit
design changes.
(jj) Robe JV – Channel Iron Deposit Resources tonnes have increased as a result of
additional drilling, updated geological models and technical studies at
Jimmawurrada and other deposits. A JORC table 1 in support of these changes will
be released to the market contemporaneously with the release of this Annual
report and can be viewed at riotinto.com/factsheets/JORC.
(kk) Iron Ore Company of Canada Resources tonnes reduced following geological
model updates, changes to Resource classification methodology and partial
conversion of Wabush 3 Resources to Reserves. Resources are quoted on an in situ
dry tonnes and grades basis and would produce a marketable product (60 per cent
pellets and 40 per cent concentrate for sale at two per cent moisture content) of
148 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron (Measured), 638 million tonnes at 65 per
cent iron (Indicated) and 276 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron (Inferred).
(ll) With the signing of the Investment Framework in May 2014, the Republic of Guinea
acquired a 7.5 per cent share in Simandou with all other joint venture partners’
shares decreasing proportionally. Subsequently Rio Tinto’s interest in Simandou
decreased from 50.4 per cent to 46.6 per cent.
(mm) Bingham Canyon Resources molybdenum grade has increased following the
transfer of higher grade Reserves to Resources after revision of the mine design.
Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays have been
factored based on a long reconciliation history to blast hole and mill samples.
(nn) The sale of Rio Tinto’s 38 per cent interest in Sulawesi was completed in July 2014.
(oo) This year titanium dioxide feedstock Resources are expressed as in situ tonnes. To
improve reporting clarity and consistency, Rio Tinto now reports Ti minerals
aggregated grade across these operations. The equivalent 2013 figures have been
included for comparison.
(pp) RBM Resources tonnes and grade decreased following conversion of Resources to
Reserves and depletion due to mine production.
(qq) Ranger #3 mine underground Resources tonnes decreased and grade increased
following additional drilling and a new orebody model. A JORC table 1 in support of
these changes was released to the market by Energy Resources of Australia
Limited on 6 February 2015 and can be viewed at www.energyres.com.au.
(rr) Ranger #3 stockpiles Resources decreased following reclassification of low grade
material for proposed open pit mine backfill.
(ss) To improve reporting clarity and consistency, Rio Tinto now reports zircon across
these operations. The equivalent 2013 figures have been included for comparison.
208 riotinto.com Mineral resources and ore reserves corporate governance
Rio Tinto has established a governance process supporting the generation and
publication of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, which includes a series of
structures and processes independent of the operational reporting through
business units and product groups.
The Audit Committee has in its remit the governance of resources and
reserves. This includes an annual review of Mineral Resources and Ore
Reserves at a Group level, as well as review of findings and progress from the
Group Resources and Reserves internal audit programme within the regular
meeting schedule.
Rio Tinto also has an Ore Reserve Steering Committee (ORSC), which meets at
least quarterly, chaired by the Group executive, Technology & Innovation, and
comprises senior representatives from technical, financial and business
groups within the company. The ORSC role includes oversight of the
appointment of Competent Persons nominated by the business units, review
of Exploration results, Mineral Resources or Ore Reserve data prior to public
reporting and development of Group Resource and Reserves standards
and guidance.
The Resource and Reserve internal audit programme is conducted by
independent external consulting personnel in a programme managed by
Group Audit & Assurance with the assistance of the ORSC. In 2014, six internal
audits were completed. Material findings are reported outside of the product
group reporting line to the Audit Committee, and all reports and action plans
are reviewed by the ORSC for alignment to internal and external
reporting standards.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves from externally managed operations,
where Rio Tinto holds a minority share, are reported as received from the
managing entity. Figures from Rio Tinto managed operations are the
responsibility of the managing directors of the business units and estimates
are carried out by Competent Persons as defined by JORC.
Rio Tinto has continued the development of internal systems and controls in
order to meet JORC (2012) compliance in all external reporting including the
preparation of all reported data by Competent Persons as members of The
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (The AusIMM), Australian
Institute of Geoscientists (AIG) or recognised professional organisations
(RPOs). JORC table 1 reports for new or materially upgraded significant
deposits are released to market by Rio Tinto and are also available on the
Group’s website. JORC table 1 and NI 43-101 technical reports generated by
non-managed units or joint venture partners are referenced within the
reporting footnotes with the location and initial reporting date identified.
As well as the establishment of an enhanced governance process, there have
been a number of process improvements and training initiatives introduced by
the ORSC over recent years, including a web-based group reporting and
sign-off database, annual internal Competent Person reports and Competent
Person development and training.
riotinto.com 209
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Competent Persons
Primary commodity Name Association
(a)
Employer Accountability Deposits
Bauxite
JPC de Melo Franco AusIMM
Mineração Rio do Norte
Reserves
Porto Trombetas
RS Aglinskas AusIMM Resources
D Butty EuroGeol AluminPro (Associate) Resources, Reserves Sangaredi
L McAndrew AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserves
Gove, Weipa
J Bower AusIMM Resources
Borates
R Torres AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron
B Griffiths SME Reserves
Coal
G Doyle AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Hunter Valley Operations
G Doyle AusIMM Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Blair Athol
A Prentice AusIMM Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Bengalla, Mount Pleasant
A Waltho AusIMM Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Lake Elphinstone, Oaklands
R Ruddock AusIMM Resources
Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Bengalla, Hail Creek,
Hunter Valley Operations, Kestrel , Kestrel West,
Mount Pleasant, Mount Thorley Operations, Valeria,
Warkworth, Winchester South
M Hillard AusIMM Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Hail Creek
A Swiericzuk AusIMM Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Kestrel
H Bell AusIMM Reserves
Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Mount Thorley Operations,
Warkworth
Copper
J Vickery AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources, Reserves
Kennecott Utah Copper (b) (c) (d) G Austin AusIMM Resources
R Hayes AusIMM Resources
M Howson IMMM
Mineral Resources
Professional Limited
Resources
La Granja
P Salazar AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources
A Zuzunaga AusIMM
Minera Escondida Ltda.
Reserves Escondida
L Soto AusIMM Resources
Escondida, Pampa Escondida (b), Pinta Verde
M Cortes AusIMM Resources
L Vaccia AusIMM Resources Chimborazo
G Crook AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources
Oyu Tolgoi (b) (c) (d)
J Dudley AusIMM Reserves
B Sirait AusIMM Reserves
O Togtokhbayar AusIMM Resources
A Issel APGO
Freeport-McMoRan Inc
Resources, Reserves
PT Freeport – Grasberg (b) (d)
G MacDonald SME Resources, Reserves
C Hehnke AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Resolution (c)
210 riotinto.com Primary Commodity Name Association
(a)
Employer Accountability Deposits
Diamonds S Brennan AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources, Reserves
Argyle D Ford AIG Resources, Reserves
M Rayner AusIMM Resources, Reserves
M Rayner AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Bunder
CYip AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources, Reserves
Diavik
K Thompson NAPEG Resources, Reserves
M Rayner AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources
Murowa
E Harvey SAIMM Euan Harvey Consulting Reserves
Iron ore M Blake PEGNL
Rio Tinto
Resources
Iron Ore Company of Canada R Williams PEGNL Reserves
T Leriche PEGNL Resources, Reserves
B Sommerville AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources
Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Channar, Eastern
Range , Hope Downs, Robe, Rhodes Ridge
P Savory AusIMM Resources
L Fouche AusIMM Reserves
Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Channar, Eastern
Range, Hope Downs, Robe
C Tabb AusIMM Reserves
R Taylor AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources, Reserves
Simandou – Oueleba, Pic de Fon
M Franks AusIMM Amec Foster Wheeler Resources
Lithium J Garcia EuroGeol Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Minerals – Jadar (e)
Titanium dioxide feedstock C Ware SACNASP
Rio Tinto
Reserves
Richards Bay Minerals (f)
J Nel SACNASP Resources
J Dumouchel APEGGA Rio Tinto Resources, Reserves
QMM Madagascar Minerals (f), Rio Tinto Fer et
Titane – Havre-Saint-Pierre
Y Bourque OIQ Rio Tinto Resources, Reserves Rio Tinto Fer et Titane – Havre-Saint-Pierre
Uranium G Rogers AusIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources Energy Resources of Australia – Jabiluka
S Pevely AusIMM Resources Energy Resources of Australia – Ranger 3, Jabiluka
J Murphy AusIMM Reserves Energy Resources of Australia – Ranger 3
TG Murasiki SAIMM
Rio Tinto
Resources Rössing – SJ, Z20
W-D Wieland SAIMM Reserves Rössing – SJ
(a) AusIMM: Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, AIG: Australasian Institute of Geoscientists, EuroGeol: European Geologist member of the European Federation of
Geologists, IMMM: Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, SAIMM: South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, SME: Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, AIPG:
American Institute of Professional Geologists, NAPEG: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of the Northwest Territories, PEGNL: Professional
Engineers and Geoscientists Newfoundland and Labrador, CIMM: Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, APEGGA: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and
Geophysicists of Alberta, OIQ: Ordre des Ingénieurs du Québec, SACNASP: South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
(b) Includes gold
(c) Includes molybdenum
(d) Includes silver
(e) Includes borates
(f) Includes zircon
riotinto.com 211
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities
Group mines as at 31 December 2014
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Mine Location Access Title/lease
BAUXITE
CBG Sangaredi (22.95%) Sangaredi, Guinea Road, air and port Mining concession expires in 2040.
Gove Gove, Northern Territory,
Australia
Road, air and port All leases were renewed in 2011 for a further period of 42 years. The residue disposal area is
leased from the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust. The Northern Territory government is the
lessor of the balance of the leases; however, on expiry of the 42-year renewed term, the land
subject of the balances of the leases will all vest to the Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust.
MRN Porto Trombetas (12%) Porto Trombetas,
Para, Brazil
Air or port Mining concession granted under the Brazilian mining code with no expiration date.
Weipa/Ely Weipa, Queensland,
Australia
Road, air and port The Queensland Government Comalco (ML7024) lease expires in 2041 with an option of a
21-year extension, then two years’ notice of termination; the Ely Alcan Queensland Pty. Limited
Agreement Act 1965 (ML7031) expires in 2048 with a 21-year right of renewal with a two-year
notice period.
COPPER
Escondida (30%) Atacama Desert, Chile Pipeline and road to
deep sea port at
Coloso; road and rail
Rights conferred by Government under Chilean Mining Code.
Grasberg joint venture
(40% share of production
above specified levels)
Papua, Indonesia Pipeline, road and
port
Indonesian Government Contracts of Work expire in 2021 with option of two ten-year
extensions.
Kennecott Utah Copper
Bingham Canyon
Near Salt Lake City,
Utah, US
Pipeline, road and rail Owned
Oyu Tolgoi (51% of Turquoise
Hill Resources Ltd. which owns
66% of Oyu Tolgoi LLC)
Gobi Desert, Mongolia Air and road Three mining licences are held by Oyu Tolgoi LLC and two further licences are held in joint
venture with Entrée Gold LLC. The licence term under the Minerals Law of Mongolia is 30 years
with two 20-year extensions. First renewals are due in 2033 and 2039 for the Oyu Tolgoi and
Entrée Gold licences respectively.
DIAMONDS & MINERALS
Diamonds
Argyle Diamonds Kimberley Ranges,
Western Australia
Road and air Mining tenement held under Diamond (Argyle Diamond Mines Joint Venture) Agreement Act
1981; lease extended for 21 years from 2004 with option to renew.
Diavik (60%) Northwest Territories
(NWT), Canada
Air, ice road in winter Mining leases from NWT Government expiring in 2017 and 2018 with options to renew.
Murowa (77.8%) Zvishavane, Zimbabwe Road and air Mining leases under Zimbabwe Mines and Minerals Act; issued in 2001 and valid for 25 years.
Industrial minerals
Dampier Salt (68.4%) Dampier, Lake MacLeod
and Port Hedland,
Western Australia
Road and port State agreements (mining leases) expiring in 2034 at Dampier, 2018 at Port Hedland and 2021
at Lake MacLeod with options to renew at the latter two sites.
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron California, US Road and rail Owned
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Lac Tio Havre-Saint-Pierre,
Quebec, Canada
Rail and port
(St Lawrence River)
Mining covered by two concessions granted by State in 1949 and 1951 which, subject to certain
Mining Act restrictions, confer rights and obligations of an owner.
212 riotinto.com History Type of mine Power source
Bauxite mining commenced in 1973. Shareholders are 51% Halco and 49% Government of Guinea. Rio Tinto has held
45% of Halco since 2004. Current annual capacity is 14 million tonnes. Rio Tinto has a 45 per cent interest in the
mine’s production.
Open cut On-site generation (fuel oil)
Bauxite mining commenced in 1970 feeding both the Gove refinery and export market capped at two million tonnes per
annum. Bauxite export ceased in 2006 with feed intended for the expanded Gove refinery. Bauxite exports recommenced
in 2008 and will increase in the coming years following the curtailment of the refinery production in 2014.
Open cut On-site diesel fired power
station
Mineral extraction commenced in April 1979. Initial production capacity 3.4 million tonnes annually. From October 2003,
production capacity up to 16.3 million tonnes per year on a dry basis. Capital structure currently: Vale (40%), BHP
Billiton (14.8%), Rio Tinto (12%), CBA (10%), Alcoa/Abalco (18.2%), and Norsk Hydro (5%).
Open cut On-site generation
(heavy oil, diesel)
Bauxite mining commenced in 1961 at Weipa. Major upgrade completed at Weipa in 1998. Rio Tinto interest increased
from 72.4% to 100% in 2000. In 1997, Ely Bauxite Mining Project Agreement signed with local Aboriginal land owners.
Bauxite Mining and Exchange Agreement signed in 1998 with Comalco to allow for extraction of ore at Ely. The Western
Cape Communities Co-Existence Agreement, an Indigenous Land Use Agreement, was signed in 2001. In 2004 a mine
expansion was completed at Weipa that lifted annual capacity to 21.5 million tonnes. Mining commenced on the adjacent
Ely mining lease in 2006, in accordance with the 1998 agreement with Alcan (first ore extracted at Ely in 2007). A second
shiploader that increases the shipping capability was commissioned in 2006 at Weipa. Annual production capacity has
now reached 26 million tonnes.
Open cut On-site generation; new power
station commissioned in 2006
Production started in 1990 and expanded in phases to 2002 when the new concentrator was completed; production from
Norte started in 2005 and the sulphide leach produced the first cathode during 2006.
Open pit Supplied from SING grid under
various contracts with local
generating companies
Joint venture interest acquired 1995. Capacity expanded to over 200,000 tonnes of ore per day in 1998. Addition of
underground production of more than 35,000 tonnes per day in 2003. Expansion to 50,000 tonnes per day in mid-2007
and to 80,000 tonnes in 2010.
Open pit and
underground
Long-term contract with
US-Indonesian consortium
operated purpose-built
coal-fired generating station
Interest acquired in 1989. In 2012, the pushback of the south wall commenced, extending the mine life from 2018
to 2030.
Open pit On-site generation
supplemented by long-term
contracts with Rocky Mountain
Power
Oyu Tolgoi was first discovered in 1996. Construction began in late 2009 after signing of an Investment Agreement with
the Government of Mongolia, and first concentrate was produced in December 2012. First sales of concentrate were
made to Chinese customers on 9 July 2013.
Open pit and
underground
Grid power from China and
supplementary diesel power
generation site
Interest increased from 59.7% following purchase of Ashton Mining in 2000. Underground mine project approved in 2005
to extend mine life to 2020.
Underground
(previously open pit)
Long-term contract with Ord
Hydro Consortium and on-site
generation
Deposits discovered 1994-1995. Construction approved 2000. Diamond production started 2003. Second dike closed off
in 2005 for mining of additional orebody. The underground mine started production in 2010, ramping up to full
production in 2013.
Underground
(previously open pit)
On-site diesel generators;
installed capacity 44MW and
9.2MW of wind capacity
Discovered in 1997. Small-scale production started in 2004. Open pit Supplied by ZESA with diesel
generator back-up
Construction of the Dampier field started in 1969; first shipment in 1972. Lake MacLeod was acquired in 1978 as an
operating field. Port Hedland was acquired in 2001 as an operating field.
Solar evaporation of
seawater (Dampier and
Port Hedland) and
underground brine (Lake
MacLeod); dredging of
gypsum from surface of
Lake MacLeod
Dampier supply from
Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd;
Lake MacLeod from
Western Power and on-site
generation units; Port Hedland
from Western Power
Deposit discovered in 1925 and acquired by Rio Tinto in 1967. Open pit On-site co-generation units
and local power grid
Production started 1950; interest acquired in 1989. Open pit Long-term contract with
Hydro-Québec
riotinto.com 213
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities continued
214 riotinto.com
Group mines as at 31 December 2014 continued
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Mine Location Access Title/lease
Industrial minerals continued
QIT Madagascar Minerals (80%) Fort-Dauphin, Madagascar Road and port Mining lease granted by central government.
Richards Bay Minerals (74%) Richards Bay, KwaZulu-Natal,
South Africa
Rail, road and port Mineral rights for Reserve 4 and Reserve 10 issued by state and
converted to new order mining rights from 9 May 2012. Mining rights
run until 8 May 2041 for both lease areas.
ENERGY
Energy Resources of Australia
(68.4%)
Ranger
Northern Territory, Australia Road, rail and port Mining tenure granted by Federal Government.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia New South Wales and
Queensland, Australia
Road, rail, conveyor and port Leases granted by respective state governments.
Bengalla (32%)
Hail Creek (82%)
Hunter Valley Operations (80%)
Kestrel (80%)
Mount Thorley Operations (64%)
Warkworth (44.46%)
Rössing Uranium (68.6%) Erongo Region, Namibia Rail, road and port Mining licence granted by National Government.
Zululand Anthracite Colliery (Pty) Ltd -
(74%)
Mahlabatini district,
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa
Road, rail and port Okhukho Reserve no. 14376 over mineral leases 1, 2 and 6 awarded to
ZAC as a new order mining right no. 46/2007 on 10 April 2007, expiry
date 9 April 2027. Protocol number 1461/2010, an extended mining
right over the remainder of reserve no. 20, no. 15840 and portions 10,
11 and 12 of Reserve 12 no. 15832, awarded 11 November 2010 and
valid through to 10 November 2030.
IRON ORE
Hamersley Iron Hamersley Ranges, Western
Australia
Railway and port
(owned by Hamersley Iron and
operated by Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
Brockman 2
Brockman 4
Marandoo
Mount Tom Price
Nammuldi
Paraburdoo
Western Turner Syncline
Yandicoogina
Channar (60%)
Eastern Range (54%)
Hope Downs 1
(50% mine, 100% infrastructure)
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway (owned by Hamersley
IronandoperatedbyPilbara
Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
Hope Downs 4
(50% mine, 100% infrastructure)
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway (owned by Hamersley
IronandoperatedbyPilbara
Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia
Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC)
(58.7%)
Labrador City, Province of
Labrador and Newfoundland
Railway and port facilities in
Sept-Îles, Quebec (owned and
operated by IOC)
Sublease with the Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corporation which has
lease agreements with the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador
that are due to be renewed in 2020 and 2022.
Robe River Iron Associates
(53%)
Pilbara region,
Western Australia
Railway and port
(owned by Robe River and
operated by Pilbara Iron)
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia.
Mesa J
Mesa A
West Angelas History Type of mine Power source
Exploration project started in 1986; construction approved 2005. Ilmenite and zirsil production started at the end of
2008. QMM intends to extract ilmenite and zirsil from heavy mineral sands over an area of about 6,000 hectares
along the coast over the next 40 years.
Mineral sand dredging On-site heavy fuel oil generators
Production started 1977; initial interest acquired 1989. Fifth mining plant commissioned in 2000. One mining plant
decommissioned in 2008. In September 2012, Rio Tinto doubled its holding in Richards Bay Minerals to 74 per cent
following the acquisition of BHP Billiton’s entire interests.
Dune sand dredging Contract with ESKOM
Mining commenced 1981. Interest acquired through acquisition of North 2000. Open pit mining ended
December 2012.
Stockpile On-site diesel/steam
power generation
Kestrel Mine in Queensland, Rio Tinto Coal Australia’s sole underground mine, was acquired and recommissioned in
1999, and Hail Creek Mine in Queensland was officially opened in 2003. Blair Athol Mine ceased operations in 2012
and a conditional sale and purchase agreement for the mine was signed in October 2013.
Rio Tinto completed the privatisation of Coal & Allied during 2011, wich is now owned 80/20 with Mitsubishi
Development, and which Rio Tinto continues to manage.
Open cut and underground State-owned grid
Production began in 1976. Open pit Supplied by NamPower via
grid network
Operations commenced at Zululand Anthracite Colliery (Pty) Ltd on 13 August 1984. Rio Tinto took ownership of the
mine as from 8 April 2011. Zululand Anthracite Colliery became a Rio Tinto fully managed company as from
1 April 2014.
Underground anthracite
mine, with five active shafts
Eskom grid, with diesel generator
back-up
Mount Tom Price began operations in 1966, followed by Paraburdoo in 1974. In the 1990s, Channar, Brockman 2,
Marandoo and Yandicoogina achieved first ore. Annual capacity increased to 68 million tonnes during the 1990s and
has more than doubled in the past 25 years. Since 2000, Eastern Ranges, Nammuldi, Brockman 4 and Western
Turner Syncline have joined the network of Hamersley Iron mines. The brownfield mine expansion at such sites as
Paraburdoo, Brockman 2, Nammuldi and Yandicoogina will enable production to meet expanded port and rail
capacity in the coming years.
Open pit Supplied through the integrated
Hamersley and Robe power
network operated by Pilbara Iron
Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting. Construction of Stage 1 to 22 million tonnes per annum
commenced April 2006 and first production occurred November 2007. Stage 2 to 30 million tonnes per annum
completed 2009.
Open pit Supplied through the integrated
Hamersley and Robe power
network operated by Pilbara Iron
Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting. Construction of wet plant processing to 15 million tonnes
per annum commenced April 2011 and first production occurred April 2013.
Open pit Supplied through the integrated
Hamersley and Robe power
network operated by Pilbara Iron
Interest acquired in 2000 through North. Current operation began in 1962 and has processed over one billion tonnes
of crude ore since. Annual capacity 23.3 million tonnes of concentrate of which 12.5 million tonnes can be
pelletised.
Open pit Supplied by Newfoundland Hydro
First shipment in 1972 from Robe Valley. Interest acquired in 2000 through North. First ore was shipped from West
Angelas in 2002. In 2014, total production of the Robe River Iron Associates joint venture was 64 million tonnes.
Open pit Supplied through the integrated
Hamersley and Robe power
network operated by Pilbara Iron
riotinto.com 215
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities continued
Group smelters and refineries
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2014
(based on 100%
ownership)
ALUMINIUM
Alma Alma, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium rod,
t-foundry, molten metal, high purity, remelt
455,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Alouette (40%) Sept-Îles, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium high
purity, remelt
595,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Arvida Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium billet,
molten metal, remelt
176,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Arvida AP60 Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium high
purity, remelt
60,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Bécancour (25.1%) Bécancour, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
billet, t-foundry, remelt, molten metal
446,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Bell Bay Bell Bay, Northern
Tasmania, Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
molten metal, small form and t-foundry, remelt
192,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Boyne Smelters (59.4%) Boyne Island, Queensland,
Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium billet,
EC grade, small form and t-foundry, remelt
571,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Dunkerque Dunkerque, France 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
small form foundry, remelt
270,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Grande-Baie Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
molten metal, high purity, remelt
225,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
ISAL Reykjavik, Iceland 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
remelt, billet
205,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) Jonquière, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Refinery producing specialty alumina and
smelter grade alumina
1,555,000 tonnes
peryearalumina
Kitimat (a) Kitimat, British Columbia,
Canada
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium, slab,
remelt
127,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Laterrière Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab,
remelt, molten metal
244,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Lochaber Fort William, Scotland, UK 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium
slab, remelt
47,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Queensland Alumina (80%) Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
73.3% freehold; 26.7% leasehold (of which
more than 80% expires in 2026 and after)
Refinery producing alumina 3,950,000 tonnes
peryearalumina
São Luis (Alumar) (10%) São Luis, Maranhão, Brazil 100% freehold Refinery producing alumina 3,639,000 tonnes
peryearalumina
Sohar (20%) Sohar, Oman 100% leasehold (expiring 2039) Aluminium smelter producing aluminium, high
purity, remelt
372,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Tiwai Point (New Zealand
Aluminium Smelters)
(79.4%)
Invercargill, Southland,
New Zealand
19.6% freehold; 80.4% leasehold (expiring
in 2029 and use of certain Crown land)
Aluminium smelter producing aluminium billet,
slab, small form foundry, high purity, remelt
365,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Tomago (51.6%) Tomago, New South Wales,
Australia
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium billet,
slab, remelt
561,000 tonnes
peryearaluminium
Yarwun Gladstone, Queensland,
Australia
97% freehold. 3% leasehold
(expiring 2101 and after)
Refinery producing alumina 3,400,000 tonnes
peryearalumina
216 riotinto.com Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2014
(based on 100%
ownership)
Other Aluminium
Gove Gove, Northern
Territory, Australia
100% leasehold. All leases were renewed in
2011 for a further period of 42 years. The
residue disposal area is leased from the
Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust. The
Northern Territory government is the lessor
of the balance of the leases; however, on
expiry of the 42-year renewed term, the land
subject of the balances of the leases will all
vest to the Arnhem Land Aboriginal
Land Trust.
Refinery producing alumina 2,650,000 tonnes
peryearalumina.
The Group curtailed
production at Gove
as of May 2014
COPPER
Kennecott Utah Copper Magna, Salt Lake City,
Utah, US
100% freehold Flash smelting furnace/Flash convertor furnace
copper refinery
335,000 tonnes per
year refined copper
DIAMONDS & MINERALS
Boron California, US 100% freehold Borates refinery 576,000 tonnes per
year boric oxide
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane
Sorel Plant
Sorel-Tracy, Quebec,
Canada
100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,300,000 tonnes
peryeartitanium
dioxide slag,
1,000,000 tonnes
peryeariron
Richards Bay Minerals
(74%)
Richards Bay,
South Africa
100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,050,000 tonnes
peryeartitanium
dioxide slag,
565,000 tonnes per
year iron
IRON ORE
IOC Pellet Plant
(58.7%)
Labrador City,
Newfoundland and
Labrador, Canada
100% leaseholds (expiring in 2020, 2022
and 2025 with rights of renewal for further
terms of 30 years)
Pellet induration furnaces producing multiple
iron ore pellet types
12.5 million tonnes
peryearpellet
Notes:
(a) Capacity as at 31 December 2014 reflects the closures of four potlines in preparation for the Kitimat modernisation project. The nameplate capacity of the Kitimat smelter remains
at 282,000 tonnes per year.
riotinto.com 217
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mines and production facilities continued
Information on Group power plants
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown)
Power plant Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2014
(based on 100%
ownership)
ALUMINIUM
Gladstone power station (42%)
Gladstone, Queensland, Australia 100% freehold Thermal power station 1,680MW
Gove power station Nhulunbuy, Northern Territory,
Australia
100% leasehold Diesel-fired power station 24MW
Highlands power stations Lochaber, Kinlochleven, UK 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 105MW
Kemano power station Kemano, British Columbia, Canada 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 865MW
Quebec power stations Saguenay, Quebec, Canada
(Chute-à-Caron, Chute-à-la-
Savane, Chute-des-Passes,
Chute-du-Diable, Isle-Maligne,
Shipshaw)
100% freehold
(except Péribonka lease
to 2058)
Hydroelectric power 3,147MW
Yarwun alumina refinery
co-generation plant
Gladstone, Queensland, Australia 100% freehold Gas turbine and heat recovery steam
generator
160MW
Weipa power stations Lorim Point, Andoom, Queensland,
Australia
100% leasehold On-site generation (diesel) 36MW
COPPER
Kennecott Utah Copper
Power Stations
Salt Lake City, Utah, US 100% freehold Thermal power station 175MW
Steam turbine running off waste heat boilers
at the copper smelter
31.8MW
Combined heat and power plant supplying
steam to the copper refinery
6.2MW
218 riotinto.com Power plant Location Title/lease Plant type/product
Capacity as of
31 December 2014
(based on 100%
ownership)
DIAMONDS & MINERALS
Boron co-generation plant Boron, California, US 100% freehold Co-generation uses natural gas to generate
steam and electricity, used to run Boron’s
refining operations
48MW
ENERGY
Energy Resources of Australia
(Rio Tinto: 68.4%)
Ranger Mine, Jabiru,
Northern Territory, Australia
Lease Five diesel generator sets rated at 5.1MW;
1 diesel generator rated at 1.9MW
27.4MW
IRON ORE
IOC power station Sept Îles, Quebec, Canada Statutory grant Hydroelectric power 22MW
Paraburdoo power station Paraburdoo, Western Australia,
Australia
Lease LM6000 PC gas fired turbines 153MW
Yurralyi Maya
power station
(Rio Tinto: 58%) *
Dampier, Western Australia,
Australia
Miscellaneous licence LM6000 PD gas fired turbines 220MW
* Rio Tinto has a 100% share in the additional purchase of a 40MW open cycle gas turbine.
riotinto.com 219
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information
Organisational structure
The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in England
and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed on the London Stock
Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered in Australia under
ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is headquartered in London and has executive offices in Melbourne.
Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and the underlying shares are
registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and are listed on
the New York Stock Exchange.
Nomenclature and financial data
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in this
report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group. These
collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies,
and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own
investments, are separate and distinct legal entities. “Limited”, “plc”, “Pty”,
“Inc.”, “Limitada”, “L.L.C.”, “A.S.” or “SA” have generally been omitted from
Group company names, except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited. Financial data in US dollars (US$) is derived from, and
should be read in conjunction with, the 2014 financial statements. In general,
financial data in pounds sterling (£) and Australian dollars (A$) have been
translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been provided
solely for convenience; exceptions arise where data can be extracted directly
from source records. Certain key information has been provided in all three
currencies in the 2014 financial statements.
History
Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 (then called The Rio Tinto-
Zinc Corporation Limited (RTZ)) and was formed by the merger of The
Rio Tinto Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation. The Rio Tinto
Company was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in
Spain. The Consolidated Zinc Corporation’s origins trace back to the Australian
mining industry in the early twentieth century. Operating out of Broken Hill in
New South Wales, it came to prominence with the mining of silver, lead and
zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 (then called The
Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited) and in 1962 the Australian
interests of Consolidated Zinc Corporation and the Rio Tinto Company Limited
of the United Kingdom were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia
Limited as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Victoria,
Australia. In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name to
CRA Limited.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral
deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew through acquisition.
RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies
structure. In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited
became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian aluminium
producer Alcan Inc.
Dual listed companies structure
In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed
companies merger (the DLC structure) which was designed to place the
shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if they
held shares in a single entity owning all of the assets of both Companies.
Following the approval of the DLC structure, both Companies entered into a
DLC Merger Sharing Agreement (the Sharing Agreement) through which each
Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Limited are managed on a unified basis, to ensure that the boards of directors
of each Company are the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements
designed to provide shareholders of each Company with a common economic
interest in the DLC structure.
In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided for the
ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to each
Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in an
Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1. The Sharing
Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special circumstances
where, for example, certain modifications are made to the share capital of one
Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share
consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other. Outside these
specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the
approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval procedure
described under Voting rights below. In addition, any adjustments are required
to be confirmed by the Group’s external auditors.
Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Company
seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole. The Class Rights
Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances where there may
be a conflict of interest between the shareholders of each Company.
To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, resolutions to
appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both Companies
as a joint electorate (as Joint Decisions as described under Voting rights). It is
a requirement of the constitution of each Company that a person can only be a
director of one Company if that person is also a director of the other Company.
So, for example, if a person was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or
she would also cease to be a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide
range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions. Where
these rules differ, Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the strictest
applicable level.
Dividend rights
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is without
taking into account any associated tax credits. Dividends are determined in
US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated and paid in sterling
and Australian dollars. The Companies are also required to announce and pay
their dividends and other distributions as close in time to each other
as possible.
In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient distributable
reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised capital distribution, it
would be entitled to receive a top-up payment from the other Company. The
top-up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or
by way of a contractual payment.
If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law applicable
to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, then the relevant Company will put
aside reserves to be held for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend
equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
TheDLCDividendSharescanalsobeutilisedtoprovidetheGroupwith
flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid
between the two parts of the Group. Such dividend payments are of no
economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will
have no effect on the Group’s overall resources.
Voting rights
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of Rio Tinto
plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all matters which
affect shareholders of both Companies in similar ways. These are referred to
as Joint Decisions. Such Joint Decisions include the creation of new classes of
share capital, the appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the
receiving of the annual financial statements. All shareholder resolutions
including Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
220 riotinto.com The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of shareholders of
each Company by requiring their separate approval for decisions that do not
affect the shareholders of both Companies equally. Matters requiring this
approval procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a
poll. For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be
changed unless approved separately by shareholders of both Companies
under the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where legislation
requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate majority of
shareholders in one Company, and approval of the matter by shareholders of
the other Company is not required.
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision or a
Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power to change that
categorisation. If a matter falls within both categories, it is treated as a Class
Rights Action. In addition, the directors can determine that matters not
expressly listed in either category should be put to shareholders for their
approval under either procedure.
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, each Company has entered into
shareholder voting agreements. Each Company has issued a Special Voting
Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a common Trustee.
Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share (RTP Special Voting Share) to
RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting Share
(RTL Special Voting Share) to RTP Shareholder SVC. The total number of votes
cast on Joint Decisions by the shareholders of one Company are voted at the
parallel meeting of the other Company. The role of these special purpose
companies in achieving this is described below.
In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders of the Companies can be
excluded from voting at the respective Company’s general meetings because
they have acquired shares in one Company in excess of a given threshold
without making an offer for all the shares in the other Company. If this should
occur, the votes cast by these excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
Following the Companies’ general meetings the overall results of the voting
are announced to the stock exchanges, to the media in the UK and Australia,
and published on the Rio Tinto website.
At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders’ meeting at which a Joint Decision is
considered, each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the holder of its
Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public
shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited. The holder of the Special Voting Share is
required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast by public
shareholders for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto
Limited shareholders’ meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold any
voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto Limited and
cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders’ meeting at which a Joint Decision is
considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder of its
Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the public
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting. The holder of the
Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with
the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel
Rio Tinto plc shareholders’ meeting.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting
shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and
cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
Capital distribution rights
If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement
provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both Companies. If
the surplus assets available for distribution by one Company on each of the
shares held by its shareholders exceed the surplus assets available for
distribution by the other Company on each of the shares held by its
shareholders, then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall
be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the amount
available for distribution on each share held by shareholders of each Company
conforms to the Equalisation Ratio. The objective is to ensure that the
shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights to the assets of the
combined Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the
shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations
The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and
obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies in
excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include
obligations to make a public offer for all of the outstanding issued shares of
the relevant company. The threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law
and regulations is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law
and regulations is 20 per cent (on a standalone basis or, taking into account
only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis).
As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of
extending these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise and, in
particular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise control over one Company
without having made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies. It is
consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise, and the equal
treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations
should operate in this way. The Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on any person who
controls,directlyorindirectly,20percentormoreofthevotesonaJoint
Decision. If, however, such a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto
Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions will only apply if they control,
directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of the votes at that Company’s
general meetings.
If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to certain
limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, such persons
may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant Company, may not
receive dividends or other distributions from the relevant Company, and may
be divested of their interest by the directors of the relevant Company. These
restrictions continue to apply until such persons have either made a public
offer for all of the publicly held shares of the other Company, or have reduced
their controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or have acquired
through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held shares of
each Company.
These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held
shares of both Companies would be required in order to avoid the restrictions
set out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only held
in one of the Companies. The directors do not have the discretion to exempt a
person from the operation of these rules.
Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to co-operate to
enforcetheaboverestrictionscontained in their Articles of Association
and Constitution.
riotinto.com 221
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued
Guarantees
In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of
creditors of the other Company. Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, each
Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other Company and
the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by the other Company,
subject to certain limited exceptions. Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll
Guarantees may make demands upon the guarantor thereunder without first
having recourse to the Company or persons whose obligations are being
guaranteed. The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee
expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited
circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after such termination
and, in the case of other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of
due notice. The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provisions
of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
Markets
Rio Tinto plc
The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange
with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service
(SETS) system.
Rio Tinto plc American depositary receipts are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. Further details relating to Rio Tinto plc American depositary
receipts are available in Rio Tinto’s Annual report on Form 20-F.
Rio Tinto Limited
Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange
(ASX). The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
Share ownership
Substantial shareholders
Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian
Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three
per cent or more, or any person with voting power of five per cent or more in
Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the relevant companies with notice.
The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice as of
16 February 2015 are:
Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares
Percentage of
issued share
capital
AXA S.A. 29 Jan 2008 48,493,873 4.86
BlackRock Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38
Shining Prospect
Pte. Ltd 13 Mar 2012 182,550,329 12.7
The Capital Group
Companies, Inc. 21 Jan 2014 57,950,440 4.10
The Capital Group
Companies, Inc. 3 April 2014 55,307,243 3.91
Rio Tinto Limited
Shining Prospect
Pte. Ltd (a) 10 June 2009 – –
(a) In its substantial holding notice filed on 10 June 2009 Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd,
a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco (Aluminium Corporation of
China) disclosed a holding in Rio Tinto plc shares which, at that time, through the
operation of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, gave these entities and
theirassociatesvotingpowerof9.3percentintheRioTintoGrouponaJoint
Decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well
as of Rio Tinto plc. Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd currently holds 182,550,329 Rio Tinto
plc shares, which gives these entitiesandtheirassociatesvotingpowerof
9.9 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision Matter.
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or
indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government or
natural person. Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in
a change in control. No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from
those attaching to Rio Tinto plc’s and Rio Tinto Limited’s securities.
As of 16 February 2015, the total amount of the Group’s voting securities
owned by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 101,487 ordinary shares of
10p each or ADRs and in Rio Tinto Limited was 196,163 ordinary shares, in
aggregate representing less than one per cent of the Group’s total number of
shares in issue.
222 riotinto.com Analysis of ordinary shareholders
Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited
As at 16 February 2014
No. of
accounts % Shares %
No. of
accounts % Shares %
1 to 1,000 shares 33,798 76.33 10,868,329 0.76 167,764 83.87 49,999,117 11.47
1,001 to 5,000 shares 8,176 18.47 16,231,425 1.14 28,905 14.45 57,684,606 13.24
5,001 to 10,000 shares 751 1.70 5,194,677 0.36 2,262 1.13 15,682,973 3.60
10,001 to 25,000 shares 415 0.94 6,415,051 0.45 845 0.42 12,473,215 2.86
25,001 to 125,000 shares 534 1.21 31,031,572 2.18 192 0.10 8,631,735 1.98
125,001 to 250,000 shares 188 0.42 33,567,144 2.36 18 0.01 3,131,953 0.72
250,001 to 1,250,000 shares 273 0.62 160,494,512 11.26 32 0.02 17,456,643 4.01
1,250,001 to 2,500,000 shares 66 0.15 115,502,545 8.10 3 0.005,979,6981.37
2,500,001 shares and over (a) 73 0.16 1,046,072,386
(b)
73.39 11 0.01 264,718,780 60.75
1,425,377,641
(c)
100.00 435,758,720
(d)
100.00
Number of holdings less than
marketable parcel of A$500 3,740
(a) Excludes shares held in Treasury
(b) This includes 117,166,113 shares held in the name of a nominee on the share register. The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs).
(c) The total issued share capital is made up of 1,414,463,210 publicly held shares; 10,914,431 shares held in Treasury.
(d) Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Twenty largest registered shareholders
In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares andthe
percentage of issued capital each holds as at 16 February 2015:
Rio Tinto Limited
Number of
shares
Percentage of
issued share
capital
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 86,885,437 19.94
J.P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 73,026,709 16.76
National Nominees Limited 48,223,245 11.07
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 25,280,388 5.80
BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd (DRP) 11,123,931 2.55
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited (Colonial First State Inv A/C) 5,377,081 1.23
Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.84
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited (NT – Comnwlth Super Corp A/C) 3,259,363 0.75
AMP Life Limited 2,704,072 0.62
UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,676,062 0.61
Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.58
UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 2,052,514 0.47
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd (Agency Lending DRP A/C) 1,993,697 0.46
RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited (PI Pooled A/C) 1,933,487 0.44
National Nominees Limited (DB A/C) 1,132,958 0.26
Computershare Trustee Jey Limited (RE 3000091 A/C) 1,074,855 0.25
Warbont Nominees Pty Limited (Accumulation Entrepot A/C) 1,059,570 0.24
Australian United Investment Company Limited 950,000 0.22
Computershare Trustee Jey Limited (RE 3000086 A/C) 910,949 0.21
Navigator Australia Ltd (MLC Investment Sett A/C) 908,710 0.21
Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
riotinto.com 223
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued
Dividends
Both Companies have paid dividends on their ordinary shares every year since
incorporation in 1962. The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive dividends
are explained under the description of the Dual listed companies structure on
page 220.
Dividend policy
The aim of our progressive dividend policy is to maintain or increase the US
dollar value of ordinary dividends per share. The rate of the total dividend, in
US dollars per share, is determined taking into account the results for the past
year and the outlook. The interim dividend is set at one half of the total
dividend for the previous year.
Dividend determination
The majority of our sales are transacted in US dollars, making this the most
appropriate measure for our global business performance. It is our main
reporting currency and consequently the natural currency for dividend
determination. Dividends determined in US dollars are translated at exchange
rates prevailing two days prior to the declaration and payable in sterling by
Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by Rio Tinto Limited.
On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can elect to receive dividends in
Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders can elect to receive
dividends in sterling. If such an election is made, the dividend amounts
received will be calculated by converting the declared dividend using the
exchange rates applicable to sterling and Australian dollars five days prior to
the dividend payment date.
Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other currencies
should contact the Companies’ share registrars, who also offer payment
services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
2014 dividends
The 2014 interim and final dividends were determined at 96 US cents and
at 119 US cents per share respectively and the applicable conversion rates for
the interim and final dividend were US$1.6871 and US$1.52595 to the pound
sterling and US$0.93125 and US$0.77790 to the Australian dollar respectively.
For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders who elected to receive their interim
dividend in Australian dollars the applicable conversion rate was A$1.74955
and for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected to receive their dividend in
sterling the applicable conversion rate was £0.57158.
Final dividends of 77.98 pence or 152.98 Australian cents per share will be
paid on 9 April 2015. For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders requesting the 2014
final dividend be paid in Australian dollars, those holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs
(each representing one share) and those Rio Tinto Limited shareholders
requesting the 2014 final dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the applicable
conversion rates will be announced on 31 March 2015.
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP)
Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the
opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market.
Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be extended to shareholders in the US,
Canada and certain other countries.
Material contracts
Articles of Association and Constitution, and DLC Merger
Sharing Agreement
As explained on pages 220 to 222, under the terms of the DLC structure the
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into certain
contractual arrangements which are designed to place the shareholders of
both Companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a
single entity which owned all of the assets of both Companies. Generally, and
as far as is permitted by the UK Companies Act and the Australian
Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is reflected in the
Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto
Limited. The summaries below include descriptions of material rights of the
shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Objects
At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and
Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents
whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the Companies to have the
widest possible scope of activities.
Directors
Under Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association, a director may not vote in respect
of any proposal in which he, or any other person connected with him, has any
material interest, other than by virtue of his interests in shares or debentures
or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company, except where
resolutions:
– indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by the
director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in respect of
obligations of the Company, for which the director has assumed
responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee;
– relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a holder of
securities or as an underwriter;
– concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially
interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class of
shares of such a body corporate;
– relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with
other employees; and
– relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase
for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions
undertaken as directors (or officers) of the Company.
Under Rio Tinto Limited’s Constitution, except where a director is constrained
by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of the board while a
matter in which the director has a material personal interest is being
considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Companies to
borrow money, to charge any property or business of the Companies or all, or
any, of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any other security
for a debt, liability or obligation of the Companies or of any other person. The
directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the
aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its
subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the
Companies’ share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an
ordinary resolution of the Company.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by way of
qualification. The Remuneration Report on pages 64 and 100 provides
information on shareholding policies relating to executive and non-executive
directors. Please refer to the Corporate governance section on pages 53 to 63
for information on the appointment of directors.
Rights attaching to shares
Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits
available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and by the relevant law. Shareholders are entitled to
receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors. The directors may
also pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified
by the financial position of the Group.
Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend
was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and returned to the
Company. Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may be invested or
otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or
otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
Voting
Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which the
holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a poll,
and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll has
been duly demanded. On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in
person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and is entitled to
vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held. The holder of the
Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a show of hands. On a poll, every
224 riotinto.com shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised
representative and is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for
which he or she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of
the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the shareholders
at the parallel meeting of the other Company’s shareholders.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following:
– the chairman of the meeting;
– at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution;
– any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less
than one tenth (Rio Tinto plc) or one 20th (Rio Tinto Limited) of the total
voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution;
– any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote
at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate
equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares
conferring that right (Rio Tinto plc); or
– the holder of the Special Voting Share.
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll,
or to join others in demanding one.
The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three members
present (in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative) and
entitled to vote, and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two members
present (in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative).
Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing
of resolutions as:
– ordinary resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of a majority of the
votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum, for
example the election of directors; and
– special resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of not less than
three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a
quorum, for example amending the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc
or the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as “Joint Decisions” and
“Class Rights Actions” as explained under Voting rights on pages 220 and 221.
Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days’ written notice for
Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days’ notice for Rio Tinto Limited. Other meetings of
Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days’ written notice for the passing of
a special resolution and with 14 days’ notice for any other resolution,
depending on the nature of the business to be transacted. All meetings of
Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days’ notice. In calculating the period of notice the
days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of the meeting are not
included. Among other things, the notice must specify the nature of the
business to be transacted.
Variation of rights
If,atanytime,thesharecapitalisdivided into different classes of shares, the
rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the
relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in
value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary
resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that
class. At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of
Association and Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting
apply, except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more persons
who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the
issued shares of the class.
Rights upon a winding-up
Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon a
winding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution:
– after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors,
whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors; and
– subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares
is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the
amounts paid-up on the shares held by them. This distribution is generally to
be made in cash. A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of a special
resolution of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or
any part of the assets in kind.
The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of ordinary
shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 221.
Facility agreement
Details of the Group’s US$7.5 billion multi-currency committed revolving
credit facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2014 financial statements.
Exchange controls and foreign investment
Rio Tinto plc
There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other UK restrictions on the
import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non-resident
holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that materially affect the conduct of
Rio Tinto plc’s operations. It should be noted, however, that various sanctions,
laws, regulations or conventions may restrict the import or export of capital by,
or the payment of dividends to, non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association or under
UK law that limit the right of non-resident owners to hold or vote
Rio Tinto plc shares.
Rio Tinto Limited
Under current Australian legislation, permission is not required for the
movement of funds into or out of Australia. However, there is a prohibition on,
or in some cases the specific prior approval of the Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs must be obtained for, certain
payments or other dealings connected with countries or parties identified with
terrorism, or to whom United Nations or autonomous Australian
sanctions apply.
Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign
remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from
payments of interest.
Acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or certain other equity
instruments in Australian companies by foreign interests are subject to review
and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia under the
Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 (the Takeovers Act). The
Takeovers Act applies to acquisitions by a single foreign person (and any
associate) of 15 per cent or more, or by several foreign persons (and any
associates) of 40 per cent or more of the issued shares, issued shares if all
rights were converted, voting power or potential voting power in an Australian
company, and to other transactions that result in such persons controlling
such interests. The Takeovers Act also applies to direct investments by foreign
government investors, including acquisitions of interests of ten per cent or
more. Persons who are proposing such acquisitions or transactions are
required to notify the Treasurer of their intention. The Treasurer has the power
to order divestment in cases where such acquisitions or transactions have
already occurred. The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners
whose interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
Limitations on voting and shareholding
Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act, there are no limitations
imposed by law, Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limited’s
Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote
the Group’s ordinary shares or ADSs that would not apply generally to all
shareholders.
riotinto.com 225
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued
UK Listing Rules cross reference table
The following table contains cross references identifying the location of information required to be disclosed in the Annual report by the UK Listing Authority’s
Listing Rule 9.8.4 R.
Listing rule Description of Listing Rule Reference in Report
9.8.4 (1) A statement of any interest capitalised by the Group during the year Note 8 Finance income and
finance costs and Note 17
Deferred taxation
9.8.4 (2) Any information required by Listing Rule 9.2.18 R N/A
9.8.4 (4) Details of any long-term incentive scheme as described in LR 9.4.2R (2) N/A
9.8.4 (5) Details of any arrangement under which a director has waived any emoluments N/A
9.8.4 (6) Details of any arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments N/A
9.8.4 (7) Details of any allotments of shares by the company for cash not previously authorised by shareholders N/A
9.8.4 (8) Details of any allotments of shares for cash by a major subsidiary of the company N/A
9.8.4 (9) Details of the participation by the company in any placing made by its parent company N/A
9.8.4 (10) Details of any contract of significance with the company in which a director has a material interest; or a
contract between the company and a controlling shareholder N/A
9.8.4 (11) Details of any contract for the provision of services to the company by a controlling shareholder N/A
9.8.4 (12) Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends Note 11 Dividends
9.8.4 (13) Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends N/A
9.8.4 (14) Information required by LR 9.2.2AR (2)(a) N/A
226 riotinto.com Financial calendar
2015
20 January Fourth quarter 2014 operations review
12 February Announcement of results for 2014
4 March Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2014 final dividend
5 March Rio Tinto plc shares quoted “ex-dividend” for 2014 final dividend
6 March Record date for 2014 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs
6 March Publication of 2014 Annual report, 20-F and Notices of annual general meetings
17 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2014
final dividend
31 March Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to
receive pounds sterling)
9 April Payment date for 2014 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs
16 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London
21 April First quarter 2015 operations review
7 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Melbourne
16 July Second quarter 2015 operations review
6 August Announcement of half year results for 2015
12 August Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRS quoted “ex-dividend” for 2015 interim dividend
13 August Rio Tinto plc shares quoted “ex-dividend” for 2015 interim dividend
14 August Record date for 2015 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs
19 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2015
interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc
20 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan and date for electing dividends paid in alternate currency for the 2015
interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited
3 September Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders electing to
receive pounds sterling)
10 September Payment date for 2015 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs
16 October Third quarter 2015 operations review
2016
January Fourth quarter 2015 operations review
February Announcement of results for 2015
April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc, London
April First quarter 2016 operations review
May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited, Brisbane
July Second quarter 2016 operations review
August Announcement of half year results for 2016
October Third quarter 2016 operations review
riotinto.com 227
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Contact details
Registered offices
Rio Tinto plc
2 Eastbourne Terrace
London
W2 6LG
Registered in England No. 719885
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7781 2000
Fax: +44 (0) 20 7781 1800
riotinto.com
Rio Tinto Limited
Level 33
120 Collins Street
Melbourne
Victoria 3000
ABN 96 004 458 404
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9283 3333
Fax: +61 (0) 3 9283 3707
riotinto.com
Rio Tinto’s agent in the US is Cheree Finan,
who may be contacted at
Rio Tinto Services Inc.
80 State Street
Albany, NY 12207-2543
Shareholders
Please refer to the Investor Centre of the
respective registrar if you have any queries about
your shareholding.
Rio Tinto plc
Computershare Investor
Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol
BS99 6ZY
Telephone: +44 (0) 870 703 6364
Fax: +44 (0) 870 703 6119
UK residents only,
freephone: 0800 435021
computershare.com
Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs)
Please contact the ADR administrator if you have
any queries about your ADRs.
ADR administrator
JPMorgan Chase & Co
PO Box 64504
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504
Telephone: +1 (651) 453 2128
US residents only, toll free general:
(800) 990 1135
US residents only, toll free Global invest direct:
(800) 428 4237
adr.com
jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com
Rio Tinto Limited
Computershare Investor Services
Pty Limited
GPO Box 2975
Melbourne
Victoria 3001
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9415 4030
Fax: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500
Australian residents only, toll free:
1800 813 292
New Zealand residents only, toll free:
0800 450 740
computershare.com
Former Alcan Inc. shareholders
Computershare Investor
Services Inc.
9th Floor
100 University Avenue
Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1
Ontario
Telephone: +1 416 263 9200
North American residents only,
toll free: +1 (866) 624-1341
computershare.com
Investor Centre
Investor Centre is Computershare’s free, secure,
self service website, where shareholders can
manage their holdings online. The website
enables shareholders to:
– View share balances
– Change address details
– View payment and tax information
– Update payment instructions
In addition, shareholders who register their email
address on Investor Centre can be notified
electronically of events such as annual general
meetings, and can receive shareholder
communications such as the Annual report or
Notice of meeting electronically online.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders
investorcentre.co.uk/riotinto
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders
investorcentre.com/rio
228 riotinto.com Printed by Park Communications
on FSC
®
certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified company and its
Environmental Management System is
certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based,
95% of press chemicals are recycled for
further use and, on average 99% of any waste
associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Explorer Offset, a
paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced
from well managed, responsible, FSC
®
certified
forests. The pulp used in this product is
bleached using an elemental chlorine free
(ECF) process.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc
www.blacksunplc.com
Typeset by RR Donnelley riotinto.com/ar2014
Get more information online
Visit riotinto.com
– Find out more about our business and performance
– View our full 2014 Annual report: riotinto.com/ar2014
– View our full 2014 Sustainable development report
