 2010 Annual report
This report is available online  
Visit www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
for
Striving
global
sector
leadership More information
Website www.riotinto.com
The “Shareholders” section of www.riotinto.com provides financial and corporate information 
about the Group as well as Rio Tinto share price charts and data, an events calendar, dividend 
information and the latest presentations by management for investors and financial analysts.
Results presentations
Our results presentations are available live on webcast. A playback of the most recent presentation 
is downloadable at www.riotinto.com
Messaging service/Rio Tinto news alert
Receive news alerts about Rio Tinto via text or email by subscribing to our messaging service on 
www.riotinto.com/newsalerts
Striving for global sector leadership 
The Annual report and Auditors’ report 
comply with the Australian and UK 
reporting requirements.
Copies of Rio Tinto’s shareholder 
documents are available on the website 
at www.riotinto.com. They can also 
be obtained free of charge from the 
Company. Some shareholders may prefer  
to receive the Annual review which contains 
the summary financial statements although 
shareholders should note that it does 
not allow as full an understanding of 
the Group. 
Cautionary statement about forward 
looking statements.
This document contains certain forward 
looking statements with respect to the 
financial condition, results of operations 
and business of the Rio Tinto Group. 
These statements are forward looking 
statements within the meaning of 
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 
1933, and Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. The words 
“intend”, “aim”, “project”, “anticipate”, 
“estimate”, “plan”, “believes”, “expects”, 
“may”, “should”, “will”, or similar 
expressions, commonly identify  
such forward looking statements.
Examples of forward looking statements in  
this Annual report include those regarding 
estimated ore reserves, anticipated 
production or construction dates, costs, 
outputs and productive lives of assets 
or similar factors. Forward looking 
statements involve known and unknown 
risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other 
factors set forth in this document that 
are beyond the Group’s control. For 
example, future ore reserves will be 
based in part on market prices that 
may vary significantly from current 
levels. These may materially affect the 
timing and feasibility of particular 
developments. Other factors include 
the ability to produce and transport 
products profitably, demand for our 
products, the effect of foreign currency 
exchange rates on market prices and 
operating costs, and activities by 
governmental authorities, such as 
changes in taxation or regulation,  
and political uncertainty.
In light of these risks, uncertainties 
and assumptions, actual results could 
be materially different from projected 
future results expressed or implied 
by these forward looking statements 
which speak only as to the date of this 
report. Except as required by applicable 
regulations or by law, the Group does 
not undertake any obligation to publicly 
update or revise any forward looking 
statements, whether as a result of new 
information or future events. The Group 
cannot guarantee that its forward 
looking statements will not differ 
materially from actual results.
Sustainable development
Sustainable development is 
integral to the way we work. 
Within this report we have 
provided our 2010 sustainable 
development performance 
highlights.
   The “Our approach” section 
of our website contains 
details of our programmes to 
deliver on our commitment 
to sector leading sustainable 
development and more 
comprehensive data on  
our progress.
Rio Tinto is a leading global business delivering value at each 
stage of mineral and metal production. Our 77,000 people  
work in over 40 countries. Our commitment to the health, 
safety and prosperity of our people is at the heart of 
our operations. So is our determination to maintain the 
environmental integrity of what we do. We achieve all of  
this by managing our business globally with a well established 
strategy and a single set of standards and values. Our approach, 
coupled with our diverse portfolio of quality assets, positions  
us for growth on a global scale. www.riotinto.com 1
Overview
Symbols used within this report
 More content online at www.riotinto.com
 More content within this report
 
 Key performance indicators within this report
Overview
A description of our business and markets,  
the Group’s strategy and the outlook  
for 2011
Performance highlights 2
Group overview  4
Product overview 6
Chairman’s statement  8
Chief executive’s statement 10
Chief financial officer’s statement 12
Strategic context 14
The way we work 16
Group strategy  18
Key performance indicators  22
Risk management 24
Principal risks and uncertainties 25
Performance
How we did by product group and function, 
together with a review of progress in 
sustainable development
Sustainable development review 29
Aluminium 42
Copper  46
Diamonds & Minerals 50
Energy  54
Iron Ore  58
Exploration  62
Technology & Innovation  64
Financial review  66
Five year review 74
Acquisitions and divestments 75
Capital projects  76
Production, reserves and operations
Information tables and details of our assets Summary  78
Metals and minerals production  80
Ore reserves  84
Mineral resources  88
Competent Persons 93
Mines and production facilities 94
Governance
Introducing the board of directors and senior 
management, with an explanation of our 
approach to corporate governance and 
remuneration
Board of directors 102
Executive committee  106
Directors’ report  108
Corporate governance  114
Remuneration report 128
Financial statements
Detailed financial information Detailed contents 156 
Group income statement 157
Group statement of comprehensive income  158
Group cash flow statement 159
Group statement of financial position 160
Group statement of changes in equity 161
Reconciliation with AAS 162
Outline of dual listed companies structure  
and basis of financial statements  162
Notes to the 2010 financial statements 163 
Company balance sheet 247
Financial information by business unit  250
Summary of ASIC relief 254
Directors’ declaration 255
Auditors’ independence declaration 256
Independent auditors’ report 257
Financial summary 2001–2010 259
Summary financial data 261
Additional information
Other useful information Shareholder information 262
Definitions 276
Financial calendar  278
Useful information and contacts 279
Inside this report
Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 2 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Strong financial performance
 Record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, 122 per cent above 2009
 Record cash flows from operations of US$23.5 billion, up 70 per cent
 Record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion, up 82 per cent on 2009
 Net debt decreased from US$18.9 billion to US$4.3 billion at the end  
of 2010
Exceptional operational delivery 
 18 per cent decrease in all injury frequency rate from 2009
 Production at, or above, capacity at many operations
 Record annual production of iron ore
 Annual hard coking coal production up 20 per cent on 2009
 Bauxite production up nine per cent
Growth potential across the business
 US$11 billion of major capital approvals in 2010, with  
US$13 billion of capital expenditure expected in 2011
 US$5.6 billion committed in 2010 on Pilbara expansion  
(100 per cent basis) to grow production by more than 50 per cent
 The Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project came under Rio Tinto’s 
management, with a pathway to increase ownership of  
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd to 49 per cent
 US$1 billion approved to modernise hydropower based  
aluminium portfolio in Canada
Continuing progress on sustainable development
 Reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 3.7 per cent  
from 2008
 43 per cent decrease in the rate of new cases of occupational illness 
from 2009
 Community contributions of US$166 million, up 40 per cent on 2009
Dividend
Dividend declared 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
US cents 108.00 45.00 111.22 111.23 85.07
UK pence 67.35 28.84 67.49 56.20 44.22
Australian cents 111.21 51.56 146.22 125.72 110.69
Notes
*   All references in this report to net earnings and underlying earnings relate to profit attributable to equity 
shareholders of Rio Tinto. Underlying earnings is defined below and is reconciled to net earnings on page 182. 
EBITDA is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. Underlying EBITDA excludes the same 
items that are excluded from underlying earnings. EBITDA and underlying EBITDA are reconciled to the income 
statement in the “Financial information by business unit” section of the financial statements.
Notes to pages 2 and 3
(a)  The accounting information in these charts is based on EU IFRS accounting information.
(b)  Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess 
performance. It is presented here as an additional measure of earnings to provide greater understanding of 
the underlying business performance of the Group’s operations. Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at 
underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the 2010 financial statements. Both net earnings and underlying 
earnings deal with amounts attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. However, EU IFRS requires that the profit for the 
year reported in the income statement should also include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests  
in subsidiaries.
Performance highlights
Record financial and operational performance
Underlying earnings 
(a) (b) 
US$ millions
 KPI see page 22
 More information see page 250
 
US$ millions
 
 
Net debt 
(a)
US$ millions
 
 
KPI see page 22
More information see page 199
KPI see page 22
More information see page 252
Capital expenditure 
(a)
 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7,338
7,443
6,298
13,987
10,303
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2,437
45,191
18,861
4,284
38,672
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
3,988
4,968
5,356
4,553
8,488 www.riotinto.com 3
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
 
KPI see page 22
 
More information see page 31
Gross sales revenue 
(a)
 
US$ millions
  Share of equity accounted units sales revenue
 Consolidated sales revenue
 More information see page 250
US$ millions
 
New cases of occupational illness
Per 10,000 employees
 Including former Alcan
 
GHG emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
 Including former Alcan
 
 
US cents
 
US$ millions
  Dividends from equity accounted units 
Cash flow from consolidated operations
 
KPI see page 22
US$ millions
 More information see page 157
Total shareholder return
%
 KPI see page 22
Operating cash flows 
(a) 
Profit for the year 
(a) 
More information see page 250 More information see page 188 More information see page 32
KPI see page 22
More information see page 34
Underlying EBITDA 
(a)
 Underlying earnings per share 
(a) (b)
 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
9,196
10,923
10,805
12,569
13,224
13,834
23,530
22,126
19,195
20,668
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7,867
7,746
5,335
15,184
4,609
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
0.95
1.21
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
22,465
25,440
29,700
33,518
41,825
44,036
56,576
54,264
58,065
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7.4
92.8
172.8
32.6
(71.5)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
110.9
92.5
96.3
100.0
110.2
111.3
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
12,524
13,920
14,312
25,978
22,317
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
450.1
473.2
357.1
713.3
656.2
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
36
22
38
22
47
60,323 18
21
%
of sales by destination 
to North and  
South America 
4 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Group overview
Opportunities for long term growth
Major global operations 
Our assets are ideally positioned to serve our customers 
worldwide. The majority of our operations are in Australia 
and North America, but we also have businesses in 
South America, Europe, southern Africa and Asia. While 
our operating heartland is in OECD (Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development) countries, 
much of our sales are to emerging economies – which are 
driving the anticipated growth in metals and minerals 
demand. To meet rising demand, we will continue to 
pursue value-adding organic growth, plus targeted small 
to medium sized acquisitions.
Our five product groups (below) are supported by our Exploration and  
Technology & Innovation groups.
Aluminium
W e are a global leader in the aluminium 
industry . Our closely integrated facilities include 
high quality bauxite mines and alumina 
refineries, as well as some of the world’s  
lowest cost primary aluminium smelters. 
Products
•	 Bauxite, alumina, aluminium
Key strengths 
•	 Effective portfolio management, improving 
our already strong position and moving 
assets further down the cost curve.
•	 Largest bauxite producer in the industry. 
•	 Self generated hydroelectricity at  
many facilities.
•	 Global scale gives the group the ability to 
seize opportunities and support customers 
worldwide as markets continue their recovery .
•	 One of the best growth project pipelines in 
the aluminium industry, supported by our 
management expertise and proprietary  
AP Technology™.
Copper
With diverse assets and leading technology, 
our Copper group is uniquely positioned to 
supply growing global demand. In 2010, we 
produced 678 thousand tonnes of copper, 
making us the world’s fifth largest supplier. 
We also produced 772 thousand ounces of 
gold and 13 thousand tonnes of molybdenum 
as by-products of our copper operations. 
Products
•	 Copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, nickel
Key strengths 
•	 Participation in and ownership of several 
world class operating assets. Management 
of the Oyu Tolgoi project, scheduled to be 
a top ten copper producer and a significant 
gold producer.
•	 Investment in a substantial growth profile.
•	 Industry leading technology and innovation.
Diamonds & Minerals
The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises 
mining, refining and marketing operations 
across three sectors. Rio Tinto Diamonds is 
one of the world’s leading diamond producers, 
active in mining and sales and marketing.  
Rio Tinto Minerals is a world leader in borates 
and talc, with mines, processing plants, 
commercial and research facilities. Rio Tinto 
Iron & Titanium is an industry leader in high 
grade titanium dioxide.
Products
•	 Diamonds, borates, titanium dioxide 
feedstocks, talc, high purity iron, metal 
powders, zircon, rutile
Key strengths 
•	 Poised to benefit from late-cycle  
demand growth.
•	 Substantial brownfield and greenfield 
development pipeline.
 Full operating review on page 42 Full operating review on page 46 Full operating review on page 50
Contribution to Group underlying earnings 
(a) (b)
6%
Contribution to Group underlying earnings 
(a) (b)
18%
Contribution to Group underlying earnings 
(a) (b)
2%
(a) Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the 2010 financial statements. 
(b) Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 107 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other items and Net interest. 18
18
19
%
of sales by destination 
to Europe, Middle East 
and Africa
28
%
of sales by destination 
to China
32
%
of sales by destination 
to elsewhere in Asia 
and Australia
    Countries with operations and/or projects
www.riotinto.com 5
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Energy
We are a leading supplier of thermal and 
coking coal to the Asian seaborne market 
and are one of the world’s largest uranium 
producers, serving electric power utilities 
worldwide. Our Energy portfolio includes: 
Rio Tinto Coal Australia; a coal mine at 
Colowyo in Colorado, US; Energy Resources 
of Australia, which produces uranium oxide 
from its Ranger operation; and Rössing, a 
Namibian uranium oxide producer.
Products
•	 Thermal coal, coking coal, uranium
Key strengths
•	 Strong customer relationships and high 
quality assets located in close proximity  
to growing Asian markets.
•	 Emphasis on operational excellence, 
thereby reducing waste and greenhouse 
gas emissions and engaging our people.
Iron Ore
We are the second largest producer supplying 
the global seaborne iron ore trade. After a 
decade of dramatic expansion in Australia, 
and more recent growth in both Australia and 
Canada, we believe we are well positioned to 
benefit from the continuing demand surge  
in China and other Asian markets. We  
are driving performance through effective 
project management and enhanced 
operational efficiency.
Products
•	 Iron ore, salt
Key strengths 
•	 Proximity of the expanded Pilbara 
operations to the world’s largest and  
fastest growing markets.
•	 Success in increasing operational 
efficiency and controlling costs.
•	 Vast potential of brownfield developments 
near existing infrastructure.
 Full operating review on page 54 Full operating review on page 58
Exploration
Exploration is one of the Group’s core 
activities – largely paying for itself through 
the sale of non core discoveries.
Potential Tier 1 discoveries (see page 62)  
are retained for development and operation. 
These have included two of the largest copper 
opportunities in the world at Resolution 
in Arizona, US and La Granja in Peru. 
Exploration has also delivered one of the 
world’s largest known undeveloped high 
grade iron ore deposits, at Simandou in 
Guinea, as well as the Caliwingina channel 
iron deposits in the Pilbara, Australia.
 Full operating review on page 62
Technology & Innovation
Our centralised team of specialists focuses 
on improving current technologies and 
operations, with emphasis on project 
development, execution and evaluation.  
The Group’s Innovation Centre concentrates 
on step changes that will give us competitive 
advantages in developing the orebodies of  
the future. A special Energy & Climate Strategy  
Centre is dedicated to improving the Group’s 
use of energy, reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions and understanding the effects  
of climate change on our operations  
and prospects. 
 Full operating review on page 64
Contribution to Group underlying earnings 
(a) (b)
8%
Contribution to Group underlying earnings 
(a) (b)
73% 6 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Product overview
Touching your life every day
Major global commodities 
Few people around the world can spend a day without using a metal 
or mineral in some way . In the production and supply of metals and 
minerals, Rio Tinto is one of the world’s most diversified companies. 
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, iron ore, 
uranium, molybdenum, gold, borates, titanium dioxide, salt and talc. 
Aluminium
Bauxite, alumina, aluminium 
Rio Tinto is a leading global supplier of bauxite, alumina and 
primary aluminium. In a closely integrated value chain, the 
mineral bauxite is refined into alumina which is smelted into 
aluminium metal. Aluminium is one of the most widely used 
metals and its largest markets are transportation, building  
and construction.
Copper
Copper
About two thirds of copper production is used in electrical 
applications due to its high conductivity. It helps power our lives, 
in homes and factories, cars, computers, phones and equipment. 
Further major uses are in air conditioning and refrigeration, 
plumbing and roofing. 
Molybdenum
Molybdenum is a metallic element frequently used in alloys 
with stainless steel and other metals. It enhances the metal’s 
toughness, high temperature strength and corrosion resistance. 
We produce molybdenum as a by-product from the Kennecott 
Utah Copper operations.
Gold
Gold has enjoyed a mystique and value unrivalled by other metals. 
Most gold that is not stored as bullion for investment purposes 
goes into jewellery. Gold’s conductivity and non corrosive 
properties make it a vital fabrication material in technology, 
electronics, space exploration and dentistry. We produce gold  
as a by-product from our copper mines.
Silver
Silver is a good conductor of electricity and does not corrode. It is used 
in many electrical and electronic applications, such as photovoltaic 
cells, and is the principal ingredient of x-ray film. Silver is also a metal 
of beauty, used to make lasting products for the home and person.  
Rio Tinto produces silver as a by-product of its copper production.
Diamonds & Minerals
Diamonds
Diamonds share the role with gold as an important component 
in jewellery that ranges from top end jewellery through to more 
affordable pieces. Rio Tinto is able to service all diamond jewellery 
markets as it produces the full range of diamonds in terms of size, 
quality and colour distribution including whites, champagnes, 
cognacs, greys, blues and greens and the rarest of all, pink diamonds.
Borates
Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes. They 
are a vital ingredient of many home and automotive applications, 
and are essential nutrients for crops. They are commonly used 
in glass and ceramic applications including fibreglass, television 
screens, floor and wall tiles, and heat resistant glass.
Segmental analyses of sales revenue by product and by destination have been included in note 32 to the 2010 financial statements. www.riotinto.com 7
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Titanium dioxide
The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium slag, can 
be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium 
metal. The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, 
paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics. Titanium 
metal’s key properties of light weight, chemical inertness and high 
strength make it ideal for use in medical applications and in the 
aerospace industry.
Talc
Talc is hydrated magnesium silicate and is the softest rock in the 
world. It is an important ingredient in the manufacture of paper, 
paints, moulded plastics for cars and other familiar products.  
Rio Tinto produces various grades of talc for niche markets.
Energy
Coal 
Coal is plentiful, relatively inexpensive, and safe and easy to 
transport. We are a large producer in the export thermal coal 
market. Thermal coal is used for electricity generation in power 
stations. We also produce higher value coking, or metallurgical, 
coal which, when treated into coke, is used in furnaces with iron 
ore to produce steel. 
Uranium
Uranium is one of the most powerful natural energy sources known, 
used in the production of clean, stable, base load electricity. After 
uranium ore is mined, it is milled into uranium oxide, the mine 
product that is sent away for further processing into fuel rods for 
nuclear power stations.
Iron Ore
Iron ore
Iron is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the 
most fundamental and durable products for modern day living, 
with uses from railways to paperclips. Our mines are located in 
Australia and Canada.
Salt
Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry 
and is indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction 
and electronic products, as well as for water treatment, food  
and healthcare.
Marketing channels
All sales and marketing activity is conducted by Rio Tinto’s product groups who utilise a range of sales and marketing channels 
to interact with customers. These channels include direct sales, sales via distributors and sales via agents. No customer facing 
sales and marketing activity is handled outside of the product groups. 8 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Jan du Plessis
Our commitment to operational excellence 
has seen us capitalise on improved conditions 
in the external environment.
Chairman’s statement
A year of record results
Rio Tinto had an outstanding 2010. After responding to the challenges 
of the global financial crisis, and taking steps to stabilise and 
strengthen our organisation, we are now concentrating on, and 
delivering, operational excellence. This focus has allowed us to 
benefit from opportunities that have arisen in the more favourable 
external environment, and to deliver record results in 2010. 
The exemplary performance of Rio Tinto’s people was fundamental 
to our success in 2010. Their efforts enabled us in many cases 
to work our assets throughout the year at, or above, nameplate 
capacity, while also improving our safety performance. In 2010, 
we set a new Group record in the annual production of iron ore. 
We achieved record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion, and 
record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, up 82 per cent  
and 122 per cent on 2009, respectively. Net earnings were 
US$14.3 billion compared with US$4.9 billion in 2009.
We remain committed to efficient capital management. It is our 
belief that the long term creation of shareholder value requires a 
balanced approach to investing in growth and returning excess 
capital to shareholders, while maintaining a strong balance sheet. 
Our confidence both in our own portfolio and in future demand 
for our products has allowed us to increase our annual dividend by 
20 per cent compared with our previous commitment. We are also 
proceeding with a US$5 billion share buy-back, which we intend  
to complete by the end of 2012, subject to market conditions.
Improved global economy
The world’s major developed economies gradually stabilised 
during 2010, in response to government fiscal and monetary 
stimulus packages. Most were experiencing renewed GDP growth 
by the third quarter of 2009. China saw a sharp rebound in GDP 
growth, up from an annualised rate of nearly six per cent in 2009 
to over ten per cent in 2010. 
This economic stimulus has helped trade to recover from the 
low point of the global crisis, and thanks to our stronger balance 
sheet, we have been well positioned to benefit from this recovery. 
We have sharpened our focus on our programme of organic 
growth and, for 2011, we envisage continuing this focus, with 
capital expenditure set to increase to US$13 billion.
We believe we are well prepared for the key challenges facing the 
mining industry as we grow to meet rising demand. We will need 
to overcome skills shortages as we compete for new talent not 
only with other mining companies, but also with other expanding 
sectors, such as oil and gas. This trend will become more apparent 
as we move into new, riskier geographies. There will be new 
technical challenges as we develop more remote and complex 
orebodies, and increased competition from new players in our 
sector. Although we anticipate continued volatility in our markets, 
we will need to look beyond the peaks and troughs of a cycle and 
be prepared to expand through volatile times.
Dividends
108.00
(2009: 45.00)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
85.07
111.23 111.22
45.00
108.00
US cents www.riotinto.com 9
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Sustainable development
As the world becomes more reliant on the metals and minerals 
we produce, we are increasingly challenged to grow and to find 
new, more efficient ways of providing our markets with the raw 
materials they demand. And as we grow, we are able to share more 
of the sustainable benefits of our activities with those around us.
Rio Tinto’s commitment to sustainable development permeates 
our entire business. It is integral to our daily operations, to our 
legacy, and to our future. By maintaining our reputation as a 
responsible employer, neighbour, partner and citizen, we are 
constantly renewing our licence to operate. This approach gives  
us continuing access to the people, capital and resources we need.
We are recognised as a leader in sustainable development, as 
evidenced by our continued listing on the FTSE4Good, the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the Carbon Disclosure 
Leadership Index. Our reputation helps us forge robust alliances 
with other organisations that lead the way in sustainable 
development, such as the three year partnership we formed with 
the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2010. By 
sharing knowledge and best practice with our partners, we seek to 
continue to deliver sustainable benefits to the people and places 
where we work. 
Governance and risk
To achieve our vision of global sector leadership, we must 
continue to maintain the highest standards of corporate 
governance. These standards are underpinned by ethical guidance 
in the form of our global code of conduct, The way we work; the 
application of best practice; and continually striving for excellence 
to create value for our shareholders. Based upon our agreed 
strategic framework, Rio Tinto’s board supports and oversees 
the Group’s management in its delivery of sustained operational 
excellence as well as growth opportunities, whether organic or 
through prudent corporate activity.
The board recognises that risk is an integral and unavoidable 
part of doing business and that while risk carries threats, it also 
offers opportunities. Our processes for handling risk effectively 
are embedded throughout our organisation and are essential for 
maintaining our competitive advantage. There is a more detailed 
discussion of risk management on page 24. 
Board succession planning is an essential component of effective 
corporate governance and the continued success of our business. In 
2010, we strengthened our board through the appointment of two new 
non executive directors, Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown. 
We also saw two retirements from the board.  Sir David Clementi, 
who was chairman of the Audit committee, stepped down in May 
2010, as did David Mayhew.  In accordance with a provision of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will stand for 
re-election by shareholders annually with effect from the 2011 annual 
general meetings.  As previously indicated, Yves Fortier, formerly 
chairman of the board of Alcan Inc and also Sir Rod Eddington, will not 
be standing for re-election by shareholders in 2011. Yves and Rod have 
each made significant contributions to the board during their tenure 
with Rio Tinto and I would like to express my personal appreciation 
of the tremendous support they have given to me over the years.  
Meanwhile, Andrew Gould, Senior Independent Director and chairman 
of the Remuneration committee, has announced that he will be leaving 
the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 annual general meetings.
On behalf of the board, I continue to lead the succession and routine 
refreshment of directors to ensure the most appropriate balance of 
skills and experience, and to drive effective decision making.
Outlook
Urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of the world 
will continue to provide a strong platform for increasing demand 
for metals and minerals. Although long term fundamentals for 
growth are strong, there are downside risks in the short term, and 
potential for medium term volatility due to persistent economic 
imbalances. Financial systems remain fragile, particularly in 
OECD countries. The increase in sovereign debts, and government 
measures to address fiscal imbalances, are likely to temper short 
term growth. 
We constantly seek to assess the potential impact of these factors 
on the Group’s plans, and to enhance our capabilities to predict 
demand and understand our markets.
Our people’s commitment
It is inspiring to see the way our global team of people 
works together and strives for ways to improve our collective 
performance. Throughout the year, their commitment, talent  
and integrity have led to the delivery of remarkable results. 
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank all of our people for 
their hard work during the past year. Our thanks also go to our 
shareholders, whose continued support of Rio Tinto has helped  
us achieve record levels of performance in 2010.
Jan du Plessis, chairman 10 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Chief executive’s statement
Strong momentum and value adding growth
Tom Albanese
From a position of increased strength and with 
growth firmly on our agenda, we are making 
significant progress towards our vision of global 
sector leadership.
2010 saw Rio Tinto move steadily towards its vision of global sector 
leadership, recording exceptional performance and creating a 
clear pathway for sustainable growth. 
We are now financially stronger and have greater optionality, 
thanks to significant progress with our divestment programme, 
efficiencies derived from our business transformation initiatives 
and record annual production in our iron ore business. 
Improved pricing and market conditions also enhanced our flexibility 
and enabled us to approve US$11 billion in major capital projects 
during 2010. Growth is firmly on our agenda.
These achievements are a credit to the 77,000 employees who 
work for Rio Tinto across the world and I would like to thank  
them for their ongoing commitment.
In 2010, we increased our focus on operational efficiency and 
risk management, with a particular emphasis on compliance and 
continuous improvement. Running operations which are safe, 
reliable and injury and illness free is our number one priority.  
We are proud to have improved our safety record, with an  
18 per cent decrease in the all injury frequency rate. However, 
I must record with sorrow the deaths of three people in our 
managed facilities. 
We have increased our focus on process and contractor safety, 
remaining absolutely committed to safety in the workplace. We 
are determined to achieve zero harm in all of our operations.
Strategy
Our strategy has remained absolutely consistent – to invest in  
and operate large, long term, cost competitive mines and assets, 
driven not by the choice of commodity but rather by the quality  
of each opportunity.
To achieve this, we focus on a portfolio of Tier 1 assets diversified by 
commodity, market and geography. This approach has underpinned 
our ability to overcome the challenges of previous years. I am greatly 
encouraged by the Group’s performance, which is a testament to our 
focus on creating shareholder value in the long term. 
2010 objectives
As a result of the investments announced during the year, we have 
significantly enhanced our global presence in key operational areas. 
In 2010, to support the execution of our strategy, we focused 
the business on five short term priorities: operational delivery; 
prudent balance sheet management; pursuing our growth path; 
completing the proposed Western Australian iron ore production 
joint venture; and strengthening our relationship with China. 
I am pleased to say we made significant progress in almost all  
of these areas. 
Our focus on operational delivery helped us break production records. 
We took steps to optimise our financial position and, as a result, our 
balance sheet is stronger. We grew organically, reflecting confidence 
in our business and the outlook for our markets. 
The cessation of our plans to form a Western Australian iron ore 
production joint venture with BHP Billiton was a disappointment, 
but we respect the regulators’ views. We remain focused on a more 
than 50 per cent expansion of our iron ore business in the Pilbara, 
leveraging our world class assets and organisational capability.
We began 2010 with a difficult period in China, but went on to  
make significant progress in developing stronger ties there. In  
March 2010, four employees based in Shanghai were convicted of  
receiving bribes and obtaining commercial secrets. This disappointing 
and unacceptable behaviour violated the Group’s strong ethical 
culture as well as Chinese law, hence their employment was terminated.  
The independent forensic investigation found that any illegal 
activities were conducted entirely outside the Group’s systems. 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
0.95
1.21
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
0.66
(2009: 0.81) www.riotinto.com 11
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
We also looked towards the future. In July, we signed a joint venture 
agreement with Chalco for the development and operation of the 
Simandou iron ore project in Guinea and we continue to have 
discussions with the Government of Guinea. At the end of the 
year, we signed a memorandum of understanding with Chinalco to 
establish a landmark exploration joint venture in China, and also 
agreed to extend our Channar Mining joint venture in the Pilbara 
with our partner, Sinosteel Corporation. 
In a year of considerable progress across the Group, several 
projects stand out: our iron ore expansion plans in the Pilbara; 
our increased interest in the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project 
in Mongolia and the signing of an agreement to become the 
development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi; and progress 
towards modernising and expanding our Canadian aluminium 
portfolio. At the end of the year we announced a recommended 
offer for Riversdale Mining Limited, which, if successful, would 
provide us with a substantial Tier 1 coking coal development 
pipeline in Mozambique. This is an example of the small to 
medium sized acquisitions that we are currently focused on.
A strong framework for sustainable development 
Wherever we operate, whatever we do, sustainable development 
underpins our vision. Our sustainable development approach gives 
governments confidence that we will develop resources in a way  
that will benefit their economies and communities and will protect 
their environments.
The mining and natural resource sector occupies an increasingly 
strategic and exposed position in the thinking of governments 
and other stakeholders. While these factors can lead to tensions, 
with effective management, new opportunities will emerge. 
Through proactive leadership, and by building relationships  
with all our stakeholders, we can turn this area of challenge  
and complexity into a source of competitive advantage. 
We will continue to show leadership in areas such as employee  
health and safety; community engagement; and in global issues vital  
to the future of the world’s environment such as carbon, water use  
and biodiversity .
Well placed to meet rising demand
Prices for many of our products recovered during the year driven 
principally by demand growth in China and the OECD countries. 
Iron ore and copper prices were particularly strong. While 
government stimulus measures generally supported a gradual 
return to normalised global trade, the improvement in developed 
economies faded slightly during the latter part of 2010.
We believe the recovery momentum of the major economies will 
remain uncertain and volatile as the impact of the fiscal and 
monetary stimuli fades. Therefore, we remain cautious about the 
short term view of the economy. Globally, we expect GDP growth 
in 2011 to continue at broadly healthy levels of around 4.5 per 
cent. However, the pace of economic recovery will vary between 
the different markets we supply.
In the longer term, we believe the fundamentals are strong, but 
we will not be complacent. Much of the anticipated growth in 
demand for minerals will be driven by China and other emerging 
economies. Implementation of our established strategy will 
enable us to take advantage of increasing demand from these  
fast growing regions. 
Financial recovery
We will meet that demand from a strong financial position.  
In the past year we have transformed the Group’s balance sheet. 
Our robust operating performance, including record annual 
production in iron ore, led to record cash flows and underlying 
earnings in 2010. We completed a number of disposals, making 
asset sales totalling US$4.2 billion in 2010. This takes the total 
divestments completed since 2008 to more than US$11 billion 
and largely completes the disposal programme launched in 2007.
Achieving our vision 
With a focus on organic growth, we will also consider strategic 
merger and acquisition opportunities of moderate size that fit  
our overall direction and help us achieve our vision. 
As we move into 2011 we have established a longer term vision 
for global sector leadership, reflecting the long term nature of our 
business. Our strategy and business model are explained in detail 
on p18.
The people who make it all happen
We are fortunate in the Group that our geographic spread gives 
us access to the skills and talents of a highly diverse workforce. 
But there is much more we have to do and we have set ambitious 
plans to foster greater diversity.
It is our policy to offer our employees career opportunities that  
are rewarding and stimulating with real opportunities for personal 
and professional development. For example, training and recruitment 
programmes are under way in a number of countries in which 
we have embarked on major development opportunities. These 
include Madagascar, Mongolia and Guinea. 
We recognise that given our ambitious growth plans, our 
recruitment challenge will be substantial, particularly in some 
of our more competitive labour markets. We will not fulfil this 
requirement without a concerted effort to make Rio Tinto the 
employer of choice, something we are committed to achieving.
I want to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders, my 
leadership team and all of our employees across the world. It has 
been a year of exceptional performance and momentum, which 
was truly a team effort. I am looking forward to building  
on this success in 2011. 
In a world of increasing commodity demand and growing 
sustainable development challenges I believe Rio Tinto will 
set itself apart through its leadership in operational delivery, 
exploration, technology and innovation and sustainable 
development to become the preferred industry partner  
and developer.
Tom Albanese, chief executive 12 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Chief financial officer’s statement
Sustainable growth in shareholder value
Guy Elliott
Rio Tinto is once again able to invest in its 
high quality value adding growth programme, 
maintain a strong balance sheet and deliver 
capital returns to shareholders.
Record breaking financial performance
Record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion were 122 per cent 
higher than 2009 driven by the continuing recovery in commodity 
prices and strong operational performance. Record cash flows from 
operations of US$23.5 billion demonstrated the exceptional cash 
generation capabilities of our Tier 1 assets. 
Strong operational performance during 2010 allowed us to benefit 
fully from the strong price environment. The broader global 
recovery meant that we began to face pressures on our costs that 
are likely to continue in the coming year. In particular, labour and 
contractor costs in some geographies such as Western Australia 
are expected to rise. However, we are focusing on productivity 
improvements, effective procurement and operating efficiency  
to help to offset these input cost pressures. 
The markets for our products are increasingly complex, with the 
introduction of new pricing mechanisms in the bulk commodity 
markets, the continued emergence of base metals as a financial 
asset class and the volatile macroeconomic environment in which 
we continue to operate. To navigate these challenges effectively 
Rio Tinto has formed a Marketing Leadership team. This team 
will support our marketing vision of optimising the value of our 
resources, enabling our sales and marketing teams to become 
increasingly nimble and customer focused.
Restoration of balance sheet strength
We transformed our balance sheet in 2009 and we further 
improved on that position during 2010. Through strong cash 
flows from operations and the completion of US$4.2 billion in 
divestments, we reduced our net debt from US$18.9 billion to 
US$4.3 billion. 
In addition to reducing net debt, we have also improved our 
medium term debt maturity profile and reduced our weighted 
average interest cost. In October 2010 we successfully issued  
US$2 billion in bonds with five, ten and 30 year maturities at 
record low interest rates for the metals and mining industry.  
The proceeds were used in a successful tender for US$1.9 billion 
of bonds due in 2013.
These actions are part of a prudent approach to managing 
the balance sheet. This approach has been rewarded by the 
restoration of a single A credit rating by Moody’s. 
A strong balance sheet will allow Rio Tinto to invest at all points 
of the commodities cycle in our first class growth projects. It 
may help us to withstand sudden large shocks to the global 
economy that could arise from the significant imbalances that 
currently exist, enabling us to take advantage of value creating 
opportunities as they arise.
The investment environment
Over the long term we expect industrialisation and urbanisation 
in developing economies, including China and India, to continue 
to drive underlying growth in demand for the commodities that we 
produce. In Europe and North America high levels of government 
debt will mean difficult decisions for governments as they rebalance 
their economies. These worldwide discontinuities introduce the 
risk of unexpected shocks in the global economy. Our outlook is 
therefore for strong underlying growth for our products but with  
a potentially high degree of volatility. 
It is important that we have a stable environment within which we can 
invest. A key to successful mineral development is a culture of trust, 
transparency and mutual benefit to all parties. Australia’s proposed 
Resource Super Profits Tax and its subsequent replacement with the 
Mineral Resource Rent Tax proposal highlighted that resources and 
resource nationalism are now major items on the political agenda 
TO BE UPDA TED
Net debt
US$ millions
4,284
(2009: 18,861)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2,437
45,191
38,672
18,861
4,284 www.riotinto.com 13
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
in many countries. Rio Tinto is committed to working constructively 
with all host governments to ensure that tax policy development 
does not create a hostile environment for investment. 
Within this context our strategy remains to invest in Tier 1 
resources – those with the potential for a long life, that are cost 
competitive and that have options to expand. We do not prioritise 
investment in any particular commodity and do not limit ourselves 
to those commodities in which we currently operate. Similarly, 
we do not target or avoid specific geographies. By focusing on 
identifying and investing in Tier 1 assets which will add value to 
our shareholders, regardless of the commodity concerned, we will 
remain a diversified natural resources group.
Investing in organic growth
We have a very strong pipeline of high quality organic projects and 
a resource and mineralisation position which allows sustainable 
long term growth. Because the quality of our projects is high, we 
will maintain our position as a large, cost competitive producer. 
We have continued to invest in the business with capital expenditures 
in 2010 of US$4.6 billion. During the year we approved US$11 billion for 
new major projects including expansion of our iron ore infrastructure and 
mines in W estern Australia and Canada, the first phase of an aluminium 
smelting plant in Quebec using our new AP60 technology, and the 
modernisation of the Kitimat aluminium smelter in British Columbia. 
The approval of these and other projects in 2010 together with  
ongoing projects such as the expansion of Yarwun alumina refinery 
and the Kestrel coking coal mine will drive the allocation of  
capital in 2011, when we expect capital expenditure of 
approximately US$13 billion. 
In 2010 we began to reinvigorate our exploration and evaluation 
programmes. The Group has a long history of finding high quality 
assets through exploration. We are funding feasibility and  
pre-feasibility studies on projects such as the further expansion  
of our Pilbara operations, Simandou, La Granja, Resolution, and 
the Kennecott Utah Copper extension. This work will develop the 
next generation of Tier 1 assets. 
Rio Tinto has a very substantial inventory of projects and resources 
which have not yet reached the stage of development approval. 
These projects provide us with valuable growth potential over the 
longer term. 
Business development
Since the beginning of 2008 we have realised over US$11 billion of 
gross cash proceeds from the sale of non core assets. The majority 
of the divestments identified during the strategic review in 2007 
are now complete, including nearly all of the Alcan downstream 
businesses. However, we will continue to review the portfolio of 
assets to identify those that are no longer consistent with our 
strategy, with a particular focus on higher cost aluminium assets.
We are also constantly reviewing the market for potential 
opportunities to add to our portfolio through small to medium 
sized acquisitions and other business combinations. 
In December we announced a recommended cash offer for 
Riversdale Mining. This is a good fit with Rio Tinto’s strategy 
of focusing on small to medium sized acquisitions that provide 
access to large, long term, cost competitive assets.
In December we signed an agreement with Ivanhoe Mines, 
the owner of 66 per cent of the world class Oyu Tolgoi copper-
gold project in Mongolia, whereby Rio Tinto will become the 
development and operating manager of that project. We have  
now increased our ownership interest in Ivanhoe Mines to  
42.1 per cent and secured the right to increase this further  
to 49 per cent.
We will continue to look for further innovative opportunities to 
enter into new joint ventures with various parties. In the past we 
have gained access to new resources, new geographies and special 
expertise through such vehicles and will look to continue to do so 
in the future. 
We continue to employ a disciplined approach to investing in 
growth opportunities. Investments in projects and business 
combination opportunities must continue to meet our strict 
criteria of investing in high quality large, long term, cost 
competitive and expandable assets at good value.
The return of capital to shareholders
Our first priority for allocation of capital has always been, and 
remains, to make value adding investments in our business in  
order to optimise shareholder value. We are committed to achieving  
and maintaining a single A credit rating.
A further priority is our dividend. We were pleased to announce 
a final dividend of 63 US cents per share. The total dividend in 
respect of 2010 was 108 US cents per share, 20 per cent higher 
than the dividend commitment we had made to shareholders at 
the time of the rights issues in June 2009. This will form the basis 
of a progressive dividend policy, so that we expect the US dollar 
value of ordinary dividends will increase over time. The interim 
dividend is set at one half of the total dividend for the previous 
year and is therefore expected to be 54 US cents per share in  
2011. Under the progressive dividend policy the final dividend  
for each year is expected to be at least equal to the previous 
interim dividend.
We recognise that during times of high cash generation a progressive 
dividend policy alone will not return excess cash to shareholders. 
Therefore, we are undertaking a US$5 billion share buy-back 
programme over 2011 and 2012, subject to market conditions. 
This commitment will still leave us with the flexibility to 
make significant investments in our business while remaining 
committed to achieving a single A credit rating.
Rio Tinto is once again able to invest in its high quality value 
adding growth programme, maintain a strong balance sheet and 
deliver capital returns to shareholders. Our established strategy, 
financial discipline and leadership in project execution all mean 
that we are well positioned to continue creating sustainable 
growth in shareholder value over the coming decades.
 
Guy Elliott, chief financial officer 14 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Strategic context
A global perspective for metals and minerals
Competitive environment
Rio Tinto is a major producer in most of the metals and minerals 
markets in which it operates. It is generally among the top five global 
producers by volume in each such market. Rio Tinto’s activities are 
spread across the globe. Most of Rio Tinto’s competitors are private 
sector companies which are publicly quoted. Several are, like  
Rio Tinto, diversified in terms of commodity exposure, but others  
are focused on particular commodities.
High quality, long life mineral resources, on the basis of attractive 
financial returns, are relatively scarce. Nevertheless, Rio Tinto 
holds interests in some of the world’s largest deposits. Rio Tinto 
expects world production volumes to grow in line with global 
economic growth. In addition, higher demand from China and 
potentially India, as a result of high rates of economic growth  
and urbanisation trends in those countries, could contribute 
further to increases in world production volumes in the long term.
Global economy
The introduction of large fiscal and monetary stimuli by governments 
around the world started to take effect towards the middle of 2009. 
Global trade started to recover during the second half of the year, 
led by activity in Asia. Major developed economies gradually 
stabilised with most experiencing renewed GDP growth by the 
third quarter of 2009.
The recovery continued into 2010, although with marked differences 
in the pace and sustainability of growth between OECD and emerging 
Asian countries. The emergence of a two-speed economy reflects the 
fact that financial excesses leading to the global crisis had developed 
primarily in advanced economies, which now face a significant 
adjustment process. However, it is also a reminder that many of the 
global imbalances that had accumulated over the past decade remain, 
and in some cases, have become more acute.
The recovery in the OECD has so far been dependent on 
government stimulus and an initial phase of inventory rebuilding, 
with the growth momentum built since the middle of 2009 fading 
slightly in the latter part of 2010. Sovereign debts in advanced 
economies have increased significantly as a result of the financial 
crisis and governments in several countries are now faced with 
tough decisions to address fiscal imbalances by reducing spending 
and raising taxes, with likely negative consequences for short 
term growth. Financial systems remain fragile implying scope for 
volatile outcomes ahead.
Although the short term prospects for emerging economies are 
much brighter, Asian countries continue to rely strongly on 
demand from advanced economies. The reform process required 
to boost domestic consumption is likely to be lengthy. In the 
meantime, growth in China has become even more dependent 
on investment than before the global financial crisis, with fixed 
capital formation now accounting for over 40 per cent of China’s 
GDP. Such imbalances are likely to remain key challenges for the 
global economy in coming years. However the key underlying 
trends of urbanisation and industrialisation in populous parts of 
the world will continue to provide a strong platform for growth.
China
The sharp rebound in China’s economic growth since the first 
quarter of 2009 resulted from the Chinese Government’s rapid 
response to the collapse of global trade as well as a reversal 
of tightening policy introduced during 2008 to combat an 
overheating property market. The RMB4 trillion stimulus package 
introduced in late 2008 and the accompanying surge in bank 
lending spurred the development of infrastructure projects and a 
quick turnaround in housing construction activity. Having fallen 
to an annualised pace of nearly six per cent in early 2009, China’s 
GDP growth exceeded ten per cent in 2010.
With the growth momentum firmly back on track, the Chinese 
Government renewed its attempts to quell rising house prices 
through a series of policy interventions. The key challenge is 
for the Government to successfully contain inflation and asset 
bubbles in an environment of excess liquidity. The Government 
is also pushing for more incremental structural reforms to boost 
household consumption.
As the Chinese economy transitions towards its 12th five year 
plan, it is likely to focus increasingly on development strategies 
and institutional reforms aimed at reducing some of the growing 
domestic imbalances. This should translate into a stronger focus 
on technology and services as well as policies targeting the 
development of inland and rural areas. Although such reforms 
could ultimately lead into a phase of economic growth that is less 
commodity intensive than over the past ten years, investment 
and the development of infrastructure projects should remain an 
important aspect of the Chinese economy in the medium term. 
China consumed 400kg of steel per capita in 2009, about half the 
levels seen in Japan at its peak, with significant scope for further 
increases in coming years.
Commodity price indices
Daily spot price index (1 January 2009 = 100)
Jan-09 Mar-09 May-09 Jul-09 Sep-09 Nov-09 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11
80
120
160
200
240
280
320
360 Spot iron ore (62% Fe, fob)
Aluminium
Copper
Thermal coal (NEWC)
Sources: LME, Reuters Ecowin, globalCOAL, Platt’s
Economic imbalances may lead to volatility
Countries debt to GDP ratio (%)
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010
Advanced economies
Emerging and developing economies
World
G7
20
40
60
80
100
120
Source: IMF www.riotinto.com 15
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Commodity markets
The start of a stabilisation in the global economy from the second 
quarter of 2009, and more importantly the rapid turnaround of 
the Chinese economy, triggered a sharp rebound in commodity 
prices. Chinese imports of metals and minerals soared to new 
highs during 2009 as a result of recovering underlying demand, 
restocking, scrap shortages, closure of high cost domestic capacity 
and some speculative activity facilitated by rising liquidity. As 
a result China’s share of global demand in 2009 increased to 
between 35 and 50 per cent for several commodities and up  
to two thirds for traded iron ore.
China’s strong appetite for commodities continued into 2010 
in combination with resurgent demand from OECD economies. 
Although minerals and metals consumption in advanced economies 
remained below pre-crisis levels, the demand trends contributed 
to a further tightening in some markets and a return to prices 
seen in mid 2008 for commodities such as copper and iron ore. 
In a significant shift in energy markets in 2009, China became a 
net importer of thermal coal. This continued into 2010, absorbing 
supply from traded Asian seaborne coal and keeping upward 
pressure on prices. Meanwhile, the aluminium market has moved 
closer to balance during 2010 benefiting from strong demand from 
the recovering automotive sector. However, overall stock positions 
remain high compared to historical levels.
For bulk commodities, a key development during 2010 has been 
a further step away from previous benchmark price settlement 
mechanisms and towards more market oriented and shorter 
term pricing arrangements. These movements reflect changing 
market dynamics, with China being the main catalyst through 
rapid demand growth and greater fragmentation of the demand 
and supply sides. Pricing periods for coking coal and iron ore 
have moved towards quarterly cycles and, in the case of iron ore, 
references to published price indices started to appear in term 
contracts. Although still relatively underdeveloped, these new 
pricing arrangements are attracting the attention of financial 
institutions with the establishment of financial tools such as 
futures contracts for iron ore.
The growing influence of financial investors is also being felt in 
the already well developed base metals markets, with discussions 
during 2010 focused on plans to introduce physically backed 
Exchange Traded Funds for aluminium and copper. Low interest 
rates are already facilitating the financing of stock positions in 
the aluminium market where a large proportion of on and off LME 
inventories are currently understood to be tied into financing 
deals. Such activities are likely to continue in a context of further 
quantitative easing, the major effects of which are to reduce real 
interest rates, weaken the US dollar, raise inflation expectations 
and increase asset prices, especially for assets leveraged to growth 
in developing countries such as commodities.
Despite the greater participation of an increasing web of financial 
players in the commodity markets, physical fundamentals remain key 
in driving price dynamics. In a context of renewed strong demand, 
cost inflation is starting to creep up again across the mining industry 
with potential supply side challenges as a consequence. 
Outlook for 2011
Forecasters have become more cautious about the strength in 
OECD economies in 2011 but the IMF is still predicting global 
growth above four per cent and Chinese GDP is expected to grow 
above nine per cent. Historically global growth at these levels has 
provided a strong basis for commodity demand allowing Rio Tinto 
to run its operations at full capacity.
Some risks to the near term outlook include an inevitable reduction 
in the level of fiscal and monetary stimulus, much of which is 
commodity intensive. Another key risk is linked to sovereign debt 
crises, especially in Europe, and the potential impact that these 
could have on the stability of global financial markets as well as 
implications for investor and consumer confidence.
Looking to the longer term, increasing prosperity in developing 
countries including China and India, with associated industrialisation 
and urbanisation, will continue to drive underlying growth 
in demand for commodities. At the same time, it is apparent 
that global imbalances might take many years to resolve. This 
points to a high average growth setting for our markets but also 
one characterised by potential strong volatility. Rio Tinto, and 
the mining industry in general, are responding to the rapid 
demand recovery and stronger prices with reinvigorated capital 
expenditure expansion plans. This is in turn putting renewed 
pressure on skills, equipment and key raw material availability with 
implications for cost escalation and project schedules. 
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Oil Cu Al Ni Coal Steel Iron ore 
(traded)
Chinese demand as a share of global consumption
%
 2008
 2009
 2010
 
2nd
1st
1st
1st
1st
1st
1st
Sources: WBMS, BP, IISI, CRU
Global 2010 coal demand data was unavailable at the time of publication
Global ranking in 2009
0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000
20
40
60
80
100
Source: UN
India
China
US
2009 urbanisation rate
%
Gross national income per capita (US$ at PPP) 16 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
The way we work defines how we conduct  
ourselves as a business. It is underpinned by our 
values, our approach to sustainable development,  
and by effective corporate governance.
The way we work
Our global code of conduct
Related sections within this report
 Report on corporate governance
p114
 Risk management
p24
 Sustainable development review
p29
Four values define Rio Tinto: accountability, respect, 
teamwork and integrity . 
They guide everything we do and are expressed through the 
principles and standards of conduct as set out in a global code 
of conduct called The way we work (available on our website at 
www.riotinto.com/library).
The way we work defines the way we manage the economic, 
social, political, environmental and governance challenges of 
our operations. It also frames a unified approach to complying 
with the regulatory obligations of our stock exchange listings 
in the UK, Australia and the US. Everyone in the Group is 
required to take training on The way we work. 
But most important of all, our values help the Group to 
fulfil our commitment to shareholders to maximise total 
returns whilst also fulfilling our commitment to contribute 
to sustainable development. This is because, as a company 
with a reputation for acting responsibly, we will be 
welcome as investors, partners and members of the  
local community wherever in the world we operate. 
This will hold true even as expectations and regulations 
surrounding corporate governance change following the  
global financial crisis and our business evolves.
We regularly review our practices to make sure they are aligned 
with changing regulations and that they continue to support 
the principles and values contained in The way we work.
Jan du Plessis, chairman
Chairman’s introduction 
Related information online at www.riotinto.com 
 www.riotinto.com/library
 www.riotinto.com/ourapproach
Governance
Sustainable development
Values
The way
we work www.riotinto.com 17
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Governance
The role of the board
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of  
directors who are responsible for the Group’s success and accountable 
to shareholders for our performance.
Consistent with accepted good practice, the board consists of a 
mix of executives and independent non executives, the majority 
being independent non executives. This combination balances 
innovative thinking with business knowledge and experience. 
The board has established committees responsible for audit, 
executive remuneration, executive and non executive succession, 
social and environmental matters and assisting the board to 
deliver its responsibilities. Each plays a vital role in underpinning 
how we work. 
To ensure their relevance and continuing adherence to best practice, 
the committees annually review their terms of reference. More 
detailed descriptions of the board and its committees are on  
pages 118 and 122.
Managing risk
Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of its  
business, and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity. 
The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision 
making. Through skilled application of high quality, integrated 
risk analysis and management, we enhance opportunities and  
reduce threats, and so achieve and maintain competitive advantage. 
The Group’s Risk standard guides the process by providing an 
overall methodology and structure for the handling of risk within 
the organisation. The Group seeks to provide the board and 
senior management with a consistent, Group wide perspective 
of the key risks. Reports are submitted to the board twice per 
year and include assessment of the likelihood and impact if risks 
materialise, along with risk management initiatives.
Sustainable development
As a company, we naturally meet the needs of customers, but 
we seek to do this without compromising the ability of future 
generations to meet their needs. That is what we mean by 
sustainable development. It is good business as well as good sense.
Our continuing financial success depends on the Group’s ability to 
gain access to the land, people and capital we need. To do that, we 
put our economic, social, environmental and technical expertise 
to work to harness these resources. This process creates prosperity 
that is shared among shareholders, employees, communities, 
governments and business partners.
But there is more to it than that. Sustainable development also 
demands rigorous environmental stewardship. If we cannot 
always prevent harm, we can minimise and remediate any 
negative environmental effects of the Group’s operations. To 
ensure this, we have developed high standards that we maintain 
by implementing a wide range of practical programmes. These 
apply to issues that include air quality, ecosystems, biodiversity, 
climate change, the use of energy, land and water, waste disposal 
and facility closures.
This focus on environmental stewardship also delivers financial 
benefits. For example by improving energy efficiency we not only 
reduce our environmental impact, we also reduce our operating costs. 
Social wellbeing is another fundamental aspect of our approach 
to sustainable development. This involves providing a safe and 
healthy workplace in which people, treated with fairness and 
decency at all times, can develop their full potential.
And going beyond the workplace, our idea of social wellbeing extends 
to our neighbours. With them, we seek long term partnerships 
characterised by the mutual respect that leads to trust.
However, good intentions are never enough. So for us strong 
governance systems are a vital part of putting sustainable 
development into practice. These systems ensure that we continue 
to manage our business with openness and accountability.
Values
Our reputation stems from our four core values, which define the 
essence of who we are and who we will be: accountability, respect, 
teamwork and integrity.
The first of these values – accountability – is about taking ownership 
of our performance and decisions, and the impact that they have 
on the business. We also support the accountability that others 
have in their own areas of work.
We demonstrate respect through our approach to sustainable 
development, and by recognising our people’s contributions to the 
business. We care for each other’s health, safety and wellbeing.
By working as a team, we can focus our collective efforts on where 
they deliver the best outcome for the Group. We believe good team 
members trust in the commitment and capability of others.
And finally, we work with integrity, treating all our stakeholders 
with fairness, honesty and openness. 18 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Group strategy
Striving for global sector leadership
Our strategy
How Rio Tinto is achieving its vision, creating and preserving value, and exercising  
its strategic advantage.
The way we work: Governance, Sustainable development, Values
Our vision and how we will achieve it
Our vision is to become the sector leading global mining and 
metals company. 
As we work to achieve this vision, we will maximise shareholder 
return by sustainably finding, developing, mining and processing 
natural resources.
We will do this through a strategy of investing in and operating 
large, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses, driven not 
by choice of commodity but by the quality of each opportunity.
Rio Tinto’s diverse portfolio includes some of the world’s best  
assets. The high calibre of our people, our expertise in exploration, 
technology, innovation and marketing, and our commitment to 
sustainable development have given us a proven track record 
in successful project execution and operational excellence. We 
believe these qualities and achievements position us well for 
becoming the global leader in our sector.
As a highly capable organisation with global reach, we believe 
we are well placed to respond to rising demand for metals and 
minerals which is being driven strongly by emerging economies. 
The breadth and scale of our business means that we can supply 
key metals and minerals needed by worldwide markets at various 
stages of their economic development, from the raw materials 
needed for basic infrastructure to the products needed to 
manufacture hi-tech consumer goods.
Effective procurement and supply integration across our Group 
helps ensure we run an efficient supply chain, maximising 
production across our products to meet customer needs with 
reliability of supply.
The way we work is equally important to achieving our vision, as 
we integrate sustainable development practices into everything 
we do, wherever we operate: building on improvements to health 
and safety performance and extending leadership in areas such 
as community and government engagement, biodiversity and 
management of land, carbon, energy and water.
Success in these areas helps strengthen our licence to operate. 
We are recognised as a socially responsible developer, and one 
that builds strong relationships that bring lasting benefits to our 
neighbours and to the places where we work. Our approach gives 
us improved access to land, people and capital – all of which are 
essential to our future success. 
Collectively, our strengths provide us with our strategic advantage. 
And this advantage is allowing us to meet responsibly the needs of 
a wide variety of customers while generating superior returns for  
our shareholders.
Strategic drivers
Five strategic drivers help us achieve the Group’s strategy. 
Financial and operational excellence
We have a Group wide focus on financial and operational excellence, 
which involves constantly improving safety, productivity, operational 
efficiency and cost control at every stage of our business. 
Many of our assets already operate in the first or second quartile 
of their industry cost curves. And we continue to seek operating 
and cost efficiencies by identifying and implementing leading 
practices across the Group. 
A few of our assets are higher cost. We aim to transform these 
businesses into more competitive performers, for instance by 
introducing new technologies, by gaining efficiencies through 
incremental volume enhancements, or through more effective 
procurement practices. We continually review our portfolio to 
ensure that all assets are a good strategic fit with our business.
Our focus on financial performance also includes the prudent 
management of our balance sheet to achieve and maintain a 
single A credit rating. A strong balance sheet provides greater 
resilience against volatility in the global economy and the effect 
this might have on short term commodity prices. 
By operating our own mines, we are able to take advantage of 
performance improvement initiatives generated by our own 
employees – people who genuinely understand the facilities 
where they work. 
In all of our operations we have a relentless focus on safety leadership. 
Our aim is to create an environment in which all employees and 
contractors have the knowledge, skills and desire to work safely, so 
that everyone goes home safe and healthy at the end of each day. 
Strategy
To invest in and operate large, long term, cost competitive mines 
and businesses, driven not by choice of commodity but rather  
by the quality of each opportunity.
Vision 
To become the sector leading global mining  
and metals company. www.riotinto.com 19
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Licence to operate
Rio Tinto aspires to be the industry partner of choice in working 
with governments, joint venture participants, communities, 
customers and other stakeholders.
Our Group wide values of accountability, respect, teamwork and 
integrity guide our approach. We are recognised for building 
mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholders based 
on active partnership and long term commitment. We are also 
regarded as a company that brings long term benefits to our local 
communities and host countries. Our strong reputation in these 
areas is a source of significant strategic advantage. 
More widely, we are continuing to improve relations with local,  
regional and national governments. Key to successful mineral 
development is a culture of trust, transparency and mutual benefit  
to all parties. This is established through honest engagement with 
all stakeholders, including governments and local communities. 
Equally important is our determination to minimise the Group’s 
environmental footprint, particularly when it comes to carbon, 
water and biodiversity. 
We are refreshing our approach to sustainable development to ensure  
it remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and  
governance risks most relevant to delivering our business strategy. 
By building relationships with our stakeholders, and by applying 
risk analysis and management effectively throughout our business,  
we can create opportunities out of external challenges, and extend  
our licence to operate.
Growth
We believe the first and best use of our strong balance sheet and 
cash flows is to invest in our strong pipeline of organic growth 
opportunities. Our strategy prioritises growth that adds value to 
our business, either through increased production capacity, or  
through extended mine life. The adherence to our strategy over  
the years has resulted in a succession of value-creating investment 
decisions, which in turn have led to superior long term performance. 
We have a very strong pipeline of organic growth projects and a 
resource and mineralisation position that allows sustainable long 
term growth. Our projects include brownfield expansions and new 
greenfield projects. In many cases, our opportunities to expand 
are the consequence of wise investment decisions made years ago.
Many of our greenfield opportunities are in regions where we 
do not have a long established presence, but our proven ability 
to develop operations in new countries in a responsible and 
sustainable manner allows us to gain stakeholder buy-in.
We also review opportunities to add shareholder value through  
small to medium sized acquisitions or other business combinations.  
We have a strict, value-focused approach to mergers and acquisitions, 
and seek opportunities that will give us entry to Tier 1 assets.
All growth opportunities are assessed using our rigorous investm ent  
approval process based on detailed modelling of discounted cash 
flows, and are subject to comprehensive internal but independent 
reviews. Only the best projects that are expected to deliver value 
over the long term are approved.
Globalising the business
The global spread of our operations is one of the Group’s greatest 
advantages and also gives us access to a wide range of markets. 
As the Group expands in terms of both size and geography, we are  
working to build a more diverse, engaged, agile and flexible workforce  
– one that reflects our growth potential and one that is capable of 
reacting quickly to changing market opportunities and challenges. 
Helping to develop the talent of our employees in emerging markets  
and providing them with continued growth opportunities will  
help ensure that we have future leaders that reflect the increasingly 
diverse regions and cultures in which we operate. Through our 
scholarship and bursary programmes, and by offering internships 
and summer placements, we reach out to, and encourage, our 
future leaders during their academic lives. 
Strategic drivers
Five strategic drivers are helping us deliver our strategy  
and achieve our vision.
 Financial and operational excellence
 Licence to operate
 Growth
 Globalising the business
 Technology and innovation
Key performance indicators
Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured 
by a mixture of financial and non financial 
performance indicators, some of which are  
linked to executive remuneration.
 More information on p.22 20 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Group strategy continued
Technology and innovation
Innovative technologies will lead to dramatic improvements  
in our operating business and the way we develop new mines.  
These technologies can also put us ahead of the competition. 
An example of this is Rio Tinto’s Mine of the Future™ programme, 
which we believe will deliver heightened efficiencies in terms of 
both production and costs, as well as a safer working environment  
with reduced impact on the environment.
Mine of the Future™ involves collaborative partnerships with leading  
universities and equipment producers to expand the potential of 
automation and remote operations. 
Such advances have enabled the opening of the Perth Operations 
Centre from which Rio Tinto people can control iron ore mining 
and infrastructure at our Pilbara operations, more than  
1,000km away.
Another key focus of Group innovation is underground tunnelling 
and shaft sinking. At our Northparkes copper and gold mine in 
Australia we will test a system designed to allow us to excavate at 
more than double the rate of conventional methods. Success there 
will enable us to apply the technology for the next generation 
of block cave mines. This will increasingly be a strategic 
differentiator, as future ore deposits, especially copper, are often 
located at deeper depths. 
Delivering our strategy –  
adding value across the cycle
We create and preserve value through 
investing in and operating large scale,  
long term, cost competitive mines  
and businesses. The nature of our  
business means that the lifecycle of  
an orebody may last for many decades. 
Throughout the life of a business, from 
initial exploration to final closure and 
restoration, we commit to the highest 
standards of sustainable development.
Explore and evaluate
Rio Tinto has an experienced in-house exploration team with a 
proven track record for the discovery of Tier 1 orebodies. In addition 
to exploration, we create value through expansions and extensions 
of existing assets. Rio Tinto’s orebody knowledge process allows us 
to evaluate value enhancing approaches to developing, operating 
and growing our resources. 
 More information on page 62
Develop
Rio Tinto develops orebodies with long term value delivery in 
mind. Following the discovery of a resource, it must be thoroughly 
studied to identify the optimal configuration for development of 
the orebody and delivery of the product to the market. As studies 
are undertaken, economic modelling confirms value. Once we 
have obtained internal and external approvals, the project moves 
to implementation and construction.
Investing
Bunder, India
Analysing drill core samples at the diamond project in Madhya Pradesh.
Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia
Mine shaft construction at the copper-gold mine. www.riotinto.com 21
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
The Group takes the threat of climate change seriously. Technological 
advances are enabling us to improve the efficiency of our aluminium 
smelting facilities while lowering their carbon output. We are also 
looking into the potential benefits of widespread carbon capture 
and sequestration.
In the long term our commitment to technology and innovation 
should have a positive impact in attracting new employees to the 
Group and should help us supply a wider range of customers and 
markets more sustainably than ever.
Key performance indicators
Rio Tinto uses a number of key performance indicators (KPIs) to 
monitor our financial and non financial performance.
These KPIs are a measure of how well we are achieving our strategy,  
and they link clearly to our strategic drivers.
Our KPIs give senior management a means to evaluate the  
Group’s overall performance in operations, growth and 
sustainable development. They provide managers and their  
teams with clarity and focus on areas critical to our success.
The KPIs also give guidance to the Remuneration committee in 
framing our remuneration policy. Some of the KPIs are directly 
linked to executive remuneration.
 See p.22 for more information on our KPIs. 
Mine
Rio Tinto moves millions of 
tonnes of material every day.  
We have world class technologies 
and processes to plan, operate 
and maintain our mining 
equipment and activities. 
Process
Our leading proprietary 
technologies, such as that for 
aluminium smelting, ensure that 
recoveries are maximised and 
our processes are as efficient as 
possible. We produce material  
that is of the right quality for  
our customers.
Market
We sell our products directly to 
our customers, the end users. We 
seek out long term partnerships 
to maximise product value and 
constantly create new products 
that add further value.
Deliver
In many cases, Rio Tinto is 
responsible for delivering 
finished product to our 
customers. We do this in a 
variety of ways, efficiently, 
reliably and cost effectively.
Operate
Rio Tinto creates value through operating its large, long term, 
cost competitive assets safely and efficiently. As a capable, global 
organisation, we employ standard operating and maintenance 
practices across the Group, and invest in our world class assets 
throughout their lifecycles. An efficient process reduces the use of 
consumables, increases equipment operating time and optimises 
the extraction of ore – all of which results in higher production 
levels, reduced costs and optimisation of value.
 More information on page 42
Close down and restore
When a resource reaches the end of its life, we are committed to  
high standards of close down and restoration. Integrating closure 
planning in the early stages of project development and through  
an asset’s lifecycle helps us to leave a positive legacy of sustainable  
development, minimise financial impacts and ensure stakeholder  
expectations are met. Our closure standard covers the design, 
development, operation and closure of all our operations. 
 More information on page 40
Operating
Barneys Canyon, US
Rehabilitating waste rock dumps into a wildlife habitat.
World class assets
Iron ore loading facility,  
Western Australia.
Leading technologies
Operations centre in Perth, 
Western Australia.
Global presence 
Serving customers worldwide.
Infrastructure network 
Transporting products from 
mine to market. 22 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Key performance indicators
Measuring our performance
Relevance to  
strategic drivers
Our commitment to zero harm means 
that the AIFR is one of the Group’s most 
important non financial KPIs. Safety 
is a leading indicator of management 
performance. It is central to our focus on 
operational excellence and our licence 
to operate. A reputation for being a safe 
employer and neighbour helps us to gain  
access to the people and resources we need. 
Underlying earnings is a measure that 
provides insight into the underlying 
business performance of the Group’s 
operations and is the key financial 
performance indicator used across the 
Group. This KPI provides insight to cost 
management, performance efficiency 
and production growth. It is therefore an 
indicator of financial and operational 
excellence and growth.
TSR measures the Group’s performance 
in terms of shareholder wealth generation  
through dividends and changes in the 
share price. As a measure of how we 
maximise shareholder return, this KPI 
measures our performance against  
our strategy as a whole. Relative TSR is 
also monitored, which gives insight into 
our performance against our peers.
Definition
AIFR is calculated based on the number 
of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. 
This includes medical treatment cases, 
restricted work day and lost day injuries 
for employees and contractors.
Items excluded from net earnings  
to arrive at underlying earnings are 
explained in note 2 of the 2010  
financial statements.
TSR combines share price appreciation 
and dividends paid to show the total 
return to the shareholder.
Performance
Our AIFR has improved 39 per cent over 
the last five years, with an 18 per cent 
improvement from 2009.
Underlying earnings in 2010 of 
US$13,987 million were US$7,689 million 
above the comparable measure for 2009. 
This was largely due to the strong recovery 
in prices during the year.
The Group’s average total shareholder 
return for the year ended 31 December 
2010 was 32.6 per cent reflecting a 
combination of strong commodity 
markets and excellent operational 
performance. These translated into 
higher operating cashflows which, 
together with divestment proceeds, 
enabled the Group to pay down  
US$14.6 billion of debt during the  
year and pay dividends totalling  
US$1.8 billion.
 More information on p.31 More information on p.250 More information on p.137
KPI trend data
The Group’s performance 
against each KPI is covered 
in more detail in later 
sections of this Annual 
report. Explanations of the 
actions taken by management 
to maintain and improve 
performance against each  
KPI support the data.
KPIs used as a key measure  
in the remuneration of 
executives are identified  
with this symbol: 
  See the Remuneration report  
on p.128
Including former Alcan
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
1.21
0.95
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7,338 7,443
6,298
13,987
10,303
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7.4
92.8
172.8
32.6
(71.5)
All injury frequency 
rate (AIFR)
Per 200,000 hours worked
Underlying earnings
 (a) (b)
 
US$ millions
Total shareholder 
return (TSR)
%
Our key performance indicators (KPIs) give us a means to measure our financial and 
sustainable development performance. Their relevance to our strategic drivers, and our 
performance against these measures in 2010, is explained on these pages.
Notes
(a)  The accounting information in these charts is drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS.
(b)  Underlying earnings is the key financial performance indicator which management  
uses internally to assess performance. It is presented here a measure of earnings to 
provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance 
of the Group’s operations. Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings 
are explained in note 2 to the 2010 financial statements. Both net earnings and underlying 
earnings deal with amounts attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. However, EU IFRS 
requires that the profit for the year reported in the income statement should also include 
earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries. www.riotinto.com 23
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
A strong balance sheet gives us resilience 
in a volatile global economy. Net debt 
is a measure of how we are managing 
our balance sheet and capital structure, 
and is closely linked to our financial and 
operational excellence strategic driver.
Our capital expenditure KPI connects to 
our growth strategic driver. It measures 
our level of investment in protecting and 
maintaining our existing assets, as well 
as our investment in the growth projects 
that will be our future Tier 1 operating 
assets. The geographic distribution of our 
capital expenditure is also a measure of 
how we are globalising the business.
Operating cash flow is a complementary 
measure to underlying earnings. It is 
employed as a measure of business 
performance and links to two of our 
strategic drivers: growth, and financial 
and operational excellence.
We use greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
intensity as a KPI because of the urgent 
need for climate action, and because 
it is one of the most widely recognised 
environmental issues. The KPI links to 
our licence to operate and our technology 
and innovation work, which are key 
drivers of our strategy.
Net debt is calculated as: the net total of 
borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, 
other liquid resources and derivatives 
related to net debt.
Capital expenditure comprises the net 
cash outflow on purchases less disposals 
of property, plant and equipment,  
capitalised evaluation costs and 
purchases less disposals of other 
intangible assets.
Operating cash flow represents the cash 
generated by the Group’s operations, 
before payment of interest, taxes, capital 
expenditure, and cash flows relating 
to financing activities. The measure 
is equivalent to “cash flows from 
operations” in the Group cash  
flow statement.
Our GHG emissions intensity measure is 
the change in total GHG emissions per 
unit of commodity production relative to a 
base year. Total GHG emissions are direct 
emissions plus emissions from imports 
of electricity minus electricity and steam 
exports and net carbon credits purchased 
from, or sold to, recognised sources.
During 2010, net debt decreased from 
US$18.9 billion to US$4.3 billion due to 
strong operating cash flows and proceeds 
from the divestment programme. Net 
debt to total capital was significantly 
reduced to 6.2 per cent at 31 December 
2010, compared with 29.1 per cent at  
31 December 2009.
Capital expenditure was US$4,553 
million in 2010, a decrease of US$803 
million from 2009. Capital expenditure 
included the Brockman 4 iron ore mine 
development in Western Australia, 
the expansion of the Yarwun alumina 
refinery, the commissioning of the 
Clermont coal mine and the extension 
and expansion of the Kestrel coking  
coal mine.
Operating cash flows, including dividends 
from equity accounted units, were 
US$23,530 million, 70 per cent higher 
than 2009 primarily as a consequence  
of higher commodity prices.
Since 2008 our GHG emissions intensity 
has reduced by 3.7 per cent. This is largely  
a result of the Ningxia aluminium smelter  
divestment in 2009. The impact of closure  
or reduced production at older aluminium 
smelters that had low GHG emitting power  
sources offset some intensity reductions 
achieved during 2009.
 More information on p.199 More information on p.252 More information on p.159 More information on p.34
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2,437
45,191
18,861
4,284
38,672
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
3,988
4,968
5,356
4,553
8,488
Dividends from equity accounted units
Cash flow from consolidated operations
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
9,196
10,923
10,805
12,569
13,224
13,834
23,530
22,126
19,195
20,668
Including former Alcan
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
110.9
92.5
96.3
100.0
110.2 111.3
Net debt 
(a)
US$ millions
Capital expenditure 
(a) (c)
US$ millions
Operating cash flows
 (a)
US$ millions
GHG emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
Notes
(c)  Amounts include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ capital expenditures and Rio Tinto’s share 
of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units. 24 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
The Group is committed to the effective management of risk through 
proactive, competent risk management. Effective risk management 
requires quality risk analysis to inform the decisions taken throughout 
the organisation. The responsibility for identifying and managing risks 
lies with Rio Tinto’s managers and business leaders. Risk analysis and 
management is applied to all facets of the business, by management 
at appropriate levels, following the principles set out in the Group’s 
Risk policy and standard. 
This standard sets out a uniform process that each area within  
the Group is required to follow in analysing and managing risk.  
The process reflects global leading practice and contains the 
minimum requirements to ensure consistency and quality across  
the Group. By providing an overall methodology and structure for  
the handling of risk within the organisation, the Group seeks to 
provide the board and senior management with a consistent,  
Group wide perspective of the key risks. Reports are submitted  
to the board twice per year and include assessment of the  
likelihood, and impact should risks materialise along with  
risk management initiatives.
During the year, a review of the Group’s approach to managing  
risk resulted in the introduction of a new risk management  
committee and the appointment of a new head of Group risk.  
The risk management committee is chaired by the chief executive  
and reports to the Executive committee.
The Group provides a central organisation to support the risk  
standard and wider process, see below.
Risk management overview
Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of its business, and that 
it is characterised by both threat and opportunity . The Group fosters a risk aware 
corporate culture in all decision making. Through skilled application of high quality, 
integrated risk analysis and management, we manage risk in order to enhance 
opportunities and reduce threats, and so sustain competitive advantage.
Risk management
Managing risk effectively
Overview of Rio Tinto’s risk management process
Corporate oversight
Provide risk insight and monitoring  
to key business decisions 
Functional business support
Provide risk support, functional expertise and risk 
specific standards 
Business evaluation
Technical evaluation
Economics 
Finance 
Human resources
Risk owners
Accountability and responsibility for effective risk identification 
and management
Copper
Aluminium
Iron Ore
Diamonds & Minerals
Energy
Exploration
Project development
Corporate 
Group risk
Health safety environment
Legal and compliance
Insurance
Community
Security
External affairs
Other 
Board
Group assurance
Executive committee
Risk management committee
Group risk 
Responsible for risk reports, providing risk support to operations, maintaining appropriate risk policy  
and standard and providing co-ordination of Group wide risk management activity www.riotinto.com 25
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors
Rio Tinto’s business units and functions assess the potential economic and non economic consequences of their respective risks using  
a predefined framework provided by the Group’s Risk policy and standard. Principal risks and uncertainties are identified when the Risk  
management committee, business unit or function determines that the potential consequences are of sufficient materiality to be 
considered significant at a Group level or where the risk triggers a succession of events that in total become material at a Group level. 
Once identified, each principal risk and uncertainty is reviewed by the relevant internal experts and the Risk management committee.
The following describes all known principal risks and uncertainties that could materially affect Rio Tinto. There may be additional 
risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could turn out to be material. These risks, 
whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Group’s business and financial results. The risks 
outlined below omit detail on how each is managed and mitigated, or how some risks could result in either a positive (upside) or negative 
(downside) impact. An explanation of the Group’s process for managing these, and all other risks to which it is exposed, is given in 
the section entitled Risk management on page 24. The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any 
forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
External
Commodity prices and global 
demand for the Group’s products 
are expected to remain 
uncertain, which could affect 
the Group’s business.
Commodity prices and demand for the Group’s products are cyclical and strongly influenced by 
world economic conditions, particularly with respect to key customers, in the US and Asia (notably 
China). There is potential volatility in short to medium term commodity prices due to persistent 
economic imbalances. The Group’s normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices 
and not to enter into price hedging arrangements. The recent improvement in commodity prices 
and demand for the Group’s products may not remain as strong, which would have an impact on 
Group revenues, earnings, cash flows, asset values and growth.
Continued growth in demand 
for the Group’s products in 
China could be affected by 
future developments in  
that country.
The Group has signed agreements with almost 50 per cent of its iron ore customers in Asia for 
pricing on a quarterly basis. This is a shift away from the previous annual benchmark pricing.  
Sales are being made to other iron ore customers on the same basis. 
If a major economic downturn were to occur in China impacting the demand and price for iron ore 
or the Group’s other products, or if Chinese customers source such products from elsewhere, the 
Group’s business, financial condition and prospects could be affected.
Rio Tinto is exposed to 
fluctuations in exchange  
rates that could affect its 
overall business results.
The US dollar is the currency in which the great majority of the Group’s sales are determined. It is 
also the most appropriate currency for holding surplus cash, financing its operations, and presenting 
its external and internal results. Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, significant costs 
are influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally 
the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Euro. The Group’s normal policy is to avoid hedging 
arrangements relating to changes in foreign exchange rates. Appreciation in the value of these 
currencies against the US dollar or prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility may adversely 
affect the Group’s business results.
Political, legal and commercial 
changes in the places where 
the Group operates could affect 
the Group’s reputation, future 
development opportunities, 
and/or the viability of 
its operations.
The Group has operations in jurisdictions with varying degrees of political, legal and commercial 
stability. Commercial instability in some jurisdictions can be influenced by bribery and corruption 
in their various guises. Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law 
or government regulation can result in expropriation, or nationalisation. Renegotiation or 
nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits; changes in fiscal policies (including 
increased taxes or royalty rates); changes in government ownership of operations; currency 
restrictions; increased regulation and significantly increased costs or impediments to operation are 
also possible consequences. Such consequences could have an adverse effect on the profitability, 
the ability to finance or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to the fiscal terms covering the Group’s 
operations may discourage future investments in certain jurisdictions. This may have an adverse 
impact on the Group’s ability to access new assets, potentially reducing future growth opportunities.
Community disputes in the 
countries and territories in 
which the Group operates 
could affect the viability of its 
operations or its reputation.
Some of the Group’s current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may 
regard the operation as being detrimental to their environmental, economic or social circumstances. 
Community expectations are typically complex with the potential for multiple inconsistent stakeholder 
views that may be difficult to resolve. Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be impacted 
by external events beyond the Group’s control, including events that may occur in related industries 
or similar operations outside of the Group and events relating to the local, regional or national affairs 
of the places where the Group operates. Furthermore our operations may be a focus for civil unrest 
or criminal activity. Community reaction could have an adverse impact on the cost, profitability, and 
ability to finance or even the viability of an operation. Such events could lead to disputes with national 
or local governments or with local communities and give rise to reputational damage. If the Group’s 
operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community instability, its revenue 
growth may be constrained and the long term value of its business could be adversely impacted. 26 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
The Group’s land and resource 
tenure could be disputed 
resulting in disruption to the 
operation or development of  
a resource.
The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in respect of land and 
resources (including indigenous title) may be unclear and may lead to disputes over resource 
development. Such disputes can be protracted and costly to resolve, could disrupt or delay relevant  
mining projects, impede the Group’s ability to develop new mining properties, and may have an 
adverse effect on the Group’s results of operations or its prospects.
Changes in the cost and/or 
interruptions in the supply of 
energy, water, fuel or other key 
inputs could adversely affect  
the economic viability of the 
Group’s operations.
The Group’s operations are resource intensive and, as a result, its costs and net earnings may be 
adversely affected by the availability or cost of energy, water, fuel or other key inputs. If the prices 
of key inputs rise significantly more than expected, or if the Group experiences interruptions in, 
or constraints on, its supply of key inputs, the Group’s costs could increase and its results could be 
adversely affected.
Strategic
The Group’s business and growth 
prospects may be negatively 
affected by reductions in its 
capital expenditure programme.
The Group requires substantial capital to invest in greenfield and brownfield projects, and to extend  
the life and capacity of its existing operations. If significant variations in commodity prices or  
demand for its products occurs, the Group may reduce its capital expenditure, which may negatively  
impact the timing of its growth and future prospects.
With the volatility of the commodity markets, the Group’s ability to benefit from improvements 
may be constrained by earlier capital expenditure restrictions and the long term value of its 
business could be adversely impacted.
The Group’s exploration and 
development of new projects 
might be unsuccessful, 
expenditures may not be fully 
recovered and depleted ore 
reserves may not be replaced.
The Group develops new mining properties and expands its existing operations as a means of 
generating shareholder value. The Group seeks to identify new orebodies and mining properties 
through its exploration programme and has also undertaken the development or expansion of 
other major operations. Exploration is not always successful, moreover there is a high degree 
of competition for opportunities to develop such orebodies. Certain competitors, have access to 
significant resources and may be motivated by political or other non economic factors. The Group 
may be unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing 
large projects. There is no assurance, therefore, that the Group’s investment in exploration and 
project development will be recouped, or that depleted ore reserves will be replaced.
Failure of the Group to make 
or successfully integrate 
acquisitions, or to complete 
divestment agreements,  
could have an adverse effect  
on the business and results  
of operations.
Business combinations entail a number of risks including the effective integration of acquisitions 
(including the realisation of synergies), significant one time write-offs or restructuring charges, 
and unanticipated costs and liabilities. The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions 
or liabilities of companies, businesses or properties that it has acquired, which may be unforeseen 
or greater than anticipated. In addition, the Group may retain liabilities for divested entities if the 
buyer fails to honour all commitments.
Financial
The Group’s reported results 
could be adversely affected  
by the impairment of assets  
and goodwill.
An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events that 
impact the Group’s expected performances. In accordance with IFRS, the Group does not amortise 
goodwill but rather tests it annually for impairment: such impairments cannot be reversed. Other 
long lived assets are tested when impairment indicators exist.
The Group will continue to test goodwill and may, in the future, record additional impairment 
charges. This could result in the recognition of impairment provisions (which are non cash items) 
that could be significant and could have an adverse effect on the Group’s reported results. www.riotinto.com 27
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Operational
Estimates of ore reserves are 
based on many assumptions 
and changes in the assumptions 
could lead to reported ore 
reserves being restated.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves including subjective judgments  
and determinations based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information. 
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information  
becomes available. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs  
or recovery rates may result in some reserves ceasing to be economically viable or others in becoming  
viable. Ultimately this may result in the reserves needing to be restated. Such changes in reserves 
could also affect depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping 
calculations and provisions for close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
Labour disputes could lead 
to lost production and/or 
increased costs. 
Some of the Group’s employees, including employees in non managed operations, are represented 
by labour unions under various collective labour agreements. The Group may not be able satisfactorily 
to renegotiate agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage 
demands. In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage,  
which could have an adverse effect on the Group’s earnings, financial condition, and reputation.
Some of the Group’s technologies  
are unproven and failures could 
adversely impact costs and/or 
productivity.
The Group has invested in and implemented information systems and operational initiatives 
including new technologies. Some aspects of these technologies are unproven and the eventual 
operational outcome or viability cannot be assessed with certainty. The costs, productivity, value 
in securing business opportunities and other benefits from these initiatives, and the consequent 
effects on the Group’s future earnings and financial results, may vary from expectations. Failure  
of the Group’s technology systems to realise the anticipated benefits could result in increased  
costs, interruptions to supply continuity, failure to realise production or growth plans, or some 
other adverse effect on operational performance.
The Group’s operations are 
vulnerable to natural disasters, 
operating difficulties, health, 
safety or environmental 
incidents and infrastructure 
constraints, not all of which  
are covered by insurance, which 
could have an impact on its 
productivity and reputation.
Mining, smelting and refining operations are vulnerable to natural events, including earthquakes, 
drought, floods, fire, storms and the possible effects of climate change. Operating difficulties could 
be experienced such as unexpected geological variations that could result in significant ground 
or containment failure. The Group’s operations involve chemicals and other substances under 
high temperature and pressure, with the potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the 
process, leading to a release of hazardous materials. This could occur by accident or a breach of 
operating standards, and could result in a significant incident. Any of these events could affect  
the Group’s reputation, and the costs and viability of its operations for indeterminate periods.
The Group has extensive health, safety, environment and community policies and standards in place. 
Despite these, it remains possible that a health, safety, environment or community incident could 
occur that may adversely impact the Group’s reputation, earnings or cash flows.
The Group requires reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power sources and power transmission facilities, 
water supplies and information technology systems to access and conduct its operations. The 
availability and cost of infrastructure affects capital and operating costs, and the maintenance of 
planned levels of production and sales. In particular, the Group transports a large proportion of its 
products by sea. Limitations, or interruptions in, rail or shipping capacity at any port, including as 
a result of third parties gaining access to the Group’s integrated infrastructure, could impede the 
Group’s ability to deliver its products on time. This could have an adverse effect on the Group’s 
business and results of operations.
The Group uses an extensive information technology system and infrastructure. A significant failure 
of major parts of the system or malicious actions could result in significant interruption that could 
affect the Group’s reputation and operating results.
The Group’s insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with its operations. Adequate 
coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable. In addition, the Group’s insurance may not 
fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as weather events, 
equipment failure or labour dispute. The occurrence of a significant event not fully covered by 
insurance could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations, financial 
condition and prospects.
The Group may be exposed to 
major failures in the supply 
chain for specialist equipment 
and materials.
Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of raw materials, services, 
equipment and infrastructure to ensure its mines and process plants can operate, and on providers 
of logistics to ensure products are delivered. Failure of significant components of this supply chain 
due to factors such as business failure, or serious operational factors, could have an adverse effect 
on the Group’s business and results of operations. 28 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Joint ventures and other 
strategic partnerships may not 
be successful and non managed 
projects and operations may 
not comply with the Group’s 
standards, which may adversely 
affect its reputation and the 
value of such projects and 
operations.
The Group participates in several joint venture arrangements and it may enter into further 
joint ventures. Although the Group has sought to protect its interests, existing and future joint 
ventures necessarily involve risks. Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains 
operational control in its joint ventures, its partners may:
 have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group;
 exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint venture’s best interests;
 take action contrary to the Group’s policies or objectives with respect to its investments; or
 be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, 
such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
In addition, failure of a joint venture partner may result in unanticipated losses to the Group. Where 
projects and operations are controlled and managed by the Group’s partners, the Group may provide 
expertise and advice but it has limited control with respect to compliance with its standards and 
objectives. Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could adversely affect 
the value of related non managed projects and operations and, by association, damage the Group’s 
reputation thereby harming the Group’s other operations and access to new assets.
Sustainable development
Increased regulation of 
greenhouse gas emissions could 
adversely affect the Group’s 
cost of operations.
Rio Tinto’s operations are energy intensive and depend heavily on fossil fuels. There is increasing 
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading 
mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets, in numerous jurisdictions in which the Group 
operates. These are likely to raise energy and production costs to a material degree over the next few 
decades. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Group’s major customers 
and suppliers as well as in relation to international shipping could also have an adverse effect on the 
demand for the Group’s products.
The Group depends on the 
continued services of key 
personnel.
The Group’s ability to maintain its competitive position and to implement its business strategy is 
dependent on the services of key engineering, managerial, financial, commercial, marketing and 
processing people. Loss or diminution in the services of key employees, particularly as a result of 
an inability to attract and retain staff, or the Group not maintaining a competitive remuneration 
structure, could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of 
operations and prospects.
Competition for experienced people with international engineering, mining, metallurgy and geological 
expertise is high, due to a small pool of individuals against medium to high demand. This may affect  
the Group’s ability to retain its existing senior management, marketing and technical personnel and  
to attract qualified personnel on appropriate terms. Similar competition may be felt by the Group’s  
key contractors and equipment suppliers that, in turn, could affect the Group’s expansion plans.
The Group’s costs of close 
down, restoration, and 
rehabilitation could be 
higher than expected due 
to unforeseen changes in 
legislation, standards and 
techniques, or underestimated 
costs.
Close down and restoration costs include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the 
remediation of land disturbed during the life of mining and operations. Estimated costs are provided  
for over the life of each operation and updated annually but the provisions might prove to be inadequate 
due to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new restoration techniques. Furthermore 
the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in commodity prices 
that might curtail or extend the life of an operation. Total provisions at 31 December 2010 amounted 
to US$8,602 million as set out in note 27 to the financial statements. These provisions could prove 
insufficient compared to the actual cost of restoration, or the cost of remediating or compensating for 
damage beyond the site boundary . Any underestimated or unidentified close down, restoration and 
environmental rehabilitation costs could have an adverse effect on the Group’s reputation as well  
as its asset values, earnings and cash flows.
Health, safety, environment 
and other regulations, 
standards and stakeholder 
expectations evolve over time 
and unforeseen changes could 
have an adverse effect on the 
Group’s earnings, cash flows 
and reputation.
Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, safety and environmental laws, 
regulations and standards as well as community and stakeholder expectations. The Group is subject  
to extensive governmental regulations in all jurisdictions in which it operates. Operations are subject to 
general and specific regulations governing mining and processing, land tenure and use, environmental 
requirements (including site specific environmental licences, permits and statutory authorisations), 
workplace health and safety, social impacts, trade and export, corporations, competition, access 
to infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation. Some operations are conducted under specific 
agreements with respective governments and associated acts of parliament but unilateral variations 
could diminish or even remove such rights. Furthermore, community and stakeholder expectations 
change over time. Evolving regulatory standards and stakeholder expectations can result in litigation 
and/or increased costs, or in extreme cases threaten the viability of an operation. This may impact on 
the reputation of the Group (including in circumstances where the underlying issue is not material to 
the Group). All of these matters may have an adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued www.riotinto.com 29
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Our approach to sustainable development creates competitive advantage. 
It helps us deliver better return for our shareholders, manage risk effectively, 
reduce environmental impacts, cut operating costs, attract high calibre 
employees and provide more business opportunities.
 View more about our approach to sustainable development at www.riotinto.com/ourapproach
Key achievements 
 Our all injury frequency rate continued to improve, with an  
18 per cent reduction achieved in 2010.
 Sixty seven per cent of the electricity we used in 2010 was  
from low carbon sources, mainly hydroelectricity.
 We remained the largest private sector employer of  
indigenous Australians.
 We entered into formal partnerships with the International Union for 
Conservation of Nature and the Danish Institute of Human Rights.
 We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability 
Indexes and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. 
Key priorities 
 Refresh our approach to sustainable development to ensure it 
remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and 
governance risks most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
 Continue to reduce incident and injury rates toward our goal of zero.
 Identify and prioritise management of emerging health risks. 
 Improve the diversity of our workforce.
 Maintain our energy use and GHG emission reduction programmes.
 Realise the potential for carbon, water and biodiversity offsets on our 
non operational landholdings.
Sustainable development overview
Sustainable 
development
 
 
 
Water
Health
Land
Stakeholder
engagement
Business
resilience &
recovery
Business
integrity
Human
rights
 
Our people
energy use
gas and
Greenhouse
Communities
and regional
development
 
 
Safety
Closure
Biodiversity
        Economic prosperity
Governance systems
      Social wellbeing
Environmental stewardship
Financial
performance
Suppliers
Product
stewardship
Non managed
operations
and projects
Materiality assessment
We continue to build on our materiality assessment methodology to 
ensure this report remains focused on our most significant sustainable 
development issues.
Our process was developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI) guidance (www.globalreporting.org). It involves identification and 
prioritisation of issues affecting our business and its stakeholders 
over the next three years.
In 2010 we expanded our assessment to include outcomes of 
interviews with key shareholders, investment houses, academics 
and non governmental organisations along with the opinions 
of 1,265 global leaders who were surveyed as part of our 
stakeholder engagement work and 33,000 employees who 
completed our global employee engagement survey. 
Whilst our materiality assessments have supported reporting 
on consistent topics in recent years, the 2010 assessment 
prompted additional coverage of our Business Resilience  
and Recovery Programme. 
Performance data for a selection of our most material sustainable 
development issues are subject to external assurance. We also 
discuss financial performance, safety and greenhouse gas  
emissions in the product group sections of this report.
Omission from the issues covered in our report does not mean that  
the issue is not managed by the company. Please see our website  
for additional information. 
Sustainable development review
Central to the way we work 30 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
Goals and targets Trend Progress to date
Our safety goal is zero injuries and zero fatalities. 
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency 
rate (AIFR) per 200,000 hours worked. 
18 per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate 
compared with 2009. 
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of 
occupational illness per 10,000 employees between  
2008 and 2013.
56 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational 
illness compared with 2008. 
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 
10,000 employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of 
more than 85 decibels between 2008 and 2013.
0.3 per cent increase in the rate of employees potentially 
exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels 
compared with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity between 2008 and 2013. We are also targeting 
a further four per cent reduction by 2015, to deliver an 
overall ten per cent reduction.
3.7 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity compared with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne  
of product between 2008 and 2013.
2.3 per cent increase in our freshwater use per tonne of 
product compared with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job 
requirements that represent the diversity of our 
surrounding communities.
We are targeting:
 Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior 
management by 2015.
 Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015  
graduate intake.
 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals 
from regions where we are developing new businesses.
 
 
 Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management 
in 2010.
 Women represented 27 per cent of our 2010 graduate intake. 
 Eight per cent of our 2010 graduate intake were nationals 
from regions where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly 
reported social performance indicators that demonstrate 
a positive contribution to the economic development of 
the communities and regions where we work, consistent 
with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
We collected data for the first time in 2010.
20 per cent of our operations had locally appropriate, publicly 
reported social performance indicators in place in 2010.
 Improving performance Declining performance New target
Performance data
Our sustainable development performance data are reported for 
calendar years and, unless otherwise stated, represent 100 per 
cent of the parameter at each managed operation, even though 
Rio Tinto may have only partial ownership.
Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification 
processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to 
ensure comparability over time.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October 
of the reporting period are included. Divested operations are 
included in data collection processes up until the transfer of 
management control.
We report in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level 
A+ and have implemented the International Council on Mining 
and Metals’ (ICMM) sustainable development framework  
(www.icmm.com)
Further information on our data definitions, our GRI checked 
report and our alignment with the ICMM sustainable development 
principles and supporting position statements can be found on 
our website.  www.riotinto.com 31
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Our approach
 
 Group strategy on p.18
Sustainable development has been identified as an area crucial to 
the delivery of the Group’s long term strategy.
The minerals and metals produced at our operations contribute to  
society’s needs, delivering financial dividends for our shareholders,  
paying wages and salaries for our employees, and creating wealth 
to support community infrastructure, health care and education. 
Our activities also provide the means and opportunity to develop 
new approaches to the environmental and human development 
challenges confronting society, such as climate change and poverty.
We recognise that some aspects of our activities can lead to 
unavoidable impacts, such as limiting options for the future use 
of land and water, impacts on local communities, and greenhouse 
gas emissions from our operations and the use of our products. 
We strive to minimise these impacts through good management 
of our operations.
The extended timeframes associated with our operations from 
exploration, through development and operation to closure 
provide us with opportunities to plan, implement and deliver 
sustainable contributions to social wellbeing, environmental 
stewardship and economic prosperity, within our strong 
governance systems.
Our continued licence to operate is subject to the ever increasing 
expectations of society. Consequently, we have developed and 
implemented a structured framework to ensure that we meet 
our goal of contributing to the global transition to sustainable 
development. This framework contains the “must have” 
building blocks, which must all work together to achieve leading 
performance and manage risk effectively. 
We are communicating and raising our awareness of our approach 
to our internal and external stakeholders.
In 2010 we commenced a review of our approach to sustainable 
development to ensure it remains focused on the risks most 
relevant to delivering our business strategy.
Social wellbeing 
 Read more in the “Our approach” section of www.riotinto.com
prosperity
 
Economic
stewardship
 
Environmental
Governance 
systems
Social 
wellbeing
We are committed to providing a 
safe and healthy workplace for our 
employees where their rights and 
dignity are respected. We set out to 
build enduring relationships with our 
neighbours that demonstrate mutual 
respect, active partnership, and long 
term commitment.
Safety
We are progressing on our journey toward a zero harm culture 
where everyone knows that they make a difference and where all 
employees and contractors have the knowledge, competence and 
desire to work safely. We believe that all injuries are preventable 
and our goal is to achieve zero injuries and zero fatalities.
Regrettably three people were fatally injured whilst working at  
Rio Tinto managed operations in 2010. These events occurred 
at the Iron Ore Company of Canada, as a result of a fall from 
height, at the Alcan Packaging plant in Indonesia, as a result of 
an electric shock, and at the Alcan Engineered Products Neuf 
Brisach operation in France, as a result of being struck by a falling 
object. We provided support and counselling to the families and 
workmates affected by these events and we have shared the 
lessons from these and other serious incidents across the Group.
We measure progress toward our goal of zero injuries through  
the all injury frequency rate (AIFR), which includes data for 
employees and contractors. At the end of 2010 our AIFR was  
0.66, an improvement of 18 per cent over the last year. Our  
lost time injury frequency rate has also improved and was  
0.36 per 200,000 hours worked in 2010.
Lower injury rates do not mean that serious incidents will  
not occur. We use significant potential incident reporting and 
remedial action closure measures to promote identification, 
investigation, management and sharing of lessons learnt from 
minor and near miss events with potentially fatal consequences. 
These metrics are linked to remuneration.
Higher consequence, lower frequency safety events are managed 
through targeted process safety reviews and use of our Semi 
Quantitative Risk Assessment (SQRA) process. The risk reduction 
resulting from the SQRA process is used as a Group wide leading 
indicator for safety performance. 
Sustainable development framework
Targets
Achieve 
leading 
performance
Effectively 
manage 
risks 
Indicators 
& metrics
Monitoring & reporting
Management systems
Leadership & accountability
Strategies & standards
Policies
The way we work
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
1.21
0.95
0.81
0.66
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
0.66
(2009: 0.81) 32 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
To drive improved performance at our sites where the most injuries 
are occurring, or where we face persistent challenges of repeated or 
major injuries or fatalities, we have developed a site safety acceleration 
process. The process is built on the principles of diagnosing root causes 
of poor safety performance and, through the engagement of leaders 
and employees, developing site-specific practical interventions that 
lead to sustainable safety improvements.
We have also established a framework that defines our expectations 
and the processes to assure implementation of our systems and 
standards during the development of major projects.
Health
Our goal is no new cases of occupational illness. We are targeting 
a 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational 
illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. 
The main types of occupational illnesses recorded in our 2008 
baseline are related to musculo-skeletal disorders, noise induced 
hearing loss and stress. The baseline excludes operations that 
were divested or flagged for divestment during 2009. 
In 2010 we achieved a 56 per cent improvement in performance 
compared with 2008 with significant decreases in the number 
of reported cases of noise induced hearing loss (54 per cent), 
musculo-skeletal disorders (66 per cent) and stress (40 per cent).
Ongoing reductions in new cases of occupational illnesses will 
require further improvements in the management of risks posed 
by manual handling and noise exposure, as well as supporting 
healthy lifestyles through workplace wellbeing programmes.
We are also targeting a ten per cent reduction in the number of 
employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 
85 decibels between 2008 and 2013. In 2010, the number of 
employees potentially exposed increased by 0.3 per cent per  
10,000 employees compared with 2008. Progress against this target 
has been slow; based upon business feedback we are expecting 
most of the improvements for this target to occur in 2012 and 2013.
Rio Tinto operates two uranium mines, Ranger in Australia and 
Rössing in Namibia. When not appropriately managed, exposure to 
ionising radiation from uranium mines can pose potential health 
risks for workers or surrounding communities and we understand 
there may be some concern that those working or living near our 
uranium mines could be at risk. 
In line with our occupational health standards, we continue to work 
on reducing radiation exposure to as low as reasonably practicable. 
Our monitoring has not recorded any employee exposure above 
our 20 milliSievert (mSv) annual limit for over a decade. Rio Tinto’s 
exposure limit is well below the five year 100mSv and annual 
50mSv limits typically found in international protocols. 
We believe that our health and wellbeing strategy will support 
our employees to lead healthier lives and reduce fatigue, stress 
and obesity related risks to deliver health, safety and productivity 
improvements across the Group. We have continued to roll out  
our Australian “Achieve Health” programme and more than  
7,000 of our people globally signed up for our “Be Active” 
challenge in 2010.
Rio Tinto operates in countries where the prevalence of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), tuberculosis and malaria are 
high. We work closely with the international health community 
on these problems not only in Africa, but globally. Where our 
operations are located in regions with a generalised HIV epidemic 
(as defined by UNAIDS) we actively encourage all employees to 
know their HIV status through voluntary testing. We also ensure 
that all employees in these regions and their nominated partner 
have affordable access to treatment, care and support, including 
antiretroviral drugs.
As part of our new Business Resilience and Recovery Programme, 
we focused on the identification and classification of potential 
and emerging health risks and evaluation of our emergency 
medical response preparedness in 2010.
Our people
In 2010, we employed 77,000 people, including the Group’s 
proportionate share of consolidated companies and equity  
accounted units. Of these approximately 25,000 were located  
in Australasia, 22,000 in North America, 17,000 in Europe, and 
8,000 in Africa. Our workforce decreased in 2010 as a result of our 
divestment programme. See page 252 for a breakdown of employees 
by business units.
We employ on the basis of job requirement and do not discriminate 
on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, 
politics, religion or disability. We do not employ forced, bonded 
or child labour. We recognise the right of all employees to choose 
to belong to a union and seek to bargain collectively. We employ 
people with disabilities and make every effort to offer suitable 
alternative employment and retraining to employees who become 
disabled and can no longer perform their regular duties.
Our employees’ diversity of backgrounds, skills, perspectives 
and experiences is critical to our business success. We encourage 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
36
22
47
38
22
New cases of occupational illness
Per 10,000 employees
 Including former Alcan
22
(2009: 38)
Employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85dB(A)
Per 10,000 employees average over full shift
3,382
(2009: 3,509)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
3,964
3,723
3,375
3,509
3,382 www.riotinto.com 33
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
diversity in teams and the sharing of people, skills and knowledge 
across the Group. We provide employees with opportunities for 
flexible work arrangements to accommodate individual needs at 
different life and career stages.
Our goal is to employ people who meet job requirements and reflect 
the diversity of our surrounding communities. Currently, we are 
focused on improving the representation of women and people 
from nationalities which are under-represented in our workforce. 
In 2010, women represented 27 per cent of our graduate intake, 
14 per cent of our senior management, 20 per cent of the chief 
executive’s executive committee and 13 per cent of the Rio Tinto 
board. Our new Group wide diversity targets for 2015 are:
 Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management.
 Women to represent 40 per cent of our graduate intake.
 Fifteen per cent of our graduate intake to be nationals from 
regions where we are developing new businesses.
We actively favour local employment where local candidates 
meet job requirements and laws allow. Our local employment 
commitments are often managed through directly negotiated 
community benefit agreements. Throughout 2010, we remained 
the largest private sector employer of indigenous Australians, who 
represent eight per cent of our Australian workforce.
Rio Tinto’s new statement on commitment to diversity and 
inclusion can be found on page 116. We are also establishing 
a new cross-functional diversity council, chaired by a member 
of our executive committee, to set directions for, sponsor and 
monitor progress of initiatives to improve diversity and inclusion.
Our reward strategy is designed to attract, retain and motivate 
our workforce. Base pay is reviewed regularly to account for the 
individual’s role and local market trends. We offer allowances, 
broad-based employee share plans, retirement plans and 
healthcare benefits consistent with local market competition.
We provide a short term incentive plan to allow individuals to 
participate in the financial success of the business and focus on 
individual performance objectives. Long term incentive plans are 
used to align individual objectives with shareholder interests and 
to recognise performance and potential for strategic contributions.
We directly engage with our employees on their individual 
career aspirations and implement individual development plans, 
coaching and feedback processes to position them and the Group 
for success. We also conduct regular talent reviews to assess the 
capabilities and potential of our workforce.
Our second global employee engagement survey was completed  
in 2010. Engagement levels are positive and good progress has 
been made on improving understanding and support of the Group’s 
vision and values. Action plans are being implemented in each 
business. Globally we are focusing on increasing the capability of 
our leaders to engage with and maximise the contribution of our 
people, especially among our frontline employees. We will measure 
progress as part of our next engagement survey in 2011.
In 2010 our frontline, operational, business, and strategic 
leadership development programmes were relaunched along 
with new programmes for the accelerated development of high-
potential employees and leadership skill-building for people in 
operational roles. Approximately half a million attendances were 
recorded for training in technical and operational skills, and 
health, safety, and environment courses during 2010.
Communities and regional economic development
By understanding our socio-economic interactions in the places 
where we operate, we can optimise benefits and reduce negative 
impacts for communities and our operations alike. 
These interactions include relationships with local suppliers, 
training and local employment, support for small to medium 
enterprises, optimal distribution of taxes and royalties, support 
for multilateral socio-economic programmes and development of 
infrastructure that can also benefit local communities, businesses 
and governments.
In addition to direct economic contributions through salaries, 
wages, taxes, royalties and local service and supply, our businesses 
supported 2,900 socio-economic programmes covering a wide range 
of activities such as health, education, business development, 
housing, environmental protection and agricultural development 
during 2010. 
To enable us to target the delivery of socio-economic programmes 
reflecting the priorities of local communities, and to identify potential  
positive and negative impacts of our operations, we conduct community  
baseline, social impact and social risk assessments. We use this 
information along with community input to develop multi-year 
communities plans.
In 2010 we spent US$166 million on community assistance 
programmes and payments into trusts set up in directly 
negotiated community impact benefit agreements. The US$47 
million increase in spending compared to 2009 reflects  
a rebounding of Group activity and the establishment of new  
community agreements which involve direct payments to 
community controlled regional development trusts.
Employees
Number
 Including former Alcan
77,000
(2009: 102,000)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
35,000
77,000
106,000 106,000
102,000
Community contributions
US$ millions
166
(2009: 119)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
96
107
140
119
166 34 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
We verify the quality of our communities work at each operation  
on a three year cycle. In 2010, we conducted assurance assessments  
at 25 operations.
The introduction of a mining, smelting or refining operation can 
be disruptive and concerning to local communities, particularly 
where resettlement, land rights or areas of spiritual value are 
concerned. We apply leading industry practice in dealing with 
such matters and try to minimise and mitigate negative impacts 
and gain broad-based community support for our activities. 
However, people can validly have differing opinions about a 
development. For example, some sections of the community 
around the US based Eagle project in Michigan have requested 
broader access to Eagle Rock, notwithstanding the understandings 
we have reached with other sections of the community to address 
safety and other considerations. 
Community action may also affect our ability to conduct our operations,  
such as our 2008 decision to temporarily suspend pilot project 
construction work at the La Granja copper development in Peru. 
Development of this project was subsequently scaled back as a 
result of the global financial crisis.
Even when the broader community is supportive, individuals 
or NGOs may continue to have concerns about or oppose our 
activities and they may commence legal action to challenge it. 
We seek to respond to such actions, whilst respecting the views 
of those people who disagree with us. We accept that we cannot 
meet everybody’s concerns and expectations, but wherever we 
operate we seek to do so with broad-based community support.
Our operations are part of the social context in which they sit, 
and we may sometimes be subject to collateral effects or issues 
arising out of differences within a community or between a 
community and third parties. This can result in high crime rates 
or civil unrest and/or our employees and assets being the target 
of anti-social and unlawful activities. In such circumstances we 
do what we reasonably can to maintain the security of our assets 
and personnel in a manner that is proportionate and safe for 
our people and the local community. We follow the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights, provide training to 
security personnel, and follow security rules of engagement which 
seek to limit the risk of fatal incidents arising from unrest, theft 
or trespass.
Our communities target requires all operations to have locally 
appropriate, publicly reported social performance indicators that 
demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development 
of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with 
the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013. By 2010, 20 per 
cent of operations had these indicators in place. Our report on 
the Millennium Development Goals and the library of our local 
sustainable development reports can be found on our website.
We seek to make our voluntary contributions part of a bigger 
picture. This year Rio Tinto and the Australian Football League 
(AFL) launched a four year partnership focused on leadership 
development for 18 to 24 year old indigenous men. The Footy 
Means Business programme will provide participants exposure 
to elite AFL programmes and training, along with networking 
opportunities in corporate environments to build leadership and 
teamwork skills.
Environmental stewardship 
 Read more in the “Our approach” section of www.riotinto.com
Governance 
systems
Social 
wellbeing
prosperity
 
Economic
stewardship
 
Environmental
We continue to proactively manage 
issues related to climate change, water, 
land stewardship, biodiversity, mineral 
and non mineral waste, air quality and 
closure. 
Our programmes include input from 
our local communities and subject 
matter experts, and are supported by 
our partnerships with BirdLife International, Conservation 
International, the Eden Project, Earthwatch, Fauna & Flora 
International and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
During 2010, the International Union for Conservation of 
Nature (IUCN) and Rio Tinto entered into a three year formal 
collaboration agreement to work together on sustainable 
development efforts, environmental management and  
delivery of conservation outcomes.
Greenhouse gas emissions
We accept the need for climate change action and recognise the 
issue as being one of our greatest challenges and opportunities. 
We support efficient, effective and equitable measures to tackle 
climate change, which promise a comprehensive, long term 
response to a globally complex problem. We accept the need  
for a price on carbon.
We believe that our businesses have a positive future in a world 
that is working to global carbon constraints and we aim to 
improve the energy intensity of our operations and new projects.
We are targeting to reduce our total GHG emissions intensity by six 
per cent between 2008 and 2013. A further four per cent reduction  
is targeted to give an overall ten per cent reduction by 2015. 
Our GHG emissions intensity has reduced by 3.7 per cent between 
2008 and 2010, largely as a result of the 2009 divestment of the 
Ningxia aluminium smelter in China. During 2010, the impact of 
closure or reduced production at older aluminium smelters that had 
low emitting power sources offset some of the intensity reductions 
achieved during 2009. These closures and production decreases are 
one step towards our longer term strategy of modernisation.
Our total GHG emissions were 43.4 million tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO
2
-e) in 2010, 2.3 million tonnes higher than 
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
 Including former Alcan
96.3
(2009: 92.5)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
110.9
92.5
96.3
110.2
100.0
111.3 www.riotinto.com 35
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
in 2009. This is the result of increased production of a number 
of commodities and production shifts to operations with higher 
greenhouse gas emission intensity. Rio Tinto’s direct emissions 
were 27.6 million tonnes of CO
2
-e in 2010. A breakdown of our 
greenhouse gas emissions by product group and country  
is available on our website.
We operate in an energy intensive sector and we seek to lower the 
greenhouse gas emissions over the full lifecycle of our products. 
For example, Rio Tinto Alcan is a leader in the development of 
energy efficient aluminium smelting technology and a significant 
proportion of our aluminium smelters are powered with low 
carbon, hydro or nuclear power sources. The high strength to 
weight ratio of aluminium can reduce the weight of cars and 
decrease the amount of fuel used during their operation; it can 
also be efficiently recycled.
We continue to track greenhouse gas emissions associated with 
our products along the value chain. In 2010, the three most 
significant sources of indirect emissions associated with our 
products were:
 Approximately 4.7 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with  
third party transport of our products and raw materials.
 An estimated 122 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with 
customers using our coal in electricity generation and steel 
production.
 Approximately 360 million tonnes of CO
2
-e associated with 
customers using our iron ore to produce steel. The emissions 
associated with the use of our coal and iron ore cannot be 
added, as some customers use both our iron ore and our  
coal to produce steel.
Due to global demand, coal will remain a significant source of energy 
for the foreseeable future. We are therefore investing in developing 
and commercialising carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology. 
We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and we 
support other collaborative efforts to deploy CCS technology, such  
as the CO
2
CRC’s Otway Basin geosequestration project in Australia. 
During 2010, climate change legislation and regulation were 
debated in a number of jurisdictions where we operate. This  
has the potential to increase our operating costs significantly:
 In Australia new climate change policy has been discussed but 
not yet enacted. Currently we have both direct and indirect cost 
exposure as a result of a requirement to purchase certificates as 
part of the Government’s renewable energy target. All legislated 
reporting requirements were met in 2010.
 In the US, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is 
drafting regulations that may subject GHG emissions to 
permitting requirements.
 In the EU some of our operations are subject to the second 
phase of the EU emissions trading scheme. This exposure  
will increase when the third phase starts in 2013.
We recognise the need to adapt to the physical impacts of climate 
change. In 2010 Rio Tinto Alcan entered into partnership with 
Ouranos to develop tools and strategies to further adapt to climate 
change (www.ouranos.ca).
Energy use
Rio Tinto both uses energy in its operations and produces it. Our 
smelting and mineral processing operations are energy intensive 
and depend on hydroelectricity, nuclear power, coal, oil, diesel 
and gas to keep them running.
This year our energy use increased by 3.2 per cent to 512 
petajoules following production increases for several 
commodities, including titanium dioxide feedstock and iron ore.
Through our coal and uranium sales, we supplied 4,735 petajoules 
of world energy demand in 2010. Our energy supply was more 
than eight times our energy use. 
To drive improvements in energy efficiency our businesses have 
set a range of local energy targets that cover nearly three quarters 
of the Group’s energy use.
We are also working to reduce the energy intensity of our new 
projects through energy efficient design, the use of alternative 
energy sources and development of step change technologies. This 
includes development of the AP60 cell and other components of 
AP Technology™ which have the potential to significantly reduce 
the energy required to produce aluminium.
Our use of low greenhouse gas emitting hydro, nuclear and other 
renewable power sources represented 67 per cent of our electricity 
use in 2010. We have significant hydropower generation facilities 
in Canada, Scotland and Norway and are currently developing a 
hydropower strategy to better manage the social and environmental 
threats and opportunities associated with our hydropower dams.
Water
We use water at every stage of our business – for exploration, 
mining, processing, smelting, refining, rehabilitation, generation 
of hydroelectric power and drinking.
Each of our operations has its own set of water challenges: some 
are located in water scarce environments where they compete with 
other users, whilst others need to manage a surplus from storms 
or groundwater. The quality of water can impact production, 
operating costs, nearby communities and the environment. 
Increasingly, we are working in locations where access to clean 
drinking water and adequate sanitation is an issue for neighbouring 
communities, particularly in developing countries.
Total energy use
Petajoules
 Including former Alcan
512
(2009: 496)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
257
540
554
496
512 36 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
Our water strategy provides a framework for responsible stewardship 
by addressing water related business risk and improving performance 
across social, environmental, and economic aspects. We focus 
on ways to minimise the amount of water we remove from the 
environment, reuse it whenever we can, and return it to the 
environment meeting regulatory limits.
Our strategy includes:
 Setting targets to reduce our use and manage our impact  
on surrounding ecology.
 Understanding the flow regime and quality required  
to maintain ecosystem integrity.
 Including water availability issues in new project design.
 Relocating and upgrading infrastructure to provide greater 
flood protection. 
 Accessing alternate sources to protect against water shortages.
 Working with stakeholders on sustainable water management 
issues, especially with communities near our operations.
We used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(WBCSD) global water tool to identify our operations and projects 
located in water scarce environments (www.wbcsd.org). In 2010, 
approximately ten per cent of our freshwater withdrawal was 
from about 20 operations in water scarce environments, with 
our greatest exposure in Australia. A map of our operations and 
projects in areas of water scarcity is available on our website.
In 2010, our freshwater withdrawal increased by over six per cent 
to 516 billion litres, due to increased production, and high rainfall 
in eastern Australia. A breakdown of our freshwater withdrawal by 
product group and country is available on our website.
We are targeting to reduce our freshwater use per tonne of product 
by six per cent between 2008 and 2013. Freshwater use excludes 
water that is extracted for ground control and discharged without 
use in our processes. Between 2008 and 2010, our freshwater use 
per tonne of product has increased by 2.3 per cent. 
During 2010, our freshwater use per tonne of product increased 
due to significant rainfall events in eastern Australia, which led 
to increased freshwater storage, and lower production or higher 
process water requirements at several businesses. These increases 
were largely offset by improved efficiency at our western Australia 
iron ore operations as production shifted to newer operations.
The potential impact of climate change will bring higher levels 
of risk to our water supplies. We need to understand how our 
operations and nearby communities will be impacted. Water 
regulation will also evolve to reflect changes in water availability 
which could impact our operations through higher water prices 
and changes to water allocations.
For our water strategy to succeed, we need good working 
relationships with those directly or indirectly affected by our 
business. We engage with governments and other organisations, 
for example the Minerals Council of Australia and the ICMM, to 
support developing water policy and with organisations committed 
to sustainable water management such as the Johnson Foundation 
at Wingspread Environmental Forum in the US, the World Economic 
Forum water project, and the WBCSD water leadership group. 
In 2010, we participated in the first Water Disclosure Project, 
which aims to inform the global marketplace on water related 
investment risk.
Land
We manage just under 41,400 square kilometres of land, excluding 
our exploration leases. At the end of 2010 our activities had 
impacted 9.4 per cent of this area.
In line with leading practice, we aim to rehabilitate land as it 
comes out of use rather than waiting until all operations have 
ceased. By the end of 2010, 24 per cent of our disturbed land 
(excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity dams) had been 
rehabilitated. We have established an internal rehabilitation 
target and are working with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew to 
drive performance improvements in this area.
We are continuing our programme of exploring the threats and 
opportunities for the Group arising from emerging green markets 
in biodiversity, carbon, water and other ecosystem services. 
Ecosystem services are the benefits we obtain from ecosystems. 
The UN Millennium Ecosystem Assessment grouped these into four 
categories: provisioning (production of food and water), regulating 
(control of climate and disease), supporting (nutrient cycles and 
crop pollination), and cultural (spiritual and recreational benefits).
Our Natural Capital Project has commenced exploring the 
ecosystem service values of our extensive non operational 
landholdings. Through our collaboration with the IUCN 
economics group we have undertaken a preliminary assessment  
 
XXX
XXX
Land footprint
Square kilometres
 Disturbed 
 Rehabilitated
3,873
(2009: 3,812)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
401
1,112
418
1,154
471
1,373
402
3,410
3,453
420
Freshwater withdrawn
Billion litres
 Freshwater withdrawn
 Freshwater withdrawn and used
 Freshwater withdrawn and  
 discharged without use
516
(2009: 485)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
392
411
70
449
66
419
73
443 www.riotinto.com 37
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
of the biodiversity value of forest conservation projects in 
Madagascar. This groundbreaking work is being developed as a 
pilot project as part of the WBCSD Ecosystem Valuation Initiative.
Rio Tinto is a member of the Prince’s Rainforest Project steering 
group (www.rainforestsos.org). The Project aims to find practical 
solutions to slow tropical deforestation and combat climate change 
by identifying ways to value, and then pay for, the crucial 
ecosystems services that rainforests provide.
Biodiversity
The potential for impact on biodiversity makes our projects sensitive 
for external stakeholders and employees. Rio Tinto’s future success 
depends on our ability to manage these issues, and our biodiversity 
strategy provides the management framework with an industry 
leading goal to have a “net positive impact” (NPI) on biodiversity.
Tools and methodologies have been developed to assess the 
biodiversity values of Rio Tinto’s landholding. We continue to 
work with our conservation partners to improve implementation 
of the strategy and have commenced pilot programmes in Africa, 
Australia and North America.
Twenty eight per cent of our operations assessed using the  
Rio Tinto Global Biodiversity Values Assessment protocol are 
ranked as having very high biodiversity values and 21 per cent 
ranked with high values. Biodiversity action plans have been 
completed or are under development at 86 per cent of these 
operations. We have internal targets in place to support our  
goal of achieving NPI at these sites.
An underlining principal of our biodiversity work is to ensure  
that biodiversity conservation activities are community based.  
For example in Madagascar, we have negotiated legal agreements 
with local communities to manage avoidance zones for conservation. 
Whilst it may never be possible to obtain unanimous support for 
these programmes, and some sections of the community continue 
to have objections, we believe that it has the support of the 
majority of those affected in the local community.
Through our biodiversity partners, we have also funded direct 
compensation programmes where community members received 
agreed compensation (funds for water supplies, schools, etc) in 
return for conserving key features of the environment and other 
initiatives such as a reduction in logging and hunting. 
Economic prosperity 
 Read more in the “Our approach” section of www.riotinto.com
stewardship
 
Environmental
Governance 
systems
Social 
wellbeing
prosperity
 
Economic
We adopt a lifecycle view of our 
operations and products to seek 
to maximise the value to society 
whilst minimising negative impacts 
of products, and encouraging those 
along the supply chain to adopt 
similar practices. 
We use our expertise to harness 
resources and create prosperity for our shareholders, employees, 
communities, governments and business partners.
Our direct economic contribution was US$61,298 million in 2010. 
This includes:
 US$6,951 million spent on wages and salaries.
 US$33,812 million in value add, made up of labour, tax and 
royalty payments and returns to capital.
These figures include the Group’s share of joint ventures and 
associates. A breakdown of our local, regional and national 
economic contributions is available on our website.
Suppliers
Our statement of procurement principles is available on our website. 
Payments to suppliers are a major benefit to the economy, generating 
employment and creating wealth. In 2010, we spent US$27,486 
million on goods and services with over 57,000 suppliers.
By collaborating with our partners to obtain sustainable development 
objectives for each of our business units, we seek to create business 
relationships that have positive and enduring effects in the developing 
economies where we operate, build our partner communities’ 
confidence in our reputation, and extend our licence to operate.
As an example, Boyne Smelters Limited (BSL) and Yarwun alumina 
refinery have implemented a decontamination and recycling project 
in Gladstone, Australia to support Rio Tinto Alcan’s goal of zero 
general waste being sent to landfill by 2014. Working closely with a 
local partner, these operations have been able to reduce the amount 
of material sent to landfill by decontaminating and reusing protective 
gloves, while recycling filter bags and other oil soaked materials.
Direct economic contribution
US$ million
 Payments to suppliers 
 Value added
61,298
(2009: 44,844)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
14,441
10,999
17,241
16,277
28,412
29,653
21,363
23,481
33,812
27,486 38 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
We also work with non governmental organisations and other 
partners to build country capacity through programmes such as 
small and medium enterprise development, access to capital and 
tailoring procurement processes to improve local supplier access.
Product stewardship
By understanding the health and environmental impacts and 
benefits of our products over their complete lifecycle, we gain 
knowledge on how to improve our processes, expand our 
information to the marketplace, and differentiate our products 
from our competitors. Thus we have developed and regularly 
update lifecycle assessments for all our major products.
This knowledge is also used to ensure compliance with chemicals 
regulations, such as the European Union Registration, Evaluation, 
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) legislation 
and the UN Globally Harmonized System of Classification and 
Labelling of Chemicals. In 2010 we met the REACH registration 
deadline for our products affected by the regulations.
We engage in industry wide stewardship initiatives to support 
responsible production and help develop leading practices and 
recognised standards. We chair the Stewardship Committee 
of the Minerals Council of Australia, are active members of 
the Responsible Jewellery Council and participate in uranium, 
copper, steel and aluminium stewardship initiatives. We are 
also supported in our material stewardship initiatives by our 
partnership with the Eden Project.
We are a board member of the World Ocean Council, which aims 
to help create a responsible and cross-sectoral ocean business 
community. A review of environmental risks related to our shipping 
activities has been completed as part of our marine stewardship 
programme and is being used to identify areas for future focus.
Non managed operations and projects
Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and ventures it does 
not manage. However, we engage as members of the boards of 
directors, operating committees and/or technical committees. 
Because we believe that the principles in The way we work are 
universal, in our dealings with joint venture partners and non-
controlled companies we make every effort to ensure that those 
standards of conduct are respected at all times.
Examples of our non managed operations include the  
Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold  
mine in Indonesia.
Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is 
managed by BHP Billiton. Our seats on the Owners’ Council allow 
us regular input on strategic and policy matters. We played a part 
in establishing the Escondida Foundation, which is funded by 
one per cent of the mine’s pre-tax profits and is a vehicle through 
which Escondida fulfils some of its social responsibilities.
There was one fatality at the Escondida mine in 2010 as a 
result of injuries sustained whilst operating a cathode stripping 
machine. We worked closely with BHP Billiton to support its 
investigation into the incident and to make improvements to 
safety procedures.
A subsidiary of the mining company Freeport-McMoRan Copper 
& Gold, Inc (Freeport-McMoRan), PT Freeport Indonesia owns 
and operates the Grasberg mine. We have a joint venture interest 
in the 1995 expansion of the mine, which entitles us to a 40 per 
cent share of production above specified levels until 2021 and 
40 per cent of all production after 2021. We do not own shares in 
Freeport-McMoRan and we do not control the management of the 
joint venture. However, we have the ability to engage with and 
influence local management through our representation on the 
joint venture’s operating committee.
The operator of the Grasberg mine manages complex social, 
community and environmental issues and has faced opposition 
from time to time. There have also been instances of violence in 
areas near the mine, including a series of shooting incidents along 
the road leading to the mining and milling operations that have 
resulted in three fatalities in 2009.
Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights and work together to 
ensure practice is consistent with these principles. At least one 
per cent of the mine’s net sales is committed to support village 
based programmes, amounting to cumulative funding of US$467 
million since 1996.
The Grasberg mine has used a controlled riverine tailings 
management programme throughout its long history. This 
programme was approved by the government of Indonesia 
following numerous technical studies to identify the appropriate 
tailings management plan for the site. 
The practice of riverine tailings disposal has been subject to 
scrutiny for many years by a range of stakeholders, including 
certain Indonesian governmental authorities and some NGOs. We 
recognise that riverine tailings disposal has been criticised and 
that the World Bank does not consider it as good industry practice, 
in accordance with the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) 
2007 Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining.
However, we continue to believe that the use of riverine tailings 
disposal at the Grasberg operation is appropriate given the 
extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and high seismic risk 
that makes construction of more conventional tailings management 
facilities technically challenging. We remain actively engaged in 
supporting the mine’s operator, PT Freeport Indonesia, in reducing 
the impact of waste rock management and tailings disposal.
PT Freeport Indonesia has implemented a number of significant 
improvements in tailings management at the Grasberg mine. These 
include the construction of lateral levees to limit the surface area 
disturbed by tailings deposition in the lowlands and to protect 
adjacent river systems, the diversion of the Ajkwa river system to 
preserve its water quality and to enhance tailings retention within 
the deposition area, the successful progressive rehabilitation of 
the now inactive tailings within the Ajkwa diversion area and the 
new islands forming at the mouth of the diversion area and the 
completion of an ecological risk assessment.
The focus of our work with the operator continues to be 
on minimising the geochemical risks posed by waste rock 
management and tailings, providing for effective acid rock 
drainage management, and promoting progressive rehabilitation.
We seek to ensure that investors understand the actions we 
are taking in relation to sustainable development issues and 
we are aware that the decision to buy or sell our shares may be 
influenced by their understanding of these issues. For example, 
the 2008 sale of a 0.6 per cent interest in Rio Tinto by the 
Norwegian Government Pension Fund was stated to be a result 
of concerns in relation to the environmental practices at the 
Grasberg mine. www.riotinto.com 39
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Governance systems 
 Read more in the “Our approach” section of www.riotinto.com 
stewardship
 
Environmental
Governance 
systems
Social 
wellbeing
prosperity
 
Economic
The way we work, supported by our global 
policies, standards and guidance notes, in 
conjunction with the requirements of local law 
and our voluntary commitments, forms the 
basis of our governance systems. 
Business integrity
Rio Tinto considers conducting our 
business with the highest standards of integrity to be a core value.
We were a founding supporter of the United Nations Global 
Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org), a voluntary initiative to 
align businesses with ten universally accepted principles in the 
areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 
We report our progress against these principles on our website.
Through ICMM we endorse the Extractive Industries Transparency 
Initiative (EITI) (www.eitransparency.org) and we promote the 
EITI in the candidate countries where we operate. The taxes and 
royalties we paid in these countries are reported on our website.
Our long standing partnership with the Dundee University Centre for 
Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy sponsors postgraduate 
studies contributing to the creation of a stable international legal and 
investment environment (www.dundee.ac.uk).
The way we work and other Rio Tinto standards clearly state that 
bribery and corruption are prohibited in all forms whether direct 
or indirect and whether it is to or from a public official, a political 
candidate, party or party official, or a private sector employee. 
We only make payments for legitimate business services and 
purposes, at a rate that reflects market value. Payments must be 
accurately recorded in our accounting records.
During 2010, four of our Shanghai based employees were found 
guilty on charges of receiving bribes and obtaining commercial 
secrets. When the four employees were originally detained in 
mid 2009, we appointed independent forensic accountants 
and lawyers to carry out an investigation into the claims. This 
investigation did not uncover any evidence to substantiate 
allegations of wrongdoing within our systems.
Nevertheless, we were informed that the prosecutor presented 
evidence in court that showed the four employees had accepted 
bribes. By accepting bribes, they engaged in behaviour that 
contravened The way we work and our anti-bribery standards. 
Accordingly, their employment was terminated.
Independent of this incident, we had commenced a major review 
of our compliance programme to ensure that our systems remain 
in line with leading practice.
This led to the release of a revised version of The way we work, 
introduction of new or revised standards for anti-bribery due 
diligence, antitrust, data privacy, fraud and compliance as well 
as release of a new standard for conducting investigations into 
allegations of serious wrongdoing. We have also refined our 
guidelines for information gathering in China and relaunched 
Speak-OUT, our independently administered confidential 
whistleblowing programme. Internal communication and  
training campaigns have accompanied each of these changes. 
There were 434 Speak-OUT calls made in 2010. Of the new issues 
raised, 47 per cent resulted in action being taken in relation to the 
reported issue. See chart below.
Human rights
We support and respect human rights consistent with the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we actively seek 
to ensure that we are not complicit in abuses committed by others. 
We endorse the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
and the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Corporations.
Training on our human rights policy is required every two years 
for our employees at the general manager level or above. During 
2009 and 2010, 4,114 people completed this training. We are also 
developing a guide to assist with the integration of human rights 
into our communities work.
In 2010 we established a formal partnership with the Danish Institute 
of Human Rights (www.humanrights.dk) and we will be working 
together on a number of human rights projects throughout 2011.
Rio Tinto operates in a manner consistent with the UN 
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and sovereign 
obligations. However, the UN Declaration contains broad 
statements of principle that are open to a range of potentially 
conflicting interpretations. We acknowledge that some sections 
of the communities where we operate hold alternative views as to 
how the UN Declaration should be applied in practice, as has been 
the case at the Eagle nickel project in Michigan, US. 
We respect the land connection of indigenous communities and 
work with them on their land in a spirit of reciprocity, transparency 
and recognition of their culture. We recognise that every indigenous 
community is unique and reach specific agreements with affected 
communities on how they want to engage with us in the development 
and performance of our operations.
Business resilience and recovery
Our operations could face a range of threats to our business including 
natural or environmental disasters, fires or explosions, aircraft 
incidents, loss of communications or information, terrorist acts, 
widespread illnesses or pandemics, asset or property damage, or 
market disruptions. 
In 2009 we undertook a review of our approach to ensure that 
0 50 100 150 200 250
Environment
Data privacy
Bribery & corruption
Theft & fraud
Conflict of interest 
Compensation & benefits
Other
Safety or health
Policies & procedures
Personnel 
1
2
2
9
9
30
35
55
80
211
Speak-OUT  
434
(2009: 244)
Number of calls
call activity 40 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Sustainable development review continued
we are managing these types of incidents consistently, using 
a common language, sharing best practices and eliminating 
overlaps and unclear accountabilities across the Group.
As a result, our previously separate emergency response, business 
continuity, and information technology disaster recovery plans 
have now been brought together in one streamlined Business 
Resilience and Recovery Programme. 
This programme is embedded within our Health, Safety, 
Environment and Quality Management System. It requires our 
operations to allocate appropriate resources, including trained 
personnel, facilities and equipment, to effectively mitigate, 
control and recover from a major incident. We have developed 
training and a library of simulation exercises for our operations 
to use in rolling out the programme. Our operations will be 
internally audited against these requirements from January 2011.
For example, during 2010 we conducted a simulation of flooding 
impacting our operations in Brisbane, Australia. In January 
2011, when Queensland experienced its worst flooding in the 
last century, we were able to activate our business resilience and 
recovery plan and assist our people managing the day to day 
physical and emotional impacts of the flood, its aftermath and the 
impact on our business in a co-ordinated and timely manner.
Stakeholder engagement
Genuine engagement with internal and external stakeholders 
who are affected by, or have an interest in, what we do is a critical 
element of our successful business practice.
We maintain continuous dialogue with governments and public 
authorities at national, provincial and municipal levels, with 
industry associations and representative bodies, including the 
WBCSD and with non governmental organisations to achieve our 
shared goals more effectively and develop appropriate standards 
and guidelines for our industry.
During 2010 we surveyed 1,265 members of government, non 
governmental organisations, societal influencers and industry 
members globally to understand stakeholders’ views of the mining 
industry and Rio Tinto. This research will be used to inform 
strategy development, communications priorities and stakeholder 
engagement planning. We also conducted our second global 
employee engagement survey during 2010, see page 33.
The Rio Tinto Prize for Sustainability reflection period, aimed at 
better understanding the benefits of the US$1 million prize and 
options for its future direction, concluded at the end of 2010. 
As part of this process, Rio Tinto and the International Business 
Leaders Forum (www.iblf.org) brought together past winners and 
finalists to network, share experiences and see firsthand examples 
of past winners’ work on the ground. We are currently considering 
the options recommended for the future direction of the Prize. 
Closure
Integrating closure planning into all aspects of our business, from 
the earliest stages of project development to the decommissioning 
of facilities, is essential to leave a positive legacy of sustainable 
development, minimise unforeseen financial impacts and ensure 
stakeholder expectations are met. Demonstrating positive closure 
outcomes also assists us to gain access to future projects.
We have a multidisciplinary approach to closure planning, 
involving communities, human resources, environmental, 
engineering and financial specialists. Our closure management 
plans are updated every five to seven years to ensure they address 
key risks, incorporate sustainable development opportunities and 
include accurate financial provisions. 
Ninety three per cent of our businesses currently have closure 
management plans in place. Rio Tinto Alcan operations are 
progressively developing or updating closure management plans. 
At the end of 2010 our close down and restoration provisions 
were US$8,602 million; this includes the Group’s share of 
proportionally consolidated operations, and excludes the Group’s 
share of equity accounted units.
Our closure standard and communities standard require our 
operations to regularly engage with stakeholders, including 
employees, traditional land owners, local communities and 
governments. Together, we identify preferred options for  
closure and seek stakeholders’ endorsement. For example:
 At the Beauharnois smelter in Canada, options for ongoing 
industrial activities were assessed to minimise employment 
impacts and sustain socio-economic input to the region. As a 
result a casthouse was retained at the site and future industrial 
development projects were identified.
 At the Anglesey smelter in Wales, alternate uses for the site 
infrastructure and waterfront property were investigated to 
create jobs and support the local economy. A remelt business 
employing 90 people has continued and berthing tourist cruise 
ships at the jetty, with flow-on economic benefits for the region, 
has been successfully trialled.
We have a team of specialists managing our legacy sites, most  
of which were introduced to us through acquisition, to ensure  
our closure standard and sustainable development principles  
are applied in these areas. For example:
 At one of our Jamaican legacy sites we have provided support 
for local agricultural scholarships. The 30 operational and 
security personnel employed for the remedial works we are 
undertaking were recruited locally.
We continue to participate in industry initiatives to enhance 
closure planning guidance through recognised bodies such as 
ICMM, the Post Mining Alliance (www.postmining.org), the Eden 
Project (www.edenproject.com) and regional mining and minerals 
councils or associations in the places that we work.
Assurance
Our Corporate Assurance function has accountability and 
responsibility for providing assurance to the board that:
 Rio Tinto’s policies, standards and controls are adequately 
designed and effective for their intended purpose; and that
 These policies, standards and controls are consistently 
implemented by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as 
designed.
In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance 
organisation, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), to provide the  
board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited assurance 
on selected sustainable development subject matter, as explained 
on the next page.
PwC’s assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject 
matters one through four of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst 
our online GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject 
matter five of the ICMM procedure. Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Independent assurance report
www.riotinto.com 41
Inherent limitations
Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements  
due to the selective testing of the information being 
examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may 
occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial data 
may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial 
data, given both its nature and the methods used for 
determining, calculating and estimating such data.
Restriction on use 
This report has been prepared in accordance with our 
engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its 
sustainable development performance. We do not accept or 
assume responsibility for the consequences of any reliance 
on this report for any other purpose or to any other person 
or organisation. Any reliance on this report by any third 
party is entirely at its own risk.
We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Annual 
report to assist Rio Tinto’s members in assessing whether 
the directors have discharged their responsibilities by 
commissioning an independent assurance report in 
connection with the selected subject matter.
Limited assurance
This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance 
for our conclusions. As a limited assurance engagement is 
restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical procedures 
and the work is substantially less detailed than that 
undertaken for a reasonable assurance engagement, the 
level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a 
reasonable assurance engagement.
What we found 
Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention 
that causes us to believe that the selected subject matter for the year 
ended 31 December 2010 has not been prepared, in all material respects, 
in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited  
(together Rio Tinto),
What we did 
Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement 
on the selected subject matter within the Sustainable development 
review section of the Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report for the year 
ended 31 December 2010.
Selected subject matter
 Rio Tinto’s assertion that it has incorporated the requirements 
of the 10 Sustainable development principles of the International 
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) into its own policies, 
strategies and standards 
 Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted 
to identify and prioritise its material sustainable development 
risks and opportunities 
 Rio Tinto’s assertions regarding the existence and status of 
implementation of systems and approaches used to manage  
the following selected sustainable development risk areas:
 Safety
 Greenhouse gas emissions
 Energy use
 Water
 The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the 
selected sustainable development risk areas:
 All injury frequency rate
 Lost time injury frequency rate
 Number of fatalities
 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
 Total energy use
 Freshwater withdrawn
 Freshwater use per tonne of product
Reporting criteria
The subject matter above have been assessed against the 
definitions and approaches presented under the Reporting at a 
Group level heading on the Our performance page of Rio Tinto’s 
website (www.riotinto.com/ourapproach) as at 4 March 2011.
Responsibilities
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work 
we performed.
Rio Tinto
Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and 
presentation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the 
Reporting criteria.
What our work involved 
We conducted our work in accordance with the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) Assurance 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information. This Standard requires that we comply with independence 
and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be 
performed effectively. 
Main procedures performed
 Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto 
 Evaluating the design of the key processes and controls for 
managing and reporting the performance data within the 
selected subject matter 
 Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively  
at both an operational and corporate level 
 Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data
 Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and 
documentation supporting assertions made in the selected 
subject matter
We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
Liza Maimone PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Partner Melbourne 
4 March 2011
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional  
Standards Legislation
pp p p 42 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Our high quality bauxite mines and alumina 
refineries, state of the art technologies, clean  
and renewable energy assets and low cost  
aluminium smelters make us a global leader  
in the aluminium industry .
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 15,206 12,038
Operating cash flow 1,334 549
Underlying earnings 
(a)
773 (560)
Capital expenditure 1,328 1,690
Net operating assets 38,326 36,340
Strategy
 The second phase of transformation will target incremental EBITDA 
improvement of US$1 billion by 2014.
 Leverage the group’s robust growth pipeline with a priority on 
modernising and expanding existing Tier 1 assets; lower costs  
of existing facilities; and progress the development of greenfield 
options at a pace aligned with market demand.
 Be long in bauxite and alumina, providing strong growth potential, 
particularly in the Asian region.
Key achievements
 Increase of US$1,333 million in underlying earnings from 2009.
 Value added aluminium product sales volumes increased to  
65 per cent of total sales.
 Bauxite production up by nine per cent over 2009 mainly in response 
to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet the demands  
of the growing Chinese market.
 Alumina production up by three per cent on 2009 due to improved 
production at Yarwun in Australia, ramp up at Alumar in Brazil, and 
restarting idled capacity at Vaudreuil in Canada.
 Construction at the Yarwun expansion project has been accelerated 
and the completed co-generation plant and ship unloader handed 
over to operations.
 ISAL aluminium smelter won Rio Tinto’s top safety award with 4.7 
million work hours without a lost time injury as at December 2010.
Key priorities
 Proceed with cost efficiencies, capacity creep and step change 
improvement through strategic capital investment; includes phase 
one of the AP60 plant in Canada and the ISAL expansion in Iceland.
 Continue steps towards optimising the group’s asset portfolio; 
progress with Kitimat aluminium smelter modernisation in Canada 
and Yarwun refinery expansion.
 Capitalise on our value added product capabilities and optimise our 
casting portfolio to serve customers in all key regions.
 Prioritise power sources with the lowest carbon footprint and 
improving energy efficiency.
 Create value from AP Technology™ via increased technology sales, 
faster operational improvements and lower full economic costs on 
new projects.
Outlook
 Favourable position to leverage strong demand from emerging 
economies and seize opportunities across the aluminium value chain 
as the industry continues its recovery.
 Alumina pricing mechanisms are developing and as liquidity builds, 
the group’s strategy of remaining long in bauxite and alumina will 
allow it to use various pricing alternatives.
 As aluminium markets continue to recover, the group is expected to 
benefit from stable energy sources, less linked to LME pricing than 
those of other large producers.
Aluminium overview
Aluminium
Transformation, modernisation and expansion
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
6%
Jacynthe Côté, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
(a)
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
1,281
(2,243)
773
155
(77)
160
(83)
1,178
(560)
60
387
(41)
(4)
(a) See note 2 and the “Financial information by business unit” section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings. www.riotinto.com 43
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Strategy
Rio Tinto Alcan’s financial performance will continue to be 
founded on transformational change and portfolio discipline as 
a means of reducing its costs and achieving stronger margins. 
With the integration of former Alcan operations completed and 
achieved synergies in excess of the stated US$1.1 billion target, the 
second phase of transformation is targeting incremental EBITDA 
improvement of US$1 billion by 2014 through cost efficiencies and 
capacity creep, as well as step change improvement through capital 
investment.
The group’s portfolio began improving in 2009 with the sale  
of the Ningxia smelter in China as well as closures at two older 
facilities, the Beauharnois smelter in Canada and the Anglesey 
smelter in the UK when its power contract expired. In 2010, the 
group divested some of its smaller non core businesses, including 
the Awaso bauxite mine in Ghana and the Brockville specialty 
alumina plant in Canada.
Executing Tier 1 growth options with a priority on modernising 
and expanding existing assets will allow Rio Tinto Alcan to 
continue driving costs down and reduce its carbon footprint. 
Primary aluminium projects such as the AP60 plant and Kitimat 
modernisation in Canada and ISAL expansion in Iceland, as well 
as alumina projects such as the Yarwun expansion in Australia, 
are expected to further reduce average costs and progressively 
drive the group’s portfolio down the industry cost curve. 
The group uses clean power sources for 72 per cent of the electricity 
used to produce primary aluminium, including a strong base of 
renewable, self generated hydropower. This gives its aluminium 
products a relatively low carbon footprint not only from a production 
standpoint, but also due to their potential for application towards 
fuel efficiency improvements and downstream GHG reductions 
(eg in cars, trucks, trains and aircraft). In addition, aluminium’s 
combination of excellent thermal, electrical and forming properties 
can offer more efficient electrical, heating and cooling solutions.
Rio Tinto Alcan’s business strategy is also to be long in bauxite 
and alumina. The group produces enough bauxite and alumina 
to supply its own facilities as well as generate value through 
third party sales. This supports growth and reduces price risk. 
The group’s alumina position should also allow it to benefit 
from opportunities, particularly in the Asian region, as pricing 
structures evolve.
Rio Tinto Alcan is the largest bauxite producer in the industry. 
It has an interest in three of the four largest bauxite mines in 
the world and is currently the world’s largest bauxite producer. 
Rio Tinto Alcan also has projects under way to achieve a leading 
position in alumina refining, including expansion at the Yarwun 
facility and ramping up tonnage at both Gove in Australia and 
Alumar in Brazil.
Performance
Gross sales revenue for Rio Tinto Alcan increased by 26 per cent 
compared to 2009. This reflects the combination of a robust 
recovery in end use demand in developed economies and the 
continued roll-over of inventory financing positions amidst a 
prolonged period of low interest rates.
In 2010, Rio Tinto Alcan’s contribution to the Group’s underlying 
earnings was US$773 million, an increase of US$1,333 million 
from 2009. This was as a result of higher exchange traded 
aluminium prices with the overall impact of price increasing 
earnings by US$1,569 million compared to 2009. This was partly 
offset by adverse currency movements of US$391 million, mainly 
from the strengthening of the Canadian and Australian dollars 
against the US dollar.
The improvement in earnings was also attributable to higher 
sales of value added aluminium products, smelting capacity 
brought back on line following curtailments in 2009, cost savings 
from lower input prices for caustic, coke and pitch, and further 
operating efficiencies in group smelters and refineries worldwide. 
This was partly offset by inflation and higher energy costs.
The average aluminium market price in 2010 was US$2,173 per tonne 
compared to US$1,665 per tonne in 2009. The group’s average 
realised price for ingot products in 2010 was US$2,388 per tonne 
compared to US$1,833 in 2009. Rio Tinto Alcan has entered into 
metal sales hedging transactions to protect the downside risk at 
some of its high cost smelters. This mandate covers a maximum  
of 317,000 tonnes (about eight per cent of global production)  
in 2011 and is expected to cover approximately half this tonnage 
in 2012.
In 2010, Rio Tinto Alcan’s annual bauxite production was 33.4 
million tonnes, up from 30.7 million tonnes in 2009 mainly in 
response to rising third party demand. The group has a leading 
position in bauxite mining; strong performance in alumina 
refining; and whole ownership or participation in 21 smelters 
with a total annual capacity of four million tonnes of primary 
aluminium (Rio Tinto’s share). Approximately 80 per cent of this 
aluminium production is located in the first half of the industry 
cost curve based on data from CRU, an industry analyst.
Aluminium production stayed relatively flat year over year as 
production at the Kitimat smelter was reduced due to the closures 
of potlines 7 and 8 in preparation for the modernisation project, 
and production at Laterrière in Canada was reduced due to a 
power outage in July. These were offset by NZAS in New Zealand’s 
production increasing following a transformer failure in 2008, 
which impacted 2009, and a gradual return to full capacity  
at operational UK smelters. Aluminium production records  
were set at the smelters in Arvida and Grande-Baie in Canada,  
Sohar in Oman, ISAL in Iceland, Dunkerque in France and  
Boyne in Australia.
Key achievements
Bauxite production in 2010 was up by nine per cent compared to 
2009 due to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet 
demands of the growing Chinese market. Alumina production 
also increased, up by three per cent compared to 2009 due to 
improved production at Yarwun, restarting idled capacity at 
Vaudreuil in Canada, efficiencies in work management and 
process improvements. Production records were set at Yarwun and 
at Alumar.
Rio Tinto Alcan is accelerating the construction schedule for the 
Yarwun alumina refinery expansion. This will increase the plant’s 
capacity to 3.4 million tonnes per year and help move the group’s 
alumina production further down the industry cost curve. The 
completed ship unloader and co-generation plant were handed 
over to operations in 2010, and the latter is already providing 
tangible environmental benefits. The project has an expected 
project completion date of August 2012, with first bauxite 
expected to be processed during the first half of 2012.
In 2010, the group finalised long term energy contracts for a 
number of its smelters including ISAL in Iceland, Bell Bay and 
Tomago in Australia, and Alucam in Cameroon. As aluminium  44 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
prices continue to recover, Rio Tinto Alcan is expected to benefit 
from stable energy sources that are less linked to pricing on the 
LME than those of other large producers. Ninety six per cent of 
the group’s power is secured by self generating facilities or long 
term contracts, thus ensuring low and predictable costs.
The group is also expanding its hydroelectric capacity in the 
Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean region of Quebec through the Shipshaw 
turbine project. This initiative remains on budget and on schedule  
for completion in Q4 2012, and will improve this major component 
of total installed capacity by adding 225 megawatts to Rio Tinto 
Alcan’s 2,919 megawatt network. 
The ISAL operations won the Rio Tinto Chief Executive’s Safety 
Award in 2010, which was the first year in which it was eligible to 
do so. Except for one incident in 2009, ISAL has had zero injuries 
since 2007, and has completed 4.7 million work hours without a 
lost time injury.
Rio Tinto Alcan also continued its global commitment to strong 
community partnerships throughout 2010. In Australia, the 
Gove mine and refinery received the prestigious Origin Gold 
Banksia award for their partnership with Dhimurru Aboriginal 
Corporation to eradicate the Yellow Crazy Ant, a significant 
threat to the regional biodiversity of North East Arnhem Land. 
In Canada, the group established Ensemble pour la persévérance 
scolaire, a five year investment programme to support definitive 
action to keep young people in school. In Cameroon, Rio Tinto 
Alcan has played an active role in community projects focused  
on health care (prevention of HIV, malaria, and oncocercosis)  
and access to potable water.
Safety
Rio Tinto Alcan employees have integrated the Group safety 
strategy throughout the business and work diligently towards 
creating a workplace free of health, safety and environmental 
(HSE) incidents. Rio Tinto Alcan reduced its all injury frequency 
rate by over 30 per cent to 0.73, representing a near 50 per cent 
reduction from 2006 levels. The group experienced no fatalities 
at its managed sites, however, there were three fatalities at non 
managed operations. 
A key priority has been the reduction of major risks through the 
implementation of Rio Tinto HSE performance standards and 
risk management practices. This includes initiatives relating to 
manual handling, process safety, and improving safety leadership 
with the rollout of Leading for Improvement Training. By year 
end, a Caustic safety standard was developed and implemented 
within the Bauxite & Alumina business unit. At critical sites, 
process safety management has progressed significantly, with 
reporting, investigation and analysis of significant potential 
incidents and completion of corrective actions as a main focus.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Rio Tinto Alcan contributed 62 per cent of Rio Tinto’s total GHG 
emissions in 2010. Realised and planned reductions also contribute 
significantly to the Rio Tinto Group’s overall intensity 
improvements. Rio Tinto Alcan has a strong commitment to 
climate change, which includes both short term operational 
objectives and long term adaptation strategies.
In 2010, as recovery from the global financial crisis took place, 
curtailed production was gradually restarted. This affected the 
group’s GHG performance level, as did the restart of one potline 
at the Laterrière smelter in Canada. Energy efficiency improved 
throughout the operations.
Total greenhouse gas emission intensity at Rio Tinto Alcan 
improved by 6.3 per cent in 2010 from 2008 baseline performance. 
This represents 1.8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
and is attributable to the divestment of a high emissions intensity 
joint venture smelter in China, the closure of some older operations 
and increased operational efficiency. Furthermore, expansion and 
modernisation projects throughout the portfolio, such as those at 
the Arvida (AP60) and Kitimat sites, will considerably reduce the 
Group’s carbon footprint and help deliver on greenhouse  
gas commitments.
Review of operations
During 2010, most value added product (VAP) segment shipments 
improved considerably compared to 2009, largely due to recovery 
in the economies of Rio Tinto Alcan’s principal markets. In North 
America, for example, most VAP segment shipments have been 
affected by the modest but steady improvement in the US economy. 
Overall, the group’s sales volumes of VAP products almost reached 
the same levels as seen in 2008, accounting for 65 per cent of 
total sales in 2010 as compared with 51 per cent in 2009.
The return in demand gives Rio Tinto Alcan an opportunity to 
optimise and invest in its VAP casting portfolio. While Kitimat will 
increase its slab production, it is transferring billet production to 
other group units in Australia and New Zealand, where the Boyne 
smelter recorded its highest ever volume VAP. The group is also 
investing in leading edge billet casting facilities at ISAL to support 
the European billet market. 
Aluminium continued
Aluminium – greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
 Including former Alcan
94.5
(2009: 90.5)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
119.5
90.5
94.5
100.0
117.0
123.2
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.45
1.27
0.73
1.67
1.04
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
0.73
(2009: 1.04) www.riotinto.com 45
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Rio Tinto Alcan also made progress with its growth strategy, focusing 
on high return production capacity increases and Canadian 
modernisation projects that leverage low cost, self generated 
hydropower. The group completed value improvement initiatives 
at both the Kitimat and AP60 project sites to reduce costs.
The prefeasibility study for the modernisation of the Kitimat smelter 
is now complete with an improved business case, and the anode 
pallet storage facility has been built. In March, the group also 
reached a landmark agreement with the Haisla Nation of British 
Columbia to secure support and further the Kitimat project’s 
commitment to strong communities. In December, the Group 
approved an additional US$300 million investment to further 
construction and site preparations for the modernised smelter.
At the ISAL facility, a total investment of US$487 million was 
approved for a modernisation project to boost production capacity 
by 20 per cent and install a leading edge casting facility to reinforce 
Rio Tinto Alcan’s V AP position. The group also finalised a long 
term energy supply agreement with the state utility to allow for 
an amperage increase at the smelter. The smelter is expected to 
begin a gradual production increase in Q2 2012. Billet production 
is expected to begin in 2012 and the group will consolidate 
expertise and production for slab products from ISAL with  
existing operations in France and the UK. 
Primary aluminium production was negatively impacted from July 
to September when two electrical transformers failed at Laterrière. 
The gradual restart of 216 affected pots was completed safely and 
ahead of schedule. Production losses are estimated at about 
24,000 tonnes and the cost of this disruption has been mitigated 
by insurance coverage.
The group also experienced a temporary hydropower reduction 
in Quebec due to exceptionally low precipitation levels in the 
Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean region. This led to the signing of a one 
year power supply agreement with the provincial utility. The full 
year impact on EBITDA was approximately US$117 million.
Rio Tinto Alcan’s technological capabilities continue to create 
value from sales, faster operational improvements (eg production 
capacity creep), and lower full economic costs on new projects. 
Phase one of the AP60 smelter project received final approval 
to proceed in December 2010 with an additional investment 
commitment of US$758 million. Construction of the electrical 
substation is complete and site preparations for potrooms and 
busbar corridors have begun. The facility will be equipped with 
38 AP60 reduction cells with metal output per pot at the plant 
reaching levels 40 per cent higher than at existing smelters. Phase 
one of the plant will produce 60,000 tonnes of aluminium per 
year. First hot metal is expected in 2013 and the plant will be the 
platform for commercial development of AP60 technology.
Rio Tinto Alcan is also recognised as a world leader in bauxite 
residue management and is often called upon to share its 
expertise. Its goal is to store bauxite waste in its most solid form 
possible and, in many cases, recover the liquids used so that it can 
recycle them in our refining operations. The group works closely 
with regulatory authorities in host communities to ensure that it 
complies with the highest HSE standards, and invests regularly to 
maintain the integrity and security of these sites. 
Outlook
Rio Tinto Alcan is better positioned than ever to tackle the 
challenges of the future and the long term fundamentals of its 
industry remain intact, providing for a confident outlook. The  
per capita rate of aluminium consumption is above 20 kilograms 
per year in developed countries, and the rate gap between developed 
countries and emerging economies such as India (one kilogram), 
Brazil and Indonesia (five kilograms) as well as China (12 
kilograms) is expected to close over the long term.
The group’s financial performance will continue to be founded 
on transformational change, reducing its cost structure, and 
achieving stronger margins. Its next phase of transformation 
is targeting significant EBITDA margin improvements with the 
objective of achieving margins around 40 per cent.
Rio Tinto Alcan’s comprehensive, proprietary AP Technology™ 
suite makes it a partner of choice for project development. The 
group possesses one of the strongest growth pipelines in the 
industry, with smelter projects in various stages of development. 
These include brownfield expansions at Kitimat and ISAL as 
well as the potential for expansions at Sohar in Oman, Alucam 
in Cameroon, Alma in Canada and two subsequent expansion 
phases of the AP60 plant. Greenfield opportunities include 
an additional smelter in Cameroon, a joint venture smelter in 
Malaysia, and an aluminium smelter in Paraguay. In Guinea, the 
group has a basic agreement which sets forth a framework for a 
joint venture greenfield alumina refinery.
As a highly integrated producer, the group also aims to be long in 
bauxite and alumina. This provides Rio Tinto Alcan with a robust 
internal supply chain and additional value options. Alumina 
pricing mechanisms are expected to continue evolving. Rio Tinto 
Alcan believes that there is insufficient liquidity to support a spot 
index at present and a material proportion of alumina supply is 
locked up under medium to long term contracts.
As markets continue their recovery, the aluminium industry cost 
curve is expected to steepen further with cost pressures on the top 
end. This is expected to be driven by upward pressure on energy 
prices, appreciation of the Chinese currency, China’s reliance on 
imported bauxite, potential gradual increased alumina price, and 
the eventual impact of carbon pricing mechanisms. Rio Tinto 
Alcan remains well positioned to face these expected pressures on 
input costs, as key drivers such as access to energy, raw materials 
and currency drive up costs for producers in China. 46 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
We believe Rio Tinto’s Copper group is uniquely 
positioned to supply growing global demand for 
copper, with a diverse, balanced asset base and 
industry leading technology and innovation that 
allows the Copper group to optimise its resources 
and grow.
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 7,782 6,206
Operating cash flow 4,048 2,223
Underlying earnings 
(a)
2,534 1,878
Capital expenditure 958 553
Net operating assets 6,663 5,187
Strategy
 Deliver shareholder value with a material increase in production in  
the medium term.
 Optimise our operating assets by delivering meaningful improvements 
in safety and productivity, championing various technologies and 
remaining a leader in sustainable development.
 Partner with local governments and communities to contribute  
to sustainable development.
 Develop strong leadership and diverse, high quality talent needed  
to deliver growth.
Key achievements
 Completed Northparkes E48 block cave project.
 Began process of updating environmental permits at Kennecott Utah 
Copper’s Bingham Canyon copper mine and extending its life to 2028 
while maintaining additional long term options.
 Launched construction of US$340 million Molybdenum Autoclave 
Process at Kennecott Utah Copper. 
 Progressed a number of underground projects at Grasberg, namely 
the Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ (Deep Mill Level Zone) projects.
 Continued to develop Oyu Tolgoi, one of the most promising 
undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world.
 Became the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi  
and established a clear pathway to 49 per cent ownership in Ivanhoe 
Mines Limited. 
 Began construction of the Eagle nickel-copper project, which is 
expected to begin production in late 2013.
 Obtained tenure over Sulawesi nickel resources.
 Secured land contracts to advance drilling at the La Granja project. 
Key priorities
 Continue to improve safety performance with an emphasis on process 
safety and underground safety.
 Leverage industry leading technology and innovation to drive  
value-generating growth in every operation and shorten development 
for greenfield projects.
 Proactively advance application of key technologies that will drive 
value in Rio Tinto’s copper assets.
 Manage and provide support to the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project, 
with a focus on safety, resourcing and sustainable development.
 Keep the growth pipeline full of potential projects and opportunities.
 Ensure high quality resources are in place to deliver growth.
Outlook
 Solid fundamentals in the near to medium term.
 Growth in emerging economies, led by China and India, will drive 
increasing demand.
 Potential for supply side challenges linked to increased sovereign 
risk, higher operating costs, increasing depths, decreasing grades and 
project disruption.
 The Copper group’s asset base is resilient to volatile prices and has 
opportunities for development, while its growth pipeline is world class.
Copper overview
Copper
Resource, optimise, grow
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
17%
Andrew Harding, chief executive, Copper
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010
 (a)
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
1,615
(487)
2,534
(45)
(363)
(256)
(24)
1,344
1,878
(70)
304
556
(40)
(a) See note 2 and the “Financial information by business unit” section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings. www.riotinto.com 47
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Strategy 
The Copper group’s strategy is to deliver shareholder value with 
a material increase in production in the medium term. The 
company believes the copper price will remain above historical 
averages, with some volatility, driven by continued strong demand 
in China and potential supply side challenges.
Using technological innovation, Rio Tinto’s Copper group is optimising 
its large, long life, cost competitive assets to safely and efficiently gain 
access to deposits at lower depths. 
The growth pipeline is full of promising potential projects, which 
the group will develop by leveraging Rio Tinto’s project skills and 
in accordance with Rio Tinto’s leading standards of collaboration 
with local governments and communities. The group is focused on 
developing the people resources needed to deliver its ambitious 
growth agenda.
Rio Tinto is a leader in block cave mining, and many of our growth 
projects located at depth depend on this mining method. While block 
cave mining is capital intensive and requires lengthy development 
times, technologies being pioneered by the company have the 
potential to deliver meaningful competitive advantage. 
Performance
Sales revenue of the Copper group was US$7,782 million in 2010, 
US$1,576 higher than in 2009 reflecting higher prices as a result  
of increasing global demand.
Underlying earnings were US$656 million higher than 2009, 
attributable to higher metal prices. Refined copper production was 
down five per cent. Refined gold production was up 24 per cent, and 
refined silver up 17 per cent reflecting the processing of high grade 
precious metals contained in concentrates produced in late 2009.
The improvement in prices was partially offset by lower sales 
volumes and higher unit cash costs in line with reduced production 
from lower grades.
The average price of copper in 2010 was US$3.40 per pound compared 
to US$2.32 per pound in 2009. 
Key achievements
During 2010, the Copper group made significant and important 
progress on a number of fronts. 
The Kennecott Utah Copper operation is pursuing the Cornerstone 
project, which is expected to extend the life of its Bingham Canyon 
mine to 2028 while maintaining additional long term options. 
Kennecott Utah Copper is also moving forward with construction 
of a new Molybdenum Autoclave Process facility that can improve 
efficiency, metal recovery and greenhouse gas emissions. 
Northparkes received approval to proceed with the “Step Change” 
pre-feasibility project, which has the potential to increase 
production three fold and further reduce costs.
A feasibility study for the Deep Mill Level Zone at Grasberg  
was completed.
The Oyu Tolgoi project, one of the most promising undeveloped 
copper-gold deposits in the world, continued to move forward. 
Construction began at the Eagle project, which will produce an average 
of 17,300 tonnes of nickel and 13,200 tonnes of copper metal per year, 
beginning in 2013. In addition, tenure was granted over the southern 
resource at our Sulawesi nickel project in Indonesia.
In 2010, Rio Tinto secured land access by signing 27 necessary land 
contracts essential to advancing the La Granja project in Peru. 
Safety
The Copper group had no fatalities at its managed operations in 
2010. However, a fatality occurred at Escondida, a non managed 
site, in the process area.
The Copper group is committed to creating an injury free 
workplace. In 2010, the all injury frequency rate was 0.57, versus 
0.67 in 2009. 
During 2010, the Kennecott Utah Copper workforce worked more 
than 2.7 million hours without a lost time incident. The operation 
has moved forward with successful initiatives to implement  
on-site Emergency Response teams and help employees manage 
their personal health. During 2010, Kennecott received a total of 
13 awards from the Utah Safety Council for its safety performance.
Northparkes is working to improve safety by understanding and 
addressing fatigue in the workplace, with stage two of a trial 
currently under way. In addition, Northparkes is also working 
to manage low probability, high consequence risks. Into 2011 
Northparkes will be focusing safety efforts on further developing 
and setting underground safety standards and implementing the 
site process safety plan. 
Rio Tinto Copper Projects has had zero fatalities for the past two 
consecutive years and worked without a lost time incident in 2010. 
The La Granja project worked without a medical treatment case for  
18 consecutive months. For the second year in a row, Resolution 
Copper received the Sentinels of Safety Award from the US Department 
of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration and the National 
Mining Association, for excellence in safety . This award is the most 
recognised and longest standing award given for occupational safety .
In 2011, the Copper group will focus on process safety and 
underground safety, with the goal of reducing injuries to zero.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Copper group is committed to ongoing improvements in 
energy management and efficiency. In 2010 the Copper group’s 
total greenhouse gas emissions were 3.1 million tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent, about seven per cent of the Rio Tinto total. 
Since 2008 the Copper group has reduced the GHG emissions 
intensity of its copper cathode production by 6.3 per cent.
Kennecott Utah Copper accounts for the majority (61 per cent) of 
the Copper group’s greenhouse gas emissions. Key programmes 
to improve performance at Kennecott Utah Copper have included 
energy management and fuel programmes to improve efficiency 
and the commissioning of a six megawatt combined heat and power 
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
0.57
(2009: 0.67)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.37
1.24
1.05
0.67
0.57 48 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Copper continued
facility. The Copper group anticipates continued progress in 2011 
as a result of planned implementation of additional efficiency and 
technology improvements. 
Review of operations 
Kennecott Utah Copper (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Kennecott Utah Copper, based in Salt Lake City, supplies more 
than ten per cent of the US’s refined copper. It also produces gold, 
silver, molybdenum and sulphuric acid as by-products. The planned 
maintenance shutdown at the smelter was completed safely, on 
time and on budget. In 2010 Kennecott Utah Copper produced  
269 thousand tonnes of refined copper and 596 thousand ounces 
of refined gold. Kennecott Utah Copper is also commencing studies 
associated with the potential development of an underground 
copper skarn deposit to operate in parallel with the open pit. 
Escondida (Rio Tinto: 30 per cent)
Operated by BHP Billiton, Escondida is the world’s largest  
copper producer. Located in Chile’s Atacama Desert, it represents 
eight per cent of global production. Escondida produced  
1,011 thousand tonnes of mined copper in 2010. Approval of 
three capital projects for execution will extend the sulphide 
leach operation, provide access to higher grade material and add 
grinding capacity to increase mill throughput.
Grasberg (the joint venture gives Rio Tinto a 40 per cent share 
of production above specified levels until 2021 and 40 per cent 
of all production after 2021)
Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport Indonesia, a 
subsidiary of US based Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. 
It is one of the world’s largest copper mines and in the lowest 
cost quartile of copper producers. In 2010, Rio Tinto’s share of 
production from Grasberg was 51 thousand tonnes of mined 
copper and 183 thousand ounces of mined gold.
Palabora (Rio Tinto: 57.7 per cent)
Palabora Mining Company is a listed South African company 
(JSE) based in Limpopo Province. Palabora produced 58 thousand 
tonnes of refined copper in 2010, supplying most of South Africa’s 
copper needs and exporting the balance. 
Northparkes (Rio Tinto: 80 per cent)
Based in New South Wales, Australia, Northparkes is a joint venture 
with the Sumitomo Group (20 per cent). Northparkes produced 
39 thousand tonnes of mined copper and 65 thousand ounces of 
mined gold in 2010.
Rio Tinto’s large, long life orebodies produce significant amounts of 
copper, at among the lowest costs in the industry, with meaningful 
opportunities for development. The group is optimising its operations 
by focusing on safety and by using technological innovation 
to improve recoveries, extend the life of its mines, protect the 
environment, gain efficiencies and deliver valuable growth. 
Kennecott Utah Copper has submitted permits to move forward 
with the Cornerstone project, which is expected to create access 
to approximately 650 million tonnes of mineralised material 
and extend the life of its Bingham Canyon mine to 2028 while 
maintaining additional long term options. Kennecott Utah Copper 
is also developing the Molybdenum Autoclave Process (MAP), an 
alternative that will replace third party roasting. Commissioning  
of the facility is planned to begin in late 2012.
Northparkes’ E48 block cave project has increased resource tonnes 
and is expected to extend the mine’s life to 2023. By the end of 
2012, Northparkes will begin testing a continuous mechanical 
rock excavation system. This breakthrough technology improves 
the speed and development of underground operations and allows 
recovery of valuable resources from increasingly difficult deposits.
Palabora Mining Company is evaluating expansion alternatives to 
extend the copper mine beyond the current profile. These options 
include growth of Lift I through an area known as the western 
extension and a second lift below current mining activities. 
In addition, the company continues to monitor security at 
Grasberg following several shooting incidents from mid 2009 to 
January 2010. The last reported incident was on 24 January 2010, 
which resulted in a number of injuries. There were no fatalities in 
2010. The Indonesian Government has responded with additional 
security forces and Grasberg has taken precautionary measures. 
Mining and milling activities have continued uninterrupted. 
In September, a third party train derailment destroyed the rail line 
linking Palabora operations to key ports. Fortunately, there were no 
injuries. The event did not have a material impact on the production, 
transportation and sale of copper and copper rod to customers; 
however it did affect magnetite sales. 
At each of its operations, the Copper group is committed to 
sustainable development and community partnerships. 
In 2010, Kennecott received the Utah Division of Oil Gas and 
Mining (DOGM) Earth Day Award for the restoration of its historic 
Magna Concentrator. This award recognises industry leaders that 
voluntarily exceed regulatory requirements to protect and  
improve the environment. 
In June 2010, Palabora Mining Company entered into a broad 
based agreement with its new partners. Under the agreement, 
the company will effectively sell 26 per cent of its operations and 
assets to a newly incorporated subsidiary owned by employees, 
the community and a consortium. The agreement is consistent 
with the country’s Black Economic Empowerment Act, which 
requires mines in South Africa to be at least 15 per cent owned by 
historically disadvantaged South Africans. This requirement will 
increase to 26 per cent by 2014. 
Copper cathode – greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
93.7
(2009: 81.3)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
84.6
72.7
100.0
81.3
93.7 www.riotinto.com 49
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Development projects
The Copper group is pursuing a strong pipeline of projects and has 
a first class growth profile. In developing new projects, the group 
works to proactively manage risk and create a solid, sustainable 
operating environment. 
Oyu Tolgoi (Rio Tinto: 42.1 per cent interest in Ivanhoe 
Mines Limited)
When Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolia’s South Gobi Desert, reaches full 
production in 2018, it is expected to be a top ten copper producer 
and one of the world’s biggest gold producers, with first quartile 
production costs.
In late 2010 Rio Tinto secured the right to increase its ownership 
in Ivanhoe Mines to 49 per cent by 18 January 2012. Ivanhoe 
holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC. Rio Tinto has 
become the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi 
and has agreed to provide a comprehensive financial package to 
Ivanhoe to help secure the development of the project.
The transition of management of Oyu Tolgoi to Rio Tinto has 
officially started, with a vision to safely deliver on schedule and 
on budget, to be firmly aligned with Rio Tinto’s strategy, values 
and standards for excellence, and fully deliver on its commitment 
to employ approximately 90 per cent of the project’s workforce from 
Mongolia – representing around 3,000 to 4,000 direct jobs, including 
contractors.
Resolution Copper (Rio Tinto: 55 per cent)
Resolution Copper, in Arizona, US hosts what is the world’s third 
largest undeveloped copper resource. The first production is 
expected in 2020. The site is in the midst of a pre-feasibility study 
and indications of this work are that the operation would likely be 
capable of producing 600,000 tonnes of copper per year. In 2010, 
Resolution Copper advanced development of a new exploration 
shaft, and provided more than one billion gallons of treated water 
from historic mine workings to farmers to irrigate their crops. 
La Granja (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Based on exploration drilling, La Granja – in Peru’s Cajamarca 
Region – is the world’s ninth largest undeveloped copper resource.
In 2010 evaluation work entered a divergent phase to assess the 
potential of new geological discoveries and to identify higher 
value, lower risk options for development. An optimal business 
case is still being developed. However, the project has a clear 
direction for development utilising conventional technologies 
which has yet to incorporate a recently discovered higher grade 
zone of mineralisation. Drilling will continue in 2011 to confirm 
the extent of the new mineralisation. 
Kennecott Eagle Minerals (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Construction of the US$469 million Eagle nickel and copper mine 
in Michigan, US began in 2010, with first production expected in 
late 2013. The mine is expected to produce on average 17,300 and 
13,200 tonnes per year of nickel and copper metal, respectively, 
over six years. High quality sulphide nickel concentrates will 
increasingly be in short supply, and Eagle is one of the most 
attractive greenfield projects in the nickel industry pipeline. Eagle 
is located in a prospective region where Rio Tinto has significant 
land holdings and mineral rights.
Sulawesi (Rio Tinto: 80 per cent)
Sulawesi in Indonesia is one of the world’s largest undeveloped 
nickel opportunities. The deposit consists of an estimated 162 
million tonnes of resources with an average grade of 1.62 per cent. 
Having received the first licence under Indonesia’s new mineral 
legislation, tenure for the project has been secured and Rio Tinto is 
reviewing development options. On 30 November 2010 Rio Tinto 
entered into an earn-in agreement with Sherritt International 
Corporation. Sherritt must complete two phases of work including 
a feasibility study and spend US$110 million on the project to earn 
a controlling 57.5 per cent equity interest in the holding company 
that owns the Sulawesi project. Rio Tinto will retain the remaining 
42.5 per cent for a net economic interest of 34 per cent.
Pebble (Rio Tinto: 19.8 per cent interest in Northern 
Dynasty Minerals)
The Pebble project in Alaska, US is one of the world’s most 
significant undeveloped copper-gold-molybdenum deposits.  
Rio Tinto has a 19.8 per cent equity holding in Northern Dynasty 
Minerals, which owns a 50 per cent share in the Pebble joint 
venture. According to Northern Dynasty, Pebble contains 5.94 
billion tonnes of measured and indicated resources containing 55 
billion pounds of copper, 67 million ounces of gold and 3.3 billion 
pounds of molybdenum.
Bougainville Copper Limited (Rio Tinto: 53.8 per cent)
Access to the site in Papua New Guinea remains restricted; 
however the company continues to progress plans for exploration 
and mining and is committed to working closely with the 
country’s leaders and local landowners.
Outlook
Global electrification and growth in China and India, along  
with a greater focus on renewable sources of energy, should drive 
continued demand for copper, while there may also be increased 
supply side challenges. 
The grade profile of the Copper group decreased in 2010 compared 
to 2009. While mine plans are continually optimised, ore grades 
are impacted by the inherent constraints that face deeper, more  
mature mines. An anticipated decline in grade in 2011 is expected 
to see a rebound in 2012.
Using industry leading technology and innovation, the Copper group 
is expanding and extending the life of its properties with brownfield 
development, and pursuing a strong pipeline of greenfield projects to 
create a growth profile. 
Rio Tinto’s focus on sustainable development allows it to create 
stable operating platforms that take into consideration the long 
term needs of the surrounding environment and the community. 
As a result, the company can manage risk effectively, reduce 
environmental impacts, operate efficiently, and attract and retain 
high calibre employees. 
These factors, combined with strong technological capabilities, 
help differentiate Rio Tinto’s Copper group from its competitors 
and contribute to the goal of being the undisputed sector leader  
in creating value for its shareholders. 50 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
The Diamonds & Minerals group is well positioned 
to benefit from late cycle demand growth in mature 
and emerging markets. Our businesses occupy strong 
positions in their respective sectors, combining high 
quality assets with technical expertise and a robust 
understanding of our markets and customers.
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 3,035 2,618
Operating cash flow 510 528
Underlying earnings 
(a)
328 800
Capital expenditure 300 519
Net operating assets 4,580 4,612
Strategy
 To maximise shareholder value by contributing material earnings to 
Rio Tinto and delivering better than comparable industry returns.
 To benefit from increasing demand for Diamonds & Minerals’ products 
by improving the efficiency of the group’s existing assets, building the 
growth projects in its pipeline and growing through value accretive 
acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
 To share best practices in safety and community engagement in order 
to maintain employer and developer of choice status across the six 
continents that constitute our operations base.
Key achievements
 Lowest all injury frequency rate among Rio Tinto product groups.
 Commenced underground ore production at the Diavik diamond mine.
 Gained approval and funding to complete the Argyle diamond mine 
underground project in Australia.
 Launched a pre-feasibility study for the Bunder diamond project, India. 
 Delivered flexibility and efficiency improvements through a new labour 
agreement at Rio Tinto Minerals’ (RTM) Boron Operations in California.
 Received a binding offer in early 2011 from Imerys to acquire Rio Tinto’ s 
talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million. 
 Expanded deposit boundaries and identified additional sodium borate 
mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borates development project  
in Serbia.
 Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (RTIT) increased titanium dioxide 
production by 21 per cent compared to 2009 in response to 
improved market conditions.
 Achieved the first full year of production of ilmenite ore at QIT 
Madagascar Minerals (QMM).
 Progressed construction of the tailings treatment plant at  
Richards Bay Minerals (RBM) ahead of start up in early 2011.
Key priorities
 Continue to strive for zero harm to people across all operations.
 Deliver material earnings and cash flow to Rio Tinto, and generate 
better than comparable industry returns.
 Differentiate Rio Tinto from other suppliers in Diamonds & Minerals’ 
markets by providing a reliable supply of high quality products, 
technical expertise and marketing support programmes.
 Ramp up to full production at QMM.
 Progress development projects to plan.
 Achieve incremental expansions at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (RTFT)  
and Boron through efficiency and technology improvements.
 Identify and execute opportunities for inorganic growth.
Outlook
 Following recovery in 2010, the outlook for the product group’s 
markets is favourable, driven primarily by increased demand from 
emerging markets. 
 The medium to long term fundamentals for the diamond industry  
are positive.
 Demand growth offers opportunities across titanium dioxide and borates.
Diamonds & Minerals overview
Diamonds & Minerals
Differentiation in the marketplace 
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
2%
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
(a)
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other 
(b)
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other 
(b)
2010
US$ million
474
(298)
328
(706)
(42)
138
(31)
169
800
805
88
(245)
(24)
(b) Includes US$797 million gain on the sale of potash assets in 2009
(a) See note 2 and the “Financial information by business unit” section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings. www.riotinto.com 51
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Strategy
The Diamonds & Minerals group’s core purpose is to maximise 
shareholder value by safely and efficiently mining, processing and 
marketing diamonds and minerals. The group seeks to differentiate 
Rio Tinto from other suppliers in its markets by providing a reliable 
supply of high quality products, technical expertise and marketing 
support programmes. Many of its businesses operate in remote 
and environmentally sensitive locations, where we have focused 
on developing leading community relations and sustainable 
development practices to become a development partner of choice. 
Rio Tinto believes that similar industry dynamics to those that drove 
the growth in iron ore, copper and coal demand are forming in a 
number of mineral sectors. The group’s strategy aims to position its 
businesses to make the most of these changing market fundamentals 
and will be delivered along three principal pathways:
 Progressing underlying business performance through 
operational and commercial improvement.
 Maintaining and expanding capacity through investment 
in the group’s existing businesses, for example the Argyle 
Underground project and incremental capacity expansions  
at Boron and RTFT.
 Further growing the business through value accretive 
acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
Rio Tinto Diamonds’ strategy is to be the preferred global supplier 
of natural rough diamonds and to continue to operate, manage 
and develop world class diamond resources safely, efficiently  
and to the highest possible environmental standards.
RTM’s strategy is to be the undisputed leader in value creation 
within the borate sector. RTM seeks to leverage superior product 
quality, reliability of supply and technical support to capture 
profitable growth in promising sectors and regions. At its 
operations, RTM will focus on increasing capacity while achieving 
world class safety performance and improving its position on the 
industry cost curve. 
RTIT’s strategy is focused on capturing profitable growth in titanium 
dioxide feedstock markets and maximising the value from its 
industry leading portfolio of resources, processing facilities and  
co-product capabilities. RTIT aims to grow titanium dioxide feedstock 
production to meet increasing demand, while maximising co-product 
contribution. RTIT will also dynamically drive cost efficiency to 
sustain or improve its position on the industry cost curve. 
Performance
In 2010 the Diamonds & Minerals group’s markets substantially 
recovered from the financial turmoil of late 2008 and 2009. 
Sustained demand from emerging markets largely offset the slower 
recovery from the established markets of the US and Europe. This 
has been reflected in higher prices and increased sales volumes, 
leading to a 16 per cent increase in revenues.
The product group continued to focus on improved operational 
performance. Rio Tinto’s share of diamond production reached 
13.8 million carats, with underground production commencing 
at Diavik during the year. Strong demand growth in Asia for 
borates offset delayed recovery in mature markets, driving borate 
production increases of 18 per cent compared to 2009. Titanium 
dioxide feedstock production increased by 21 per cent in response 
to improved market conditions, while progress continues to be 
made at the QMM ilmenite mine in Madagascar. 
Sales revenue of the Diamonds & Minerals group was US$3,035 million 
in 2010, US$417 million higher than in 2009, reflecting higher prices 
and sales volumes in response to improved economic conditions. 
Adjusting for the one-off US$797 million gain on the sale of potash 
assets in 2009, 2010 underlying earnings of US$328 million were 
US$325 million higher than 2009, reflecting revenue growth and tax 
benefits largely associated with a one-off charitable donation of land.
Improved rough diamond prices and sales volumes were reflected in 
a 52 per cent improvement in Rio Tinto Diamonds’ sales revenue in 
2010 compared with 2009.
RTM’s borates and talc businesses secured additional price 
increases as markets recovered and met an aggressive target  
to increase EBITDA by 12 per cent from a 2009 baseline.
In December 2009, a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment 
(BBBEE) restructuring was completed at RBM which reduced  
Rio Tinto’s equity share in the business from 50 per cent to  
37 per cent. Despite this, RTIT’s revenue increased by  
four per cent, reflecting stronger demand for titanium dioxide 
feedstock and increased prices for its metallic products.
An impairment charge of US$115 million after tax was recognised 
on the diamonds portfolio assets to reduce their carrying value 
to an estimated recoverable amount. This is not included in 
underlying earnings.
Key achievements
Diamonds
The first ore was produced from the Diavik underground mine in 
Canada in March 2010. Underground operations will steadily increase 
and the remaining open pits are expected to be depleted by 2012. 
In September 2010, Rio Tinto approved the investment of US$803 
million to complete the Argyle underground project in Australia. 
Following a transition from the current open pit operation, the 
mine is expected to be fully operational in 2013. The project is 
expected to extend the life of the mine until at least 2019.
A pre-feasibility study of the Bunder project in Madhya Pradesh, 
India commenced in July 2010 and in October 2010, the Government 
of Madhya Pradesh signed a State Support Agreement with  
Rio Tinto for the project. These are critical milestones in the 
ongoing development of the mine, which will be the first hard rock 
diamond mine in India. 
Minerals
Demand recovery for borates across all market sectors – particularly 
in Asia – led to an 18 per cent increase in borate production compared 
with 2009. Talc demand recovery was driven primarily by the 
polymers sector and production levels increased by 13 per cent. 
Boron forged a new labour agreement that lays the groundwork 
for improved work practices and productivity, enhancing the 
business’s competitive position through the life of the operation.
RTM upgraded its distribution and packaging facility in Malaysia, 
commissioned a new talc beneficiation plant in Australia and 
announced plans to open an Asian Technology Center in 2011 to 
create competitive advantage in the business’s most promising 
growth region.
In February 2011, Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Imerys to 
acquire its talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million. 
A period of exclusivity with Imerys has been agreed, and Rio Tinto 
will respond to this binding offer following consultation with the 
relevant European works councils. 52 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Production of titanium dioxide feedstock increased by 21 per cent 
compared with 2009 in response to improved market conditions. 
RTIT reacted quickly to stronger demand by returning to full 
output following capacity reductions made in response to the 
global financial crisis.
QMM completed its first full year in operation following the first 
shipment of ilmenite ore in mid 2009, and the final product is 
being well received by the market. QMM has experienced difficult 
mining conditions since commissioning, but production is increasing 
as technical issues are addressed. The implementation of dry 
mining in 2011 is expected to double throughput by year end. 
Further options to increase throughput are being evaluated. 
Construction of the tailings treatment plant at RBM progressed in 
2010, under budget and on schedule. The project will extract zircon, 
rutile and ilmenite from tailings, from early 2011.
Safety
Safety improvement and awareness continued to be a major focus 
of all operations. Initiatives included the piloting of the Site Safety 
Acceleration Programme at RBM and the creation of the Diamonds 
& Minerals collaborative forum to drive benchmarking and share 
best practice. In 2010 the product group’s all injury frequency rate 
(AIFR) was 0.51 compared to 0.71 in 2009. 
All diamond sites achieved exceptional safety performances 
in 2010 with their AIFR improving to 0.36 from 0.65 in 2009. 
In 2010 the Diavik mine won the Canadian industry’s most 
prestigious safety award – the national John T Ryan safety trophy 
for its safety performance.
RTM reduced AIFR by 24 per cent to 0.65 in 2010. RTM’s Houston 
Operations were recognised for safety leadership through 
Rio Tinto’s Chief Executive Safety Award, and Rio Tinto’s US 
operations were recognised by the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration as among the safest in the country.
All RTIT operations improved their safety performance in 2010, 
with the total AIFR improving to 0.52. QMM achieved one of the 
group’s lowest AIFRs, at 0.20, with a largely new workforce.
Greenhouse gas emissions
All diamond sites maintained or reduced their greenhouse gas 
emissions in 2010 compared to 2009 and are working on a 
number of initiatives to ensure continuous improvements are in 
place. A key focus is reducing fuel consumption and investigating 
alternative power options.
Across RTIT’s operations, total greenhouse gas emission intensity 
decreased by nine per cent, reflecting increased operating 
efficiencies achieved as production levels increased. Engineering 
work on the electricity co-generation project at RBM is continuing 
and will contribute to future reductions in emissions by generating 
electricity from waste gas.
RTM’s global operations continued efforts to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions, and set new targets to lower them by two per cent 
per tonne of product from 2008 levels by 2013. Key initiatives 
include improving energy efficiency in processing plants, harvesting 
reclamation ponds and in-pit dumping of overburden.
Review of operations
Rio Tinto Diamonds
Argyle (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
The Diamonds group owns and operates the Argyle diamond mine in 
the east Kimberley region of Western Australia. Argyle continued to 
operate its surface mine while undertaking minimal construction of 
an underground block cave mine below the existing open pit in the 
first half of 2010. 
Diamond production in 2010 was 9.8 million carats, seven per cent 
lower than 2009, reflecting the fact that the open pit mine is in 
the final stages of production with lower ore grades, prior to an 
underground mine accessing higher grade ore.
Diavik (Rio Tinto: 60 per cent)
The Diamonds group operates the Diavik diamond mine, located 
approximately 300km north east of Yellowknife in the Northwest 
Territories, Canada. It is an unincorporated joint venture between 
Rio Tinto and Harry Winston Diamond Corporation. 
The Diavik mine currently comprises three diamond bearing 
kimberlite pipes that are being mined using open pit and 
underground mining methods. The first underground mine 
production occurred in March 2010 and will steadily increase.  
The remaining open pits are expected to be depleted by 2012.  
The underground operation will extend the life of the Diavik  
mine until 2022. A fourth pipe, the A21 pipe, is being reviewed  
to determine its viability.
Diamond production in 2010 was 3.9 million carats (Rio Tinto 
share) compared with 2009 production of 3.3 million carats, 
reflecting a significant increase in ore processed.
Murowa (Rio Tinto: 77.8 per cent)
The Murowa mine has been operating as a small open pit since 
2004 and is owned by Rio Tinto (77.8 per cent) and Riozim 
Diamonds & Minerals continued
Titanium slag and iron – greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
104.9
(2009: 109.3)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
102.7 102.3
100.0
109.3
104.9
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
0.51
(2009: 0.71)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
0.85
0.89
0.56
0.71
0.51 www.riotinto.com 53
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Limited (22.2 per cent), an independent Zimbabwean listed entity. 
Rio Tinto’s share of production in 2010 of 139,000 carats was 
above the 97,000 carats in 2009 as a result of a modest capacity 
expansion in the process plant. Murowa is considering expanding 
the existing open pit to increase production and the previous 
feasibility study for this expansion is currently being reviewed.
In 2010 Murowa Diamonds received the Zimbabwe National 
Chamber of Commerce award for the Best Corporate Social 
Responsibility Programs. 
Rio Tinto Minerals (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
The business comprises borates and talc mines, refineries, and 
shipping and packing facilities on five continents that operate 
under the Rio Tinto Minerals banner. Approximately 815,000 
product tonnes of refined borates are produced at Boron 
Operations, the principal borate mining and refining operation 
in California’s Mojave Desert. RTM also operates talc mines – 
including the world’s largest, in southern France – and processing 
facilities in Austria, Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, 
Japan, Mexico, Spain and the US.
In 2010 total borates production rose by 18 per cent to 500,000 tonnes 
of boric oxide, on the back of strong recovery in Asian demand. 
Total talc production increased by 13 per cent to one million 
tonnes in 2010, with stronger sales in the polymer sector and 
recovery in paint and paper markets.
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (RTIT) comprises: 
 the wholly owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (RTFT, formerly QIT)  
in Quebec, Canada; 
 an 80 per cent share in the QIT Madagascar Minerals (QMM) 
ilmenite project in Madagascar; and 
 a 37 per cent interest in and management of Richards Bay 
Minerals in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
Both RTFT and RBM produce titanium dioxide feedstock used 
by customers to manufacture pigments for paints and surface 
coatings, plastics and paper and the production of titanium 
metal. They also produce iron, steel and zircon co-products. QMM 
produces ilmenite from beach sands which is shipped to Canada 
for processing into titanium dioxide slag.
In 2010, titanium dioxide production increased by 21 per cent 
compared with 2009. The market for titanium dioxide feedstock 
has recovered quickly from the global financial crisis, which led to 
a sharp decline in demand in 2009. In response, RTIT’s operations 
have returned to full capacity, producing 1,392,000 tonnes of 
titanium dioxide feedstock (Rio Tinto share). This increase has 
been achieved despite the reduction in the Rio Tinto share of  
RBM production from 50 per cent to 37 per cent following the 
BBBEE restructuring in late 2009 and reflects increased output  
of ilmenite from QMM in Madagascar. 
Development projects
The Bunder project (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent) in Madhya Pradesh is 
Rio Tinto’s most advanced diamond project and the most important 
diamond discovery in India for many decades. Located 500km 
south east of Delhi, the Bunder project’s Order of Magnitude study 
identified an inferred resource of 27.4 million carats. Rio Tinto 
applied for a mining lease in 2008, has constructed an on site 
sample processing plant to evaluate drilling and surface samples, 
and is working on detailed studies for the mine’s development.  
In October 2010, the Government of Madhya Pradesh signed a State 
Support Agreement with Rio Tinto as further endorsement of the 
Bunder project.
In September 2010 the Rio Tinto board approved a further  
US$803 million to complete the construction of the Argyle 
underground mine. Argyle will continue the transition to 
underground mining until 2013 by which time it is expected to  
be a wholly underground mine with a life through to at least 2019.
Exploration drilling in Serbia resulted in expanded deposit 
boundaries and the identification of a new sodium borate 
mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borate development project 
with considerable economic potential. The deposit is one of the 
largest undeveloped lithium deposits in the world. If developed,  
it is expected to be in production within five to six years.
Outlook
The diverse markets being served by the group’s operations are 
linked by a strong connection to end consumer markets, consumer 
sentiment and spending habits. Following recovery in 2010, the 
outlook for the group’s markets is generally favourable, driven by 
increased demand from Asian countries. 
Diamonds
Following 2009 inventory depletions, the diamond supply chain  
was gradually replenished in 2010. Diamond demand from emerging 
markets accelerated, while production levels remained relatively 
low in comparison with 2008. As a result, rough diamond prices 
demonstrated a robust recovery throughout 2010. In the short run, 
the sustainability of this recovery will be in part dependent on US 
consumer confidence. The medium to long term fundamentals for 
the diamond industry are positive.
Minerals
Socioeconomic trends driving energy efficiency in housing and 
transportation, urbanisation in emerging economies and more 
sustainable farming practices will drive increased intensity of 
demand for borates. Segmentation and pricing strategies are in place 
to support shifts between regions and end uses through different 
consumer and economic cycles. Supply chain flexibility will be 
enhanced by establishing bulk delivery stock points in promising 
growth regions. The borate business is positioned for strong growth 
and industry leading returns in the near and long term.
Demand for titanium dioxide feedstock is driven mainly by the 
pigment industry. The market recovered sharply in 2010, with high 
capacity utilisation rates, driven in part by a steady rise in demand 
in China and other developing countries. Rising demand is likely to 
drive prices to structurally higher levels in the coming years.
RTIT is well placed to benefit from improved market conditions as 
production increases following capital investment in QMM and its 
established operations in recent years. 54 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Rio Tinto’s Energy group will meet strong future 
demand for energy and steel, and maximise 
shareholder return, through operating and  
growing its global coal and uranium portfolio.
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 5,652 4,869
Operating cash flow 2,463 2,069
Underlying earnings 
(a)
1,187 1,167
Capital expenditure 685 510
Net operating assets 3,694 2,809
Strategy
 The Energy group is focused on safely supplying the world’s growing 
energy needs through the responsible and sustainable development 
and operation of large scale, long life, cost competitive assets.
 The group aims to be a sector leader in the development and 
operation of the world’s coal and uranium resources.
 The group seeks to build strong customer relationships and provide 
superior customer outcomes while earning significant premiums to 
the market. 
 The group is pursuing opportunities for growth to meet expanding 
global energy demand, while continuing to focus on operational 
excellence, community engagement and environmental performance 
to ensure it is the developer of first choice.
Key achievements
 Commissioning of the new Clermont mine in Queensland, an open cut 
thermal coal mine due to reach annual peak production of 12.2 million 
tonnes in 2013.
 Feasibility study started into the open cut thermal coal Mount 
Pleasant project. 
 Australian hard coking coal production increased by 20 per cent in 
2010 and set a new record of 2.4 million tonnes in the third quarter.
 A successful heap leach processing trial at Rössing, and finalising 
work on a proposed exploration decline at Energy Resources of 
Australia’s Ranger mine.
 Completion of a detailed study of global energy demand to support 
strategic decision making and growth planning. 
 Announced a recommended cash offer for Riversdale Mining 
Limited. If successful, this acquisition would provide Rio Tinto with a 
coking coal development pipeline in the emerging Moatize Basin in 
Mozambique, in line with our established strategy.
 Divestment of Rio Tinto’s remaining 48 per cent equity holding in 
Cloud Peak Energy Inc. (gross proceeds of US$573 million).
Key priorities
 Continued focus on operational excellence; in particular safety 
performance to achieve the group’s goal of zero harm. 
 Expanding and developing existing assets to meet the strong demand.
 Focusing on exploration and strategic acquisition and/or joint  
venture arrangements.
Outlook
 The world’s demand for energy and steel production is expected to 
grow strongly in coming decades, driven by increasing populations 
and industrialisation in large developing countries.
 The forecast growth in demand for coal over coming decades  
for both energy and steel production presents a significant 
opportunity to target expanding export markets, particularly  
in the Asia Pacific region.
 Global demand for uranium is expected to remain strong due to a 
desire for base load electricity generation with reduced greenhouse 
gases, as well as the need for energy security, diversity of supply and 
strong growth plans in China.
Energy overview
Energy
Portfolio positioned to meet growing demand
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
10%
Doug Ritchie, chief executive, Energy
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
(a)
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
2,432
(729)
1,187
241
(177)
58
(28)
(74)
1,167
(528)
43
(20)
(31)
(a) See note 2 and the “Financial information by business unit” section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings. www.riotinto.com 55
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Strategy
Rio Tinto expects strong growth in energy demand in all markets, 
including coal and uranium, from energy per capita growth and 
population growth dominated by China and India.
Electricity demand outpaces overall energy demand and this should 
translate into good opportunities for thermal coal and uranium.
While nuclear and renewable energy will grow strongly in coming 
years, coal is set to remain a significant part of the world’s future 
energy mix as it is abundant, relatively cheap and there is 
significant recently installed capacity.
The Energy group’s coal assets are well positioned to service 
the future demand growth in Asia, and include long life, cost 
competitive assets that are viable throughout the economic cycle. 
Existing operations have expansion opportunities, and steps are 
under way to progress these. 
While Rio Tinto benefits from this growth in energy demand, it is 
concerned by the threat of climate change and has accepted the 
need for global reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Rio Tinto 
invests heavily to reduce emissions from its own operations.  
Rio Tinto also contributes to global efforts to reduce emissions,  
by participating in the development of low emission technologies, 
running strong product stewardship programmes, and assisting 
governments with the development of sound policies.
Rio Tinto has continued to sell non-core coal assets in the Energy 
group, with the divestment in 2010 of Cloud Peak Energy Inc. and 
the completed sales of the coal projects Maules Creek and Vickery 
in the Gunnedah Basin in New South Wales. A process also began 
in 2010 to divest the Colowyo mine in the US.
Given uranium’s low greenhouse gas emissions and strong demand, 
the Energy group is pursuing growth opportunities and in 2010 
progressed work to further define available resources at both 
Rössing and ERA. Rössing began a statutory approval process 
ahead of a proposed expansion, while ERA completed detailed 
planning of its Ranger 3 Deeps resource.
The Energy group’s long term strategy is centred firmly on 
expanding existing capacity and securing opportunities for 
growth while maintaining superior margins as a reliable long  
term supplier with consistently high standards of operation. 
Performance
The Energy group’s 2010 sales revenue was US$5,652 million and 
its underlying earnings were US$1,187 million, compared with 
sales revenue of US$4,869 million and underlying earnings of 
US$1,167 million in 2009.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia’s (RTCA) 2010 contribution to underlying 
earnings was US$940 million, US$77 million lower than in 2009 
due mainly to a stronger Australian dollar, especially in the second 
half of the year, outweighing the impact of stronger coal prices 
throughout 2010. RTCA’s total coal production was 47.6 million 
tonnes (Rio Tinto share 30.5 million tonnes), slightly higher than 
2009 production.
RTCA’s hard coking coal production increase was assisted by 
equipment investment and operational improvements. RTCA’s 
thermal and semi-soft coking coal production was seven per cent 
lower, mainly due to wet weather impacts in the Hunter Valley, 
and the scheduled ramp down of Blair Athol mine (which was 
partly offset by the ramp up of Clermont mine which became 
operational in April). Monsoonal rain and flood impacts on 
mining operations, road and rail access at RTCA’s four Queensland 
mines in December 2010 led to a force majeure declaration on 
sales contracts at those mines.
Energy Resources of Australia (ERA) contributed US$22 million in 
2010 to underlying earnings, compared with US$138 million in 
2009. Total production for 2010 was 8.6 million pounds uranium 
oxide on a 100 per cent basis (2009: 11.5 million pounds). The 
reduced production was primarily due to lower than expected 
milled ore grade of 0.19 per cent, compared with 0.26 per cent 
in 2009. Earnings were impacted by the strengthening of the 
Australian dollar and higher cash costs. Sales of uranium oxide 
decreased in 2010 to 11.1 million pounds, compared with 12.1 
million pounds in 2009. Unseasonal late rains in April 2010 
and an early start to the 2010/2011 wet season also restricted 
pit access and delayed mine schedules. In January 2011, ERA 
announced a 12 week suspension of processing operations as a 
precautionary measure due to a higher than average wet season. 
Rössing Uranium recorded a loss of US$3 million, US$27 million 
below 2009, predominantly attributable to an adverse exchange 
rate impacting production costs. Earnings recovered in the second 
half of the year when some sales occurred from volumes deferred 
from the first half. Rio Tinto’s share of uranium oxide production 
in 2010 was 5.5 million pounds, a 13 per cent decrease on 2009 
levels due to lower average feed grade.
Key achievements
Australian hard coking coal production increased by 20 per cent in 2010.
Clermont mine became operational in April and produced 3.8 million 
tonnes of coal in 2010.
ERA completed detailed planning for a proposed underground 
exploration decline to conduct close spaced exploration drilling to 
further define the extent of the Ranger 3 Deeps mineral resource 
identified in late 2008. 
Safety
All operations across the Energy group continued the focus on 
reducing injuries through leadership, simple and effective systems, 
and personal commitment to safety. This includes increasing 
the focus on significant potential incidents, which are defined 
as incidents that may not have caused actual harm, but had the 
potential to cause significant harm.
The Energy group’s AIFR increased slightly to 0.71 during 2010,  
mainly due to an increase in incidents at Rössing and the divestment  
of Cloud Peak Energy.
RTCA’s AIFR of 0.58 was an improvement from 0.60 in 2009, and its 
injury severity rate decreased significantly.
In 2010 ERA recorded a four per cent increase on its AIFR compared 
with 2009. However, ERA achieved 1.35 million hours and equalled 
a record number of consecutive days without a lost time injury.
Rössing’s safety performance of 0.95 AIFR in 2010 increased 
compared with 2009, however a safety acceleration programme 
implemented at mid year is expected to help deliver improved 
safety performance in 2011.
Colowyo reduced its rate of injuries by more than a third, achieving 
an AIFR of 0.65 in 2010 compared with 1.02 in 2009. 56 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Energy continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Energy group is committed to a future where energy is about 
sustainable practices that will lead to a low carbon future. Initiatives 
at each operation are helping to reduce greenhouse gases, while the 
group is continuing to dedicate resources to the development of low 
emissions coal technology.
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity increased across the Australian 
coal business in 2010, however a coal seam methane pilot project 
was completed by Coal & Allied at the Mount Thorley Warkworth 
operation. The purpose of the three year project was to test the 
feasibility of pre-mining drainage and use of methane from shallow 
coal seams that will be mined using open cut methods. Other trials 
will be considered after further drilling to measure the gas content 
in coal that is yet to be mined. The drilling and gas measurement 
programme, which is being rolled out across all Rio Tinto Coal sites 
in New South Wales including Mount Pleasant, is expected to be 
completed in 2011.
In 2010, total production of uranium oxide from Rio Tinto’s uranium 
mines in Australia and Namibia was 16.6 million pounds, and total 
production of thermal coal from Rio Tinto’s Australian coal mines 
was 31.8 million tonnes. The electricity that will be generated from 
these energy products is estimated to be 390TWh (terawatt hours). 
This is equivalent to the combined amount of electricity that was 
consumed in Australia, Indonesia, and Iceland in 2008. (Source: IEA, 
World Energy Statistics 2010.)
ERA improved energy efficiency and reduced carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions through the rebuild of power station generators.
Rössing did not meet the set energy efficiency and emissions target 
due to mining and processing constraints, as expected, because of 
less ore mined, lower grade ore and a high calcium carbonate index. 
The operation is also aggressively stripping waste and widening the 
open pit to expose higher grades of ore. 
Colowyo’s continuing haul road optimisation work aims to maintain 
greenhouse gas reductions achieved in prior years.
Review of operations
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
RTCA manages the group’s Australian coal interests. These include  
the Blair Athol (Rio Tinto: 71.2 per cent), Kestrel (Rio Tinto: 80 per cent), 
Hail Creek (Rio Tinto: 82 per cent) and Clermont (Rio Tinto:  
50.1 per cent) coal mines in Queensland. 
RTCA also provides management services to Coal & Allied Industries 
(Coal & Allied) for operation of its four mines located in the Hunter 
V alley in New South Wales. Coal & Allied (Rio Tinto: 75.7 per cent) is 
publicly listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and had a market 
capitalisation of A$10.4 billion (US$10.6 billion) at 31 December 2010. 
Coal & Allied wholly owns Hunter V alley Operations, has an 80 per 
cent interest in Mount Thorley Operations, a 55.6 per cent interest 
in the contiguous Warkworth mine, and a 40 per cent interest in the 
Bengalla mine adjacent to its wholly owned Mount Pleasant project. 
Coal & Allied also has a 36.5 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal 
Services (PWCS) which operates the Kooragang and Carrington coal 
port terminals in Newcastle. 
2010 saw continuing strength in the seaborne market for 
Australian coal, with growth in demand for thermal coal 
continuing from South Korea, India, Taiwan and China. Global 
steel demand improved in all markets in 2010 and led to strong 
demand for semi-soft coking coal. The market for premium 
quality hard coking coal remained solid in 2010.
Energy Resources of Australia (Rio Tinto: 68.39 per cent)
ERA is a publicly listed company and had a market capitalisation 
of A$2.1 billion (US$2.2 billion) at 31 December 2010. Since 1980 
ERA has mined ore and produced uranium oxide at its Ranger 
open pit mine, 250km east of Darwin in Australia’s Northern 
Territory. ERA also holds title to the adjacent Jabiluka mineral 
lease. Ranger and Jabiluka are surrounded by, but remain separate 
from, the World Heritage listed Kakadu National Park. ERA’s 
operations are subject to stringent environmental requirements, 
and governmental oversight.
In 2010, ERA maintained its 30 year history of protection of the 
surrounding environment, with the Australian Government’s 
Supervising Scientist Division reporting in its 2009/2010 annual 
report that extensive monitoring and research programmes 
confirm that the Kakadu environment “has remained protected” .
ERA has invested A$11.2 million towards water management 
improvements across its entire operation, and additional real time 
water quality sensor points in local waterways have improved 
ERA’s ability to monitor releases and protect the environment.
A programme of infill drilling within Ranger pit commenced in 
October 2010 to confirm confidence in the resource. As a result 
of this work and pit redesign due to a localised area of instability 
on the south wall, the Ranger in situ reserves were reduced by 
approximately 2,400 tonnes.
Australian coal – greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
107.9
(2009: 98.1)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
86.2
95.7
100.0
98.1
107.9
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
0.71
(2009: 0.67)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
0.89
0.90
0.87
0.67
0.71 www.riotinto.com 57
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Rössing Uranium (Rio Tinto: 68.58 per cent)
Rössing Uranium produces and exports uranium oxide from 
Namibia to power utilities globally. Its core purpose is to maximise 
the value delivered to shareholders by being a safe, significant 
and growing long term supplier of uranium.
Rössing plays a major role in the Namibian economy, both in terms 
of GDP contribution of around 3.8 per cent as well as employment, 
education and training opportunities. The Rössing Foundation, set 
up 30 years ago, continued to provide various education and training 
programmes and is recognised as a major contributor to sustainable 
development in Namibia.
A Social and Environmental Impact Assessment was commissioned 
in 2010 ahead of the mine’s proposed expansion activities, and 
following drilling work in existing and new areas surrounding 
the current open pit to investigate the extent of the uranium ore 
available within the Rössing mining licence area.
The latest Life of Mine plan sees the operation continuing to 
2023; however it requires a large increase in stripping for the next 
three years to open up new areas of the pit. A combination of 
additional equipment and operational performance improvements 
were implemented in 2010 to deal with the extra mining requirements 
as efficiently as possible. A similar focus in the plant increased 
plant throughput and improved recovery rates by three per cent.
Heap leach is a key initiative to increase production and reduce 
operating costs, and trials were successfully undertaken in 2010. 
Rössing also continued to progress other potential value enhancing 
projects including a new tailings facility and an on-site acid plant.
Colowyo Coal Company (Rio Tinto: 100 per cent)
Colowyo Coal Company produces thermal coal in northwest 
Colorado. The company intends to fulfil a long term contract 
with its sole remaining customer, a power generator located in 
northwest Colorado. This contract expires at the end of 2017. 
In the absence of divestment or the development of additional 
customers, the expiration of the contract will be followed by 
closure and completion of reclamation of the mine site.
Development projects
The Energy group’s main coal development project in Australia is 
the extension of the Kestrel mine with first production expected 
in early 2013.
A feasibility study commenced in November 2010 for the Mount 
Pleasant project, an already consented, open cut thermal coal 
mine proposal in the Upper Hunter Valley. Consent modifications 
are being sought to provide options that may reduce capital costs 
and allow more efficient operations.
In New South Wales, the start of a long term commercial 
framework relating to port capacity to facilitate industry growth 
is showing results. To date the framework has seen coal producer 
nominations and the allocation process trigger the requirement 
for PWCS to take its terminal capacity to 145 million tonnes a 
year (mtpa), expected by 2013. The process has also triggered the 
requirement for PWCS to develop a fourth terminal. Meanwhile, 
the externally owned and operated Newcastle Coal Infrastructure 
Group commissioned its stage one 30mtpa terminal in April 2010 
and has announced financial close on an expansion to take its 
port capacity to 53mtpa. Negotiations on below-rail arrangements 
in the Hunter Valley region are continuing.
RTCA has secured additional port capacity in the first stage of the 
Abbot Point expansion to meet its production requirements for 
growth in Queensland.
ERA completed detailed planning for a proposed underground 
exploration decline, to conduct close spaced exploration drilling to 
further define the extent of the Ranger 3 Deeps mineral resource 
identified in late 2008. This proposal is in the final stages of ERA’s 
approval process with a final decision expected in the second 
quarter of 2011.
ERA is progressing work on a feasibility study into a proposed 
heap leach facility at Ranger, targeting the recovery of 33 million 
to 44 million pounds of uranium oxide from low grade ores. 
Outlook 
The Energy group’s increased capital expenditure in 2010 will 
continue in 2011, to expand operations to meet forecast demand 
growth in coming years.
Rio Tinto’s Energy group expects 2010’s strong thermal coal 
demand will continue through 2011, with continued pressure 
on prices due to wet weather constraints to coal production in 
Australia, Indonesia and Colombia in late 2010/early 2011.
The group expects that coking coal prices will remain high 
relative to historical levels, given the lack of substitutes, growing 
demand and lingering supply constraints due to the impact of 
recent weather.
Uranium spot markets strengthened in the second half of 2010, 
mainly driven by strong demand from China, and long term 
prices saw some small increases in late 2010. Market demand is 
expected to remain strong in the coming years as new nuclear 
power capacity comes online. 58 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Following a decade of dramatic expansion, we 
are well positioned to supply rising global iron ore 
demand through further capacity increases. We will 
continue to drive performance through leadership in 
project delivery and operational excellence.
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 24,024 12,598
Operating cash flow 15,915 7,389
Underlying earnings 
(a)
10,189 4,126
Capital expenditure 1,716 2,148
Net operating assets 11,628 11,263
Strategy
 Continue to build the Pilbara operations as the leading iron ore 
supplier close to the world’s largest, fastest growing markets. 
 Focus on implementing a major expansion programme while 
maintaining maximum production. 
 Continue to develop and benefit from technology innovation to  
deliver supply chain efficiencies, maximising margins per tonne.
Key achievements
 Record global iron ore production of 239 million tonnes  
(Rio Tinto share 184.6 million tonnes), a ten per cent increase  
on 2009 global production. 
 Full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth, including transition  
of ports and new mines. 
 Opening of Brockman 4, Mesa A and Western Turner Syncline mines. 
Subsequent decision to expand Brockman 4 to 40 Mt/a capacity  
and Western Turner Syncline to 15 Mt/a. 
 Approval to develop the US$1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 mine  
and linking rail spur (Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion).
 Improving on an already sector leading safety record, in the context  
of high production levels and the complexities of expansion.
 The employment of more than 900 Aboriginal people in Western 
Australia through targeted recruitment and retention strategies. 
 Resuming expansion programme at Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC). 
 Opening the US$503 million Yurralyi Maya power station (Rio Tinto 
share US$397 million), providing more environmentally efficient 
power to support Pilbara operations and communities.
Key priorities
 Maintaining production and sales at nameplate capacity. 
 Advancing technological integration into the group’s operations 
through Mine of the Future™ initiatives. 
 Further improving the product group’s safety record towards  
zero harm. 
 Emphasis on operational efficiency, removal of bottlenecks  
and cost control measures.
 Progress studies of total system capacity to 333 million tonnes  
per year in 2015. 
 Continued emphasis on brownfield developments, to leverage  
an unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure. 
 Advance new project development options outside of the Pilbara.
Outlook
 Market to remain tight for the short to medium term, with delays  
to new supply and strong demand driving prices.
 The Iron Ore group’s strategy and performance will continue to be 
driven by the rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in China, and  
the steady recovery in other major Asian markets.
 India is expected to continue emerging as a major market as it follows 
China’s lead in urbanisation. The group also remains confident in the 
longer term potential for other markets of South East Asia, Central 
Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Iron Ore overview
Iron Ore
Record performance, operational efficiency and robust outlook 
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
68%
Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
(a)
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
6,017
(2,920)
10,189
135
(262)
658
(79)
5,611
4,126
5
352
694
(22)
(a) See note 2 and the “Financial information by business unit” section of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying earnings to net earnings. www.riotinto.com 59
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Strategy
The Iron Ore group seeks to maximise shareholder return from  
its global assets, through establishing a global supply chain able  
to deliver high grade iron ore to established and emerging markets 
worldwide. 
We will continue our focus on operational and financial efficiency, 
but our growth phase adds a new perspective. Of critical importance 
will be executing our capacity expansions in the Pilbara and 
Canada, and progressing major development opportunities  
at Simandou, Guinea and Orissa, India. 
Following the joint decision to end plans for an iron ore 
production joint venture with BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto is well 
positioned to maximise its leading role in the Pilbara, with 
superior expansion options and a strong record of project 
execution. Strategy will focus on increasing Pilbara capacity by 
over 50 per cent in five years without compromising current 
operational efficiency. 
A number of studies are well advanced to support the major 
increases in port and rail infrastructure. A continued emphasis on 
brownfield developments where possible, exploiting the group’s 
unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure, will 
improve time-to-market delivery and manage risk. 
Although a number of projects are under study in other regions, 
a high priority has been attached to the early development of the 
Simandou project in Guinea. Key aspects of the legal status of the 
project are still to be clarified, and management worked closely 
with the Government of Guinea throughout the year to progress 
this aim. A historic binding agreement was signed with Chalco 
in July, paving the way for joint development of the Simandou 
deposit. Following the Guinean elections in late 2010, chief 
executive Tom Albanese visited Conakry for further talks with 
the new administration. To date more than US$700 million has 
been spent in Guinea on exploration, environmental, community 
development and evaluation work.
Rio Tinto, as the second largest provider of seaborne iron ore, 
seeks to deliver its products across world markets. As a reliable 
source of large volumes to agreed specification, Rio Tinto can 
capitalise on superior supply chain logistics to deliver a consistent 
product such as the Pilbara Blend drawn from 11 of our 14 mines 
in the Pilbara. 
Rio Tinto is not committed to a specific pricing structure, instead 
seeking to obtain the best price across its suite of products, one 
recognising high value in use while respecting longstanding 
customer relationships.
Performance 
Rio Tinto’s global iron ore business achieved record performance 
in 2010, demonstrating not only the recovery of all major markets 
from the impact of the global financial crisis, but also the capacity 
of the group to benefit from its position as a leading supplier 
in the seaborne iron ore market. Production was maintained at 
above nameplate capacity levels through most of the year, leading 
to record production volumes. 
As in 2009, the group implemented and refined measures to 
reduce expenditure as markets slowly recovered. 
Sales revenue of the Iron Ore group was US$24,024 million in 
2010, US$11,426 million higher than in 2009 mainly due to 
improved prices and higher volumes of ore sales.
Underlying earnings were US$6,063 higher than 2009 as the 
result of strong revenue growth and a continued focus on 
cost control. Cash flow optimisation, increased equipment 
productivity, reduction in process variability through 
standardisation and improvement in people intensity have all 
contributed to effective cost control strategies. 
Sales volumes from the Pilbara region of Western Australia set a 
new record in 2010 at 223 million tonnes (100 per cent basis), 
an increase of nine per cent compared to 2009. Shipments to 
all major markets, other than China, increased as financial 
conditions improved earlier than expected. 
2010 was also notable for the end of the traditional annually 
priced iron ore supply contracts in favour of shorter term pricing. 
Rio Tinto maintained its position of providing a range of options 
to customers, being able to supply ore under whichever pricing 
regime best fits within appropriate market dynamics. 
At IOC (Rio Tinto 58.7 per cent), all pellet lines resumed full 
production and returned to normal concentrate and pellet 
proportions as markets improved. Total sales were 15.6 million 
tonnes, up 9.6 per cent on 2009, and achieved despite significant 
weather related challenges. 
In December the HIsmelt
®
 joint venture partners agreed to permanently 
close the Kwinana site and terminate the joint venture, following 
two years of care and maintenance. The closure work is expected 
to be substantially completed by 2014. The technology business 
(Rio Tinto share 100 per cent) continues and a number of licensing 
opportunities are progressing. 
Key achievements
The ramp up of production levels was the standout achievement 
of the year, with nameplate capacity met and in many cases  
exceeded from month to month. This was particularly commendable 
given the widespread surge in industrial and economic activity 
throughout Western Australia’s resources sector, which might 
have otherwise imposed delays and cost pressures. 
As a result, operating margins remained robust. Value was preserved 
through close focus on elimination of unnecessary cost and tight 
control over manageable overheads. 
Another achievement was the maintenance of business discipline 
throughout a year in which the proposed production joint venture 
with BHP Billiton remained a high priority. This discipline positioned 
the group well once the proposed joint venture was abandoned. 
As in previous years, technology and innovation was further 
embedded in enhanced operations. A number of key initiatives 
were implemented during the year, many under the pioneering 
Mine of the Future™ vision. 
2010 saw the full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth. More 
than 400 employees are now remotely managing most key Pilbara 
operations, or planning future initiatives, up to 1,500km away. 
A number of other innovation projects continued, such as the 
commencement of tele-remote shiploading in Dampier and the 
continued successful trialling and deployment of driverless trucks 
and automated drilling and blasting at West Angelas mine. 
Coinciding with the ramp up has been the greater deployment 
of Aboriginal workers in the group. The number of Aboriginal 
workers and class-A contractors exceeded 900, and a number 
of apprenticeship and training programmes have been targeted 
directly at attracting and retaining these employees. 
Embedding Aboriginal businesses within the organisation’s  60 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Iron Ore continued
operations and projects is a priority. More than A$200 million  
in contracts were awarded to Aboriginal businesses during 2010. 
Safety
There has again been a significant improvement in safety 
performance for the Iron Ore group in 2010, with the all 
injury frequency rate (AIFR) dropping to 0.71, an 11 per cent 
improvement on 2009.
Two operations were recognised in the Chief Executive Safety 
Awards: Marandoo mine (a Most Improved Site award) and the 
Coastal Operation Division (a commendation for its strong safety 
culture). The Safety Leadership Development Programme continued 
to be implemented across iron ore sites in Western Australia.
Highlighting a greater focus on general health within the safety 
strategy, a Fatigue Management Programme, a pilot Wellness 
Programme, and programmes focusing on mental health and 
medical surveillance began.
Further improving the safety record, while undertaking Australia’s 
largest ever mining project, will be a key challenge. With this in 
mind, the Contractor Forum initiative continued throughout 2010 
and a Contractor Safety Leadership Development Programme was 
initiated in Western Australia.
IOC’s performance was marred by a tragic accident in March. 
Two maintenance workers at the Labrador City site fell from 
height, resulting in fatal injuries to one of the men, while the 
other eventually recovered fully and was able to return to work. 
Comprehensive studies resulted in a change action plan, which 
has been fully implemented.
Greenhouse gas emissions
The Iron Ore group’s total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
intensity has improved 4.7 per cent from 2008. 
Progress continued on the replacement of ageing power 
infrastructure in the Pilbara, with a new generation plant, Yurralyi 
Maya, near Dampier progressively commissioned in the second half 
of 2010. The implementation of the cleaner technology is expected 
to produce 25 per cent less GHG emissions at the same production 
level compared with the existing steam power generation. The 
option of retrofitting combined cycle equipment has been kept 
open to further reduce GHG emissions and improve efficiency.
Another technological improvement occurred with the integration 
of 51 Evolution™ Series diesel electric locomotives into the 
Pilbara railway fleet, replacing less efficient locomotives. 
A number of localised innovative projects to reduce GHG emissions 
continued across the group. Rio Tinto was a key participant in a 
landmark commercial biodiesel venture by the Ashburton Aboriginal 
Corporation, under which up to 7,000 litres of waste cooking oil is 
provided for biofuel, to be used for blasting at the Tom Price mine. 
Energy efficient devices continue to be introduced to housing and 
buildings on sites and in towns. Research into electricity generation, 
hybrid engines and alternative fuels continue through the Mine of the 
Future™ programme. In addition to the reduction in air travel implied, 
the Operations Centre incorporates a range of innovative energy saving 
designs purpose built to reduce its environmental footprint.
At IOC’s Labrador City plant, projects to reduce fuel and steam 
production costs resulted in a number of efficiencies which are 
estimated to produce GHG savings of 2,200 to 3,600 tonnes 
annually. The second stage of a project to reduce fuel oil required 
to fire pellets was completed on three machines, producing 
estimated GHG savings of approximately 5,000 tonnes annually. 
Review of operations
Production performance throughout 2010 was the group’s key 
achievement, emphasising the quality of Rio Tinto’s suite of  
assets and its array of efficient logistics systems. 
Ian Bauert, previously managing director, Sales and Marketing, 
was appointed Rio Tinto’s managing director, China, as part of the 
rebuilding of close relations with that country. The improvement 
of ties was highlighted by the hosting of a number of high profile 
events at the Shanghai World Expo, where the Australian pavillion 
was sponsored by Rio Tinto. 
A number of new mines were completed in 2010. In February 
the US$1 billion Mesa A mine (Rio Tinto share 53 per cent) was 
opened, ramping up through the year to reach its 25 million tonne 
annual capacity in late 2010. The Western Turner Syncline mine 
was constructed through 2010. In September, the US$1.5 billion 
Brockman 4 mine (Rio Tinto share 100 per cent) was opened, 
supplying 22 million tonnes a year into the Pilbara’s production 
and slated to expand to at least 40 million tonnes a year.
In August Rio Tinto approved a US$1.6 billion investment  
(Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion) in Hope Downs 4 mine. The mine 
is expected to have a 15 million tonnes a year capacity, to sustain 
current Pilbara capacity, with first ore expected in 2013.
Two incremental expansions increasing capacity at our two 
Dampier Port terminals by five million tonnes each were 
approved, for a total investment of US$321 million (Rio Tinto 
100 per cent). Both are now well into implementation, with 
completion scheduled for early 2011 and early 2012. 
In April Rio Tinto confirmed it was discussing pricing of annual 
Iron Ore – greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Indexed relative to 2008
95.3
(2009: 88.6)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
75.1
80.4
100.0
88.6
95.3
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
0.71
(2009: 0.80)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.27
0.98
0.91
0.80
0.71 www.riotinto.com 61
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
supply contracts on a quarterly basis, following a significant shift 
in market expectations towards shorter term pricing. Rio Tinto has 
pursued a flexible portfolio approach providing a range of options 
to customers. Rio Tinto recognises that the market dynamics will 
remain fluid given underlying cyclical, structural and domestic 
industry regulatory policy changes. 
The taxation debate in Australia prompted a delay in the roll out 
of Rio Tinto’s ambitious expansion programme, as greater clarity 
and assurances were sought and ultimately received from the 
Commonwealth Government as to the regime under which major 
expansions would occur. 
In June the Australian Competition Tribunal decided not to “declare” 
Rio Tinto’s principal railway line in the Pilbara (the Hamersley line) 
mandated open for third party access. The Tribunal also decided that 
the Robe River line should be “declared” open for access, but only 
until 2018, rather than for 20 years as the applicants wished. Both 
decisions are subject to appeal. 
A landmark agreement was reached with the Western Australian 
Government during the year to revise state agreements and 
royalty arrangements. The agreement will allow greater flexibility 
in the use of infrastructure and assets. Rio Tinto agreed to pay  
royalties of 5.625 per cent on fine product from all mines 
(formerly 3.75 per cent on several mines) and to continue paying 
7.5 per cent on lump product. Rio Tinto also agreed to fund  
50 per cent of a one-off, combined payment of A$350 million,  
to the State Government’s Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Agreements with five Pilbara native title groups were signed in 
November. This is a major achievement in securing current and 
future access, as well as active Traditional Owners’ support.
Minerals
Good weather for salt growth in a number of countries and a 
sluggish recovery in relevant global markets in 2010 led to a 
weakening of salt prices and reduced underlying earnings of 
US$29 million, down from US$88 million in 2009. Salt production 
continued at less than capacity and similar to 2009 at 7.6 million 
tonnes (Rio Tinto share 5.2 million tonnes). Shipping increased by 
0.6 million tonnes to 8.3 million tonnes, as stock built up during 
the global financial crisis was sold. As part of diversifying risk, 
customers and new contracts were established outside of the 
traditional Asian markets, in Europe, Africa and North America.
Continuation of the Sustainable Health and Safety programme 
within the business contributed to the Group’s improved focus 
on general health and safety performance. Work commenced on 
replacement of the main seawall and seawater intake structure at 
Dampier, as part of the continuing structural integrity programme.
Marine
Rio Tinto Marine provides Rio Tinto with comprehensive 
capabilities in all aspects of marine transportation, global freight 
markets and the international regulatory environment. The 
Marine group consists of approximately 75 shipping professionals, 
located principally in Melbourne, Singapore, London and Montreal. 
Identifying and executing seaborne freight solutions allows 
Rio Tinto to participate in all aspects of the supply chain, while 
exerting greater influence on vessel selection, operational safety, 
scheduling, port efficiency and cost management. 
Rio Tinto Marine sets and maintains the group’s HSE and vessel 
assurance standards for freight, with continuous improvement 
efforts undertaken to instil a high standard of health, safety and 
environmental performance aboard vessels under management and 
throughout the organisation. As one of three equal shareholders 
in RightShip, a ship vetting specialist, Rio Tinto helps to promote 
maritime industry safety and efficiency. 
During 2010 Rio Tinto Marine managed 155 million tonnes of 
seaborne cargo. Freight participation is largely within the dry bulk 
market, managing seaborne transportation of iron ore, coal, salt, 
bauxite, alumina and other minor bulk products. Rio Tinto Marine 
owns a fleet of five post-panamax vessels, used principally for the 
transportation of bauxite sourced from Rio Tinto Alcan’s mine at 
Weipa, Queensland. These purpose built ships deliver volume and 
efficiency advantages on niche trade routes, guaranteeing supply 
and eliminating freight cost variability. 
Rio Tinto Marine secures the majority of its freight coverage through 
period charter commitments. It leverages the Group’s substantial 
cargo base to obtain a low cost mix of short, medium and long term 
freight cover. It seeks to create value by improving the competitive 
position of the Group’s products through freight optimisation. 
Development projects
Rio Tinto has outlined the largest expansion programme in 
Australia’s mining history, to achieve production and shipping 
annual capacity of 333 million tonnes in 2015. The expansion 
will more than double capacity at the Cape Lambert port facility 
(Rio Tinto share 53 per cent) to 183 million tonnes. 
There were a series of major announcements in 2010 related  
to the expansion of the Pilbara rail and port infrastructure to  
283 million tonnes a year. Feasibility studies into further expansion 
to 333 million tonnes per year are well under way. The scale of the 
expansion programme in the Pilbara is vast, with a total capital 
expenditure estimate of US$14.8 billion (Rio Tinto share  
US$12 billion) to increase annual capacity to 333 million tonnes.
In July and August Rio Tinto announced a US$990 million 
investment (Rio Tinto share US$649 million), for the letting of 
dredging contracts and the procurement of long lead items 
associated with the group’s growth programme. Dredging was 
approved and began in December. A further investment of  
US$3.1 billion (Rio Tinto share US$2.1 billion) was approved to 
increase infrastructure annual capacity to 283 million tonnes  
in 2013. Approval was also given for a final feasibility study for 
the second 50 million tonne tranche taking Pilbara capacity to 
333 million tonnes a year, scheduled for completion in late 2015. 
Demonstrating the fundamental change in global markets, Rio Tinto 
announced the resumption of IOC’s expansion to 22 million 
tonnes a year capacity, the first stage of a programme to boost 
capacity to 26 million tonnes a year.
Outlook
We believe market conditions will remain tight as delays to new 
supply and strong demand continue to drive prices.
Urbanisation and industrialisation have supported a phenomenal 
growth in China’s steel demand over the past decade. We believe 
this will continue. The fundamentals underlying China’s growing 
demand will remain robust, driving this demand into the next 
decade. India is expected to follow China’s lead, and increased 
controls on its export capacity and early signs of increased steel 
intensity suggest its emergence as a major market will continue. 
The group remains confident in the longer term potential for 
other markets of South East Asia, Central Asia, the Middle East 
and Africa where urbanisation is relatively low but increasing. 
Just as the earliest indications of demand were met with  
Rio Tinto’s counter-cyclical investment in capacity a decade ago, 
the group will accordingly seek to expand its production capacity 
by almost 50 per cent in the next five years.  62 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Exploration
Investing for the future
The Group has had a sustained commitment to exploration since 
1946 and considers exploration to be one of its core competencies. 
Mature Group operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rössing, 
were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto. The value of these 
discoveries is still being realised after more than 40 years by both 
mine production and successful brownfield exploration.
Continuing this legacy, the Exploration group has since 2000 
identified two of the largest copper opportunities in the world at 
Resolution in Arizona, US and La Granja in Peru. Exploration has 
also delivered one of the world’s largest known high grade iron 
ore deposits, at Simandou in Guinea, as well as the Caliwingina 
channel iron deposits in the Pilbara, Australia. Exploration identified 
the potash deposits at Potasio Rio Colorado, which Rio Tinto sold 
to Vale in 2009; the Sulawesi nickel laterite deposit in Indonesia; 
the Mutamba titanium deposit in Mozambique; and the lithium 
borate deposits at Jadar in Serbia. 
A significant proportion of the Exploration group’s expenditure is 
returned to Rio Tinto through the sale of Tier 2 discoveries. Over the 
period 2000 to 2010, divestment of Exploration group projects has 
returned US$1,291 million for a net pre tax spend of approximately 
US$128 million. Over the period this translates to an average Tier 1 
discovery cost of less than US$16 million per deposit.
The following table shows the Exploration group’s Tier 1 
discoveries since 2000:
Year Discovery Commodity Location
2000 Potasio Rio 
Colorado
Potash Argentina
2002 Resolution Copper US
2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea
2005 La Granja Copper Peru
2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia
2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia
2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique
2009 Jadar Lithium/borates Serbia
At the end of 2010, the Exploration group was actively exploring 
in 16 countries, and assessing opportunities in a further seven, for 
a broad range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking 
coal, iron ore, diamonds, nickel, uranium and potash.
Strategy
The purpose of Exploration is to add value to the Group by discovering 
or acquiring resources that can increase future cash flows. 
A fundamental element of the Group’s business strategy is a 
clear focus on finding and mining only the largest, most cost 
competitive resources that are profitable at all parts of the natural 
price cycle and that deliver sustainable competitive advantage. 
These are described as Tier 1 resources.
The Exploration group is accountable for greenfield exploration 
programmes and it provides technical assistance to the business 
units on brownfield exploration. Greenfield exploration, which 
aims to establish completely new operating business units, 
involves geographic or commodity diversification away from 
existing Group operations. Brownfield exploration is directed at 
sustaining or growing existing Group businesses. Exploration 
further supports the product groups in the assessment of merger 
and acquisition opportunities.
The Exploration group is organised geographically into regional 
multi-commodity teams, with head offices in London, Salt Lake 
City and Brisbane. This structure provides a balance between 
global reach and local presence. 
Greenfield exploration programmes are prioritised on a global 
basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are pursued. 
Priorities are determined in consultation with the product groups, 
with investment decisions being driven not by location or choice 
of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
Exploration teams frequently present the first face of Rio Tinto  
in a community and lay the groundwork for what could become  
a multi-decade relationship. Exploration places a high priority on 
effective community engagement and considers its commitment 
to sustainable development as fundamental to securing its social 
licence to operate. 
Safety
The Exploration group all injury frequency rate has increased 
from 0.62 at the end of 2009 to 1.18 at the end of 2010. The 
deterioration in performance is correlated with the expansion of 
field activities following the global financial crisis and increased 
engagement of contractors. The Exploration group continues 
to work closely with contractors to implement critical controls 
around high risk activities such as drilling.
Performance
A bauxite Order of Magnitude project was initiated at Amargosa 
in Brazil and is on target for delivery of the resource to the product 
group at the end of 2011. Resource evaluation continued at the 
Tamarack nickel-copper prospect in the US and the project will 
be advanced to a decision point in early 2011. The Altai Nuurs 
coking coal deposit in Mongolia was identified as a non core  
asset and has been prepared for divestment. 
Target testing at Sanxai in Laos, in joint venture with Mitsui, 
identified ore grade bauxite mineralisation. 
Target generation activities were progressed across a range of 
commodities and jurisdictions. In Kazakhstan, a memorandum  
of understanding was signed with state mining company Tau-Ken 
Samruk to conduct joint venture exploration for copper and other 
minerals. A similar agreement was signed with Chinalco to jointly 
explore for copper and other minerals within mainland China.
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
1.18
(2009: 0.62)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
0.88
1.25
0.98
0.62
1.18 www.riotinto.com 63
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
In the brownfield environment, Exploration handed over a number 
of iron ore deposits in the Pilbara, Australia, to the Iron Ore product 
group. In Utah, US, exploration continues within a three kilometre 
orbit of the Bingham Canyon Mine. Recent drilling to the east of the 
mine identified a new but sub-economic copper-molybdenum-gold 
porphyry system. Drilling at other targets within the Bingham mine 
orbit is under review. On the Rössing mine lease in Namibia, ore 
grade uranium intersections were returned at the Z20 prospect.
A research and development milestone was reached with the first 
test flights of the VK1 airborne gravity gradiometer over a test 
range in Western Australia. System optimisation is under way in 
preparation for production flying towards the end of 2011 and 
commercialisation of the technology.
Gross cash expenditure on exploration and evaluation in 2010 was 
US$594 million. The increase of US$80 million over 2009 gross 
expenditure reflects the ramp up of activities in response to the 
improved market outlook, while remaining below 2008 expenditure 
of US$1,134 million. Gross expenditures are offset by US$522 million 
(pre-tax) proceeds from the divestment of exploration properties.
Outlook
The Exploration group expects to explore for a range of 
commodities across at least 17 countries in 2011 and plans 
to deliver the Amargosa bauxite Order of Magnitude project 
to the Rio Tinto Alcan product group at the end of the year. 
Reinvigorating early stage target generation will continue to be a 
priority to drive sustained exploration success.
Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue where real value can 
be realised, with a target of 50 per cent of the annual greenfield 
exploration budget being returned to the Group.
The next crop of potential discoveries:
Project CommodityCountry Stage
Amargosa Bauxite Brazil Order of Magnitude
Sanxai Bauxite Laos Project of Merit
Progress of a project
The evolution of a project from target 
generation to investment approval, 
implementation and commissioning 
involves a series of study stages that 
can take ten to 20 years. Sustainable 
development critera are applied 
throughout the project development cycle.
Early stages of work are broadly termed 
exploration and are the responsibility of 
the Exploration group. These stages deliver 
a progressive increase in confidence in the 
technical and economic parameters used 
to determine whether a project satisfies 
Rio Tinto’s investment criteria.
Target generation and testing involves 
the progression from concept to 
demonstration of mineralisation at a 
prospect. A Project of Merit is defined 
where mineralisation has been identified 
through drilling to be of a grade and 
quantity sufficient to be of economic 
interest by analogy with peer deposits 
currently in production.
Projects which attract the support of the 
relevant Rio Tinto product group are 
progressed to Order of Magnitude Study . This 
involves an assessment of a range of options 
to establish economic viability of the project, 
and determine whether its potential value is 
sufficient to justify committing significant 
resources to a detailed study programme. 
Any potential “showstoppers” are identified 
during this stage.
A successful Order of Magnitude Study 
results in the declaration of a discovery 
and the transfer of project management 
from the Exploration group to the 
relevant Rio Tinto product group. Further 
work on these projects is broadly defined 
as evaluation.
The two main evaluation study phases 
are Pre-feasibility and Feasibility Studies. 
Pre-feasibility involves an evaluation 
of project options, yielding a far clearer 
understanding of the preferred project 
concept and key value drivers. The 
Feasibility Study sees the focus switch  
to optimisation and engineering of a 
single scenario identified through the 
Pre-feasibility Study. This finally freezes 
the scope of the project to be constructed.
 
Evaluation Exploration
Target generation 
and testing
Project of Merit Order of Magnitude Pre-feasibility 
Study
Feasibility Study Construction
Opportunities are tested and screened by several different stages of work 64 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Technology & Innovation
A strategic commitment driving competitive advantage
Technology & Innovation (T&I) consists of a central team of technology 
professionals and a number of technology centres that develop leading 
practice and promote improvements in mining, processing, asset 
management, strategic production planning, energy use, and project 
development, execution and evaluation. Emphasis is given to shared 
and visible measures of operational effectiveness, the improvement of 
analytical tools and development of staff capabilities.
Most work is focused on improving current technologies and 
operations. In addition, the Innovation Centre focuses on 
technology step changes that will confer competitive advantage 
in development of orebodies likely to be available to the Group 
in the future. The Energy & Climate Strategy Centre focuses on 
improving the Group’s use of energy, reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions and understanding the effects of climate change on the 
Group’s operations and prospects.
The total number of employees in T&I increased from 267 at 31 
December 2009 to 538 at 31 December 2010 primarily due to an 
increase of demand for the design and build of major projects on 
behalf of the Group business units.
Strategy 
T&I’s strategy is to:
 Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
 Continue to embed operational excellence in business units.
 Maximise the contribution of technology to the Group’s vision 
of industry leadership.
 Deploy technology solutions that increase earnings.
 Design and build valuable new investment projects.
 Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative 
mining solutions.
 Lead the Group’s response to climate change.
Safety 
T&I is committed to the safe operation of its facilities and to the 
safe deployment of its personnel. Starting in 2009, the safety 
results reflect the inclusion of development projects managed by 
T&I. The all injury frequency rate for T&I and projects in 2010 is 
0.72 compared to 0.87 in 2009.
Performance
Key achievements 
The Improving Performance Together (IPT) engagements continue  
to work with operating sites on operating improvements. In  
2010 this collaborative effort delivered in excess of US$1 billion  
pre-tax cash flow. This was achieved by, for example, assisting in 
 the debottlenecking of the iron ore operations in the Pilbara, 
through improved equipment availability and concentrator 
throughput at Kennecott and maintenance cost reduction at  
Rio Tinto Alcan operations. 
The Innovation group achieved several milestones during 2010 
including the following:
 Successful movement of 31 million tonnes of iron ore with the 
Autonomous Haul System fleet demonstrating higher than 
planned productivity. 
 First flight of the VK1 airborne gravity instrument.
 Deployment of the remote command vehicle, which is capable 
of managing up to three blast hole drills with one operator in 
non line of sight mode.
 Accelerated progression of the first tunnel boring machine 
which will be commissioned at Northparkes mine in early 2012.
 Successful trial of an innovative flotation control system at 
Kennecott Utah Copper demonstrating improved recovery.
The T&I gross cost in 2010 was US$214 million, compared with 
US$134 million in 2009 and US$158 million in 2008.
Innovation 
The Innovation group identifies, evaluates and implements value 
accretive step change mining technologies with Group wide 
application. 
Some of the Innovation initiatives and programmes included:
 The strategic Mine of the Future
TM
 programme, interlinking 
projects delivering improvements in productivity, cost, product 
quality and mining technology.
 The Rio Tinto Centre for Underground Mine Construction, 
which will focus on rapid mine construction, rock mass 
behaviour controls, and innovative ground support for future 
Rio Tinto underground mines.
 The development of step change technologies to support the 
safe rapid development of large underground block cave mines. 
 The development and deployment of autonomous blast hole 
drilling technologies, currently operating in the Pilbara with 
potential for Group wide implementation.
 The surface Mine of the Future
TM
 programme which focuses 
on operating the first significantly autonomous iron ore mine 
by combining autonomous drilling, semi-autonomous blast 
loading with autonomous trucks, and a wide range of advanced 
sensing and telecommunications technologies.
Energy & Climate Strategy 
The Energy & Climate Strategy team (E&CS) leads the Group’s 
response to the challenges of climate change and the inter-related 
topic of energy management. The team engages with the 
operating businesses, governments and other stakeholders on 
the design of climate and energy policy, manages the Group’s 
carbon capture and storage (CCS) and develops internal strategies 
to evaluate energy supply options, secure energy supply, and to 
reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
In addition, E&CS actively supports the development of legislation 
and regulation through direct engagement with governments and 
involvement in advocacy groups such as the US Climate Action 
Partnership.
Mineral Technology Services 
The Mineral Technology Services Centre comprises a team of 
technology professionals deployed from five regional offices 
in North America, Australia and the UK. The team works 
with operating sites to deliver substantial increases in value; 
with project teams to determine the optimum value adding 
project plan; and with the broader Group to understand and 
manage major technical risks. The team provides support in 
the areas of geology, geotechnics, mining, mineral processing, 
hydrometallurgy, process control, asset management, environment 
and business analysis.
The Centre is also responsible for implementing IPT processing, a 
structured methodology designed to increase the value delivered 
by Rio Tinto’s processing operations. IPT processing includes 
focused data analysis to understand and address the constraints 
and variability which inhibit process performance. IPT processing  www.riotinto.com 65
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
continues to generate value across the Group, delivering over 
US$350 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits in 2010.
Asset Management 
The Asset Management Centre concentrates on the effective 
selection and use of equipment for the Group’s mining and 
processing operations. Work included the implementation of asset 
management standards and guidelines, as well as standard business 
processes and fit for purpose technical operating systems, work 
practices and global metrics to monitor the performance of fixed 
plant and heavy mobile equipment.
The Asset Management IPT programme continued to deliver 
robust results in 2010, supporting business units to realise over 
US$400 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits.
Mining Technology 
The focus of the Mining Technology Centre is to establish leading 
practice and develop, share and implement Group wide solutions 
in the core mining production processes of surface mining, 
underground mining, strategic resource development, resource 
and reserve estimation, orebody knowledge and mine planning. 
The Centre also oversees the Group’s resource and reserves 
estimation and reporting process, reserves and resources audit 
process and core technical systems. IPT mining initiatives in 2010 
included payload management, drill and blast and off road tyre 
demand reduction. The IPT programme for mining technology 
continued to deliver strong results in 2010 and assisted business 
units in realising over US$180 million in pre-tax cash flow benefits.
The Mining Technology Centre also includes a Strategic 
Production Planning (SPP) team, which focuses on developing and 
establishing leading practice. SPP teams co-operate with business 
units to develop comprehensive plans and valuations of strategic 
resource development options. Results from SPP provide a logical 
resource development framework for more detailed studies 
and investment decision making. SPP engagements completed 
during the year increased the life of mine valuation of a number 
of existing mining businesses and supported expansion based 
investment proposals.
Project Development & Implementation 
The Project Development & Implementation Centre (PDI) provides 
guidance, support and training for all aspects of capital projects, 
performs a governance function by conducting project reviews, 
manages feasibility studies, and executes capital projects on behalf 
of the business units. During 2010 PDI commenced resourcing for, 
and implementation of, a global operating model in preparation for 
implementation of projects in nearly all continents and on behalf 
of all product groups. The model provides for a Project Management 
support function as well as Implementation Hubs focused on 
supporting the product groups. In 2010 it was responsible for the 
progression of the Argyle Diamonds underground project, Kestrel 
mine extension, Yarwun 2 project, the feasibility study for the 
Energy Resources of Australia heap leach project and the Eagle 
nickel project in Michigan. PDI also provided support and advice to 
most other major projects in a year when the Group recommenced 
or accelerated projects that were suspended during 2008 and 2009. 
Additionally, the operation of the Clermont coal mine project was 
successfully handed over to Rio Tinto Coal Australia. During 2010, 
the Centre continued to make improvements in overall safety 
performance at these projects.
Technical Evaluation Group 
The Technical Evaluation Group (TEG) ensures that Rio Tinto’s 
investment decisions are based on independent, technical review 
and evaluation. TEG also provides advice on the adequacy of 
risk identification and management at key points in the project 
approvals process. 
Outlook 
In 2011 T&I will continue to maintain a culture that places 
a high priority on safety and safety improvements. T&I will 
continue to work with Group businesses to deliver measurable 
increases in earnings and will continue to assist from a technology 
viewpoint in the selection of the most attractive investment 
opportunities. It will continue to focus on the safe and efficient 
implementation of projects and will build systems to support 
management of projects across the Group. The pursuit of the Mine 
of the Future™ programme and the development of innovative 
alliances and relationships that will create competitive advantage 
for the Group remain a significant focus. T&I will also focus on 
delivering improvements in the Group’s energy efficiency, long 
term business decarbonisation options, compliance processes and 
performance, and carbon markets participation. T&I will look to 
significantly increase staff levels as the business environment 
continues to improve and the need for highly skilled technical 
employees increases.  66 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial review
2010 financial performance compared with 2009
In order to provide additional insight into the performance of its 
business, Rio Tinto presents underlying earnings.
2010 underlying earnings of US$13,987 million and net earnings 
of US$14,324 million were US$7,689 million above and US$9,452 
million above the comparable measures for 2009. The principal 
factors explaining the movements are set out in the table below. 
Changes from 2009 to 2010
Underlying 
earnings
US$m
Net 
earnings
US$m
2009 6,298 4,872
Prices 9,505
Exchange rates (1,171)
Volumes 782
General inflation (253)
Energy (232)
Other cash costs (445)
Exploration and evaluation costs 
(including disposals of undeveloped
   properties) (690)
Interest, tax, other 193
7,689 7,689
Gain on consolidation of  
   Oyu Tolgoi LLC 531
Profits less losses on disposal of 
interests in business
(325)
Net impairment charges
Exchange differences and derivatives
Chinalco break fee
Restructuring costs from global
   headcount reduction
716
401
182
231
Other 27
2010 13,987 14,324
(a)  See note 2 on page 182 of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of 
underlying earnings to net earnings.
Prices
The effect of price movements on all major commodities in 
2010 was to increase underlying earnings by US$9,505 million 
compared with 2009. Average annual prices improved for nearly 
all of Rio Tinto’s major commodities: copper prices were up 47 per 
cent, molybdenum prices were up 45 per cent, gold prices were up 
26 per cent and aluminium prices were 31 per cent higher than 
2009. Demand and prices for diamonds and minerals improved 
significantly as the worldwide economy emerged from the global 
financial recession.
Commodity prices and other drivers of sales revenue of individual 
product groups are discussed further in this section on pages 69 
to 71.
Exchange rates
There was significant movement in the US dollar in 2010 relative 
to the currencies in which Rio Tinto incurs the majority of its costs. 
Compared with 2009, on average, the US dollar weakened by 16 
per cent against the Australian dollar and by ten per cent against 
the Canadian dollar. The effect of all currency movements was to 
decrease underlying earnings relative to 2009 by US$1,171 million.
Volumes
Higher sales volumes were primarily generated from the expanded 
iron ore operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia running 
at above nameplate capacity and an increased proportion of higher 
margin pellet sales at IOC. The Aluminium group benefited from 
higher sales of value added aluminium products. Increased volumes of 
hard coking coal following new investment in heavy mobile equipment 
at the Queensland mines, higher refined gold and molybdenum at 
Kennecott Utah Copper and a significant recovery in diamonds and 
minerals market demand also contributed to the positive variance. 
These increases offset lower copper and gold volumes at Grasberg 
which were impacted by lower ore grades and lower mill throughput. 
The overall impact of volume movements was an increase in 
underlying earnings of US$782 million relative to 2009.
Energy, other cash costs and exploration
Higher energy costs across the Group, in particular for Aluminium, 
reduced underlying earnings by US$232 million. This primarily 
reflected low snow and rain levels in the Saguenay region of 
Quebec during the first half of 2010 which led to reduced power 
generation, resulting in the need to purchase additional power 
under a specially negotiated power block from the provincial 
utility over a 12 month period. 
Higher other cash costs during 2010 decreased underlying earnings 
by US$445 million compared with 2009. Higher unit cash costs in 
the Copper group were the result of the planned smelter shutdown 
and lower copper production following lower grades at most of the 
operations. Adverse weather conditions and higher stripping rates 
impacted costs at the Energy group. These were partly offset by 
lower costs in the Aluminium group, which benefited from lower 
prices for caustic, pitch and coke. 
In 2010, evaluation work accelerated at many of the Group’s 
projects including the Resolution and La Granja copper projects 
and the Simandou iron ore project. Two undeveloped coal 
properties were divested in 2010 resulting in a US$229 million 
gain on disposal, compared with a gain of US$797 million in  
2009 from the disposal of two undeveloped potash properties.  
The impact from higher exploration and evaluation expenditure 
combined with lower gains realised from divestments was to lower 
underlying earnings by US$690 million compared with 2009. 
Interest, tax, other
The effective corporate income tax rate on underlying earnings, 
excluding equity accounted units, was 27.9 per cent compared 
with 24.8 per cent in 2009. A significant proportion of the 
increase related to the one-off non-taxable profit on disposal 
of the potash assets which was recognised in 2009. The Group 
interest charge was US$110 million lower than in 2009, mainly 
reflecting lower debt in 2010 following completion of the rights 
issues and divestments. www.riotinto.com 67
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
2009 financial performance compared with 2008
2009 underlying earnings of US$6,298 million and net earnings 
of US$4,872 million were US$4,005 million below and US$1,196 
million above the comparable measures for 2008. The principal 
factors explaining the movements are set out in the table below.
Changes from 2008 to 2009
Underlying 
earnings
US$m
Net 
earnings
US$m
2008 10,303 3,676
Prices (6,879)
Exchange rates 484
Volumes 652
General inflation (172)
Energy 318
Other cash costs 742
Exploration and evaluation costs 
(including disposals of undeveloped
   properties) 890
Interest, tax, other (40)
Total changes in underlying earnings (4,005) (4,005)
Profits on disposal of interests in
   businesses (971)
Net impairment charges 6,854
Exchange differences and derivatives (815)
Chinalco break fee (182)
Restructuring/severance costs from
   global headcount reduction (174)
Other 489
2009 6,298 4,872
(a)  See note 2 on page 182 of the 2010 financial statements for a reconciliation of underlying 
earnings to net earnings.
Prices
The effect of price movements on all major commodities in 2009 
was to decrease earnings by US$6,879 million compared with 2008. 
Prices declined for nearly all of Rio Tinto’s major commodities: 
average copper and aluminium prices were 28 per cent and 35 per 
cent lower, respectively, while average molybdenum prices were 
65 per cent lower than 2008. Gold prices in 2009 were 11 per cent 
higher than 2008. Diamond prices were severely impacted by the 
global economic downturn.
Exchange rates
There was significant movement in the US dollar in 2009 relative 
to the currencies in which Rio Tinto incurs the majority of its costs. 
Compared with 2008, on average, the US dollar strengthened by eight 
per cent against the Australian dollar and by six per cent against 
the Canadian dollar. The effect of all currency movements was to 
increase underlying earnings relative to 2008 by US$484 million.
Volumes
Higher sales volumes from the expansion of iron ore capacity 
in the Pilbara region of Western Australia and higher copper 
and gold grades at Kennecott Utah Copper and Grasberg were 
partly offset by production cutbacks at Rio Tinto Alcan, Alcan 
Engineered Products, Rio Tinto Diamonds, Rio Tinto Iron & 
Titanium and Rio Tinto Minerals in response to the economic 
downturn. The overall impact of volume movements was an 
increase in underlying earnings of US$652 million relative to 2008.
Energy, other cash costs and exploration
A reduction in cash costs during 2009 increased underlying 
earnings by US$742 million compared with 2008. Controllable 
operating cost savings of US$2.6 billion were achieved in 2009, 
exceeding the target set in December 2008 and delivered one 
year in advance. Lower unit costs in the Copper group, notably 
at Kennecott Utah Copper, were driven by higher production 
and a bottom up cost reduction programme. The Iron Ore group 
benefited from lower unit cash costs in line with higher sales 
volumes and a reduction in contractor and maintenance costs. 
Decreased costs at Rio Tinto Alcan were driven by the major cost 
cutting initiatives undertaken in response to the global financial 
crisis including reduction of all non critical, discretionary spend 
along with programmes to reduce operating costs across the 
production sites.
Lower energy costs across the Group boosted underlying earnings 
by a further US$318 million, reflecting the impact of a lower oil 
price. Evaluation work at many of the Group’s advanced projects 
was scaled back in 2009 and the central exploration budget was 
reduced by 60 per cent, which, together with the divestment 
of some exploration and evaluation properties, resulted in a 
favourable impact to underlying earnings of US$890 million 
compared with 2008. In line with Rio Tinto’s exploration policy, 
a US$797 million gain on disposal of the undeveloped potash 
properties in Argentina and Canada was recognised within 
underlying earnings. This forms part of the exploration variance 
in the table above net of the US$483 million gain on disposal of 
the undeveloped Kintyre uranium project in 2008.
Interest, tax, other
The effective tax rate on underlying earnings, excluding equity 
accounted units, was 24.8 per cent compared with 31.6 per cent 
in 2008. The decrease largely related to the one-off non taxable 
profit on disposal of the potash assets which was recognised in 
2009, and by an increase in foreign currency exchange losses 
arising from revaluation of tax bases for Canadian companies 
with US$ functional currencies. The Group interest charge was 
US$446 million lower than in 2008, mainly reflecting a decline  
in interest rates, and lower debt in 2009 following completion  
of  the rights issues. 68 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial review continued
Exclusions from underlying earnings 2008–2010
Earnings contributions from Group businesses and business 
segments are based on underlying earnings. Amounts excluded 
from net earnings in arriving at underlying earnings are 
summarised in the discussion of year on year results below.
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Gain on consolidation of  
   Oyu Tolgoi LLC 531––
Profit less losses on disposal of
   interest in business
Net impairment charges
(a)
174
(836)
499
(1,552)
1,470
(8,406)
Exchange differences and gains/
   (losses) on derivatives 429 28 843
Chinalco break fee
(b)
– (182) –
Restructuring/severance costs from
   global headcount reduction – (231) (57)
Other exclusions 39 12 (477)
Total excluded in arriving at 
underlying earnings 337 (1,426) (6,627)
(a)  Net impairment charges include impairment charges of US$739 million (2009: US$1,103 million; 
2008: US$7,579 million) and loss after tax of discontinued operations of US$97 million 
(2009: US$449 million; 2008: US$827 million).
(b) The Chinalco break fee was US$195 million pre-tax.
2010
Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 
following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines. The 
US$531 million gain arising on consolidation represents the excess 
of the provisional fair value ascribed to the Group’s indirect share  
of the assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC over the historic cost 
of acquiring that share through its investment in Ivanhoe Mines. 
Profits on the disposal of businesses in 2010 relate primarily to 
the sale of the Group’s remaining 48 per cent interest in Cloud 
Peak Energy Inc. 
The 2010 impairment charge of US$739 million related mainly to 
the Alcan Engineered Products businesses. On 5 August 2010 the 
Group received a binding offer for the sale of 61 per cent of Alcan 
Engineered Products, excluding the Cable division, to certain 
investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, 
LLC (Apollo) and the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement. The 
divestment was completed on 4 January 2011. The terms of the 
transaction are confidential. Following completion, Rio Tinto 
holds a 39 per cent stake and will treat its interest as an equity 
accounted unit.
Loss after tax from discontinued operations of US$97 million 
(inclusive of divestment costs) relates to the completion of the 
disposal of Alcan Packaging global Pharmaceuticals, global 
Tobacco, Food Europe and Food Asia divisions to Amcor on  
1 February 2010, and the Alcan Packaging Food Americas  
division to Bemis Company Inc. on 1 March 2010. 
2009
In 2009, the Group completed the divestments of its interests in 
the Ningxia aluminium smelter, the Corumba iron ore operation, 
the Jacobs Ranch coal mine, Alcan Composites and the sale of 52 
per cent of the Group’s interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources 
LLC. Net gains on these transactions totalling US$0.5 billion were 
excluded from underlying earnings as divestments of interests in 
businesses are considered to be outside the underlying activities 
of the Group.
Of the Group’s total post-tax impairment charge of US$1,103 million, 
US$500 million related to Alcan Engineered Products, US$212 million 
related to the Group’s aluminium businesses and US$348 million 
related to the Group’s diamond businesses.
An impairment of US$318 million relating to the Alcan Packaging 
businesses was recognised during the year, and was included 
within “loss after tax of discontinued operations”.
All impairments were measured based upon an assessment of 
fair value less costs to sell. These impairments were caused by 
continued weakness in the economic environment. 
In 2009, Rio Tinto paid a break fee of US$195 million (US$182 million 
post-tax) to Chinalco which was excluded from underlying earnings.
During 2009, the Group incurred restructuring and severance 
costs of US$231 million associated with its global headcount 
reduction programme.
2008
Profit on disposal related to the disposal of the interests in the 
Cortez gold mine and the Greens Creek silver/zinc/lead mine. 
During 2008 the Group incurred advisory and other costs related 
to the rejection by the board of the pre-conditional takeover 
proposal from BHP Billiton which was withdrawn in November. 
These costs totalled US$270 million (net of tax) in 2008 and were 
excluded from underlying earnings. Other charges excluded from 
underlying earnings comprised costs relating to non recurring 
acquisitions, disposals and similar corporate projects. 
The Group’s total post-tax impairment charge of US$7,579 
million related mainly to the Group’s aluminium businesses: 
US$6,127 million, and Engineered Products: US$980 million. 
The acquisition price of Alcan anticipated significant growth 
in smelter and refinery capacity, but following the significant 
weakening in economic and market circumstances during 2008, 
many of these growth projects were deferred. These deferrals, 
together with the weak economic environment and increases in 
input costs, resulted in the impairment charge.
In measuring the amount of the impairment, the Group compared 
the carrying value of the upstream aluminium business with its 
value in use, assessed using discounted cash flow techniques. 
This followed the requirements of accounting standards as, in the 
Group’s view, the upstream aluminium business’ fair value less 
cost to sell was lower than its value in use. For the purposes of 
the annual goodwill impairment test, goodwill was allocated to a 
group of cash generating units that included both Alcan and the 
aluminium activities previously owned by Rio Tinto which were 
managed as a single business following the acquisition. 
The impairment charge did not trigger the covenant under the 
Alcan acquisition facilities, which required that the ratio of net 
debt to underlying EBITDA be no greater than 4.5 times. 
An impairment of discontinued operations of US$827 million 
relating to Packaging was recognised outside of underlying 
earnings. As required by IFRS 5 – Non-current Assets Held-for-Sale 
and Discontinued Operations, the amount of this impairment was 
determined by reference to the Group’s best estimate of expected 
proceeds to be realised on the sale of Packaging, less an estimate 
of remaining costs to sell. The Packaging business was valued 
based upon an assessment of its fair value, required because this 
business was presented as an Asset Held for Sale in the Group 
balance sheet. Engineered Products was also valued based upon 
an assessment of its fair value, as the Group’s intention was to sell 
this group of businesses. www.riotinto.com 69
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Exchange differences and gains/(losses) on derivatives of  
US$843 million related to a gain of US$1.9 billion on Australian 
dollar intragroup liabilities, held by Group entities with a US 
dollar functional currency offset by a loss of US$1.7 billion on 
external US dollar debt held by an entity with an Australian  
dollar functional currency. The weakening of the Australian dollar 
against the US dollar, particularly towards the end of 2008, led 
to these significant movements. The tax on exchange gains and 
losses included a benefit of US$254 million through recovery of 
tax relating to the prior years. It also included tax relief for losses 
on US dollar denominated debt. The pre-tax loss was offset by 
gains on intragroup balances which were largely not subject to tax. 
Net earnings and underlying earnings
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal with amounts 
attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto. However, EU IFRS requires 
that the profit for the period reported in the income statement 
should also include earnings attributable to non-controlling 
interests in subsidiaries. The profit for the period is reconciled  
to net earnings and to underlying earnings as follows:
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Profit from continuing operations 15,281 5,784 5,436
Loss after tax from discontinued
   operations (97) (449) (827)
Profit for the year 15,184 5,335 4,609
Less: attributable to non-controlling
   interests (860) (463) (933)
Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto
   (net earnings) 14,324 4,872 3,676
Exclusions from underlying earnings (337) 1,426 6,627
Underlying earnings attributable to
   owners of Rio Tinto 13,987 6,298 10,303
Group financial results by product group 2008–2010
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Iron Ore 10,189 4,126 6,017
Aluminium 773 (560) 1,281
Copper 2,534 1,878 1,615
Energy 1,187 1,167 2,432
Diamonds & Minerals 328 800 474
Other operations 71 71 13
Inter-segment transactions (15) (28) 25
Other items (554) (577) (391)
Exploration and evaluation (52) 5 (133)
Net interest (474) (584) (1,030)
Group underlying earnings 13,987 6,298 10,303
Exclusions from underlying earnings 337 (1,426) (6,627)
Net earnings 14,324 4,872 3,676
Sales revenue 
Prices
Commodity Source Unit
2010 
US$
2009 
US$
2008 
US$
Average prices
Aluminium LME 
(a)
Tonne 2,173 1,665 2,572
Copper LME Pound 3.40 2.32 3.20
Gold LBMA Ounce 1,222 970 872
Iron ore Australian 
fines 
dmtu 
(b)
 1.84 1.09 1.29
Molybdenum Metals Week: 
quote for 
dealer oxide 
price
Pound 16 11 31
Closing prices (quoted commodities only)
Aluminium Tonne 2,459 2,207 1,454
Copper Pound 4.44 3.33 1.32
Gold Ounce 1,410 1,104 865
Molybdenum Pound 16 11 10
(a) LME cash price 
(b) Dry metric tonne unit
The above table shows published prices for Rio Tinto’s commodities 
for the last three years where these are publicly available, and where 
there is a reasonable degree of correlation between the published 
prices and Rio Tinto’s realised prices. The prices set out in the  
table are the averages for each of the calendar years, 2008, 2009  
and 2010.
The Group’s sales revenue will not necessarily move in line  
with these published prices for a number of reasons which are 
discussed below.
The discussion of revenues below relates to the Group’s gross 
revenue from sales of commodities, including its share of the 
revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for sales  
to subsidiaries), as included in the financial information by 
business unit.
Iron Ore
2010 sales revenue compared with 2009
Gross sales revenue for the Iron Ore group increased by 91 per cent in 
2010 compared to 2009 driven by strong prices and a nine per cent 
increase in production. During 2010, iron ore pricing moved to quarterly 
contracts, reflecting the structural shift away from annual benchmark 
pricing. First quarter iron ore prices (from 1 January 2011) are based on 
the average indexed price from 1 September to 30 November 2010. Sales 
volumes increased in response to growing demand in major markets 
stimulated by improving economic conditions and delays in capacity 
from other suppliers. 
2009 sales revenue compared with 2008
The sales revenues of the Iron Ore group decreased by 24 per cent 
in 2009 compared with 2008. During 2009, Rio Tinto settled iron 
ore supply contracts with customers in Japan, Korea and Taiwan, 
with prices for fines declining 33 per cent and prices for lump 
declining 44 per cent on the prior year. Approximately half of the 
iron ore that Rio Tinto produced in the first six months of 2009 
was sold on a spot market basis. In the second half of the year, 
sales were primarily priced on a benchmark or its equivalent 
provisional basis. 70 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial review continued
Aluminium
2010 sales revenue compared with 2009
The Aluminium group’s sales revenues are from aluminium 
and related products such as alumina and bauxite. Gross sales 
revenue in 2010 for the Aluminium group increased by 26 per 
cent compared to 2009. The 2010 spot aluminium price averaged 
US$2,173 per tonne, an increase of 31 per cent on 2009. This 
increase reflects the combination of a robust recovery in end use 
demand in developed economies and the continued roll over of 
inventory financing positions amidst a prolonged period of low 
interest rates.
2009 sales revenue compared with 2008
The 2009 sales revenues of the Aluminium group decreased by 
34 per cent against 2008. The average aluminium market price in 
2009 was US$1,665 per tonne compared with US$2,572 per tonne 
in 2008. The decline in LME prices that commenced in mid 2008 
continued into 2009, with some improvement in the second half 
of 2009, resulting in a year-end price of US$2,207 per tonne.
Energy
2010 sales revenue compared with 2009
A significant proportion of Rio Tinto’s coal production is sold 
under long term contracts. In Australia, the prices applying to 
sales under the long term contracts are generally renegotiated 
annually; but prices are fixed at different times of the year 
and on a variety of bases. For these reasons, average realised 
prices will not necessarily reflect the movements in any of the 
publicly quoted prices. Moreover, there are significant product 
specification differences between mines. Sales volumes will vary 
during the year and the timing of shipments will also result in 
differences between average realised prices and published prices.
Gross sales revenue for the Energy group increased by 16 per 
cent in 2010. Overall average coal prices were lower than in 2009 
due to the absence of higher carry over prices from 2008. 2010 
saw continuing strength in the seaborne market for Australian 
coal. Demand for thermal coal continued to be robust from South 
Korea, India, Taiwan and China. Global steel demand improved in 
all markets in the first half of the year and led to strong demand 
for semi-soft coking coal. The market for premium quality hard 
coking coal remained steady in 2010.
Uranium spot markets were relatively weak early in 2010 but 
strengthened in the second half of the year, mainly driven by 
strong demand from China. Long term prices have remained 
consistent with some small increases in the latter part of the year. 
2009 sales revenue compared with 2008
Sales revenues for the Energy group decreased by 16 per cent 
in 2009 compared with 2008 due to lower realised Australian 
coal prices, partially offset by an increase in the US thermal coal 
price. China’s demand for imported coal in 2009 was particularly 
strong and this supported improved prices by year end, however 
prices were lower than the records achieved in 2008. Global steel 
demand was also weak in the first half of 2009 for most markets 
other than China, but improved in the second half of the year and 
led to strong demand for coking and semi-soft coking coal. Hard 
coking coal production from the Group’s Australian operations 
was comparable with 2008. Thermal coal contracts for the 2009 
fiscal year (12 months commencing 1 April 2009) were settled 
in the US$70-72 per tonne range, a decrease of approximately 
44 per cent on the record levels of the previous year. Coking coal 
contracts for the 2009 fiscal year were settled in the US$115-130 
per tonne range, a decline of approximately 60 per cent on the 
record levels of the 2008 fiscal year.
Copper
2010 sales revenue compared with 2009
The Copper group also produces gold and molybdenum as 
significant by-products. Gross sales revenue for the Copper 
group increased by 25 per cent in 2010 compared to 2009. The 
Copper group benefited from higher average prices for its major 
products in 2010. Copper increased 47 per cent to 340 cents per 
pound, gold increased 26 per cent to US$1,222 per ounce and 
molybdenum increased 45 per cent to US$16 per pound. The 
benefit from higher prices in 2010 was partly offset by lower 
volumes, notably from Grasberg and higher unit cash costs in line 
with reduced production from lower grades.
At the end of 2010, the group had an estimated 270 million 
pounds of copper sales that were provisionally priced at US 428 
cents per pound. The final price of these sales will be determined 
during the first half of 2011.
2009 sales revenue compared with 2008
The 2009 average copper price of 232 US cents per pound was 
28 per cent below the 2008 average price. The 2009 gold price 
averaged US$970 per ounce, an increase of 11 per cent on the 
prior year, whilst the average molybdenum price was US$11 per 
pound, a decrease of 65 per cent compared with 2008. 
Sales revenues for the Copper group in 2009 increased by eight 
per cent compared with 2008. The effect of provisional pricing 
of copper sales resulted in a benefit to underlying earnings of 
US$213 million in 2009, compared to a charge of US$207 million 
in 2008. At the end of 2009 the Group had 267 million pounds of 
copper sales that were provisionally priced at 335 US cents  
per pound. This compared with 183 million pounds of open 
shipments at 31 December 2008 provisionally priced at 133 US 
cents per pound.
Diamonds & Minerals
2010 sales revenue compared with 2009
Diamond prices realised by Rio Tinto depend on the size and 
quality of diamonds in the product mix. Gross sales revenue 
increased by 16 per cent in 2010 compared to 2009. Sustained 
demand from emerging markets, which largely offset the slower 
recovery from the established markets of the US and Europe was 
reflected in higher prices and increased sales volumes for the 
Diamonds & Minerals group. 
Rough diamond prices demonstrated a robust recovery throughout 
2010 as demand from emerging markets, notably India and China, 
accelerated. Demand for titanium dioxide feedstocks, talc and 
borates in 2010 continued to demonstrate a healthy recovery in 
line with improving global economic conditions.  www.riotinto.com 71
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
2009 sales revenue compared with 2008
Revenue from Diamond sales in 2009 decreased by 46 per cent 
compared with 2008, primarily due to the global economic slowdown, 
as demand for luxury items decreased. However, there was an 
improvement in prices for rough diamonds in the latter half of 2009.
Sales revenue for Minerals in 2009 decreased by 27 per cent 
compared with 2008, due to a decline in demand resulting from 
the global economic crisis. Prices applying to industrial minerals 
are generally negotiated with individual customers, based on 
a variety of factors such as product specification, volumes, etc. 
Therefore, average realised prices will not necessarily reflect the 
movements in any publicly quoted prices.
Cash flow
2010 compared with 2009
A full consolidated cash flow statement is contained in the  
2010 financial statements. Cash flows from operations, including 
dividends from equity accounted units, were US$23.5 billion,  
70 per cent higher than 2009, primarily as a consequence of  
higher prices. 
Tax paid for 2010 increased to US$4,100 million, US$1,024 
million higher than 2009 largely due to the increase in taxable 
profits. Net interest paid of US$696 million for 2010 was US$440 
million lower than 2009, largely due to lower amounts of debt, 
following a US$8.5 billion repayment of Alcan acquisition facility 
D at the beginning of the year.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
was US$4.6 billion in 2010, a decrease of US$0.8 billion from 
2009. This included the Brockman 4 iron ore mine development 
in Western Australia, the expansion of the Yarwun alumina 
refinery, the commissioning of the Clermont thermal coal mine 
and the extension and expansion of the Kestrel coking coal mine.
Net cash proceeds from disposals and acquisitions in 2010 were 
US$2,893 million, and related to the disposal of Alcan Packaging 
businesses and the remainder of Cloud Peak Energy Inc.; partly 
offset by the payments to acquire an additional 20.62 per cent in 
Ivanhoe Mines.
Dividends paid in 2010 of US$1.8 billion compared with  
US$0.9 billion in 2009 reflected the suspension of the 2009 
interim dividend. 
2009 compared with 2008
Cash flow from operations, including dividends from equity 
accounted units, was US$13,834 million, 33 per cent lower than 
2008, primarily as a consequence of lower prices.
Tax paid in 2009 decreased to US$3,076 million, US$823 million 
lower than for 2008 largely due to the decrease in taxable profits. 
Net interest paid of US$1,136 million for 2009 was US$402 
million lower than 2008, largely due to lower amounts of debt, 
following the repayment of part of the US$40 billion Alcan 
acquisition facility, using the US$14.8 billion net proceeds from 
the rights issues in July 2009.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets was US$5,388 million in 2009, a decrease of 
US$3,186 million over 2008. This included the Brockman 4 
and Mesa A iron ore mine developments in Western Australia, 
expansion of the Yarwun alumina refinery, construction of the 
Clermont thermal coal mine, expansion of the Kestrel coking coal 
mine, development of the underground diamond mines at Diavik 
and Argyle, and completion of the Madagascar ilmenite mine.
Net cash proceeds from disposals and acquisitions in 2009 were 
US$2,028 million, and related to the disposal of Corumba, Jacob’s 
Ranch mine and Alcan Composites, together with proceeds from 
the initial public offering of Cloud Peak Energy Inc. and related 
transactions, partly offset by payments to acquire an additional 
9.8 per cent in Ivanhoe Mines. Net disposals were US$2,563 
million in 2008 and related to Cortez, Greens Creek and Alcan’s 
aerospace service centres business.
Dividends paid in 2009 of US$876 million were US$1,057 million 
lower than dividends paid in 2008, following the suspension of 
the interim dividend. Other financing cash flows in 2009 included 
the net proceeds from rights issues of US$14.8 billion, and net 
repayments of borrowings of US$16.4 billion compared with 
US$8.0 billion in 2008.
Statement of financial position
Net debt decreased to US$4.3 billion from US$18.9 billion at  
31 December 2009 following the receipt of proceeds from  
the divestment programme and strong operating cash flows.  
Net debt to total capital was six per cent at 31 December 2010 
and interest cover was 27 times.
Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 
following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines. 
100 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC’s identifiable assets and liabilities 
have been recognised in the statement of financial position at fair 
values estimated with the assistance of an independent third party 
valuer, together with goodwill. The historic cost of acquiring the 
Group’s indirect share of Oyu Tolgoi LLC through its investment in 
Ivanhoe Mines was deducted from Investments in equity accounted 
units. The Group’s remaining interest in the assets of Ivanhoe that 
does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC continues to be equity accounted. 
The transaction generated a non cash gain of US$531 million.
Due to the complexity of the valuation process, and the proximity 
of the date on which the agreement was signed to the reporting 
date, fair values on consolidation are provisional and will be 
subject to further review during the 12 months from the date on 
which the agreement was effective.
Financial risk management
The Group’s policies with regard to financial risk management are 
clearly defined and consistently applied. They are a fundamental 
part of the Group’s long term strategy covering areas such as 
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, 
credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management. Further 
details of our financial risk management are disclosed in note 33 
“Financial risk management”, to the 2010 financial statements.
The Group’s 2010 Annual report and financial statements shows 
the full extent of its financial commitments, including debt. The 
principal risks and uncertainties, to which the Group is subject, 
that are thought to be of particular importance are summarised 
on pages 25 to 28. The effectiveness of internal control procedures 
continues to be a high priority in the Rio Tinto Group. The board’s 
statement on internal control is set out on page 125.
Capital management and dividends
The Group’s total capital is defined as equity attributable to 
owners of Rio Tinto, equity attributable to non-controlling 
interests and net debt, as shown on the next page: 72 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial review continued
Total capital
2010  
US$m
2009  
US$m
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 58,333 43,831
Equity attributable to non-controlling 
interests 6,941 2,094
Net debt (note 24) 4,284 18,861
Total capital 69,558 64,786
The Group’s overriding objectives when managing capital are to 
safeguard the business as a going concern; to maximise returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and to maintain 
an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of 
financial flexibility at the lowest cost of capital. A key objective  
of the Group is to achieve and maintain a single A credit rating. 
The board and senior management regularly review the capital 
structure of the Group taking account of strategic priorities and 
conditions within which the Group operates. 
The Group’s capital management objectives allow it to selectively 
invest at all points of the commodities cycle, both in the Group’s 
own existing growth projects, and other opportunities that may 
arise, whilst providing a shareholder return. 
Net debt reduced from US$18.9 billion to US$4.3 billion at  
31 December 2010 following strong cash flows from operations, 
and the debt maturity profile was improved in October 2010 by 
raising US$2 billion in bonds with five, ten and 30 year maturities. 
The proceeds were used in a successful tender for US$1.9 billion 
of bonds due in 2013. This prudent balance sheet management 
and focus on maintaining an efficient capital structure helped 
lead to the restoration in 2010 of a single A credit rating by Moody’s.
Net debt at 31 December 2010 was made up principally from 
borrowings of US$14.3 billion, offset by US$9.9 billion in cash and 
cash equivalents. The proportion of net debt to total capital stood 
at 6.2 per cent at 31 December 2010 compared with 29.1 per cent 
at 31 December 2009. In February 2011, as part of the Group’s 
capital management programme, a share buy-back of US$5 billion 
was announced which, subject to market conditions, is planned to 
be completed by the end of 2012. 
Rio Tinto has a progressive dividend policy which aims to  
increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time, 
taking into account the results for the past year and the outlook. 
Under the dividend policy, the interim dividend is set at one half 
of the total ordinary dividend for the previous year and the final 
ordinary dividend is expected to be at least equal to the previous 
interim dividend.
Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares are 
equalised on a net cash basis; that is without taking into account 
any associated tax credits. Dividends are determined in US dollars. 
Details relating to the payment of dividends in sterling, Australian 
dollars and other currencies and on the payment of dividends to 
holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are included in 
the shareholder information on page 262.
The Group’s major capital projects are listed on pages 76 to 77.
Liquidity and capital resources
Details of our Liquidity and Capital risk management are contained 
within note 33 “Financial risk management”, part (v), to the 2010 
financial statements.
We expect that contractual commitments for expenditure, 
together with other expenditure and liquidity requirements will 
be met from internal cash flow and, to the extent necessary, 
from the existing facilities described in note 33 “Financial risk 
management”, part (v), to the 2010 financial statements.
Treasury management and financial instruments
Details of our Treasury management and financial instruments 
are contained within the introductory paragraphs of note 33 
“Financial risk management”, to the 2010 financial statements.
Foreign exchange
The following sensitivities give the estimated effect on underlying 
earnings assuming that each exchange rate moved in isolation. 
The relationship between currencies and commodity prices is 
a complex one and movements in exchange rates can cause 
movements in commodity prices and vice versa. Where the 
functional currency of an operation is that of a country for 
which production of commodities is an important feature of the 
economy, such as the Australian dollar, there is a certain degree 
of natural protection against cyclical fluctuations, in that the 
currency tends to be weak, reducing costs in US dollar terms, 
when commodity prices are low, and vice versa.
Earnings sensitivities – exchange rates
Average exchange  
rate for 2010 
US cents
Effect on net and underlying 
earnings of 10% change in 
full year average 
+/- US$m
Australian dollar 92 604
Canadian dollar 97 194
Euro 133 29
Chilean peso US$1 = 510 pesos 23
New Zealand dollar 72 19
South African rand 14 54
UK sterling 155 18
The exchange rate sensitivities quoted above include the effect on 
operating costs of movements in exchange rates but exclude the 
effect of the revaluation of foreign currency financial assets and 
liabilities. They should therefore be used with care. 
Further details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations 
and currency derivatives, and our approach to currency hedging, 
are contained within note 33 “Financial risk management”, part 
(i), to the 2010 financial statements.
Interest rates
Details of our exposure to interest rate fluctuations are contained 
within note 33 “Financial risk management”, part (ii), to the 2010 
financial statements. www.riotinto.com 73
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Commodity prices
The approximate effect on the Group’s underlying and net 
earnings of a ten per cent change from the full year average 
market price in 2010 for the following products would be:
Earnings sensitivities – commodity prices
Unit
Average market 
price for 2010 
US$ 
Effect on underlying 
and net earnings of 10% 
change in full year average 
+/- US$m
Copper Pound 3.40 349
Aluminium Tonne 2,173 650
Gold Ounce 1,222 73
Molybdenum Pound 16 31
Iron ore dmtu – 1,343
Thermal and 
coking coal Tonne – 207
The sensitivities give the estimated impact on net earnings 
of changes in prices assuming that all other variables remain 
constant. These should be used with care. As noted previously, 
the relationship between currencies and commodity prices is 
a complex one and changes in exchange rates can influence 
commodity prices and vice versa.
Further details of our exposure to commodity price fluctuations 
are contained within note 33 “Financial risk management”, part 
(iii), to the 2010 financial statements.
Credit risks
Details of our exposure to credit risks relating to receivables, 
financial instruments and cash deposits, are contained within 
note 33 “Financial risk management” , part (iv), to the 2010 
financial statements.
Disposals and acquisitions
Information regarding disposals and acquisitions is provided 
in note 41 “Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, 
associates and other interests in businesses” , to the 2010 financial 
statements and on page 226.
Critical accounting policies and estimates
Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve 
the use of judgment and/or estimation. These judgments and 
estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the 
relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous 
experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts 
included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgments and estimation is contained 
in note 1 “Principal accounting policies” to the 2010 financial 
statements, and/or the other notes to the 2010 financial statements. 
The key areas are listed below.
 Dual listed company reporting
 Asset carrying values
 Asset lives
 Ore reserve estimates
 Close down, restoration and clean up obligations
 Overburden removal costs
 Deferred tax on fair value adjustments
 Exploration
 Functional currency
 Underlying earnings
 Post retirement benefits
 Deferred tax potentially recoverable on Group tax losses
 Contingencies
 Acquisition accounting
Off balance sheet arrangements and 
contractual commitments
The table below presents information in relation to our material 
off balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, 
commitments for capital expenditure and other expenditure, 
and commitments under operating leases at 31 December 2010. 
Information regarding the Group’s pension commitments and funding 
arrangements is provided in note 50 to the 2010 financial statements. 
Information regarding the Group’s closedown and restoration 
obligations is provided in note 27 to the 2010 financial statements. 
We expect that these contractual commitments for expenditure, 
together with other expenditure and liquidity requirements will 
be met from internal cash flow and, to the extent necessary, from 
the existing facilities.
At 31 December 2010
< 1 yr 
US$m
1 – 3 yrs 
US$m
3 – 5 yrs 
US$m
> 5 yrs 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Expenditure commitments in relation to:
Operating leases 507 854 561 1,107 3,029
Other (capital commitments) 5,219 2,264 90 – 7,573
5,726 3,118 651 1,107 10,602
Long-term debt and other financial obligations:
Debt 1,066 1,789 3,570 7,783 14,208
Interest payments 705 1,472 1,136 4,166 7,479
Unconditional purchase obligations 2,295 2,934 2,515 10,156 17,900
Other 297 400 35 48 780
4,363 6,595 7,256 22,153 40,367
Total 10,089 9,713 7,907 23,260 50,969 74 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Five year review
Selected financial data
The selected consolidated financial data below has been derived from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of  
the Rio Tinto Group. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with, and qualified in their entirety by 
reference to, the 2010 financial statements and notes thereto. The financial statements as included on pages 157 to 256 have been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards both as adopted by the EU (“EU IFRS”) and as issued by  
the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”). 
Rio Tinto Group
Income statement data
For the years ending 31 December 
Amounts in accordance with EU IFRS
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
2007 
US$m
2006 
US$m
Consolidated sales revenue 56,576 41,825 54,264 29,700 22,465
Group operating profit 
(a)
19,694 7,506 10,194 8,571 8,974
Profit for the year from continuing operations 15,281 5,784 5,436 7,746 7,867
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (97) (449) (827) – –
Profit for the year 15,184 5,335 4,609 7,746 7,867
Basic earnings per share
 (b)
Profit from continuing operations (US cents) 735.4 301.7 286.8 464.9 456.2
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (US cents) (4.9) (25.5) (52.7) – –
Profit for the year per share (US cents) 730.5 276.2 234.1 464.9 456.2
Diluted earnings per share 
(b)
Profit from continuing operations (US cents) 731.1 300.7 285.5 462.9 454.3
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (US cents) (4.9) (25.4) (52.4) – –
Profit for the year per share (US cents) 726.2 275.3 233.1 462.9 454.3
Dividends per share 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Dividends declared during the year 
(b)
US cents
 – interim 45.0 – 55.6 42.5 32.7
 – final 63.0 45.0 55.6 68.7 52.3
UK pence
 – interim 28.2 – 29.6 20.9 17.5
 – final 39.1 28.8 37.9 35.3 26.7
Australian cents
 – interim 49.3 – 63.3 49.6 42.9
 – final and special 61.9 51.6 83.0 76.1 67.8
 
Dividends paid during the year (US cents) 
(b)
 
 – ordinary and special 90.0 55.6 124.3 94.8 156.7
 
Weighted average number of shares – basic (millions) 
(b)
1,961.0 1,763.6 1,570.1 1,572.9 1,630.5
Weighted average number of shares – diluted (millions) 
(b)
1,972.6 1,769.6 1,577.3 1,579.6 1,637.1
Statement of financial position 
As at 31 December  
Amounts in accordance with EU IFRS
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Restated 
(c) 
2007 
US$m
2006 
US$m
Total assets 112,402 97,236 89,616 101,091 34,494
Share capital/premium 10,105 9,344 5,826 3,323 3,190
Total equity/net assets 65,274 45,925 22,461 26,293 19,385
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 58,333 43,831 20,638 24,772 18,232
(a)  Group operating profit under EU IFRS includes the effects of charges and reversals resulting from impairments and profit and loss on disposals of interests in businesses. Group operating 
profit amounts shown above exclude equity accounted operations, finance items, tax and discontinued operations.
(b)   The rights issues completed in July 2009 were at a discount to the then market price. Accordingly, earnings per share and dividends per share for all periods up to the date on which the 
shares were issued were adjusted for the bonus element of the issue. The bonus factor for Rio Tinto plc was 1.2105 and for Rio Tinto Limited was 1.2679. 
(c) The 31 December 2007 balance sheet has been restated for the revisions to Alcan’s fair value accounting which were finalised in 2008. www.riotinto.com 75
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Acquisitions and divestments 
During 2010 Rio Tinto acquired an additional interest in Ivanhoe Mines and completed asset sales totalling US$4.2 billion. Since 2008, 
Rio Tinto has completed divestments in excess of US$11 billion.
Acquisitions
Asset Cost US$m Status
Acquired in 2011
Copper – Ivanhoe Mines 751 Participation in the strategic rights offering and purchase of additional 
shares increasing the Group’s holding to 42.1%
Acquired in 2010
Copper – Ivanhoe Mines 1,588 Purchases of additional shares, maturing of convertible debt facility and 
exercise of Series A and B warrants increasing the Group’s holding to 
40.3% as at 31 December 2010. Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC 
on 15 December 2010 following the signing of a new agreement with 
Ivanhoe Mines.
Acquired in 2009
Copper – Ivanhoe Mines 388 The purchase of an additional 9.8% interest increasing the Group’s total 
holding to 19.7%
Acquired in 2008
None –
Divestments
Asset Proceeds US$m Status
Divested in 2011
Alcan Engineered Products Undisclosed Sold 61 per cent to investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global 
Management, LLC (Apollo) and the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement (FSI)
Divested in 2010
Energy – Cloud Peak 573 Secondary public offering
Alcan Packaging – Beauty Undisclosed Sold to Sun European Partners LLP
Alcan Packaging – Medical Flexibles 66 Sold to Amcor
Alcan Packaging – Food Americas 1,200 Sold to Bemis Company Inc.
Energy – Maules Creek (Rio Tinto: 75.7%) 427 Sold to Aston Resources
Energy – Vickery (Rio Tinto: 75.7%) 28 Sold to Whitehaven Coal
Alcan Packaging – global Pharmaceuticals, 
global Tobacco, Food Europe and Food Asia 1,948 Sold to Amcor
Sundry asset sales 57 Sale of assets including Ghana Bauxite Company, Brockville Specialty 
Alumina Plant and Rawhide Mine
Divested in 2009
Energy – Jacobs Ranch 764 Sold to Arch Coal, Inc
Iron Ore – Corumbá mine 814 Sold to Vale
Diamonds & Minerals – Exploration 
projects in Argentina and Canada 850 Sold to Vale
Aluminium – Ningxia smelter  
(Rio Tinto: 50%) 125 Sold to Qingtongxia Aluminium Group
Exploration – sundry assets 68 Sold to multiple parties
Energy – Cloud Peak 741 IPO and connected debt offering
Alcan Engineered Products – composites 349 Sold to Schweiter Technologies
Divested in 2008
Energy – Kintyre project 495 Sold to a joint venture
Copper – Greens Creek mine (Rio Tinto: 70%) 750 Sale completed to Hecla Mining, the Group’s minority partner
Copper – Cortez Joint Venture  
(Rio Tinto: 40%) 1,695
Sold to Barrick Gold, the Group’s majority partner, for cash plus a deferred 
bonus payment and contingent royalty interest
Exploration – sundry assets 134 Sold to multiple parties 76 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Capital projects
Capital and major evaluation projects 
Project
Approved capital 
cost (100%) US$ Status/milestones
Ongoing
Alumina – expansion of Yarwun alumina refinery 
from 1.4 million tonnes per year (mtpa) to 3.4mtpa.
1.9bn Approved in July 2007, the co-generation plant was commissioned 
in September 2010 and the ship unloader was commissioned in 
November 2010. Completion is expected in August 2012. 
Aluminium – construction of a new 225MW 
turbine at Shipshaw power station, Saguenay, 
Quebec, Canada.
228m Approved in 2008, the project remains on budget and on track to  
be completed by December 2012.
Coking coal – extension and expansion of Kestrel 
mine (Rio Tinto share 80%).
1.1bn The investment will extend the life of the mine to 2031 and increase 
production to an average of 5.7mtpa (million tonnes per annum). 
Extension expected to come on stream in late 2012/early 2013. 
Copper – construction of phase one of Oyu  
Tolgoi copper and gold mine in Mongolia
(a)
. 
5.9bn Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 
following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines. First 
ore production is forecast to commence in late 2012 with an initial 
throughput of 100,000 tonnes of ore per day.
Approved/restarted in 2010/2011
Molybdenum – investment in phases one and two 
of Molybdenum Autoclave Process (MAP) project 
to enable lower grade concentrate to be processed 
more efficiently than conventional roasters and 
allow improved recoveries.
340m First approved in June 2008, the project was put on hold. Approval 
was given in April 2010 to restart the project. First production from 
phase 1 is anticipated in the fourth quarter of 2012 and full capacity 
of 30 million pounds per annum is scheduled for fourth quarter 
2013. The phase 2 expansion to 60 million pounds per annum is 
anticipated to be completed in the first quarter of 2015. 
Iron ore – expansion of Iron Ore Company  
of Canada’s concentrate capacity  
(Rio Tinto: 58.7%).
401m Initially approved in March 2008, the project recommenced in 
May 2010 (Rio Tinto share US$235m). It is projected to expand 
concentrate capacity by 4mtpa to 22mtpa by 2012 with options to 
expand further to 26mtpa. 
Nickel – construction of the Eagle nickel  
and copper mine in Michigan (US).
469m Approved in June 2010, first production is expected in late 2013. The 
mine is projected to produce an average of 17.3kt (thousand tonnes) and 
13.2kt per year of nickel and copper metal respectively over six years.
Iron ore – preparation for the expansion of the 
Pilbara to 330mtpa and beyond
990m Approved in July and August 2010, the funding (Rio Tinto share 
US$649m) will allow dredging contracts to be issued and long lead 
items to be ordered as part of early works on the expansion of the 
Cape Lambert port to 180mtpa capacity.
Iron ore – development of Hope Downs 4 mine  
in the Pilbara (Rio Tinto: 50%).
1.6bn Approved in August 2010, first production is expected in 2013. The 
new mine is projected to have a capacity of 15mtpa and a capital cost 
of US$1.2 billion (Rio Tinto share US$0.6bn). Rio Tinto will fully fund 
the US$425 million for the rail, rolling stock and power infrastructure. 
Diamonds – Argyle diamond mine underground 
project.
1.6bn Originally approved in 2005, the project was slowed in 2009. The 
remaining US$803 million to complete was approved in September 
2010. The underground is projected to be fully operational in 2013 
with targeted production of 20 million carats a year. It should extend 
the mine life to at least 2019. 
Iron ore – debottlenecking of Dampier port  
to expand the Pilbara capacity to 230mtpa.
321m Approved in September 2010, the project is projected to add 10mtpa 
capacity at the Dampier port by Q1 2012. No additional capital 
expenditure is required at the mines.
Aluminium – ISAL modernisation. 487m Approved in September 2010, the project is projected to increase 
annual production from 190kt to 230kt between April 2012 and July 
2014. Includes US$140m in a leading edge casting facility to produce 
value added billet, approved in October. 
Iron ore – expansion of Pilbara infrastructure  
to 283mtpa.
3.1bn Approved in October 2010, the investment (Rio Tinto share US$2.1bn) 
is projected to increase infrastructure capacity by 53mtpa to 283mtpa 
by the end of 2013. Further investments in mine expansions will 
likely be required.
Iron ore – expansion of Brockman 4 mine (from 
22mtpa to 40mtpa) and Western Turner Syncline 
mine (from 6mtpa to 15mtpa) in the Pilbara.
1.2bn Approved in December 2010, the two projects represent the first two 
of three mine developments to expand mine capacity to 283mtpa by 
the fourth quarter of 2013. www.riotinto.com 77
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Approved/restarted in 2010/2011 continued
Aluminium – phase 1 of 60kt per annum AP60 
plant in Quebec.
1.1bn Approved in December 2010, US$758m will be spent on completing 
the first phase of the AP60 plant, in addition to the US$376m spent 
to date. First hot metal is expected in February 2013.
Aluminium – modernisation and expansion of 
Kitimat smelter.
640m A further US$300m was approved in December 2010 for further 
construction in preparation for the US$2.5bn modernisation of the 
Kitimat smelter. This is in addition to US$340m spent to date.  
Final approval is expected in 2011.
Iron ore – phase two expansion of IOC’s 
concentrate capacity to 23.3mtpa  
(Rio Tinto 58.7%).
277m Approved in February 2011, phase two is expected to be complete 
by 2013 (Rio Tinto share US$163 million) with options to expand 
further to 26mtpa.
Iron ore – phase two of the Marandoo mine 
expansion to sustain production at 230mtpa.
933m Approved in February 2011, the mine is projected to extend 
Marandoo at 15mtpa by 16 years to 2030. 
Completed in 2010
Iron ore – construction of new Mesa A/
Warramboo mine (Rio Tinto: 53%).
901m First ore was produced in February 2010. Initial production of 
20mtpa is projected to increase to 25mtpa by the end of 2011.
Diamonds – Diavik (Rio Tinto: 60%) underground 
development.
787m First production at end of March 2010.
Thermal coal – Clermont (Rio Tinto: 50.1%) will 
produce 12mtpa, largely replacing Blair Athol as it 
ramps down to 3mtpa.
1,290m First production in second quarter of 2010. Full capacity expected  
to be reached in 2013.
Iron ore – construction of new 22mtpa Brockman 
4 mine and Western Turner Syncline extension of 
Tom Price mine.
1,521m Both mines commenced production in July 2010 and full capacity 
is expected to be reached by the end of 2011. Further expansion 
options are being assessed. 
Iron ore – investment in cleaner, more sustainable 
power generation to support expansion of mining 
capacity in Western Australia.
503m Four new gas turbines at the 240MW Yurralyi Maya site near 
Dampier were commissioned and came on line progressively  
in the second half of 2010.
Copper – Northparkes (Rio Tinto 80%) E48 block 
cave project extending mine life to 2024.
221m The project restarted in September 2009 with a scope change 
including an expanded extraction level and increased reserves, 
secondary crushing and loader automation. Production from E48 
commenced in late 2009 with full production occurring in late 2010.
Completed in 2009
Iron ore – expansion of Hope Downs mine from 
22mtpa to 30mtpa (Rio Tinto: 50%).
350m Approved in August 2007, the expansion work was completed during 
the first half of 2009.
Completed in 2008
Aluminium – Development of the 360,000 tonne 
per annum greenfield Sohar smelter in Oman  
(Rio Tinto: 20%).
1,700m Approved in February 2005, first hot metal was produced in June 2008.
Aluminium – Aluminium spent potlining 
treatment plant in Quebec (Rio Tinto: 100%).
225m Approved in September 2006, the plant commenced operations in 
June 2008.
Titanium dioxide – Construction by QMM  
(Rio Tinto: 80%) of a greenfield ilmenite operation 
in Madagascar and associated upgrade of 
processing facilities at RTFT in Canada.
1,000m First production of ilmenite took place at the end of 2008.
Iron ore – Cape Lambert port expansion  
(Rio Tinto: 53%) from 55 to 80mtpa and  
additional rolling stock and infrastructure.
952m Approved in January 2007, the project was completed at the end  
of 2008. 
Following the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, capital expenditure for 2011 is expected to be approximately US$13 billion. This includes 
US$2.3 billion for the Oyu Tolgoi project (approved and funded by Ivanhoe). It also includes US$4.5 billion for sustaining capital expenditure 
(Rio Tinto funded). 
Evaluation expenditure in 2011, including the Simandou iron ore project and the Resolution and La Granja copper projects, is expected to be 
around US$900 million
(a) On 3 February 2011, Rio Tinto increased its ownership in Ivanhoe Mines to 42.1 per cent. Ivanhoe Mines owns 66 per cent of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.   78 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Summary
Aluminium
Energy
Diamonds & Minerals
Mined bauxite
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
16.3
20.9
35.0
30.7
33.4
Alumina production
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
3,247
3,877
9,008
8,815
9,089
Aluminium production
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
845
1,473
4,062
3,808 3,790
XXX
Bauxite reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009
1,193
1,387
1,966
1,941
1,818
2010
Mined diamonds
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 carats
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
35,162
26,023
20,816
14,026 13,843
Diamond reserves
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 carats
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
281,500
255,400
237,600
224,700
205,903
Mined borates
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes as B
2
O
3
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
553 560
610
424
500
XXX
Borate reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes as B
2
O
3
2006 2007 2008 2009
21.9
21.5 21.3
24.6
24.0
2010
Mined coal
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
162.3
155.6
160.5
140.1
72.8
Coal reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1,975
1,936
2,002
1,119
682
Mined uranium
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 pounds U
3
O
8
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
12,561 12,616
14,200 14,140
11,377
XXX
Uranium reserves
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 pounds U
3
O
8
2006 2007 2008 2009
121,594
136,027
140,511
123,285 120,335
2010 www.riotinto.com 79
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Copper
Iron Ore
Mined copper
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
803
738
699
805
678
Refined copper
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
299
390
322
412
393
Copper reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
17.99
17.26
16.72
15.72
16.68
XXX
Mined gold
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 ounces
2006 2007 2008 2009
1,003
1,233
501
1,111
772
2010
XXX
Mined titanium dioxide
(Rio Tinto share) ’000 tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009
1,415
1,458
1,524
1,147
1,392
2010
XXX
Titanium dioxide reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009
75.0 75.4
74.0
70.1
67.1
2010
Mined iron ore
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
132.8
144.7
153.4
171.5
184.6
Iron ore reserves
(Rio Tinto share) million tonnes
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2,430
2,449
2,720
2,532 2,527 80 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Metals and minerals production  
 
 
 
 
 2010 Production 2009 Production 2008 Production
 
Rio Tinto
% share (a) Total
Rio Tinto
 share Total
Rio Tinto  
share Total
Rio Tinto 
share
ALUMINA (‘000 tonnes)  
Gardanne (France) (b) 100.0 – – –  –  38 38
Gove (Australia)  100.0 2,473 2,473 2,519 2,519 2,325 2,325
Jonquière (Vaudreuil) (Canada) (c)
 
100.0 1,301 1,301 1,125 1,125 1,370 1,370
Queensland Alumina (Australia)  80.0 3,821 3,057 3,959 3,167 3,842 3,074
São Luis (Alumar) (Brazil)  10.0 2,507 251 1,657 166 1,504 150
Yarwun (Australia)  100.0 1,377 1,377 1,347 1,347 1,293 1,293
Specialty Plants (Canada/France/Germany) (b) (d) 100.0 631 631 492 492 758 758
Rio Tinto total 9,089 8,815 9,008
ALUMINIUM (‘000 tonnes)  
Alma (Canada)  100.0 434 434 435 435 424 424
Alouette (Sept-Îles) (Canada)  40.0 569 228 573 229 572 229
Alucam (Edéa) (Cameroon)  46.7 76 35 73 34 91 43
Anglesey (UK) (e) 51.0 – – 106 54 118 60
Arvida (Canada)  100.0 174 174 171 171 172 172
Beauharnois (Canada) (f) 100.0 – – 11 11 50 50
Bécancour (Canada)  25.1 417 104 420 105 415 104
Bell Bay (Australia)  100.0 177 177 177 177 178 178
Boyne Island (Australia)  59.4 558 332 556 331 556 330
Dunkerque (France)  100.0 260 260 244 244 254 254
Grande-Baie (Canada)  100.0 218 218 215 215 212 212
ISAL (Reykjavik) (Iceland)  100.0 190 190 190 190 187 187
Kitimat (Canada)  100.0 184 184 224 224 247 247
Lannemezan (France) (g) 100.0 – – – –  5 5
Laterrière (Canada)  100.0 212 212 235 235 234 234
Lochaber (UK)  100.0 41 41 38 38 43 43
Lynemouth (UK)  100.0 145 145 109 109 165 165
Ningxia (Qingtongxia) (China) (h) – – – 10 5 163 81
Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne (France)  100.0 96 96 101 101 130 130
Sebree (US)  100.0 196 196 193 193 197 197
Shawinigan (Canada)  100.0 100 100 99 99 100 100
Sohar (Oman) (i) 20.0 367 73 351 70 49 10
SØRAL (Husnes) (Norway)  50.0 88 44 98 49 171 86
Tiwai Point (New Zealand)  79.4 344 273 271 215 316 250
Tomago (Australia)  51.6 528 272 528 272 523 270
Rio Tinto total 3,790 3,808 4,062
BAUXITE (‘000 tonnes)  
Awaso (Ghana) (j) – 42 34 440 352 796 637
Gove (Australia)  100.0 7,190 7,190 7,185 7,185 6,245 6,245
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil)  12.0 17,022 2,043 15,645 1,877 18,063 2,168
Sangaredi (Guinea)  (k) 12,413 5,586 11,216 5,047 13,181 5,931
Weipa (Australia) 100.0 18,591 18,591 16,235 16,235 20,006 20,006
Rio Tinto total 33,443 30,696 34,987
BORATES (‘000 tonnes) (l)  
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) 100.0 483  483  411  411  591 591
Rio Tinto Minerals – Tincalayu (Argentina) 100.0 18  18  13  13  19 19
Rio Tinto total  500  424  610
COAL – hard coking (‘000 tonnes)  
Rio Tinto Coal Australia  
Hail Creek Coal (Australia) 82.0 7,183 5,890 6,308 5,173 6,049 4,960
Kestrel Coal (Australia)  80.0 3,846 3,076 2,868 2,294 3,089 2,471
Rio Tinto total hard coking coal 8,967
7,467 7,431
 
See notes on page 83  www.riotinto.com 81
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
2010 Production 2009 Production 2008 Production
Rio Tinto
% share (a) Total
Rio Tinto 
share Total 
Rio Tinto  
share Total
Rio Tinto 
share
COAL – semi-soft coking (‘000 tonnes) (m)   
Rio Tinto Coal Australia   
Hunter Valley (Australia) 75.7 2,469 1,869 2,626 1,988 2,865 2,169
Mount Thorley (Australia) 60.6 1,460 884 1,112 674 1,168 708
Warkworth (Australia) 42.1 764 321 530 223 386 162
Rio Tinto total semi-soft coking coal 3,075 2,885 3,039
COAL – thermal (‘000 tonnes) (m)   
Rio Tinto Coal Australia   
Bengalla (Australia) 30.3 5,477 1,659 5,466 1,655 5,357 1,622
Blair Athol (Australia)  71.2 6,803 4,846 11,325 8,068 10,194 7,262
Clermont (Australia) (n) 50.1 3,770 1,889 – – – –
Hunter Valley (Australia) 75.7 8,442 6,391 8,606 6,515 7,886 5,970
Kestrel Coal (Australia)  80.0 713 571 849 679 929 744
Mount Thorley (Australia)  60.6 1,518 920 2,230 1,351 1,780 1,078
Tarong Coal (Australia) (o) – – – – –  262 262
Warkworth (Australia) 42.1 5,120 2,154 4,632 1,949 5,652 2,378
Total Australian thermal coal 18,430 20,217 19,317
US Coal   
Antelope (US) (p) – 31,156 15,043 30,865 29,031 32,474 32,474
Colowyo (US) (q) 100.0 2,371 2,371 3,214 3,214 4,446 4,446
Cordero Rojo (US) (p) – 33,518 16,184 35,687 33,361 36,318 36,318
Decker (US) (p) – 2,521 609 4,161 2,017 5,939 2,970
Jacobs Ranch (US) (r) – – – 26,537 26,537 38,206 38,206
Spring Creek (US) (p) – 16,726 8,076 16,035 15,360 16,341 16,341
Total US thermal coal 42,283 109,520 130,755
Rio Tinto total thermal coal 60,713 129,738 150,072
COPPER (mined) (‘000 tonnes)   
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 249.8 249.8 303.5 303.5 238.0 238.0
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 1,011.0 303.3 1,061.2 318.3 1,281.7 384.5
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s) 40.0 126.8 50.7 269.3 107.7 17.8 7.1
Northparkes (Australia) 80.0 39.0 31.2 34.3 27.4 24.8 19.8
Palabora (South Africa) 57.7 74.6 43.0 82.6 47.6 85.1 49.1
Rio Tinto total 678.1 804.7 698.5
COPPER (refined) (‘000 tonnes)   
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 300.1 90.0 327.2 98.2 257.5 77.3
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 269.3 269.3 274.2 274.2 200.6 200.6
Palabora (South Africa)  57.7 58.0 33.4 69.4 40.0 75.9 43.8
Rio Tinto total 392.8 412.4 321.6
DIAMONDS (‘000 carats)   
Argyle (Australia)  100.0 9,804 9,804 10,591 10,591 15,076 15,076
Diavik (Canada) 60.0 6,500 3,900 5,565 3,339 9,225 5,535
Murowa (Zimbabwe) 77.8 178 139 124 97 264 205
Rio Tinto total 13,843 14,026 20,816
 
See notes on page 83 
  82 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Metals and minerals production continued 
 
 
 
 2010 Production 2009 Production 2008 Production
 
Rio Tinto
% share (a) Total
Rio Tinto 
share Total
Rio Tinto  
share Total
Rio Tinto 
share
GOLD (mined) (‘000 ounces)  
Barneys Canyon (US) 100.0 2 2 22 55
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 466 466 582 582 368 368
Cortez/Pipeline (US) (t) – –  – – – 72 29
Escondida (Chile) 30.0 174 52 144 43 144 43
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s) 40.0 458 183 1,072  429  – –
Greens Creek (US) (u) – –  – – – 18 12
Northparkes (Australia) 80.0 65 52 34 27 32 26
Rawhide (US) (v) – 9 9 19 19 18 9
Others  13 7 13 8 14 8
Rio Tinto total 772 1,111 501
GOLD (refined) (‘000 ounces)  
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 596 596 479 479 303 303
IRON ORE (‘000 tonnes)   
Corumbá (Brazil) (w) – – –  1,509  1,509  2,032 2,032
Hamersley Iron – eight wholly owned mines (Australia) 100.0 112,706 112,706 106,808 106,808 95,553 95,553
Hamersley – Channar (Australia) 60.0 11,016 6,610 11,041 6,625 10,382 6,229
Hamersley – Eastern Range (Australia) (x) 9,206 9,206 9,318 9,318 8,186 8,186
Hope Downs (Australia)  50.0 31,720 15,860 20,634 10,317 10,936 5,468
Iron Ore Company of Canada (Canada)  58.7 14,710 8,638 13,844 8,129 15,830 9,295
Robe River (Australia) (y) 53.0 59,641 31,610 54,417 28,841 50,246 26,631
Rio Tinto total 184,629 171,547 153,394
LEAD (‘000 tonnes)  
Greens Creek (US) (u) – – ––– 4.6 3.2
MOLYBDENUM (‘000 tonnes)  
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 12.9 12.9 11.3 11.3 10.6 10.6
PIG IRON (‘000 tonnes)  
HIsmelt
®
 (Australia) (z) 60.0 – – – – 144 87
SALT (‘000 tonnes)  
Dampier Salt (Australia)  68.4 7,589 5,188 8,555 5,848 8,974 6,135
SILVER (mined) (‘000 ounces)  
Bingham Canyon (US) 100.0 3,754 3,754 4,871 4,871 3,414 3,414
Escondida (Chile)  30.0 6,140 1,842 5,424 1,627 6,167 1,850
Grasberg – Joint Venture (Indonesia) (s) 40.0 1,721 688 3,685 1,474 549 220
Greens Creek (US) (u) – –  – – – 1,815 1,275
Others  – 752 577 757 596 655 417
Rio Tinto total 6,862 8,569 7,176
SILVER (refined) (‘000 ounces)  
Kennecott Utah Copper (US) 100.0 4,732 4,732 4,050 4,050 3,252 3,252
TALC (‘000 tonnes)  
Rio Tinto Minerals – talc (Australia/Europe/North America) (aa) 100.0 1,000 1,000 888 888 1,163 1,163
 
See notes on page 83  www.riotinto.com 83
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
2010 Production 2009 Production 2008 Production
Rio Tinto
% share (a) Total
Rio Tinto 
share Total 
Rio Tinto  
share Total
Rio Tinto 
share
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK (‘000 tonnes)   
Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium (Canada/South Africa) (bb) (cc) 100.0 1,392 1,392 1,147 1,147 1,524 1,524
URANIUM (‘000 lbs U
3
O
8
)   
Energy Resources of Australia (Australia)  68.4 8,614 5,891 11,500 7,865 11,773 8,052
Rössing (Namibia) 68.6 7,999 5,485 9,150 6,275 8,966 6,149
Rio Tinto total 11,377 14,140 14,200
ZINC (‘000 tonnes)   
Greens Creek (US) (u) – – – – – 13.9 9.8
Production data notes: 
Mine production figures for metals refer to the total quantity of metal produced in concentrates, 
leach liquor or doré bullion irrespective of whether these products are then refined on site, except  
for the data for bauxite and iron ore which represent production of marketable quantities of ore. 
(a) Rio Tinto percentage share, shown above, is as at the end of 2010 and has applied over the period 
2008 – 2010 except for those operations where the Rio Tinto ownership has varied during the year; 
the weighted average ownership for each year is shown below. The Rio Tinto share varies at 
individual mines and refineries in the “others“ category and thus no value is shown. 
 Rio Tinto Share % 
Operation See note 2010 2009 2008
Antelope (p) 46.2 94.0 100.0
Cordero Rojo (p) 46.2 94.0 100.0
Decker (p) 23.1 47.0 50.0
Spring Creek (p) 46.2 94.0 100.0
 
(b) Production of smelter grade alumina at Gardanne ceased at the end of 2008. Production 
continues from the Gardanne specialty alumina plant.  
(c) Jonquière’s (Vaudreuil’s) production shows smelter grade alumina only and excludes hydrate 
produced and used for specialty alumina. 
(d) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Brockville specialty alumina plant with an 
effective date of 20 September 2010. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(e) The Anglesey smelter ceased smelting operations at the end of the third quarter of 2009. 
Casting operations continue. 
(f) The Beauharnois smelter ceased smelting operations in the second quarter of 2009. Casting 
operations continue. 
(g) The Lannemezan smelter closed in the first quarter of 2008. 
(h) Rio Tinto sold its 50 per cent interest in the Ningxia aluminium smelter with an effective date 
of 26 January 2009. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(i) Production at the Sohar smelter commenced in the third quarter of 2008.  
(j) Rio Tinto Alcan had an 80 per cent interest in the Awaso mine but purchased the additional  
20 per cent of production. Rio Tinto Alcan sold its interest in Ghana Bauxite Company, owner 
of the Awaso mine, with an effective date of 1 February 2010. 
(k) Rio Tinto has a 22.95 per cent shareholding in the Sangaredi mine but receives 45.0 per cent  
of production under the partnership agreement.  
(l) Borate quantities are expressed as B
2
O
3
. 
(m) Thermal coal and semi-soft coking coal were previously reported under “Other Coal“. 
(n) Production commenced at Clermont in the second quarter of 2010. 
(o) Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in Tarong Coal with an effective date of 31 January 2008; 
production data are shown up to that date. 
 
 
(p) As a result of the initial public offering of Cloud Peak Energy Inc. on 20 November 2009, Rio Tinto 
held a 48.3 per cent interest in the Antelope, Cordero Rojo and Spring Creek mines and  
a 24.1 per cent interest in the Decker mine. These interests were formerly reported under 
 Rio Tinto Energy America but are now managed by Cloud Peak Energy. Following a secondary 
public offering in December 2010, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its entire interest in 
Cloud Peak Energy Inc. with an effective date of 15 December 2010. Production data are shown 
up to that date. 
(q) During 2008, Rio Tinto acquired a 100 per cent interest in the Colowyo mine, having previously 
held a partnership interest. All of Colowyo’s production was already included in Rio Tinto’s 
share of production.  
(r) Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in the Jacobs Ranch mine on  
1 October 2009. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(s) Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold (FCX), Rio Tinto  
is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and 
developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. Total production reflects the total quantities 
attributable to the joint venture.  
(t) Rio Tinto sold its 40 per cent interest in the Cortez/Pipeline joint venture on 5 March 2008, 
with an effective date end of February 2008. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(u) Rio Tinto sold its 70.3 per cent share in the Greens Creek joint venture with an effective date  
of 16 April 2008. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(v) On 28 October 2008, Rio Tinto increased its shareholding in the Rawhide Joint Venture from  
51 per cent to 100 per cent. The previous joint venture shareholder continued to be entitled  
to 49 per cent of production until 31 December 2008; thereafter Rio Tinto has been entitled  
to 100 per cent. Rio Tinto sold its 100 per cent interest in the Rawhide mine with an effective 
date of 25 June 2010. Production data are shown up to that date. 
(w) Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in the Corumbá mine, effective  
18 September 2009. 
(x) Rio Tinto’s share of production includes 100 per cent of the production from the Eastern Range 
mine. Under the terms of the joint venture agreement (Rio Tinto 54 per cent), Hamersley Iron 
manages the operation and is obliged to purchase all mine production from the joint venture. 
(y) Production at the Mesa A mine commenced in the first quarter of 2010. 
(z) In March 2009, Rio Tinto announced that HIsmelt
®
 would be placed on an extended care and 
maintenance programme. In December 2010, the HIsmelt
®
 joint venture partners agreed to 
close the Kwinana site permanently and terminate the joint venture. 
(aa) In February 2011, Rio Tinto announced that it had received a binding offer for the purchase  
of 100 per cent of its talc business. Talc production includes some products derived from 
purchased ores.  
(bb) Quantities comprise 100 per cent of Rio Tinto Fer et Titane and 50 per cent of Richards Bay 
Minerals’ (RBM) production until late 2009 when RBM concluded a Broad Based Black 
Economic Empowerment transaction. Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium’s share of RBM production 
reflects a decrease from 50 to 37 per cent with effect from 9 December 2009. 
(cc) Ilmenite mined in Madagascar is being processed in Canada with effect from June 2009. 
Production figures are sometimes more precise than the rounded numbers shown, hence an 
apparent small difference may result where the Rio Tinto share is totalled. 
  84 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Ore reserves 
 
 
 
Ore reserves and mineral resources for Rio Tinto managed operations are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of 
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2004 (the JORC Code) as required by the Australian Securities Exchange  
(ASX). Codes or guidelines similar to JORC with only minor regional variations have been adopted in South Africa, Canada, the US, Chile, Peru,  
the Philippines, the UK, Ireland and Europe. Together these Codes represent current best practice for reporting ore reserves and mineral resources. 
The JORC Code envisages the use of reasonable investment assumptions, including the use of projected long term commodity prices, in calculating 
reserve estimates. However, for US reporting, the US Securities and Exchange Commission requires historical price data to be used. For this 
reason, some reserves reported to the SEC in the Form 20-F may differ from those reported below. 
Ore reserve and mineral resource information in the tables below is based on information compiled by Competent Persons (as defined by JORC), 
most of whom are full time employees of Rio Tinto or related companies. Each has had a minimum of five years relevant estimation experience  
and is a member of a recognised professional body whose members are bound by a professional code of ethics. Each Competent Person consents  
to the inclusion in this report of information they have provided in the form and context in which it appears. Competent Persons responsible for 
the estimates are listed on page 93, by operation, along with their professional affiliation, employer and accountability for reserves and/or 
resources. Where operations are not managed by Rio Tinto the reserves are published as received from the managing company. 
The ore reserve figures in the following tables are as of 31 December 2010. Summary data for year end 2009 are shown for comparison. Metric 
units are used throughout. The figures used to calculate Rio Tinto’s share of reserves are often more precise than the rounded numbers shown 
in the tables, hence small differences might result if the calculations are repeated using the tabulated figures.  
 
 
Proved ore reserves
 at end 2010
Probable ore reserves 
at end 2010 Total ore reserves 2010 compared with 2009 Rio Tinto share
 
Type  
of mine  
(a)  Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade  
Interest
%
Recoverable 
mineral
    2010 2009 2010 2009  
BAUXITE (b)   
millions  
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions 
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
% Al
2
O
3
  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines      
Gove (Australia) O/P  132 49.4 46 49.2 179 186 49.4 49.4  100.0 179
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) (c) O/P  71 50.7 25 50.9 96 214 50.8 49.6  12.0 12
Sangaredi (Guinea) (d) O/P   117 52.4 117 130 52.4 52.4  23.0 27
Weipa (Australia) O/P  612 52.6 990 53.2 1,602 1,699 53.0 52.7  100.0 1,602
Total      1,818
 
     
Marketable 
product
BORATES (e)   
millions  
of tonnes 
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine      
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) O/P  14.4  9.6 24.0 24.6  100.0 24
 
   Reserves Marketable reserves Marketable reserves
Marketable  
coal quality 
  
Coal  
type 
 (g) 
Proved Probable 
at end 
2010
Proved Probable 
at end 
2010
Total
2010
Total
2009 (h) (h) 
Avg. % 
Yield 
to give 
mark et ab le 
reserves 
Marketable 
reserves
COAL (f)   
millions  
of tonnes 
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
Calorific
value
MJ/kg
Sulphur 
content 
%  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines      
Rio Tinto Coal Australia 
(Australia)      
Bengalla  O/C SC 162 10 129 8 137 126 27.84 0.48 80 30.3 41
Blair Athol (i) O/C SC 11 9 9 18 25.63 0.31 89 71.2 7
Clermont  O/C SC 186 5 178 4 182 189 27.90 0.33 96 50.1 91
Hail Creek (j) O/C MC 103 110 60 66 126 209 32.20 0.35 59 82.0 104
Hunter Valley Operations  O/C SC + MC 337 49 229 34 263 278 28.99 0.58 68 75.7 199
Kestrel Coal  U/G SC + MC 54 98 45 81 126 128 31.60 0.59 83 80.0 101
Mount Thorley Operations  O/C SC + MC 31 5 21 3 24 24 29.41 0.43 65 60.6 14
Warkworth  O/C SC + MC 215 185 140 121 261 270 30.68 0.44 65 42.1 110
Sub-total      667
 
See notes on page 87  www.riotinto.com 85
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
  Reserves Marketable reserves Marketable reserves
Marketable  
coal quality Rio Tinto share
 
Type  
of mine  
(a)  
Coal  
type  
(g) 
Proved Probable
at end 
2010
Proved Probable 
at end 
2010
Total
2010
Total
2009 (h) (h) 
Avg. % 
Yield 
to give 
marketable 
reserves
Interest
%
Marketable 
reserves
COAL continued (f)   
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
Calorific 
value 
MJ/kg 
Sulphur 
content 
% 
millions 
of tonnes
US Coal (US)     
Antelope (k) O/C SC – 265 – – – – –
Colowyo (l) O/C SC 12 2 12 2 15 17 23.95 0.45 100 100.0 15
Cordero Rojo (k) O/C SC – 372 – – – – –
Decker (k) O/C SC – 2 – – – – –
Spring Creek (k) O/C SC – 272 – – – – –
Sub-total     15
Total reserves at  
operating mines     682
Other undeveloped reserves (m)     
Rio Tinto Coal Australia 
(Australia)     
Mount Pleasant  O/C SC 394 324 324 350 26.77 0.47 82 75.7 245
 
  
Proved ore reserves
 at end 2010
Probable ore reserves 
at end 2010
Total ore reserves 2010  
compared with 2009 
 
Type  
of mine  
(a)   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Average 
mill 
recovery 
%
Interest
%
Recoverable 
metal
   2010 2009 2010 2009 
COPPER   
millions 
of tonnes % Cu
millions 
of tonnes % Cu
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes % Cu % Cu 
millions of 
tonnes
Reserves at operating mines     
Bingham Canyon (US)      
– open pit and stockpiles (n) O/P  470 0.50 504 0.38 974 524 0.44 0.47 86 100.0 3.691
Escondida (Chile)       
– sulphide O/P  726 1.15 869 0.91 1,594 1,659 1.02 1.07 82 30.0 3.976
– sulphide leach O/P  783 0.51 1,735 0.53 2,518 2,377 0.52 0.54 30 30.0 1.185
– oxide O/P  76 0.75 56 0.90 131 121 0.81 0.81 68 30.0 0.218
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G  825 1.09 1,750 0.93 2,575 2,590 0.98 1.00 89 (o) 6.973
Northparkes (Australia)       
– open pit and stockpiles (p) O/P  9 0.41 9 10 0.41 0.47 85 80.0 0.024
– underground U/G  67 0.88 67 70 0.88 0.89 89 80.0 0.420
Palabora (South Africa) (q) U/G  62 0.60  62 75 0.60 0.60 88 57.7 0.190
Total     16.676
Reserves at development projects    
Eagle (US) (r) U/G  4.1 2.68 4.1 3.6 2.68 2.93 95 100.0 0.105
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)       
– Hugo Dummett North (s) U/G  410 1.90 410 – 1.90 –  92 26.6 1.910
– Hugo Dummett North 
Extension (t) U/G  27 1.85 27 – 1.85 –  94 24.9 0.116
– South Oyu (u) U/G  127 0.58 828 0.48 955 930 0.49 0.50 81 26.6 1.012
Total     3.144
     
Recoverable 
diamonds
DIAMONDS (b)   
millions 
of tonnes
carats 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
carats 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
carats  
per tonne 
carats  
per tonne 
millions 
of carats
Reserves at operating mines      
Argyle (Australia) (v) O/P + U/G  16 1.1 60 2.5 77 85 2.2 2.1 100.0 166.6
Diavik (Canada) O/P + U/G  8 2.9 10 3.0 18 20 2.9 3.0 60.0 31.7
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (w) O/P    10 0.9 10 21 0.9 0.7 77.8 7.6
Total       205.9
 
See notes on page 87 
  86 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Ore reserves continued 
 
 
 
 
Proved ore reserves
 at end 2010
Probable ore reserves 
at end 2010
Total ore reserves 2010  
compared with 2009 Rio Tinto share
 
Type  
of mine  
(a)  Tonnage GradeTonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Average 
mill 
recovery  
% 
Interest
%
Recoverable 
metal
    2010 2009 2010 2009  
GOLD   
millions  
of tonnes 
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
grammes 
per tonne  
millions 
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines       
Bingham Canyon (US)
 
      
– open pit and stockpiles (n) O/P  470 0.22 504 0.18 974 524 0.20 0.25 65 100.0 4.062
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G  825 1.03 1,750 0.74 2,575 2,590 0.83 0.86 69 (o) 12.829
Northparkes (Australia)        
– open pit and stockpiles (p) O/P  9 0.27 9 10 0.27 0.33 76 80.0 0.045
– underground U/G     67 0.33 67 70 0.33 0.34 73 80.0 0.416
Total      17.352
Reserves at development projects      
Eagle (US) (r) U/G   4.1 0.27 4.1 3.6 0.27 0.29 73 100.0 0.026
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)        
– Hugo Dummett North (s) U/G   410 0.40 410 – 0.40 –  83 26.6 1.162
– Hugo Dummett North  
Extension (t) U/G   27 0.72 27 – 0.72 –  85 24.9 0.132
– South Oyu (u) O/P  127 0.93 828 0.27 955 930 0.36 0.36 75 26.6 2.189
Total      3.510
      
Marketable
product
IRON ORE (b)   
millions  
of tonnes %Fe
millions 
of tonnes %Fe
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes %Fe %Fe  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines       
Hamersley wholly owned (Australia)      
– Brockman 2 (Brockman ore) (x) O/P  11 62.6 1 62.5 12 15 62.6 62.7  100.0 12
– Brockman 4 (Brockman ore) O/P  353 62.2 251 61.9 603 621 62.0 62.0  100.0 603
– Marandoo (Marra Mamba ore) (y) O/P  205 63.4 31 61.2 236 49 63.1 61.5  100.0 236
– Mt Tom Pr ice (Br ockman ore) (z) O/P  29 63.7 54 63.2 83 93 63.4 63.6  100.0 83
– Mt Tom Pr ice  (Marra Mamba ore) (aa) O/P  18 61.4 2 58.9 20 23 61.2 61.1  100.0 20
– Nammuldi (Marra Mamba ore) O/P  10 61.3 6 61.2 16 18 61.3 61.2  100.0 16
– Paraburdoo (Brockman ore) O/P  9 63.3 5 63.7 14 15 63.5 63.1  100.0 14
– Turee Central (Brockman Ore) O/P  72 62.0 6 61.5 78 74 61.9 61.9  100.0 78
– Western Turner Syncline 
(Brockman ore) O/P  224 62.5 67 61.3 291 314 62.2 61.9  100.0 291
– Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) (bb) O/P  171 58.6 5 58.5 176 209 58.6 58.5  100.0 176
– Yandicoogina (Process Product) (cc) O/P  91 58.6 91 102 58.6 58.9  100.0 91
Hamersley – Channar (Australia)          
– Brockman ore (dd) O/P  44 63.1 21 62.7 65 81 63.0 63.0  60.0 39
Hamersley – Eastern Range (Australia)          
– Brockman ore (ee) O/P  48 62.9 10 62.7 58 71 62.8 62.8  54.0 31
Hope Downs 1 (Marra Mamba ore) O/P  20 61.6 304 61.5 324 353 61.5 61.4  50.0 162
Iron Ore Comp any of Canada (Canada) (ff) O/P  366 65.0 272 65.0 638 584 65.0 65.0  58.7 375
Robe River (Australia)          
– Pannawonica (Pisolite ore) O/P  190 57.4 58 56.4 248 267 57.2 57.3  53.0 131
– West Angelas (Marra Mamba ore) O/P  155 62.1 165 61.3 320 347 61.7 61.7   53.0 170
Total           2,527
Reserves at development projects        
Hope Downs 4 (Brockman Ore) O/P  73 63.0 64 63.2 136 136 63.1 63.1   50.0 68
MOLYBDENUM   
millions  
of tonnes %Mo
millions 
of tonnes %Mo
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes %Mo %Mo  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mine      
Bingham Canyon (US)       
– open pit and stockpiles (n) (gg) O/P  470 0.042 504 0.035 974 524 0.038 0.044 71 100.0 0.265
NICKEL   
millions  
of tonnes %Ni
millions 
of tonnes %Ni
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes %Ni %Ni  
Reserves at development project              
Eagle (US) (r) U/G   4.1 3.15 4.1 3.6 3.15 3.47 87 100.0 0.113
 
See notes on page 87  www.riotinto.com 87
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
  
Proved ore reserves
 at end 2010
Probable ore reserves 
at end 2010
Total ore reserves 2010  
compared with 2009 Rio Tinto share
 
Type  
of mine  
(a)   Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade 
Average 
mill 
recovery 
%
Interest
%
Recoverable 
metal
   2010 2009 2010 2009 
SILVER   
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne 
grammes 
per tonne 
millions 
of ounces
Reserves at operating mines              
Bingham Canyon (US)      
– open pit and stockpiles (n) O/P  470 2.13 504 1.86 974 524 1.99 2.08 74 100.0 45.846
Grasberg (Indonesia) O/P + U/G  825 4.22 1,750 4.08 2,575 2,590 4.12 4.18 70 (o) 80.141
Total     125.987
     
Marketable 
product
TALC (e)   
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines     
Rio Tinto Minerals – talc (hh) O/P + U/G  23.5 8.7 32.2 33.5  100.0 32.2
(Europe/North America/Australia)    
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK (e) 
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes  
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines     
RTFT (Canada) O/P  27.2 23.5 50.7 51.4  100.0 50.7
QMM (Madagascar) (ii) D/O  1.8 7.5 9.3 11.9  80.0 7.4
RBM (South Africa) D/O  5.3 18.8 24.2 24.9  37.0 8.9
Total     67.1
 
    
Recoverable 
metal
URANIUM   
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
O
8
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
O
8
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
O
8
 %U
3
O
8
 
millions 
of tonnes
Reserves at operating mines     
Energy Resources of Australia (Australia)    
– Ranger #3 (jj) O/P  3.5 0.213 21.4 0.106 24.9 27.7 0.121 0.135 85 68.4 0.017
Rössing (Namibia) (kk) O/P  46.1 0.032 125.4 0.040 171.5 192.7 0.038 0.031 84 68.6 0.037
Total       0.055
Notes: 
(a) Type of mine: O/P: open pit, O/C: open cut, U/G: underground, D/O: dredging operation. 
(b) Reserves of iron ore, bauxite and diamonds are shown as recoverable reserves of marketable 
product after accounting for all mining and processing losses. Mill recoveries are therefore  
not shown. 
(c) The decrease in reserves at Porto Trombetas results from production as well as reclassification 
of material to resource ahead of permitting. 
(d) The decrease in reserves at Sangaredi follows production. 
(e) Reserves of industrial minerals are expressed in terms of marketable product, ie after all mining 
and processing losses. In the case of borates, the marketable product is B
2
O
3
. 
(f) For coal, the yield factors shown reflect the impact of further processing, where necessary,  
to provide marketable coal.  
(g) Coal type: SC: steam/thermal coal, MC: metallurgical/coking. 
(h) Analyses of coal from the US were undertaken according to ASTM Standards on an “As 
Received“ moisture basis whereas the coals from Australia have been analysed on an  
“Air Dried“ moisture basis in accordance with Australian Standards. Marketable reserve 
tonnages are reported at product moisture. 
(i) The reduced reserves at Blair Athol reflect production and reclassification of material to 
resources following an economic re-evaluation. 
(j) The lower reserve at Hail Creek has resulted from model updates and yield data refinement, 
production depletions and reclassification of tonnes to resource following a strategic review. 
(k) Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 48.3 per cent interest in the Antelope, Cordero Rojo 
and Spring Creek mines and its 24.1 per cent interest in the Decker mine with an effective date 
of 15 December 2010. 
(l) The lower reserve tonnage at Colowyo follows production depletion. 
(m) The term “other undeveloped reserves“ is used here to describe material that is economically 
viable on the basis of technical and economic studies but for which mining and processing 
permits may have yet to be requested or obtained. There is a reasonable, but not absolute, 
certainty that the necessary permits will be issued and that mining can proceed when required. 
(n) A strategic review of the Bingham Canyon pit has led to significant conversions of resources to 
reserves with resulting recasting of tonnage and grade figures. This has added tonnes far in 
excess of the annual production. 
(o)  Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is entitled 
to a direct 40 per cent share in reserves discovered after 31 December 1994 and it is this 
entitlement that is shown. 
(p)  Tonnage and grade depletions at Northparkes stem from campaign mining and selective 
stockpiling ahead of processing.  
(q) The decrease in the Palabora reserve tonnage follows production as well as planning and 
scheduling updates. 
 
(r) The Eagle reserve increase is the result of an updated economic model and a mine design review. 
(s) Hugo Dummett North is reported for the first time as a result of technical and economic studies.  
(t) Hugo Dummett North Extension is reported for the first time as a result of technical and 
economic studies. 
(u) Rio Tinto‘s interest in South Oyu increased from 19.9 to 26.6 per cent during 2010.  
(v) Mine production has reduced the reserve at Argyle. 
(w) A geological re-interpretation and subsequent model update has led to a revision of the 
Murowa reserve. 
(x) The reserve decrease at Hamersley Brockman 2 reflects production and updating of the model. 
(y) Hamersley Marandoo (Marra Mamba ore) reserve increase follows a strategic review. 
(z) The Hamersley Mt Tom Price (Brockman ore) reserve decrease reflects production and updating 
of the model. 
(aa) Production led to a decrease in the Hamersley Mt Tom Price (Marra Mamba ore) reserve. 
(bb) The Hamersley Yandicoogina (Pisolite ore HG) reserve decrease reflects production and  
a model update. 
(cc) The Hamersley Yandicoogina (Process Product) reserve tonnage decreased following 
production and selective stockpiling. 
(dd) The Hamersley Channar (Brockman ore) reserve decrease reflects a model update  
and production. 
(ee) The Hamersley Eastern Range (Brockman ore) reserve decrease reflects a model update 
and production. 
(ff) Reserves at Iron Ore Company of Canada are reported as marketable product (65 per cent 
pellets and 35 per cent concentrate for sale), at a natural moisture content of two per cent using 
process upgrade factors derived from current IOC concentrating and pellet operations and  
a modelling cut off grade of 28 per cent concentrate weight yield. The marketable product is 
obtained from mined material comprising 860 million dry tonnes at 38.2 per cent iron (Proved) 
and 630 million dry tonnes at 37.8 per iron (Probable). 
(gg) Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays have been factored based  
on a long reconciliation history to blasthole and mill samples. 
(hh) In February 2011, Rio Tinto announced that it had received a binding offer for the purchase  
of 100 per cent of its talc business. 
(ii) Reserve changes at QMM are due to decreased metallurgical recovery, mine design changes  
and the conversion of unscheduled reserve material to resources. 
(jj) Mine production and planning updates have reduced the Ranger #3 reserve. 
(kk) Production together with a revised model has led to a decrease in Rössing reserve tonnes and 
an increase in grade. 88 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mineral resources 
 
 
As required by the Australian Securities Exchange, the following tables contain details of other mineralisation that has a reasonable prospect  
of being economically extracted in the future but which is not yet classified as Proved or Probable Reserves. This material is defined as Mineral 
Resources under the JORC Code. Estimates of such material are based largely on geological information with only preliminary consideration  
of mining, economic and other factors. While in the judgment of the Competent Person there are realistic expectations that all or part of the 
Mineral Resources will eventually become Proved or Probable Reserves, there is no guarantee that this will occur as the result depends on 
further technical and economic studies and prevailing economic conditions in the future. As in the case of reserves, managed operations’ 
estimates are completed using or testing against Rio Tinto long term pricing and market forecasts/scenarios. 
Resources are stated as additional to the reserves reported earlier. Where operations are not managed by Rio Tinto the resources are published 
as received from the managing company. Where new project resources or reserves are footnoted as being reported for the first time, additional 
information about them can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website, in the section titled “what we produce”. 
 
 
Measured resources
 at end 2010
Indicated resources 
at end 2010
Inferred resources 
at end 2010
Total resources 2010 
compared with 2009
 
Likely 
mining 
method  
(a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage  Grade
Rio Tinto 
interest
%
   2010 2009 2010 2009
BAUXITE  
millions  
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions 
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions 
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes % Al
2
O
3
 % Al
2
O
3
Gove (Australia) O/P 12 49.4 32 49.4 4 50.1 49 49 49.5 49.4 100.0
Porto Trombetas (MRN) (Brazil) (b) O/P 101 48.1 23 48.2 412 49.1 536 441 48.9 49.2 12.0
Sangaredi (Guinea)  O/P 82 48.7 179 48.3 230 48.3 491 491 48.4 48.4 23.0
Weipa (Australia) O/P 137 50.1 1,432 51.2 446 51.9 2,014 1,889 51.3 51.2 100.0
BORATES  
millions  
of tonnes 
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes  
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron (US) (c)  O/P     0.1 0.1 0.1   100.0
Jadar (Serbia) (d) U/G     16.2 16.2 16.2   100.0
   Coal resources at end 2010      
  
Coal  
type  
(e)  Measured Indicated Inferred     
COAL (f)    
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes    
Chapudi (South Africa) (g) O/C SC 92 600 694 1,386 1,040  58.0
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (Australia)    
Bengalla (h) O/C + U/G SC + MC 12 18 53 83 170  30.3
Blair Athol (i) O/C SC 6 0.2 6 7  71.2
Clermont  O/C SC 11 4 15 15  50.1
Hail Creek (j) O/C MC 131 124 110 365 136  82.0
Hunter Valley Operations (k) O/C + U/G SC + MC 201 428 368 997 1,413  75.7
Kestrel Coal (l) U/G SC + MC 1 3 4 9  80.0
Kestrel West U/G SC 106 33 139 139  80.0
Lake Elphinstone O/C SC + MC 120 42 162 162  82.0
Maules Creek (m) O/C SC + MC – 398  – 
Mount Pleasant (n) O/C + U/G SC + MC 162 245 205 612 699  75.7
Mount Thorley Operations (o) O/C + U/G SC + MC 1 25 74 99 129  60.6
Oaklands O/C SC 59658490 1,270 1,280  75.7
Valeria O/C SC 69864 762 762  71.2
Vickery (p) O/C + U/G SC + MC – 300  – 
Warkworth (q) O/C + U/G SC + MC 4 175 299 477 530  42.1
Winchester South O/C SC + MC  17 175 192 192  75.0
US Coal (US)     
Antelope (r) O/C SC – 73  –
Colowyo O/C SC 46140.1 59 57  100.0
Cordero Rojo (r) O/C SC – 159  –
 
See notes on page 92  www.riotinto.com 89
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
 
Measured resources
 at end 2010
Indicated resources
 at end 2010
Inferred resources
 at end 2010
Total resources 2010 
compared with 2009
 
Likely 
mining 
method  
(a) Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade Tonnage Grade
Rio Tinto 
interest
%
  2010 2009 2010 2009
COPPER  
millions 
of tonnes % Cu
millions 
of tonnes % Cu
millions 
of tonnes % Cu
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes % Cu % Cu
Bingham Canyon (US) (s) O/P 86 0.14 86  647 0.14 0.47 100.0
Eagle (US) (t) U/G 0.6 0.75 0.1 0.86 0.7  0.9 0.77 2.12 100.0
Escondida (Chile)      
– sulphide (u) O/P 62 0.75 48 0.74 653 0.72 763 742 0.72 0.83 30.0
– sulphide leach (v) O/P 210 0.44 495 0.42 2,707 0.45 3,412 3,874 0.45 0.47 30.0
– oxide (v) O/P 12 0.80 12 34 0.80 0.78 30.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (w) O/P + U/G 502 0.71 1,778 0.62 91 0.39 2,371 2,863 0.63 0.56 (w)
La Granja (Peru) O/P 3,000 0.51 3,000 2,770 0.51 0.51 100.0
Northparkes (Australia) (x) O/P + U/G 14 0.91 4 0.71 271 0.55 288 17 0.57 0.86 80.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)      
– Heruga ETG (y) U/G 910 0.48 910 760 0.48 0.48 24.9
– Heruga IVN (z) U/G 60 0.48 60 –  0.48 – 26.6
– Hugo Dummett North (aa) U/G 293 1.71 723 0.97 1,016 1,426 1.18 1.39 26.6
– Hugo Dummett North Extension (bb) O/P + U/G 90 1.77 96 1.15 186 213 1.45 1.51 24.9
– Hugo Dummett South (cc) U/G 490 1.05 490 490 1.05 1.05 26.6
– South Oyu (cc) O/P 164 0.42 267 0.34 431 456 0.37 0.38 26.6
Palabora (South Africa)      
– stockpiles  6.4 0.31 6.4 6.4 0.31 0.31 57.7
Resolution (US) U/G     1,624 1.47 1,624 1,624 1.47 1.47 55.0
DIAMONDS  
millions 
of tonnes
carats
 per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
carats
 per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
carats
 per tonne
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes 
carats
 per tonne
carats
 per tonne 
Argyle (Australia)    
– AK1 pipe U/G 11 3.5 23 3.7 6 3.6 40 40 3.6 3.6 100.0
Bunder (India) O/P 37 0.7 37 37 0.7 0.7 100.0
Diavik (Canada) O/P + U/G 3.6 2.8 0.4 2.6 3.6 3.0 7.5 7.5 2.9 3.0 60.0
Murowa (Zimbabwe) (dd) O/P     9.5 0.1 9.5 1.4 0.1 0.4 77.8
GOLD  
millions 
of tonnes
grammes
 per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes
 per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes
 per tonne
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes 
grammes
 per tonne
grammes
 per tonne 
Bingham Canyon (US) (s) O/P 86 0.10 86  647 0.10 0.18 100.0
Eagle (US) (t) U/G 0.6 0.09 0.1 0.11 0.7  0.9 0.09 0.19 100.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (w) O/P + U/G 502 0.63 1,778 0.56 91 0.40 2,371 2,863 0.57 0.51 (w)
Northparkes (Australia) (x) O/P + U/G 14 0.30 4 0.13 271 0.26 288 17 0.26 0.26 80.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)      
– Heruga ETG (y) U/G 910 0.49 910 760 0.49 0.55 24.9
– Heruga IVN (z) U/G 60 0.37 60 –  0.37 – 26.6
– Hugo Dummett North (aa) U/G 293 0.38 723 0.30 1,016 1,426 0.32 0.34 26.6
– Hugo Dummett North Extension (bb) O/P + U/G 90 0.58 96 0.31 186 213 0.44 0.48 24.9
– Hugo Dummett South (cc) U/G 490 0.09 490 490 0.09 0.09 26.6
– South Oyu (cc) O/P 164 0.27 267 0.23 431 456 0.25 0.25 26.6
Wabu (Indonesia) O/P     43 2.56 43 43 2.56 2.56 (w)
 
See notes on page 92  90 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mineral resources continued 
 
 
 
 
Measured resources 
at end 2010
Indicated resources 
at end 2010
Inferred resources 
at end 2010
Total resources 2010 
compared with 2009
 Tonnage GradeTonnageGradeTonnageGrade Tonnage  Grade
Rio Tinto 
interest
%
 
Likely 
mining 
method  
(a)  2010 2009 2010 2009
IRON ORE  
millions  
of tonnes % Fe
millions 
of tonnes % Fe
millions 
of tonnes % Fe
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes % Fe % Fe
Hamersley wholly owned (Australia)     
– Brockman 2 (ee) O/P 11 62.4 27 62.7 2 61.9 40 28 62.6 62.1 100.0
– Brockman 4 (ff) O/P 31 62.2 18 61.9 5 62.6 54 35 62.1 62.1 100.0
– Marandoo Marra Mamba (gg) O/P 123 62.5 12 61.2 19 60.6 154 375 62.2 62.6 100.0
– Mt Tom Price high grade O/P 35 63.3 67 63.8 9 64.4 111 112 63.7 63.6 100.0
– Mt Tom Price low grade O/P 26 56.9 25 55.6 3 55.0 54 55 56.2 56.2 100.0
– Mt Tom Price Marra Mamba (hh) O/P 14 61.9 3 61.8 17 19 61.9 61.9 100.0
– Nammuldi Detrital O/P 2 60.0 75 60.6 77 82 60.6 60.7 100.0
– Nammuldi Marra Mamba O/P 128 62.7 141 62.8 5 59.4 274 280 62.7 62.6 100.0
– Paraburdoo Brockman O/P 28 62.9 36 63.6 37 63.4 101 102 63.3 63.3 100.0
– Paraburdoo Marra Mamba (ii) O/P  2 60.8 2 1 60.8 59.4 100.0
– Turee Syncline (jj) O/P 9 61.8 2 61.6 7 62.2 18 10 61.9 61.6 100.0
– Western Turner Syncline O/P 40 62.4 15 62.0 5 61.8 60 60 62.3 62.2 100.0
– Yandicoogina-Junction O/P 363 58.1 213 58.1 51 57.6 627 652 58.1 58.0 100.0
Hamersley undeveloped resources (kk)    
– High Grade Brockman ore  O/P 42 62.6 1,082 62.6 2,528 62.5 3,652 3,441 62.5 62.5 (kk)
– Brockman Process ore O/P 325 57.6 339 57.9 711 56.8 1,375 1,289 57.3 57.2 (kk)
– Marra Mamba (ll) O/P  725 62.2 2,366 61.9 3,091 2,336 61.9 62.0 (kk)
– Channel Iron deposits (mm) O/P 65 57.6 286 57.8 2,240 57.0 2,591 2,010 57.1 57.2 100.0
– Detrital deposits (nn) O/P  172 61.1 463 61.0 635 216 61.0 61.4 86.9
Hamersley – Channar (Australia)     
– Brockman O/P 27 61.8 7 61.7 1 61.2 35 35 61.8 61.8 60.0
Hamersley – Eastern Range (Australia)    
– Brockman O/P 17 61.7 4 62.0 11 62.5 32 31 62.0 61.9 54.0
Hope Downs (Australia)      
– Hope Downs 1 Marra Mamba O/P 5 61.6 75 61.9 14 59.7 94 97 61.6 61.6 50.0
– Hope Downs 1 Detritals O/P  4 60.1 4 58.8 8 8 59.5 59.5 50.0
– Hope Downs 4 Brockman O/P 14 61.5 30 62.0 134 62.4 178 163 62.3 62.5 50.0
Hope Downs undeveloped resources    
– Brockman (oo) O/P  116 61.9 116 154 61.9 61.5 50.0
– Brockman Process ore (pp) O/P 54 56.9 28 57.6 125 56.7 207 180 56.9 57.4 50.0
– Marra Mamba and Detritals O/P  210 61.6 210 225 61.6 61.0 50.0
Iron Ore Company of Canada (Canada) (qq) O/P 202 39.3 754 38.2 1,417 37.8 2,373 2,540 38.1 37.9 58.7
Palabora (South Africa) O/P  234 55.9 234 236 55.9 55.9 57.7
Robe River (Australia)     
– Marra Mamba O/P 80 62.0 131 62.0 3 60.9 214 210 62.0 61.9 53.0
– Pisolite (rr) O/P 136 56.4 87 54.4 97 55.4 320 107 55.6 57.0 53.0
– Detritals (ss) O/P  6 60.2 6 – 60.2 – 53.0
Robe River undeveloped resources    
– Marra Mamba (tt) O/P  197 61.4 244 60.4 441 382 60.9 60.9 53.0
– Pisolite O/P 54 60.0 1,212 59.0 443 55.0 1,709 1,633 58.0 57.9 53.0
– Detritals O/P  33 61.0 33 33 61.0 61.0 53.0
Simandou (Guinea) (uu) O/P 330 67.2 1,335 65.7 728 66.1 2,393 2,254 66.0 66.0 95.0
 
See notes on page 92  www.riotinto.com 91
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
 
Measured resources 
at end 2010
Indicated resources 
at end 2010
Inferred resources 
at end 2010
Total resources 2010 
compared with 2009
 TonnageGradeTonnageGradeTonnageGrade Tonnage Grade
Rio Tinto 
interest 
%
 
Likely 
mining 
method  
(a) 2010 2009 2010 2009
LITHIUM  
millions 
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions 
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions 
of tonnes % Li
2
O
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes % Li
2
O % Li
2
O
Jadar (Serbia) (d) U/G 125.3 1.8 125.3 125.3 1.8 1.8 100.0
MOLYBDENUM  
millions 
of tonnes % Mo
millions 
of tonnes % Mo
millions 
of tonnes % Mo
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes % Mo % Mo
Bingham Canyon (US) (s) (vv) O/P     86 0.007 86  647 0.007 0.034 100.0
Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia)          
– Heruga ETG (y) U/G     9100.014 910 760 0.014 0.015 24.9
– Heruga IVN (z) U/G     60 0.013 60 –  0.013 – 26.6
Resolution (US) U/G     1,624 0.037 1,624 1,624 0.037 0.037 55.0
NICKEL  
millions 
of tonnes % Ni
millions 
of tonnes % Ni
millions 
of tonnes % Ni
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes % Ni % Ni
Eagle (US) (t) U/G 0.6 0.88 0.1 0.81 0.7  0.9 0.87 2.77 100.0
Sulawesi (Indonesia) (ww) O/P   162 1.62 162 162 1.62 1.62 80.0
SILVER  
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions 
of tonnes
grammes 
per tonne
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes 
grammes 
per tonne
grammes 
per tonne
Bingham Canyon (US) (s) O/P 86 1.09 86  647 1.09 2.08 100.0
Grasberg (Indonesia) (w) O/P + U/G 502 3.45 1,778 3.45 91 2.79 2,371 2,863 3.42 3.26 (w)
Wabu (Indonesia) O/P     43 2.49 43 43 2.49 2.49 (w)
TALC  
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes 
Rio Tinto Minerals – Talc (xx) 
(Australia/Europe/N America) 
O/P + U/G 
17 19 19 55 70 100.0
TITANIUM DIOXIDE FEEDSTOCK 
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions 
of tonnes
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes   
RTFT (Canada)  O/P 4.1 4.1 4.1 100.0
QMM (Madagascar) D/O 0.2 33.8 4.0 38.0 38.1 80.0
RBM (South Africa) (yy) D/O   1.2 1.6 2.8 3.0 37.0
URANIUM  
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
millions 
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes %U
3
0
8
%U
3
0
8
Energy Resources of Australia (Australia)   
– Jabiluka U/G 1.2 0.887 13.9 0.520 10.0 0.545 25.1 25.1 0.547 0.547 68.4
– Ranger #3 O/P 29.8 0.079 95.6 0.083 6.0 0.119 131.3 127.2 0.084 0.085 68.4
Rössing (Namibia) (zz) O/P 15.7 0.025 179.8 0.026 50.3 0.021 245.8 104.0 0.025 0.023 68.6
ZINC  
millions 
of tonnes %Zn
millions 
of tonnes %Zn
millions 
of tonnes %Zn
millions  
of tonnes 
millions  
of tonnes %Zn %Zn
La Granja (Peru) (aaa) O/P 3,000 0.09 3,000  2,770 0.09 0.10 100.0
 
See notes on page 92 
  92 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mineral resources continued 
 
 
Notes 
(a) Likely mining method: O/P = open pit; O/C = open cut; U/G = underground; D/O = dredging operation. 
(b) The increased resource tonnage at Porto Trombetas is due to model update and the 
reclassification of reserve material ahead of permitting. 
(c) Boron resources are reported as in situ B
2
O
3
, rather than marketable product as in reserves. 
(d) Jadar resources are reported as the in situ mineral content to align with the Boron (US) 
estimates. The Jadar lithium resource is expressed as in situ tonnes of mineralised material. 
(e) Coal type: SC = steam/thermal coal, MC = metallurgical/coking coal. 
(f) Rio Tinto reports Coal Resources on an in situ moisture basis. 
(g) On 19 November 2010, Rio Tinto entered into an agreement to sell its 56.1 per cent interest in 
the Chapudi Coal project. The agreement is proceeding through final review and approval 
processes in South Africa. The increased resource is a result of additional drilling. 
(h) Resource tonnage at Bengalla was reduced due to redefined resource limits. 
(i) The decrease in resource tonnes at Blair Athol follows resource, mining and economic model updates. 
(j) Resource tonnage at Hail Creek increased following reclassification of reserves and economic 
model update. 
(k) Re-evaluation of the resource limits and underground prospects reduced resource tonnage  
at Hunter Valley Operations. 
(l) Resource tonnes decreased at Kestrel Coal due to conversion of resources to reserves and 
subsequent re-evaluation of the mine plan. 
(m) Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Maules Creek property with transfer being 
effective on 18 February 2010. 
(n) Resource tonnage at Mount Pleasant was reduced due to refined resource limits. 
(o) The decrease in resource tonnes at Mount Thorley Operations follows a review of underground 
mining potential. 
(p) Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Vickery property with transfer being effective  
on 4 February 2010. 
(q) The decrease in resource tonnes at Warkworth followed a review of underground mining potential. 
(r) Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its 48.3 per cent interest in the Antelope and Cordero 
Rojo mines with an effective date of 15 December 2010. 
(s) Bingham Canyon resources are lower following conversion to reserves. 
(t) Resource tonnes at Eagle have decreased following a model update. 
(u) Escondida sulphide resource grades are reduced after completion of a new economic study  
and model update. 
(v) The Escondida sulphide leach and oxide resources decreased after a review of the economic 
assumptions used to define the resources pit limit. 
(w) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between Rio Tinto and FCX, Rio Tinto is entitled 
to a direct 40 per cent share in resources discovered after 31 December 1994. Resource model 
updates and pit re-designs have resulted in lower tonnes and higher grades at Grasberg. 
(x) Technical and economic studies led to increased tonnes at lower grades at Northparkes. 
(y) Resources increased following additional drilling and extending the strike length of Heruga 
ETG up to the Oyu Tolgoi licence boundary. Rio Tinto‘s interest has increased from 19.5 to  
24.9 per cent during 2010. 
(z) Heruga IVN resources are reported for the first time following technical and economic studies. 
 
(aa) Transfer of resources to reserves has reduced the resource tonnes and grade at Hugo Dummett 
North. Rio Tinto‘s interest increased from 19.9 to 26.6 per cent during 2010. 
(bb) Transfer of resources to reserves has reduced the resource tonnes and grade at Hugo Dummett 
North Extension. Rio Tinto‘s interest has increased from 19.5 to 24.9 per cent during 2010. 
(cc) Rio Tinto‘s interest in Hugo Dummett South and South Oyu increased from 19.9 to 26.6 per 
cent during 2010. 
(dd) A geological re-interpretation and subsequent model update has led to a revision of the 
Murowa resource. 
(ee) The Hamersley Brockman 2 resource tonnes were increased following a model update. 
(ff) Changes in the pit design resulted in increased Hamersley Brockman 4 resources. 
(gg) The decrease in Hamersley Marandoo Marra Mamba resource tonnes is due to a model update 
and conversion of resources to reserves. 
(hh) Re-design of the pit reduced the resource tonnes at Mt Tom Price Marra Mamba. 
(ii) Transfer of reserves back to resources has increased the Hamersley Paraburdoo Marra Mamba 
resource tonnes and grade. 
(jj) A model update has resulted in improved resource tonnes at Hamersley Turee Syncline. 
(kk) Resources in this category consist of 43 separate deposits, 26 of which are wholly owned by 
Hamersley Iron. Tenure of Shovelanna (50 per cent Hamersley Iron) has now been granted. 
(ll) A model update led to an increase in the undeveloped Hamersley Marra Mamba resource tonnes. 
(mm) Geological model updates led to increased Hamersley Channel Iron undeveloped resource tonnes. 
(nn)  Technical and economic studies have resulted in reporting of new Hamersley Detrital 
undeveloped resources.  
(oo) Model updates yielded lower Hope Downs Brockman resource figures. 
(pp) Technical and economic studies resulted in improved Hope Downs Brockman Process ore 
resource tonnes. 
(qq) IOC resources are quoted on an in situ dry tonnes and grades basis. This resource would 
produce marketable product (57 per cent pellets and 43 per cent concentrate for sale at two per 
cent moisture content) of 89 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron (measured), 329 million tonnes 
at 65 per cent iron (indicated) and 578 million tonnes at 65 per cent iron (inferred) at cut off 
grades of 21 to 25 per cent concentrator weight yield. 
(rr) Review of the geological model resulted in higher Robe River Pisolite resource tonnes. 
(ss) Robe River high grade detritals are reported for the first time following technical and economic studies. 
(tt) Model updates have improved the undeveloped Robe River Marra Mamba resources. 
(uu) Rio Tinto’s interest in Simandou is quoted as 95 per cent, the other five per cent being held by 
the IFC. Chalco has the right to earn 47 per cent of this 95 per cent. The Government of Guinea 
has an option to subscribe up to 20 per cent of the entire project reducing ownership of all 
existing partners to 80 per cent. Rio Tinto’s current tenure comprises exploration permits 
extended for three months from 24 February 2011 by virtue of a mining concession application 
Rio Tinto has lodged. It will be necessary to procure grant of that application or some alternative 
grant from the Government of Guinea to maintain title. Rio Tinto is in discussions with the 
Government of Guinea seeking to procure this. 
(vv) Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration drilling assays have been factored based  
on a long reconciliation history to blasthole and mill samples. 
(ww) Rio Tinto‘s interest in Sulawesi reduced from 100 per cent to 80 per cent following an 
agreement with a third party signed in November 2010. 
(xx) Review of geological models and conversion of resources to reserves has reduced Rio Tinto 
Minerals talc resource tonnes. In February 2011, Rio Tinto announced that it had received  
a binding offer for the purchase of 100 per cent of its talc business. 
(yy) Resources at RBM decreased after a model update, a review of product recovery factors and 
mining depletions. 
(zz) A model update and subsequent pitshell redesigns resulted in an increased resource at Rössing. 
(aaa) Re-modelling at La Granja has reduced the zinc resource grade. 
  www.riotinto.com 93
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Competent Persons 
 
  
 
As defined by JORC – see page 84 
(a) AusIMM: Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, AIG: Australian Institute of 
Geoscientists, EuroGeol: European Geologist member of the European Federation of Geologists, 
IMMM: Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, SAIMM: South African Institute of Mining 
and Metallurgy, SME: Society of Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration, AIPG: American Institute 
of Professional Geologists, NAPEGG: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and 
Geophysicists of the Northwest Territories, PEG: Professional Engineers and Geoscientists 
Newfoundland and Labrador, BGS: British Geological Society, PEG: Professional Engineers  
and Geoscientists Newfoundland and Labrador, CIMM: Canadian Institute of Mining and 
Metallurgy, APEGGA: Association of Professional Engineers, Geologists and Geophysicists of 
Alberta, OIQ: Ordre des Ingénieurs du Quebec, SACNASP: South African Council for Natural 
Scientific Professions.  
(b) Includes gold.  
(c) Includes molybdenum. 
(d) Includes silver. 
(e) Includes zinc. 
(f) Includes iron ore.  
(g) Includes borates. 
(h) Includes copper. 
 
Primary Commodity Name Association (a)  Employer Accountability Deposits 
 L McAndrew AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan – Gove, Weipa 
 J Bower AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Alcan – Gove, Weipa, Sangaredi 
Bauxite J P C de Melo Franco AusIMM MRN Consultant Resources, Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan – Porto Trombetas (MRN) 
 L Fouché AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Alcan – Sangaredi 
Borates L Karlsson AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron Operations 
 P Ellis AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Blair Athol, Clermont, Hail Creek, Kestrel, Kestrel West,  
Winchester South 
 J Buddee AusIMM  Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Bengalla, Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley, Warkworth, 
Mount Pleasant 
 G Carr AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Blair Athol, Kestrel, Clermont, Hail Creek 
Coal J Bamberry AIG Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley, Mount Pleasant, 
Warkworth , Bengalla 
 A Waltho AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Coal Australia – Valeria, Lake Elphinstone, Oaklands 
 M Guptill AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Colowyo 
 S Kristensen AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Energy – Chapudi 
 K Mudge AusIMM Reserves 
 J Vickery AusIMM  
Rio Tinto 
Reserves, Resources 
Kennecott Utah Copper – Bingham Canyon (b) (c) (d) 
 M Howson IMMM Rio Tinto Resources La Granja (e) 
 A Lye AIG Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Northparkes (b) 
 S Ngidi SAIMM Reserves 
Copper H-D Paetzold SACNASP 
Rio Tinto 
Resources 
Palabora (f) 
 C Hehnke AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Resolution (c) 
 S Torr AusIMM Ivanhoe Mines Reserves, Resources Oyu Tolgoi (b) (c) 
 A Zuzunaga AusIMM Reserves 
 O Cortés  AusIMM 
BHP Billiton 
Resources 
Minera Escondida  
 A Issel SME Resources 
 G MacDonald AIPG 
PT Freeport 
Reserves 
PT Freeport – Grasberg, Wabu (b) (d) 
 R Platell AusIMM 
 S Brennan AusIMM 
Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Argyle 
 R Platell AusIMM Rio Tinto Resources Bunder 
Diamonds C Yip AusIMM Reserves 
 K Thompson NAPEGG  
Rio Tinto 
Resources 
Diavik 
 A Davy IMMM Resources 
 A Kumar AusIMM  
Rio Tinto 
Reserves 
Murowa 
 J Phillips AusIMM Resources Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Hope Downs, Robe River, Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic  
– Simandou 
 P Savory AusIMM Resources 
 M Slavik AusIMM 
Rio Tinto 
Reserves 
Rio Tinto Iron Ore – Hamersley, Hope Downs, Robe River 
Iron Ore M Blake PEG Resources 
 R Williams AusIMM Reserves 
 T Leriche PEG 
Rio Tinto 
Reserves, Resources 
Iron Ore Company of Canada – Carol Lake 
Lithium J Garcia EuroGeol Rio Tinto Resources Rio Tinto Minerals – Jadar (g) 
 D Rennie APEGBC Reserves, Resources 
Nickel N Lecuyer OIQ 
Roscoe Postle Assoc. 
Reserves 
Eagle (b) (h) 
 D Guibal AusIMM  SRK Consulting Resources La Sampala 
 M Wurm AIG Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Australian mines 
Talc J-F Robert AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources European mines 
 D Marek CIMM Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources North American mines 
J Dumouchel APEGGA  Resources  
Y Bourque OIQ 
Rio Tinto 
Reserves, Resources 
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane 
J Dumouchel APEGGA  Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources QIT Madagascar Minerals 
Titanium Dioxide 
Feedstock 
C Ware SACNASP Rio Tinto Reserves, Resources Richards Bay Minerals 
 A van der Heyden AusIMM Hellman & Schofield 
 G Rogers AusIMM Rio Tinto 
Resources Energy Resources of Australia – Ranger 3, Jabiluka II 
Uranium R Miller AusIMM Rio Tinto Reserves Energy Resources of Australia – Ranger 3 
 J Forkes IMMM Resources 
 W-D Wieland SAIMM 
Rio Tinto 
Reserves 
Rössing SJ/SK 
       94 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mines and production facilities 
 
 
Group mines as at 31 December 2010 
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown) 
Mine Location Access Title/lease 
BAUXITE 
   
CBG Sangaredi (23%) Kamsar, Guinea 
 
Road, air and port Lease expires in 2038 
Gove Gove, Northern Territory, 
Australia 
 
 
Road, air and port 100% leasehold, expiring in 2011, with most leases having a right 
of renewal for a further 42 years (freehold interest in underlying  
land held in escrow by the Northern Land Council on behalf of the  
Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust until expiry of the leases,  
including period of renewal); additional lease is to be granted by the  
Arnhem Land Aboriginal Land Trust for the purpose of residue disposal. 
MRN Porto Trombetas (12%) Porto Trombetas,  
Para, Brazil 
 
 
Air or port Mineral rights granted for undetermined period 
Weipa/Ely Weipa, Queensland, 
Australia 
Road, air and port The Weipa Queensland Government lease expires in 2041 with an  
option of 21 year extension, then two years’ notice of termination;  
the Ely Alcan Queensland Pty. Limited Agreement Act 1965 expires  
in 2048 with 21 year right of renewal with a two year notice period 
 
 
 
COPPER 
   
Escondida (30%) Atacama Desert, Chile Pipeline and road to deep  
sea port at Coloso; road  
and rail 
Rights conferred by Government under Chilean Mining Code 
Grasberg joint venture 
(40% of production) 
Papua, Indonesia Pipeline, road and port Indonesian Government Contracts of Work expire in 2021 with  
option of two ten year extensions 
 
 
Kennecott Utah Copper 
Bingham Canyon 
Near Salt Lake City,  
Utah, US 
 
 
Pipeline, road and rail Owned 
Northparkes (80%) Goonumbla, New South 
Wales, Australia 
Road and rail State Government mining lease issued in 1991 for 21 years.  
Development consent approved in 2009 for extension of mine  
life to 2025 
Palabora (57.7%) Phalaborwa, Limpopo 
Province, South Africa 
Rail and road Lease from South African Government until deposits depleted.  
Base metal claims owned by Palabora 
DIAMONDS & MINERALS 
Diamonds 
   
Argyle Diamonds Kimberley Ranges, Western 
Australia 
Road and air Mining tenement held under Diamond (Argyle Diamond Mines  
Joint Venture) Agreement Act 1981–1983; lease extended for 
21 years from 2004 
Diavik (60%) Northwest Territories, 
Canada 
 
Air, ice road in winter Mining leases from Canadian Federal Government  
expiring in 2017 and 2018 
Murowa (77.8%) Zvishavane, Zimbabwe Road and air 
 
Claims and mining leases 
Industrial Minerals 
   
Rio Tinto Minerals – Boron California, US Road, rail and port Owned 
Rio Tinto Minerals – Talc Trimouns, France (other 
smaller operations in 
Australia, Europe and  
North America) 
Road and rail Owner of ground (orebody) and long term lease agreement to 2012 
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane  
Lac Tio 
Havre-Saint-Pierre,  
Quebec, Canada 
Rail and port 
(St Lawrence River) 
Mining covered by two concessions granted by State in 1949 and 1951  
which, subject to certain Mining Act restrictions, confer rights and  
obligations of an owner 
QIT Madagascar Minerals 
(80%) 
Fort-Dauphin, Madagascar Road and port Mining lease 
Richards Bay Minerals (37%) Richards Bay, KwaZulu-
Natal, South Africa 
Rail, road and port Long term renewable mineral leases; State lease for Reserve 4 initially  
runs to end 2022; Ingonyama Trust lease for Reserve 10 runs to 2022.  
Application made for both mineral leases to be converted to new order  
mining rights following transfer in December 2009 of 26% interest  
to investor groups of previously disadvantaged South Africans in 
terms of Mining Charter legislation 
  www.riotinto.com 95
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
 
History Type of mine Power source 
 
  
Bauxite mining commenced in 1973. Shareholders are 51% Halco and 49% Government of Guinea.  
Rio Tinto Alcan has held 45% of Halco since 2004. Current annual capacity is 13 million tonnes 
Open cut On site generation (fuel oil) 
Bauxite mining commenced in 1970 feeding both the Gove refinery and export market capped at two million 
tonnes per annum. Bauxite export ceased in 2006 with feed intended for the expanded Gove refinery. Bauxite 
exports recommenced in 2008. Current production capacity about ten million tonnes per annum with mine life 
estimated to 2030 
 
 
Open cut Central power station located 
at the Gove refinery 
Mineral extraction commenced in April 1979. Initial production capacity 3.4 million tonnes annually. From 
October 2003, production capacity up to 16.3 million tonnes per year on a dry basis. Capital structure currently: 
Vale (40%), BHP Billiton (14.8%), Rio Tinto Alcan (12%), CBA (10%), Alcoa/Abalco (18.2%) and Norsk Hydro (5%) 
 
Open cut On site generation (heavy oil, 
diesel) 
Bauxite mining commenced in 1961 at Weipa. Major upgrade completed at Weipa in 1998. Rio Tinto interest 
increased from 72.4% to 100% in 2000 at Weipa. In 1997, Ely Bauxite Mining Project Agreement signed with  
local Aboriginal land owners. Bauxite Mining and Exchange Agreement signed in 1998 with Comalco to allow  
for extraction of ore at Ely. In 2004 a mine expansion was completed at Weipa that has lifted annual capacity  
to 21.5 million tonnes. Mining commenced on the adjacent Ely mining lease in 2006, in accordance with the  
1998 agreement with Alcan. A second shiploader that increases the shipping capability was commissioned in  
2006 at Weipa. First ore extracted at Ely in 2007 
Open cut On site generation; new 
power station commissioned 
in 2006 
   
Production started in 1990 and expanded in phases to 2002 when new concentrator was completed; production 
from Norte started in 2005 and the sulphide leach produced the first cathode during 2006 
Open pit Supplied from SING grid 
under various contracts with 
local generating companies 
Joint venture interest acquired 1995. Capacity expanded to over 200,000 tonnes of ore per day in 1998. Addition 
of underground production of more than 35,000 tonnes per day in 2003. Expansion to 50,000 tonnes per day in 
mid 2007 and to 80,000 tonnes in 2010 
Open pit and underground Long term contract with  
US-Indonesian consortium 
operated purpose built coal 
fired generating station 
Interest acquired in 1989. Modernisation includes smelter complex and expanded tailings dam Open pit On site generation 
supplemented by long  
term contracts with Rocky 
Mountain Power 
Production started in 1995; interest acquired in 2000  
 
 
Open pit and underground Supplied from State grid 
Development of 20 year underground mine commenced in 1996 with open pit closure in 2003 Underground Supplied by ESKOM via  
grid network 
 
 
  
Interest increased from 59.7% following purchase of Ashton Mining in 2000. Underground mine  
project approved in 2005 to extend mine life to 2018 
Open pit to underground 
in future 
Long term contract with Ord 
Hydro Consortium and on 
site generation 
Deposits discovered 1994-1995. Construction approved 2000. Diamond production started 2003.  
Second dike closed off in 2005 for mining of additional orebody. The underground mine is  
expected to start production in 2010, ramping up to full production in 2013 
Open pit to underground  
in future 
On site diesel generators; 
installed capacity 27MW  
with an upgrade under way 
Discovered in 1997. Small scale production started in 2004 Open pit Supplied by ZESA with diesel 
generator back up 
   
Deposit discovered in 1925 and acquired by Rio Tinto in 1967 Open pit On site co-generation units 
Production started in 1885; acquired in 1988. Australian mine Three Springs acquired in 2001 Open pit Supplied by Atel and on site 
generation units. Australian 
Three Springs mine power 
supplied by Western Power 
Production started 1950; interest acquired in 1989 Open pit Long term contract with 
Hydro-Quebec 
 
Began as exploration project 1980s; construction approved 2005; ilmenite production started end of 2008 
 
Mineral sand dredging On site diesel generators 
Production started 1977; interest acquired 1989. Fifth mining plant commissioned in 2000.  
One mining plant decommissioned in 2008 
 
 
 
 
Beach sand dredging Contract with ESKOM 
  96 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mines and production facilities continued 
 
Group mines as at 31 December 2010 continued  
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown) 
Mine Location Access  Title/lease 
ENERGY 
  
 
 
Energy Resources of 
Australia (68.4%) 
Ranger 
Northern Territory, 
Australia 
Road 
 
Mining tenure granted by Federal Government 
Rio Tinto Coal Australia  
Bengalla (30.3%)  
Blair Athol (71.2%) 
Hail Creek (82%) 
Hunter Valley Operations 
(75.7%) 
Kestrel (80%) 
Mount Thorley Operations 
(60.6%) 
Warkworth (42.1%) 
New South Wales 
and Queensland, 
Australia 
Road, rail, conveyor 
and port 
 
Leases granted by state 
Colowyo (100%) Colorado, US Rail and road 
 
Leases from US and state governments and private parties, with minimum coal production levels,  
and adherence to permit requirements and statutes 
 
Rössing Uranium (68.6%) Namib Desert, 
Namibia 
Rail, road and port 
 
National government grant 
IRON ORE 
  
 
 
Hamersley Iron 
Brockman 
Brockman 4 
Marandoo 
Mount Tom Price 
Nammuldi 
Paraburdoo 
Western Turner Syncline 
Yandicoogina  
Channar (60%)  
Eastern Range (54%) 
Hamersley Ranges, 
Western Australia 
Railway and port 
(owned by 
Hamersley Iron  
and operated by 
Pilbara Iron) 
 
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia 
Hope Downs joint venture 
(50% mine, 100% 
infrastructure) 
 
Pilbara region,  
Western Australia 
Railway owned  
and operated  
by Rio Tinto 
 
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia 
Iron Ore Company of 
Canada (58.7%) 
Labrador City, 
Province of 
Labrador and 
Newfoundland 
Railway and port 
facilities in Sept-
Iles, Quebec (owned 
and operated  
by IOC)  
Sublease with the Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Income Fund which has lease agreements with the  
Government of Newfoundland and Labrador that are due to be renewed in 2020 and 2022 
Robe River Iron Associates 
(53%) 
Mesa J 
Mesa A 
West Angelas 
Pilbara region,  
Western Australia 
Railway and port 
(owned by Robe 
River and operated 
by Pilbara Iron) 
 
Agreements for life of mine with Government of Western Australia 
Dampier Salt (68.4%) Dampier, Lake 
MacLeod and Port 
Hedland, Western 
Australia 
 
 
Road and port 
 
State agreements (mining leases) expiring in 2013 at Dampier, 2018 at Port Hedland and 2021  
at Lake MacLeod with options to renew in each case  www.riotinto.com 97
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
  
 
History Type of mine Power source 
 
  
Mining commenced 1981. Interest acquired through North in 2000. Life of mine extension to 2020 announced  
in 2007 
 
Open pit On site diesel/steam power 
generation 
Production started for export at Blair Athol in 1984. Kestrel was acquired and recommissioned in 1999.  
Hail Creek started in 2003. Coal & Allied shares were first acquired in 1977, and management control  
gained in 1993. Successive acquisitions of surrounding assets results in the current portfolio 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Open cut and underground 
(Kestrel) 
State owned grid 
Colowyo was acquired in 1995 Open cut Supplied by IPPs and  
Co-operatives through 
national grid service 
Production began in 1978 
 
Open pit Namibian National Power 
  
  
Annual capacity increased to 68 million tonnes during 1990s. Yandicoogina first ore shipped in 1999 and port 
capacity increased. Eastern Range started 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Open pit Supplied through the 
integrated Hamersley and 
Robe power network operated 
by Pilbara Iron 
Joint venture between Rio Tinto and Hancock Prospecting. Construction of Stage 1 to 22 million tonnes  
per annum commenced April 2006 and first production occurred November 2007. Stage 2 to 30 million tonnes  
per annum completed 2009 
Open pit Supplied through the 
integrated Hamersley and 
Robe power network operated 
by Pilbara Iron 
Interest acquired in 2000 through North. Current operation began in 1962 and has processed over one billion 
tonnes of crude ore since. Annual capacity 17.5 million tonnes of concentrate of which 13.5 million tonnes  
can be pelletised 
 
 
Open pit Supplied by Newfoundland 
Hydro under long term 
contract 
First shipment in 1972. Annual sales reached 30 million tonnes in late 1990s. Interest acquired in 2000 through 
North. West Angelas first ore shipped in 2002 and mine expanded in 2005. Current capacity approximately  
50 million tonnes per year 
 
 
Open pit Supplied through the 
integrated Hamersley and 
Robe power network operated 
by Pilbara Iron 
Construction of the Dampier field started in 1969; first shipment in 1972. Lake MacLeod was acquired in 1978  
as an operating field. Port Hedland was acquired in 2001 as an operating field 
 
Solar evaporation of seawater 
(Dampier and Port Hedland) 
and underground brine (Lake 
MacLeod); dredging of 
gypsum from surface  
of Lake MacLeod 
Dampier supply from 
Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd; Lake 
MacLeod from Western 
Power and on site generation 
units; Port Hedland from 
Western Power  98 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mines and production facilities continued 
 
Group smelters and refineries 
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown) 
Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product 
Capacity as of 31 December 2010
(based on 100% ownership) 
ALUMINIUM 
    
Alma Alma, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
rod, t-foundry, molten metal, high purity, remelt 
438,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Alouette  
(40%) 
Sept-Îles, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
high purity, remelt 
590,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Alucam  
(46.7%) 
Edéa, Cameroon 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, remelt 
100,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Arvida Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, molten metal 
176,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Bécancour  
(25.1%) 
Bécancour, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, billet, t-foundry, remelt 
430,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Bell Bay Bell Bay, Northern  
Tasmania, Australia 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium slab, 
molten metal, small form and t-foundry, remelt 
180,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Boyne Smelters  
(59.4%) 
Boyne Island, Queensland, 
Australia 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium billet, 
EC grade, small form and t-foundry, remelt 
559,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Dunkerque Dunkerque, France 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, small form foundry, remelt 
262,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Gardanne Gardanne, France 100% freehold Refinery producing specialty aluminas 635,000 tonnes per year 
specialty aluminas 
Gove Gove, Northern Territory, 
Australia 
100% leasehold, expiring in 2011, 
with most leases having a right of 
renewal for a further 42 years 
(freehold interest in underlying 
land held in escrow by the 
Northern Land Council on behalf 
of the Arnhem Land Aboriginal 
Land Trust until expiry of the 
leases, including period of 
renewal); additional lease is to  
be granted by the Arnhem Land 
Aboriginal Land Trust for the 
purpose of residue disposal 
Refinery producing alumina 2,570,000 tonnes per year 
alumina 
Grande-Baie Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, molten metal, high purity, remelt 
218,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
ISAL Reykjavik, Iceland 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, remelt 
189,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Jonquière  
(Vaudreuil) 
Jonquière, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Refinery producing specialty aluminas and 
smelter grade aluminas 
1,500,000 tonnes per year 
alumina 
Kitimat (a) Kitimat, British Columbia, 
Canada 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, slab, remelt 
184,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Laterrière Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, remelt, molten metal 
238,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Lochaber Fort William, Scotland, UK 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, remelt 
44,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Lynemouth Lynemouth, 
Northumberland, UK 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
slab, remelt 
181,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Queensland Alumina 
(80%) 
Gladstone, Queensland, 
Australia 
73.3% freehold; 26.7% leasehold 
(of which more than 80% expires 
in 2026 and after) 
Refinery producing alumina 3,959,000 tonnes per year 
alumina 
Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne, 
France 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
rod, remelt 
139,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
São Luis (Alumar)  
(10%) 
São Luis, Maranhão, Brazil 100% freehold Refinery producing alumina 3,390,000 tonnes per year 
alumina 
Sebree Robards, Kentucky, US 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, small form foundry, t-foundry, remelt 
198,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Shawinigan Shawinigan, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, remelt 
100,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Sohar  
(20%) 
Sohar, Oman 100% leasehold (expiring 2039) Aluminium smelter producing aluminium,  
high purity, remelt 
370,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
SØRAL  
(50%) 
Husnes, Norway 100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, remelt 
173,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
  www.riotinto.com 99
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
Group smelters and refineries continued 
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown) 
Smelter/refinery Location Title/lease Plant type/product 
Capacity as of 31 December 2010
(based on 100% ownership) 
ALUMINIUM 
    
Tiwai Point 
(New Zealand  
Aluminium Smelters)  
(79.4%) 
Invercargill, Southland,  
New Zealand 
19.6% freehold; 80.4% leasehold 
(expiring in 2029 and use of 
certain Crown land) 
Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, slab, small form foundry, high  
purity, remelt 
365,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Tomago 
(51.6%) 
Tomago, New South Wales, 
Australia 
100% freehold Aluminium smelter producing aluminium  
billet, slab, remelt 
533,000 tonnes per year 
aluminium 
Yarwun Gladstone, Queensland, 
Australia 
97% freehold. 3% leasehold 
(expiring 2101 and after) 
Refinery producing alumina 1,400,000 tonnes per year 
alumina 
COPPER 
    
Kennecott Utah Copper Magna, Salt Lake City,  
Utah, US 
100% freehold Flash smelting furnace/Flash  
convertor furnace copper refinery 
335,000 tonnes per year 
refined copper 
Palabora  
(57.7%) 
Phalaborwa, South Africa 100% freehold Reverberatory Pierce Smith copper refinery 90,000 tonnes per year 
refined copper 
DIAMONDS & MINERALS 
   
Boron California, US 100% freehold Borates refinery 565,000 tonnes per year  
boric oxide 
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane  
Sorel Plant 
Sorel-Tracy, Quebec, Canada 100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,100,000 tonnes per year 
titanium dioxide slag, 
900,000 tonnes per year iron
Richards Bay Minerals 
(37%) 
Richards Bay, South Africa 100% freehold Ilmenite smelter 1,060,000 tonnes per year 
titanium dioxide slag, 
550,000 tonnes per year iron
IRON ORE 
    
HIsmelt
®
 
(60%) (b) 
Kwinana, Western Australia 100% leasehold (expiring in 2010 
with rights of renewal for further 
25 year terms) 
HIsmelt
®
 ironmaking plant producing pig iron 800,000 tonnes per year  
pig iron 
IOC Pellet Plant  
(59%) 
Labrador City, Newfoundland 
and Labrador, Canada 
100% leaseholds (expiring in  
2020, 2022 and 2025 with  
rights of renewal for further  
terms of 30 years) 
Pellet induration furnaces producing multiple 
iron ore pellet types 
13,500,000 tonnes per year 
pellet 
Notes: 
(a) Capacity as at 31 December 2010 reflects the closures of two potlines in preparation for the Kitimat modernisation project. The nameplate capacity of the Kitimat smelter remains at 282,000 tonnes per year. 
(b) In March 2009, Rio Tinto announced that HIsmelt
®
 would be placed on an extended care and maintenance programme. In December 2010, the HIsmelt
®
 joint venture partners agreed to close the 
Kwinana site permanently and terminate the joint venture. A closure study is expected to be completed by 2012.  100 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Mines and production facilities continued 
 
Information on Group power plants  
(Rio Tinto’s interest 100 per cent unless otherwise shown) 
 Location Title/lease Plant type/product 
Capacity as of 31 December 2010
(based on 100% ownership) 
ALUMINIUM 
    
Gladstone power station 
(42%) 
Gladstone, Queensland, 
Australia 
100% freehold Thermal power station 1,680 megawatts 
Highlands power stations Lochaber, Kinlochleven, UK 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 80 megawatts 
Lynemouth power station Lynemouth, UK 100% freehold Thermal power station 420 megawatts 
Kemano power station Kemano, British Columbia, 
Canada 
100% freehold Hydroelectric power 896 megawatts 
Quebec power stations Saguenay, Quebec, Canada 
(Chute-à-Caron, Chute-à-la-
Savane, Chutes-des-Passes, 
Chute-du-Diable, Isle-
Maligne, Shipshaw) 
100% freehold (except Péribonka 
lease to 2058) 
Hydroelectric power 2,919 megawatts 
Vigelands power station Nr Kristiansand, Norway 100% freehold Hydroelectric power 26 megawatts 
Yarwun alumina refinery 
co-generation plant 
Gladstone, Queensland, 
Australia 
100% freehold Gas turbine and heat recovery steam generator 
providing process steam and power for the 
alumina refining operations. Excess power  
sold to grid. 
160 megawatts 
COPPER 
    
Phalaborwa power station 
(57.7%) 
Phalaborwa, Limpopo 
Province, South Africa 
100% freehold Steam turbine running off waste heat boilers  
at the copper smelter 
9.27 megawatts 
Puncakjaya Power 
(22.12%) 
Grasberg, Papua, Indonesia Lease Diesel power plant  
Thermal power plant 
193 megawatts 
Kennecott Utah Copper 
Power Stations 
Salt Lake City, Utah, US 100% freehold Thermal power station 175 megawatts 
   Steam turbine running off waste heat boilers  
at the copper smelter 
31.8 megawatts 
   Combined heat and power plant supplying  
steam to the copper refinery 
6.2 megawatts 
Kennecott Utah Copper Salt Lake City, Utah, US 100% freehold (in 2011 or 2012) Combined heat and power plant supplying  
steam to the molybdenum autoclave plant 
6.2 megawatts  
(in 2011 or 2012) 
  www.riotinto.com 101
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
  
 
 Location Title/lease Plant type/product 
Capacity as of 31 December 2010
(based on 100% ownership) 
DIAMONDS & MINERALS 
   
Boron co-generation plant Boron, California, US 100% freehold (Rio Tinto Minerals 
operates a second plant owned by 
a third party) 
Co-generation uses natural gas to generate steam, 
used to run Boron’s refining operations 
100MW (85MW of which are 
sold to a local utility) 
ENERGY 
    
Energy Resources of 
Australia (Rio Tinto: 68%) 
Ranger mine, Jabiru,  
Northern Territory, Australia 
100% freehold Five diesel generator sets rated at 5.1MW;  
1 diesel generator rated at 1.9MW 
27.4MW 
IRON ORE 
    
Cape Lambert power 
station  
(Rio Tinto: 53%) 
Cape Lambert, Western 
Australia, Australia 
Lease Gas fired boilers with steam turbines 105MW 
Paraburdoo power station Paraburdoo, Western 
Australia, Australia 
Lease LM6000 PC gas fired turbines 153MW 
Yurralyi Maya power 
station  
(Rio Tinto: 58%) 
Dampier, Western Australia, 
Australia 
Lease LM6000 PD gas fired turbines 180MW 
  102 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Board of directors
The board comprises the chairman, three executive directors and  
ten independent non executive directors.
1. Jan du Plessis
5. Sir Rod Eddington
9. Ann Godbehere
13. Hon. Paul Tellier
2. Tom Albanese
6. Guy Elliott
10. Richard Goodmanson 
14. Sam Walsh
3. Robert Brown 
7. Michael Fitzpatrick
11. Andrew Gould
4. Vivienne Cox
8. Yves Fortier
12. Lord Kerr of Kinlochard www.riotinto.com 103
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
1. Jan du Plessis (c and e) Chairman, BCom, LLB, CA (SA), age 57
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited effective September 2008. Jan was elected by shareholders 
at the 2009 annual general meetings. He was appointed chairman 
at the conclusion of the 2009 annual general meetings.
Skills and experience:
 Jan worked in various management positions 
in the South African Rembrandt Group from 1981, and in 1988, 
became Group Finance Director of Compagnie Financière 
Richemont, the Swiss luxury goods group. becoming chairman  
of British American Tobacco in 2004.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director of 
Marks and Spencer Group plc since 2008, non executive director 
of British American Tobacco plc from 1999 and chairman of the 
board from 2004 until 2009, non executive director and chairman 
of the audit committee of Lloyds Banking Group plc from 2005 
and 2008 respectively until 2009, chairman of RHM plc from  
2005 until 2007.
2.  Tom Albanese (e) Chief executive, BS (Mineral Economics),  
MS (Mining Engineering), age 53
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2006. Tom was last re-elected in 2008.
Skills and experience:
 Tom joined Rio Tinto in 1993 on Rio Tinto’s 
acquisition of Nerco and held a series of management positions 
before being appointed chief executive of the Industrial Minerals 
group in 2000, after which he became chief executive of the 
Copper group and head of Exploration in 2004. He took over as 
chief executive with effect from 2007.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Director of Ivanhoe Mines 
Limited from 2006 to 2007, director of Palabora Mining Company 
from 2004 to 2006, member of the executive committee of the 
International Copper Association from 2004 to 2006, member of 
the board of visitors, Duke University, Fuqua School of Business 
from 2009.
3. Robert Brown (c, d and f) Non executive director, BSc, age 66
Appointment and election:
 Appointed a director of Rio Tinto plc and 
Rio Tinto Limited in April 2010. Bob was elected by shareholders 
at the 2010 annual general meetings.
Skills and experience:
 Bob is chairman of Groupe Aeroplan Inc and 
serves on the board of Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE Inc), the holding 
company for Bell Canada. He was previously president and chief 
executive officer of CAE Inc, a world leader in flight simulation and 
training. Before that he spent 16 years at Bombardier Inc where he 
was first head of the Aerospace Group and then president and chief 
executive officer. He has also served as chairman of Air Canada and 
of the Aerospace Industries Association of Canada.
Bob was inducted to the Order of Canada as well as l’Ordre 
National du Québec. He has been awarded honorary doctorates 
from five Canadian universities.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director of 
Groupe Aeroplan Inc since 2005 and chairman since 2008, non 
executive director of Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE Inc) since 2009, 
president and chief executive officer of CAE Inc from 2004 until 
2009, non executive director of Nortel Corporation from 2000 to 
2006, Ace Aviation Holdings Inc from 2004 to 2009 and Fier CPVC 
Montreal L.P., trustee of Jazz Air Income Fund from 2006-2008.
4.  Vivienne Cox (a, c, d and f) Non executive director,  
MA (Oxon), MBA (INSEAD), Honorary PhD (Hull), age 51
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2005. Vivienne was last re-elected in 2008.
Skills and experience:
 Vivienne was executive vice president and 
chief executive officer, Alternative Energy for BP plc until 
2009. She became a member of the BP group chief executive’s 
committee when she became chief executive of the Gas, Power 
and Renewables business. During her career at BP she worked 
in chemicals, exploration, finance and refining and marketing. 
Vivienne holds degrees in chemistry from Oxford University and 
in business administration from INSEAD.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director of 
the Department for International Development since December 
2010, non executive director of The Climate Change Organisation 
since December 2010, non executive director of Climate Change 
Capital Limited since 2008 and non executive chairman since 
2009, member of the supervisory board of V allourec since February 
2010, member of the offshore advisory committee of Mainstream 
Renewable Power since September 2010 , member of the board of 
INSEAD since 2009, executive vice president for BP plc between 
2004 and 2009.
5. Sir Rod Eddington (c, d and f) Non executive director,
BEng, MEng, DPhil (Oxon), age 61
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 
since 2005. Sir Rod was last re-elected in 2009 and will retire at 
the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting  
in 2011.
Skills and experience:
 Sir Rod was chief executive of British Airways 
plc until 2005. Prior to his role with British Airways, Sir Rod was 
managing director of Cathay Pacific Airways from 1992 until 1996 
and executive chairman of Ansett Airlines from 1997 until 2000.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive chairman of 
JPMorgan Australia and New Zealand since 2006, director of CLP 
Holdings since 2006, director of News Corporation plc since 1999, 
director of John Swire & Son Pty Limited since 1997, chairman 
of Infrastructure Australia since 2008, director of Allco Finance 
Group Limited from 2006 until 2009, chief executive of British 
Airways plc from 2000 until 2005, chairman of the EU/Hong 
Kong Business Co-operation Committee of the Hong Kong Trade 
Development Council from 2002 until 2006.
6. Guy Elliott (e) Chief financial officer,  
 MA (Oxon), MBA (INSEAD), age 55
Appointment and election:
 Chief financial officer of Rio Tinto plc and 
Rio Tinto Limited since 2002. Guy was last re-elected in 2010.
Skills and experience:
 Guy joined the Group in 1980 after gaining 
an MBA having previously been in investment banking. He 
subsequently held a variety of commercial and management 
positions, including head of Business Evaluation and president  
of Rio Tinto Brasil.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director and 
member of the audit committee of Royal Dutch Shell plc since 
September 2010. Non executive director and senior independent 
director of Cadbury plc from 2007 and 2008 respectively until 
March 2010. 104 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Board of directors continued
7.  Michael Fitzpatrick (a, b, c and f) Non executive director,  
BEng, BA (Oxon), age 58
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2006. Michael was re-elected at the 2010 annual 
general meetings.
Skills and experience:
 Michael sold his interest in, and ceased to be 
a director of, Hastings Funds Management Ltd during 2005, the 
pioneering infrastructure asset management company which 
he founded in 1994. He is chairman of Treasury Group Limited, 
an incubator of fund management companies. He is chairman 
of the Australian Football League, having previously played the 
game professionally, and is a former chairman of the Australian 
Sports Commission.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Chairman of Treasury Group 
Limited since 2005, director of the Walter & Eliza Hall Institute 
of Medical Research since 2001, chairman of the Victorian Funds 
Management Corporation from 2006 to 2008, managing director 
of Hastings Funds Management Ltd from 1994 to 2005, director of 
Australian Infrastructure Fund Limited from 1994 to 2005.
8.  Yves Fortier (c, d and f) Non executive director,  
CC, OQ, QC, LLD, Av Em, age 75
Appointments and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2007. Yves was elected by shareholders in 2008 
and will retire at the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual 
general meeting in 2011.
Skills and experience:
 Yves Fortier was ambassador and permanent 
representative of Canada to the United Nations from 1988 to 
1992. He is chairman emeritus and a senior partner of the law 
firm Ogilvy Renault and was chairman of Alcan from 2002 
until 2007.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Chairman emeritus and senior 
partner of Ogilvy Renault since 2009, chairman of Ogilvy Renault 
from 1992 until 2009, director of NOV A Chemicals Corporation from 
1998 until 2009, chairman and director of Alcan Inc. from 2002 until 
2007, director of Royal Bank of Canada from 1992 to 2005, director 
of Nortel Corporation from 1992 to 2005, governor of Hudson’s 
Bay Company from 1998 to 2006, trustee of the International 
Accounting Standards Committee from 2000 to 2006.
9. Ann Godbehere (a, c and f) Non executive director, FCGA, age 55
Appointment and election:
 Appointed a director of Rio Tinto plc 
and Rio Tinto Limited in February 2010. Ann was elected by 
shareholders at the 2010 annual general meetings. Ann is 
chairman of the Audit committee.
Skills and experience:
 Ann succeeded Sir David Clementi as chairman 
of the Audit committee upon his retirement from the board at 
the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings. Ann has 
more than 25 years’ experience in the financial services industry. 
She spent ten years at Swiss Re, latterly as chief financial officer 
from 2003 until 2007 and from 2008 until 2009 she was interim 
chief financial officer and executive director of Northern Rock 
post nationalisation.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director 
of UBS AG since 2009, non executive director of Atrium 
Underwriting Group Limited and Ariel Group Limited since 2007, 
non executive director of Prudential since 2007 and chairman 
of the Audit committee since 2009, chief financial officer and 
executive director of Northern Rock from 2008 to 2009.
10.  Richard Goodmanson (b, c, d and f) Non executive director, MBA, 
BEc and BCom, BEng (Civil), age 63
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2004. He was last re-elected in 2008 and is 
chairman of the Committee on social and environmental 
accountability.
Skills and experience:
 Richard was executive vice president and chief 
operating officer of DuPont until 2009. He was responsible for a 
number of the global functions, and for the non US operations 
of DuPont, with particular focus on growth in emerging markets. 
During his career he has worked at senior levels for McKinsey & Co, 
PepsiCo and America W est Airlines, where he was president and  
chief executive officer.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director 
of Qantas Airways Limited since 2008, economic adviser to the 
governor of Guangdong Province, China from 2003 to 2009, 
executive vice president and chief operating officer of DuPont 
from 1999 until 2009, director of the United Way of Delaware 
between 2002 and 2009 (chairman between 2006 and 2007).
11.  Andrew Gould (b, c and f) Non executive director, BA, FCA, age 64
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and  
Rio Tinto Limited since 2002. Andrew was appointed the senior 
independent non executive director and chairman  
of the Remuneration committee at the conclusion of the 2008  
annual general meetings. Andrew was last re-elected in 2009.
Skills and experience:
 Andrew is chairman and chief executive officer 
of Schlumberger Limited, where he has held a succession of financial 
and operational management positions, including that of executive 
vice president of Schlumberger Oilfield Services and president and 
chief operating officer of Schlumberger Limited. He has worked in 
Asia, Europe and the US. He joined Schlumberger in 1975. He holds 
a degree in economic history from Cardiff University and qualified as 
a chartered accountant with Ernst & Y oung.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Chairman and chief executive 
officer of Schlumberger Limited since 2003, member of the board of 
trustees of King Abdullah University of Science and T echnology in 
Jeddah, Saudi Arabia since 2008, member of the advisory board of the 
King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Dhahran, Saudi 
Arabia since 2007, member of the commercialisation advisory board 
of Imperial College of Science T echnology and Medicine, London 
since 2002, member of the UK prime minister’s Council of Science and 
T echnology from 2004 to 2007.
12.  Lord Kerr of Kinlochard (a, c, d and f) Non executive director, 
GCMG, MA, age 69
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2003. He was last re-elected in 2010.
Skills and experience:
 John Kerr was in the UK Diplomatic Service 
for 36 years and headed it from 1997 to 2002 as permanent 
under secretary at the Foreign Office. John previously served in HM 
Treasury , and in the Soviet Union and Pakistan, as ambassador to the 
European Union (1990 to 1995), and the US (1995 to 1997). He has 
been an independent member of the House of Lords since 2004.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Director of Scottish Power 
Limited since 2009, deputy chairman of Royal Dutch Shell plc 
since 2005, director of The Scottish American Investment Trust 
plc since 2002, advisory board member, BAE Systems since 2008,  www.riotinto.com 105
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
chairman of the Centre for European Reform (London) since 2008, 
vice president of the European Policy Centre (Brussels) since 2007, 
chairman of the Court and Council of Imperial College, London 
since 2005, trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of 
Scotland since 2005, director of The “Shell” Transport and Trading 
Company plc 2002 to 2005, advisory board member, Scottish 
Power (Iberdrola) from 2007 to 2009, trustee of the National 
Gallery from 2002 to 2010 and trustee of the Rhodes Trust from 
1997 to 2010.
13.  Hon. Paul Tellier (a, b, c and f) Non executive director,  
LL.L, BLitt (Oxon), LLD, CC. age 71
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2007. Paul was elected at the 2008 annual  
general meetings.
Skills and experience:
 Paul was clerk of the Privy Council Office and 
secretary to the Cabinet of the Government of Canada from 1985 
to 1992 and was president and chief executive officer of  
the Canadian National Railway Company from 1992 to 2002.  
Until 2004, he was president and chief executive officer of 
Bombardier Inc.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Chairman of Global 
Container Terminals since 2007, director of McCain Foods 
since 1996, trustee of the International Accounting Standards 
Foundation since 2007, co-chair of the Prime Minister of Canada’s 
Advisory Committee on the Renewal of the Public Service since 
2006, strategic advisor to Société Générale (Canada) since 2005, 
member of the advisory board of General Motors of Canada since 
2005, director of Bell Canada from 1996 to May 2010, director of 
BCE Inc from 1999 to May 2010, non executive director of Alcan 
Inc. from 1998 to 2007.
14. Sam Walsh Executive director, AO, BCom (Melbourne), age 61
Appointment and election:
 Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited since 2009. Sam was elected by shareholders at the 2010 
annual general meetings.
Skills and experience:
 Sam was appointed executive director  
and chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia in 2009. He joined  
Rio Tinto in 1991, following 20 years in the automotive industry 
at General Motors and Nissan Australia. He has held a number of 
management positions within the Group, including from 2001 to 
2004 chief executive of the Aluminium group and from 2004 to 
2009 chief executive of the Iron Ore group. Sam is also a Fellow of 
the Australian Institute of Management, the Australasian Institute 
of Mining and Metallurgy and the Australian Institute of Company 
Directors. In June 2010, Sam was appointed an Officer in the 
General Division of the Order of Australia.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Member of the University of 
Western Australia’s Energy and Minerals Institute board of trustees 
since September 2010, director of West Australian Newspaper 
Holdings Limited since 2008, director of the Committee for Perth 
Ltd between 2006 and 2009, director of the Australian Mines 
and Metals Association between 2001 and 2005, director of the 
Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry between 2003 
and 2005.
 Directors who left the Group during 2010
 Sir David Clementi MA, MBA 
Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited since 2003. Sir 
David was chairman of the Audit committee until his retirement  
at the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings. 
Skills and experience:
 Sir David was chairman of Prudential plc 
until 2008, prior to which he was deputy governor of the Bank of 
England. His earlier career was with Kleinwort Benson where he 
spent 22 years, holding various positions including chief executive 
and vice chairman. A graduate of Oxford University and a 
qualified chartered accountant, Sir David also holds an MBA from 
Harvard Business School.
External appointments (current and recent) upon leaving the Group:
 Non 
executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc since 
2008, chairman, King’s Cross Central General Partnership since 
2008, chairman of Prudential plc from 2002 until 2008, member 
of the Financial Reporting Council between 2003 and 2007.
 David Mayhew 
Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited from 2000 until his 
retirement at the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings. 
Skills and experience:
 David joined Cazenove in 1969 and in 1986 
he became the partner in charge of the firm’s Capital Markets 
Department. He became chairman of Cazenove Group Limited in 
2001 and JPMorgan Cazenove in 2005 until January 2010 when 
he became vice chairman of JPMorgan.
External appointments (current and recent) upon leaving the Group:
 
Vice chairman of JPMorgan effective January 2010, chairman 
of Cazenove Group Limited between 2001 and January 2010, 
chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings Limited (formerly 
Cazenove Group plc) between 2005 and January 2010.
Notes
(a) Audit committee
(b) Remuneration committee
(c) Nominations committee
(d)  Committee on social and environmental accountability
(e) Chairman’s committee
(f) Independent 106 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Executive committee
The Executive committee is responsible, under the leadership of the 
chief executive, for the management of the business, setting performance 
targets and implementation of the Group’s strategy .
1. Hugo Bague 2. Preston Chiaro 3. Bret Clayton 4. Jacynthe Côté
1. Hugo Bague MA (Linguistics), age 50
Skills and experience:
 Hugo Bague was appointed Group executive, 
People & Organisation in 2009 having joined Rio Tinto as 
global head of Human Resources in 2007. Previously he worked 
for Hewlett-Packard where he was the global vice president, 
Human Resources for the Technology Solutions Group, based in 
the US. Prior to this he worked for Compaq Computers, Nortel 
Networks and Abbott Laboratories based in Switzerland, France 
and Germany.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director and 
member of the nominating and governance committee and the 
compensation committee of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated since 
March 2011. Member of the Advisory Council of United Business 
Institute in Brussels, Belgium since 1995. 
2. Preston Chiaro BSc (Hons) (Environmental Engineering), MEng
(Environmental Engineering), age 57
Skills and experience:
 Preston was appointed Group executive, 
Technology & Innovation in 2009. He joined the Group in 1991 at 
Kennecott Utah Copper’s Bingham Canyon mine as vice president, 
Technical Services. In 1995 he became vice president and general 
manager of the Boron Operations in California and was chief 
executive of Rio Tinto Borax from 1999 to 2003. Preston then 
became chief executive of the Energy group and in 2007, upon a 
management re-organisation, he also assumed responsibility for 
the Industrial Minerals group.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Director of Cloud Peak 
Energy Inc from 2008 to 2011, board member of Resources for 
the Future since 2006, director of Rössing Uranium Limited from 
2004 to 2009, director of the World Coal Institute between 2003 
and 2009 (chairman from 2006 to 2008), chairman of the Coal 
Industry Advisory Board to the International Energy Agency 
between 2004 and 2006, director of Energy Resources of Australia 
Limited between 2003 and 2006, director of Coal & Allied 
Industries Limited between 2003 and 2006. 
3. Bret Clayton BA (Accounting), age 49
Skills and experience:
 Bret was appointed Group executive, Business 
Support & Operations in 2009. He joined the Group in 1995 
and has held a series of management positions, including chief 
executive of the Copper and Diamonds groups, president and 
chief executive officer of Rio Tinto Energy America and chief 
financial officer of Iron Ore. Prior to joining the Group, Bret 
worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers for nine years, providing 
auditing and consulting services to the mining industry.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Non executive director 
and member of the audit committee of Alcan Engineered 
Products since January 2011, non executive director of Ivanhoe 
Mines Limited between 2007 and 2009, member of the board 
of directors and the executive committee of the International 
Copper Association between 2006 and 2009, member of the Coal 
Industry Advisory Board to the International Energy Agency (IEA) 
between 2003 and 2006, member of the board of directors of the 
US National Mining Association between 2002 and 2006.
4. Jacynthe Côté BChem, age 53
Skills and experience:
 Jacynthe became chief executive, Rio Tinto 
Alcan in 2009. She joined Alcan in 1988 and has significant 
operational and international experience in the aluminium 
industry. She was chief executive officer, Primary Metal, Rio Tinto 
Alcan, where she was responsible for all primary metal facilities 
and power generation installations worldwide. Her previous roles 
in Alcan include president and chief executive officer, Bauxite & 
Alumina business group and senior management roles in business 
planning, human resources and environment, health and safety . 
Jacynthe has a degree in chemistry from Laval University in Quebec.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Member of the Advisory 
Board of the Montreal Neurological Institute since July 2010, 
member of the Hautes Etudes Commerciales Board since 2009, 
member of the Canadian Council of Chief Executives since 2009, 
member of the International Aluminium Institute since 2006.
5. Andrew Harding BEng (Mining Engineering), MBA, age 44
Skills and experience:
 Andrew was appointed chief executive, 
Copper in 2009. He joined Rio Tinto in 1992, initially working 
for Hamersley Iron. Andrew went on to hold operating roles 
within the Energy, Aluminium and Iron Ore product groups, 
including at the Mount Thorley, Hunter Valley, Weipa, Mount 
Tom Price, Marandoo and Brockman mines. In 2007, he became 
global practice leader, Mining within Rio Tinto’s Technology &  www.riotinto.com 107
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
5. Andrew Harding 6. Harry Kenyon-Slaney 7. Doug Ritchie 8. Debra Valentine
Innovation group. Prior to his current role, Andrew was president 
and chief executive officer, Kennecott Utah Copper.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Director of Ivanhoe Mines 
Limited between 2009 and July 2010 and from February 2011.
6. Harry Kenyon-Slaney BSc (Hons) (Geology), age 50
Skills and experience:
 Harry was appointed chief executive of  
Rio Tinto’s Diamonds & Minerals product group in 2009. He joined 
the Group in 1990 from Anglo American Corporation and has 
held management positions in South Africa, Australia and the 
UK. Harry spent his early career at Rio Tinto in marketing and 
operational roles in the uranium, copper and industrial minerals 
businesses. In 2004, he was appointed chief executive of Energy 
Resources of Australia, and prior to his current role, became 
managing director of Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium in 2007.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Chairman of the Australian 
Uranium Association from 2006 to 2007, chairman of the Copper 
Development Association, South Africa from 2000 to 2003, 
director of Energy Resources of Australia Limited from 2004 to 2007.
7. Doug Ritchie LLB, F AusIMM, F AIM, F AICD, age 54
Skills and experience:
 Doug was appointed chief executive of 
Rio Tinto’s Energy group in 2009. He has been with the Group 
since 1986 when he joined CRA as corporate counsel. Since then 
he has held a number of roles in various Rio Tinto businesses and 
corporate functions, including Exploration, Project Development 
and the Energy, Aluminium and Diamonds & Minerals product 
groups. Doug’s previous roles have included head of Business 
Evaluation, managing director of Dampier Salt, Rio Tinto Coal 
Australia and Rio Tinto Diamonds. Prior to his current role, he was 
managing director, Strategy of Rio Tinto.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Director of Australian Coal 
Association from 2006 to 2008, director of Dalrymple Bay Coal 
Terminal Pty Ltd from 2006 to 2007, director of Queensland 
Resources Council from 2006 to 2007, deputy chairman of the 
Coal Industry Advisory Board to the IEA, director of Coal & Allied 
Industries Limited between 2006 and 2007 and since 2008, 
director of Rossing Uranium Limited since 2009, and a director of 
the World Coal Association since 2010.
8. Debra Valentine BA (History), JD, age 57
Skills and experience:
 Debra was appointed Group executive, Legal 
& External Affairs in 2009 having joined Rio Tinto as global head 
of Legal in 2008. Debra previously worked at United Technologies 
Corporation in the US where she was vice president, deputy 
general counsel and secretary. Before then, she was a partner with 
the law firm O’Melveny & Myers, in Washington DC. Debra served 
as general counsel at the US Federal Trade Commission from 1997 
to 2001.
External appointments (current and recent):
 Member, Council on 
Foreign Relations since 1993, American Law Institute 1991, 
commissioner, Congressional Antitrust Modernisation Commission 
from 2004 to 2007. 
Tom Albanese, Guy Elliott and Sam Walsh were also members of 
the Executive committee in 2010 through their positions as chief 
executive, chief financial officer and chief executive of the Iron 
Ore group respectively. Their biographies are shown on pages 103 
and 105.
 Company secretaries
 Ben Mathews BA (Hons), FCIS, age 44
Skills and experience:
 Ben joined as company secretary of Rio Tinto 
plc during 2007. Prior to joining Rio Tinto, he spent five years 
with BG Group plc, as company secretary. He has previously 
worked for National Grid plc, British American Tobacco plc and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Ben is a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and has a joint honours 
degree in French and European Studies.
External appointments (current and recent):
 None. 
 Stephen Consedine BBus, CP A, age 49
Skills and experience:
 Stephen joined Rio Tinto in 1983 and has 
held various positions in Accounting, Treasury, and Employee 
Services before becoming company secretary of Rio Tinto 
Limited in 2002. He holds a business degree and is a certified 
practising accountant.
External appointments (current and recent):
 None.  108 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Directors’ report
The directors present their report and audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Dual listed structure and constitutional documents
An explanation of the dual listed companies structure (DLC), 
which unified Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited in 1995, and of 
the Companies’ constitutional documents can be found on page 
271. This section also provides a description of voting rights 
restrictions which may apply in respect of the shares of either 
Company under specified circumstances.
Activities and business review
Rio Tinto’s principal activities during 2010 were minerals 
exploration, development, production and processing.
The business review, which is set out on pages 2 to 76 provides  
a comprehensive review of the development, performance and 
likely future developments of Rio Tinto’s operations for the year 
ended 31 December 2010. The information set out in the business 
review is incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed 
to form part of this report. 
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting 
the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 
37 to 40 to the financial statements.
Significant changes and events affecting the Group during 2010 
and until the date of this report have been:
 On 1 February 2010, the sale to Amcor of the majority of the 
Alcan Packaging businesses, comprising Alcan Packaging global 
Pharmaceuticals, global Tobacco, Food Europe and Food Asia 
divisions, completed for US$1,948 million. 
 During 2010, the Group increased its ownership in Ivanhoe 
Mines to 40.3 per cent and to 42.1 per cent in January 2011. 
Rio Tinto controls and manages the Oyu Tolgoi copper/gold 
project in Mongolia and has agreed a pathway to increase its 
stake in Ivanhoe Mines to 49 per cent. 
 The sale of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to 
Bemis Company, Inc for a total consideration of US$1.2 billion 
completed on 1 March 2010.
 On 19 March 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had signed a 
non binding memorandum of understanding with Chinalco to 
establish a joint venture covering the development and 
operation of the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, in which 
Chinalco would acquire a 47 per cent interest of Rio Tinto’s  
95 per cent holding in the Simandou project. On 29 July 2010, 
Rio Tinto and Chalco, a subsidiary of Chinalco, signed a binding 
agreement to establish the joint venture, with Chalco providing 
US$1.35 billion on an earn in basis through sole funding of 
ongoing development work over the next two to three years. 
 On 29 March 2010, the four Shanghai employees detained on 
5 July 2009 on charges of receiving bribes and stealing 
commercial secrets were convicted by Shanghai Number One 
Intermediate People’s Court. 
 On 31 March 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had received a 
binding offer from Sun European Partners, LLP to acquire the 
Alcan Beauty Packaging business. On 5 July 2010, Rio Tinto 
announced the completion of the sale of its Alcan Packaging 
business for an undisclosed sum and the acquisition by Amcor 
of the Medical Flexibles business for US$66 million. 
 With the structural shift in the iron ore market away from 
benchmarking pricing, Rio Tinto announced on 9 April 2010 
that it would be negotiating contracts with its customers to 
supply iron ore priced on a quarterly basis.
 The re-commencement of Rio Tinto’s expansion programme  
in its Iron Ore Company of Canada (IOC) operations was 
announced on 6 May 2010, with the investment by IOC of 
US$401 million to increase its annual concentrate capacity by 
four million tonnes to 22 million tones by 2012. On 9 February 
2011, a further US$277 million investment was announced in 
the next phase of a project that will ultimately raise IOC’s 
concentrate production capacity by 40 per cent to 26 million 
tonnes per year (Mt/a).
 On 15 June 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it would invest 
US$469 million in constructing the Kennecott Eagle nickel  
and copper mine in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula (US). 
 Together with BHP Billiton, Rio Tinto announced on 21 June 
2010 that it had signed a Heads of Agreement with the Western 
Australian Government under which (i) they agreed to pay iron 
ore royalties at all their mines at a rate of 5.625 per cent for fine 
ore and 7.5 per cent for lump ore from 1 July 2010; (ii) they 
agreed to a set of State Agreement amendments to promote 
greater efficiency and flexibility for their respective operations; 
and (iii) they made a combined payment to the State 
Government’s Consolidated Revenue Fund of A$350 million.
 On 30 June 2010, the Australian Competition Tribunal issued a 
decision to not declare the Hamersley railway line available for 
third party access under Part IIIA of the Trade Practices Act. The 
Robe River line was declared, but only until 2018, rather than 
for the 20 year period desired by the applicants.
 Between July and September 2010, Rio Tinto announced 
investments to expand Cape Lambert port and to de-bottleneck 
Dampier Port to increase capacity as detailed on page 77.
 On 5 August 2010, the Group received a binding offer for the sale  
of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products to certain investment 
funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC (Apollo) and 
the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement. The divestment completed 
on 4 January 2011.
 On 30 August 2010, Rio Tinto announced an investment, 
together with its joint venture participant, Hope Downs Iron 
Ore Pty Ltd, of US$1.6 billion to develop the Hope Downs 4  
iron ore project in Western Australia. 
 On 14 September 2010, the Group announced its investment of 
US$803 million to ramp up the underground block cave project 
at its Argyle diamond mine in Western Australia. 
 On 21 September 2010, Rio Tinto completed the off market  
buy-back of all of the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares held  
by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Ltd.
 On 23 September 2010, Rio Tinto Alcan announced a  
US$347 million investment to modernise and increase the ISAL 
smelter’s capacity by 20 per cent following the completion of  
a long term energy supply agreement with Landsvirkjun, the 
Icelandic power utility. This was followed by an announcement 
on 1 October 2010 of a further investment of US$140 million  
to develop a value-added casting facility. www.riotinto.com 109
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 On 18 October 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had jointly 
decided with BHP Billiton to end plans for an iron ore 
production joint venture in the Pilbara region in Western 
Australia following extensive discussions with regulators.
 Rio Tinto announced on 20 October 2010 that it would invest a 
further US$3.1 billion to expand its iron ore infrastructure in the 
Pilbara. On 26 November 2010, it was announced that new drilling 
results and ongoing assessment of assets in the Pilbara had 
revealed a 2.0 billion tonne addition to the Mineral Resource base. 
Rio Tinto announced on 1 December 2010 that it approved a 
further US$1.2 billion investment for significant expansions at the 
Brockman 4 and Western Turner Syncline mines in the Pilbara in 
its drive to lift annual iron ore production capacity in Western 
Australia’s Pilbara region to 283 Mt/a. Rio Tinto also approved a 
final feasibility study into increasing Pilbara production capacity 
to 333 Mt/a.
 On 3 December 2010, Rio Tinto Limited and Sinosteel 
Corporation announced the extension of their 1987 Channar 
Mining joint venture in the Pilbara region, leading the way for  
a further 50 million tonnes of iron ore to be produced under 
this joint venture in addition to the original Channar 
agreements for the production of 200 million tonnes. 
 Rio Tinto and Chinalco signed a non-binding Memorandum of 
Understanding on 3 December 2010 to establish an exploration 
joint venture in China to explore mainland China for world-class 
mineral deposits. Chinalco will hold a 51 per cent interest in the 
joint venture and Rio Tinto will hold a 49 per cent interest.
 On 14 December 2010, Rio Tinto announced it is to invest in its 
Canadian aluminium smelters to improve production efficiency 
through modernisation and expansion. The bulk of this new 
investment – US$758 million – will be spent on completing the 
first phase of the AP60 plant in Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean, Quebec. 
Rio Tinto will also invest an additional US$300 million for further 
construction in preparation for the US$2.5 billion modernisation 
of the Kitimat smelter in British Columbia.
 Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its equity holdings in Cloud 
Peak Energy Inc on 21 December 2010, following a secondary 
public offering with gross proceeds of US$573.3 million.
 On 23 December 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had entered 
into an agreement to acquire all the issued and outstanding shares 
of Riversdale Mining Limited by way of a recommended off-market 
takeover offer for a valuation of approximately A$3.9 billion. The 
offer has been extended to 18 March 2011. 
 Rio Tinto approved a US$933 million investment on 9 February 
2011 to extend the life of the Marandoo iron ore mine in the 
Pilbara region by 16 years to 2030.
 On 10 February 2011, Rio Tinto announced a capital 
management programme, comprising a US$5 billion share  
buy-back which, subject to market conditions, it expects to 
complete by the end of 2012. 
 On 23 February 2011, the Group received a binding offer from 
Imerys to acquire the talc business for US$340 million. The 
binding offer is subject to customary closing conditions.
Details of events after the statement of financial position date are 
contained in note 48 to the financial statements. 
As permitted by sections 299(3) and 299A(3) of the Australian 
Corporations Act 2001, information which is likely to result in 
unreasonable prejudice, regarding likely future developments in, 
and the expected results of the operations of the Group or its 
strategies and prospects, has been omitted. 
Risk identification, assessment and management
A summary of the Group’s position regarding risk identification, 
assessment and management is contained in the risk management 
section on page 24. The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties 
are set out on pages 25 to 28.
Share capital
Details of the Group’s share capital as at 31 December 2010 can be 
found at notes 28 and 29 to the financial statements. Details of the 
rights and obligations attached to each class of shares can be found 
on page 269 under the heading “Dual listed companies structure – 
voting rights” . The voting rights of shares held beneficially by a third 
party in line with an employee share plan are set out on page 137.
Details of certain agreements triggered on a change of control can be 
found on page 269 under the heading “Dual listed companies structure” . 
Details of certain restrictions on holding shares in Rio Tinto are 
described on page 270 under the heading “Dual listed companies 
structure – limitations on ownership of shares and merger 
obligations”. There are no other restrictions on the transfer of 
ordinary shares in Rio Tinto plc save for:
 restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and 
regulations (for example, those relating to market abuse and 
insider dealing);
 restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules 
of the UK Financial Services Authority, whereby certain 
employees of the Group require approval to deal in shares;
 restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed under 
Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK 
Companies Act 2006, in either case following a failure to supply 
information required to be disclosed following service of a 
request under section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006; and
 restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain 
employee share plans while they remain subject to the plan. 
Details of the substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio 
Tinto Limited can be found on page 274.
At the annual general meetings held in 2010, shareholders authorised:
 the purchase by Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries, and the 
on-market repurchase by Rio Tinto plc of up to 152,488,000 
Rio Tinto plc shares (representing approximately ten per cent  
of Rio Tinto plc’s issued share capital at that time);
 the off-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc of up to 152,488,000 
Rio Tinto plc shares acquired by Rio Tinto Limited or its 
subsidiaries under the above authority; 
 the off-market or on-market buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited of 
up to 43.5 million Rio Tinto Limited shares (representing 
approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto Limited’s issued share 
capital at the time); and 
 the off-market buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited of up to all  
of Rio Tinto Limited’s shares indirectly held by Rio Tinto plc  
through Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Ltd. 110 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Directors’ report continued
On 21 September 2010, Rio Tinto completed the off-market 
buy-back of all of the Rio Tinto Limited shares held by Tinto 
Holdings Australia Pty Ltd. The buy-back was undertaken in two 
tranches: Rio Tinto Limited acquired 150,437,365 shares from 
Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Ltd at a price per share of A$69.27  
on 27 August 2010. The remaining 20,635,155 shares were 
bought back at a price of A$75.13 on 21 September 2010. 
All shares repurchased by Rio Tinto Limited from Tinto Holdings 
Australia Pty Ltd were subsequently cancelled.
During 2010, in order to satisfy obligations under employee share 
plans, Rio Tinto plc issued 2,336,005 shares from treasury, and 
Rio Tinto plc’s registrar purchased on market 693,000 shares and 
delivered 561,852 ordinary shares to plan participants. Rio Tinto 
Limited’s registrar purchased on market and delivered 1,550,969 
shares to plan participants.
Also during the year, the Companies’ registrar purchased on 
market 660,948 Rio Tinto plc shares and 658,700 Rio Tinto 
Limited shares to satisfy obligations to shareholders under the 
dividend reinvestment plans.
On 10 February 2011, Rio Tinto announced a capital management 
programme, comprising a US$5 billion share buy-back which, 
subject to market conditions, is expected to complete by the end 
of 2012. In the period to 21 February 2011, 1,725,000 Rio Tinto 
plc shares were repurchased for a total aggregate consideration  
of US$125,500,000.
For the period 1 January 2011 to 21 February 2011, Rio Tinto plc 
issued 354,237 shares from treasury in connection with employee 
share plans and Rio Tinto Limited’s registrar purchased on market 
and delivered 462,169 shares to plan participants. 
Awards over 3,010,321 Rio Tinto plc shares and 1,783,657 
Rio Tinto Limited shares were granted under employee share 
plans during 2010. As at 21 February 2011, awards were 
outstanding over 11,624,153 Rio Tinto plc shares and 5,842,538 
Rio Tinto Limited shares. Upon vesting, awards may be satisfied 
by the issue of new shares, the purchase of shares on market, or, 
in the case of Rio Tinto plc, by issuing treasury shares.
Dividends
The total dividend for 2010 will be US 108 cents, of which US 45 
cents was paid as an interim dividend in September 2010. Final 
dividends of 39.14 pence or 61.94 Australian cents per share will 
be paid on 31 March 2011. Full details of dividends paid and the 
dividend policy can be found on page 262.
Annual general meetings
The 2011 annual general meetings will be held on 14 April in 
London and on 5 May in Perth. Separate notices of the 2011 
annual general meetings are produced for the shareholders of 
each Company.
Directors
The names of the directors who served during the year, together 
with their biographical details and other information are shown 
on pages 102 to 105. Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew 
retired at the conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual general 
meeting held on 26 May 2010. Sam Walsh, Ann Godbehere and 
Robert Brown were appointed as directors with effect from 5 June 
2009, 9 February 2010 and 1 April 2010, respectively and were 
elected by shareholders at the 2010 annual general meetings. 
Purchases of shares 
Rio Tinto plc 
(a) Total number of 
shares purchased
(b) Average 
price paid per 
share US$
 (c) Total number of 
shares purchased 
as part of publicly 
announced plans or 
programmes
Rio Tinto Limited 
(a) Total number of 
shares purchased
(b) Average price 
paid per 
share US$
(c) Total number of 
shares purchased 
as part of publicly 
announced plans or 
programmes
 Rio Tinto Group 
Approximate 
dollar value of 
shares that may 
yet be purchased 
under the plans or 
programmes US$
2010
1 Jan to 31 Jan – – – 269,187 71.95 – –
1 Feb to 28 Feb – – – 493,543 63.91 – –
1 Mar to 31 Mar – – – 181,346 68.66 – –
1 Apr to 30 Apr 271,553 61.02 – 416,995 72.54 – –
1 May to 31 May – – – 46,962 52.97 – –
1 Jun to 30 Jun – – – 60,687 58.94 – –
1 Jul to 31 Jul – – – 7,116 61.96 – –
1 Aug to 31 Aug – – – 145,532 66.80 – –
1 Sep to 30 Sep 1,082,395 56.28 – 350,185 68.61 – –
1 Oct to 31 Oct – – – 25,545 81.43 – –
1 Nov to 30 Nov – – – 63,622 88.26 – –
1 Dec to 31 Dec – – – 148,949 85.93 – –
Total 1,353,948 57.23 – 2,209,669 68.24 – –
2011
1 Jan to 31 Jan – – – 225,999 84.90 – –
1 Feb to 21 Feb 1,725,000 72.77 1,725,000 236,170 88.17 – 4,875,000,000
Notes:
(a) Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each; Rio Tinto Limited shares.  
(b) The average prices paid have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rate on the day of settlement.  
(c)  Shares purchased by the Companies’ registrar in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans are not deemed to form part of any publicly announced plan or programme. www.riotinto.com 111
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
A provision of the new UK Corporate Governance Code requires 
all directors to retire and submit themselves for re-election by 
shareholders annually. With the exception of Sir Rod Eddington 
and Yves Fortier who will be retiring at the conclusion of the 2011 
annual general meetings, all directors will stand for re-election at 
the 2011 annual general meetings. 
Details of directors’ service contracts and letters of appointment 
can be found on page 138 and page 141.
A table of directors’ attendance at board and committee meetings 
during 2010 is on page 118.
Remuneration of directors and executives
The Remuneration report starting on page 128 forms part of the 
Directors’ report and includes details of the nature and amount of 
each element of the remuneration (including share options) of 
each of the directors and of the key management personnel and 
highest paid executives below board level in respect of whom 
disclosures are required in 2010.
The 2009 Remuneration report was approved by shareholders at 
the 2010 annual general meetings.
Secretaries
Details of the company secretary of each of Rio Tinto plc and  
Rio Tinto Limited together with their qualifications and 
experience are set out on page 107.
Corporate governance
A full report on corporate governance can be found on pages 114  
to 127 and forms part of this Directors’ report.
Indemnities and insurance
The Articles of Association and Constitution of the Companies 
provide for them to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, 
officers of the Companies, including officers of wholly owned 
subsidiaries, against liabilities arising from the conduct of the 
Group’s business. The directors and the company secretaries of 
the Companies, and certain employees serving as directors of 
subsidiaries at the Group’s request have been indemnified in 
accordance with these provisions. No amount has been paid 
under any of these indemnities during the year.
The Group has purchased directors’ and officers’ insurance during 
the year. In broad terms, the insurance cover indemnifies 
individual directors’ and officers’ personal legal liability and legal 
defence costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection 
with Group business. It is a condition of the insurance policy that 
detailed terms and premiums paid cannot be disclosed.
Employment policies and communication
Information about the Group’s employment policies and our 
employees is available on pages 32 and 33 of the Sustainable 
development review.
Donations
During 2010, the Group spent US$166 million on community 
assistance programmes and payments into benefit receiving trusts 
set up in directly negotiated community impact benefit 
agreements. As required by UK regulation, donations in the UK 
during 2010 amounted to £1.8 million (2009: £1.8 million) 
including £0.18 million for education programmes, £0.97 million 
for environment programmes, £0.01 million for health 
programmes, £0.57 million for general sponsorships and donations, 
and management costs totalling £0.05 million. No donations were 
made for political purposes in the EU, Australia or elsewhere, as 
defined by the UK Companies Act 2006.
Governmental regulations
Rio Tinto is subject to extensive governmental regulations 
affecting all aspects of its operations and consistently seeks to 
apply best practice in all of its activities. Due to Rio Tinto’s 
product and geographical spread, there is unlikely to be any single 
governmental regulation in effect that could have a material effect 
on the Group’s business.
Rio Tinto’s operations in Australia and New Zealand are subject  
to state and federal regulations of general application governing 
mining and processing, land tenure and use, environmental 
requirements, including site specific environmental licences, 
permits and statutory authorisations, workplace health and safety, 
trade and export, corporations, competition, access to 
infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation. Some operations 
are conducted under specific agreements with the respective 
governments and associated acts of parliament.
In addition, Rio Tinto’s uranium operations in the Northern 
Territory, Australia and Namibia are subject to specific regulation 
in relation to mining and the export of uranium.
US and Canada-based operations are subject to local, state, 
provincial and national regulations governing mining and 
processing, access to infrastructure, land tenure and use, 
environmental aspects of operations, product and workplace 
health and safety, trade and export administration, corporations, 
competition, securities and taxation. In relation to hydroelectric 
power generation in Canada, water rights, as well as power sales 
and purchases, are regulated by the Quebec and British Columbia 
provincial agencies.
Rio Tinto’s operations in Europe are subject to national and 
European rules and regulations governing general and specific 
aspects of current and planned operations, notably land tenure 
and use, workplace health and safety, environmental issues, 
including applicable regulations in case of sale or closure of 
industrial sites and permit requirements concerning activities 
listed for environmental protection purposes, chemical risks 
management (REACH), competition requirements including 
compliance with antitrust rules, trade and export, corporations, 
intellectual property, labour requirements (including personal 
data protection), investment and taxation.
Rio Tinto’s South African-based operations are subject to black 
economic empowerment legislation which includes the 
requirement to transfer (for fair value) 26 per cent of the Group’s 
South African mining assets to historically disadvantaged South 
Africans by 2014.
Environmental regulation
Rio Tinto measures its performance against environmental 
regulation by rating incidents on a low, moderate, high, or  
critical scale of likelihood and consequence of impacting the 
environment. High and critical ratings are reported to the 
executive management team and the Committee on social and 
environmental accountability, including progress with remedial 
actions. Prosecutions and other breaches are also used to gauge 
Rio Tinto’s performance. 112 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Directors’ report continued
In 2010, there were 18 environment incidents rated high  
at Rio Tinto managed operations compared with 12 in 2009. 
These incidents were of a nature to affect the environment or to 
concern local communities. Of these, nine resulted from water 
discharge, six were spills and three related to air emissions. 
Examples of these include:
 discharge standards for water being exceeded and also the 
overflow of leachate from a landfill to an adjacent water course 
at Alucam, Cameroon.
 leakage of unleaded petrol from a storage tank at Gove, Australia.
 a spill of alumina and coke waste from the loading dock at the 
port for Alucam, Cameroon.
 recorded levels for dust and tar in air emissions which  
exceeded permitted amounts on a number of occasions  
at Rotterdam, Holland.
 flooding during a storm event which led to the overflow of 
water from the red mud retention dam onto land adjoining  
the facility at Gardanne, France.
 overflow from a retention pond into local waterways during  
a high rainfall event at Kitimat, Canada.
 flooding of sediment-laden water off site onto nearby land and 
creeks following heavy rainfall at Northparkes, Australia.
 a pump failure at a weir during a storm resulted in an overflow 
of mine water into the local river at Palabora, South Africa.
 recording of levels of SO
2
 in air emissions above permitted 
amounts on a number of occasions at Palabora, South Africa.
During 2010, 13 operations incurred fines amounting to 
US$540,328 (US$80,150 in 2009). Several fines paid in 2010 
relate to incidents that occurred in 2008 and 2009. An amount of 
US$262,046 relates to an incident that occurred in September 
2008 at a plant in Saguenay, Canada. An amount of US$174,697 
relates to an incident that occurred in April 2009 at a port facility in 
Saguenay, Canada. An amount of US$48,527 relates to an incident 
that occurred in August 2008 at a plant in Saguenay, Canada.
Australian corporations that exceed specified thresholds are 
required under the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy 
Reporting Act 2007 to register and report on greenhouse gas 
emissions and energy use and production. Three Rio Tinto 
entities, Rio Tinto Limited, Alcan Gove Pty Limited and Pechiney 
Consolidated Australia Limited are separately covered by the Act. 
All three companies submitted their reports by the required  
31 October 2010 deadline.
The same three Rio Tinto entities have obligations under the 
Australian Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006 (EEO).  
All three completed the required annual public reporting for  
2010. Eight operations undertook EEO assessments in 2010.  
This completed the first five year cycle of assessments for Rio Tinto 
corporations. EEO requirements continue to be communicated  
to all sites covered by the Act, with internal reporting and 
compliance systems augmented.
Further information in respect of the Group’s environmental 
performance is included throughout this Annual report, in the 
Sustainable development section on pages 29 to 41 and on the website.
Legal proceedings
Neither Rio Tinto plc nor Rio Tinto Limited nor any of their 
subsidiaries is a defendant in any proceedings which the directors 
believe will have a material effect on either Company’s financial 
position or profitability. Contingencies are disclosed in note 35 to 
the financial statements.
Exploration, research and development
The Group carries out exploration and research & development in 
support of its activities as described more fully under Exploration, 
and Technology & Innovation on pages 62 to 64. Amounts charged 
for the year net of any gains on disposal generated a net loss for 
exploration and evaluation of US$72 million (2009: net gain 
US$380 million). Research and development costs were US$187 
million (2009: US$193 million).
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and PricewaterhouseCoopers are  
the auditors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited respectively. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated their willingness to 
continue in office as auditors of Rio Tinto plc and a resolution to 
reappoint them as auditors of Rio Tinto plc will be proposed at  
the 2011 annual general meetings. The resolution will also seek 
authority for the Audit committee to determine their 
remuneration. PricewaterhouseCoopers will continue in office  
as auditors of Rio Tinto Limited. 
A copy of the declaration given by PricewaterhouseCoopers as  
the Group’s external auditors to the directors in relation to the 
auditors’ compliance with the independence requirements of the 
Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the professional code of 
conduct for external auditors is set out on page 256 in the 
financial statements.
No person who was an officer of Rio Tinto during 2010 was a 
director or partner of the auditors at a time when the auditors 
conducted an audit of the Group.
Each person who held the office of director at the date the board 
resolved to approve this report makes the following statements:
 so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditor is unaware;
 the directors have taken all steps that he or she ought to have 
taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of 
that information.
Principal auditor – audit and non audit fees and services
The amounts payable to the Group’s principal auditors, were:
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Audit fees
(a)
16.7 23.2
Audit services in connection
with divestment programme
(b)
9.1 22.0
Tax fees 0.4 2.1
All other fees
(c)
7.1 14.8
33.3 62.1
(a) Audit fees relating to statutory audits. 
(b) Represents fee for audit of carve out financial statements 
(c)  All other fees in 2010 include those relating to the bond issues, divestment programme 
and similar corporate projects.  www.riotinto.com 113
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Further information on audit and non audit fees is set out in note 
43 to the financial statements.
A description of Rio Tinto’s policies to uphold the independence 
of the Group’s principal auditors is set out in the corporate 
governance section on page 125. Based on advice provided by the 
Audit committee as set out in the Report of the Audit committee 
on page 119, the directors are satisfied that the provision of non 
audit services by PricewaterhouseCoopers is compatible with the 
general standard of independence for auditors and the standards 
imposed by the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and 
US legislation.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and 
policies and exposure to risk are described in note 33 to the 2010 
financial statements.
Value of land
Most of the Group’s interests in mining properties and leases, and 
in other land and buildings have been included in the financial 
statements at cost in accordance with its accounting policies. It is 
not possible to estimate the market value of such interests in land 
as this will depend on product prices over the long term which 
will vary with market conditions.
Creditor payments
It is the Group’s policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers 
when entering into contracts and to meet its obligations 
accordingly. The Group does not follow any specific published 
code or standard on payment practice.
At 31 December 2010, there were 23 days’ (2009: 24 days) 
purchases outstanding in respect of the Group based on the total 
invoiced by suppliers during the year.
UK Financial Reporting Review Panel
Following discussions with the UK Financial Reporting Review 
Panel (FRRP), Rio Tinto has agreed to include certain additional 
information in the 2010 Annual report at the FRRP’s request.  
This information includes on page 32, additional details of the 
potential health risks posed by exposure to workers and 
communities surrounding uranium mines; on page 34, details  
of the sensitivities the Group faces in dealing with local 
communities, such as at the La Granja copper development in 
Peru and the Eagle project in Michigan in the United States; on 
page 37, an example of the potential for the Group’s projects to 
impact on biodiversity, with information relating to biodiversity 
projects associated with the Group’s activities in Madagascar; on 
page 38, additional details of the nature of the Group’s interests in 
the non-managed Grasberg mine in Indonesia, the nature of the 
environmental risks and social issues relating to that mine; and 
reference to the sale of shares by the Norwegian Government 
Pension Fund in 2008 as an example of the possible impact of  
the reputational risks faced by the Group in relation to its 
non-managed operations. 
Going concern
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have satisfied 
themselves that no material uncertainties that cast significant 
doubt about the ability of the Companies and the Group to 
continue as a going concern have been identified, and they have  
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Therefore, these financial statements have been prepared 
on a going concern basis. 
The Directors’ report is made in accordance with a resolution of 
the board.
Jan du Plessis, chairman 
4 March 2011 114 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Rio Tinto’s board is ultimately responsible for the success of the 
Group and upholds high standards of corporate governance 
that will enable us to achieve our vision of global sector 
leadership.
Corporate governance
Governance
Sustainable development
Values
The way
we work
Board performance
Key activities during 2010
 Monitoring economic developments in order to meet the challenges  
of the financial volatility of OECD countries and the opportunities 
presented by the growing levels of urbanisation and industrialisation  
in populous parts of the world.
 Promoting the growth of the business, evidenced in particular by:  
the signature of a joint venture agreement with Chalco for the 
development and operation of the Simandou iron ore project in 
Guinea; the approval of further funding for expansion of Pilbara iron 
ore capacity to 283 million tonnes per annum; and other corporate 
activity relating to Oyu Tolgoi and Riversdale.
 Positioning Rio Tinto to meet fiscal and monetary challenges, 
including engagement with the Australian Government in relation 
to its proposed Resources Super Profits Tax and its subsequent 
replacement with a Minerals Resource Rent Tax.
 Overseeing the management of the risks facing Rio Tinto, seeking 
to influence government and other external stakeholders within 
the mining and natural resource sector relating to resource 
nationalism and socio-economic development.
 Reviewing each of the product group strategies.
 Considering and eventually withdrawing from plans to create the 
Western Australian iron ore production joint venture with BHP Billiton.
 Driving completion of the divestment programme.
Board objectives
 Prioritise value adding growth.
 Support the vision of global sector leadership.
 Regular review and oversight of Group strategy.
 Review financial and non-financial performance metrics.
 Oversee succession planning for the board and senior executives.
 Strive for excellence in the Group’s governance processes and policies, 
including risk governance.
 Review and implement actions from board and board committee 
performance evaluations.
 Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
 Maintain a strong balance sheet.
The board of directors firmly believes that high standards of 
corporate governance form an essential underpinning to the 
achievement of Rio Tinto’s vision to become the sector leading 
global mining and metals company and to maximise 
shareholder returns.
Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to 
comply with the regulatory obligations associated with its three 
principal stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia and the US. 
Statements of compliance with each of the corporate governance 
codes applied by these jurisdictions are set out on page 127. 
Board
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of 
directors. The directors are responsible for the success of the Group 
and, through the independent oversight of management, are 
accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business.
Responsibilities
The principal role of the board is to set the Group’s vision and to 
regularly review its strategic direction. In doing this, the board 
also has responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of 
effective standards of corporate governance across the Group and 
oversees management’s control and accountability framework.  
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision  
or consideration by the board as a whole has been agreed by the 
directors. This schedule covers areas such as the Group’s strategy, 
major investments and acquisitions. It is available on the 
corporate governance section of the website.
In line with its principal role, the board is ultimately accountable 
to Rio Tinto’s shareholders for the performance of the business. 
Responsibility for day to day management of the business is 
delegated to the chief executive who, in turn, has established  
an executive team, the Executive committee, with authorities 
delegated to individual executives, all within an agreed financial 
control framework. As part of the annual financial planning 
process, the board sets annual performance targets, which  
include personal and business performance measures, under the 
Group’s short term incentive plan (detailed on page 133 of the 
Remuneration report). These performance targets are determined 
by the Remuneration committee on behalf of the board for the 
chief executive based upon his proposals and objectives for the 
year. The chief executive establishes targets for the other 
members of his Executive committee which are then cascaded 
throughout management teams. Further details of the 
performance evaluation of the executive directors and other 
senior executives is discussed in the Remuneration report. www.riotinto.com 115
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Board balance and independence
Chairman and chief executive
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and  
the division of their respective responsibilities has been reviewed 
and approved by the board.
Board balance
Rio Tinto has a diverse board comprising directors drawn from a 
wide range of professional backgrounds and geographic areas. The 
board supports the principle of diversity and its implementation 
throughout Rio Tinto and believes that a board and employee 
community reflective of the Group’s global activities is critical  
to the success of the organisation. See pages 116 to 117 for more 
information on diversity.
As of the date of this report, the board consists of 14 directors:  
the chairman, three executive directors, and ten independent non 
executive directors.
The names, skills and experience of each director together with 
their terms in office are shown in the biographical details on 
pages 102 to 105. Details of changes to the board during 2010 and 
in the year to date are set out in the Directors’ report on page 110.
Sir Rod Eddington and Yves Fortier and have announced their 
intention to retire from the boards upon the conclusion of the 2011 
annual general meetings. The board will then comprise 12 directors 
of which eight will be independent non executive directors.
Director independence
The tests of independence of a non executive director in the 
jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings are not wholly 
consistent. The board has therefore adopted a formal policy for 
the determination of the independence of its non executive 
directors. This policy, which includes materiality thresholds for 
the measurement of independence to be approved by the board,  
is available on the Group’s website.
Among its key criteria are independence from management and the 
absence of any business relationship which could materially 
interfere with the director’s independence of judgment and  
ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the board’s 
deliberations, or which could interfere with the director’s ability  
to act in the best interests of the Group. Where contracts in the 
ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company 
in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for 
materiality to both the Group, and the other party to the contract. 
“Material” is defined in the policy as being where the relationship 
accounts for more than two per cent of either parties’ consolidated 
gross revenue per annum, although the test also takes other 
circumstances into account.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that all of its non 
executive directors are independent in accordance with this policy.
Jan du Plessis, upon his original appointment to the board as a 
non executive director in September 2008, was deemed to be 
independent in accordance with the criteria set by the board’s 
policy. At the time of his appointment as non executive chairman 
from 20 April 2009, the board determined that he continued to be 
independent under the policy. In the board’s view, he continues to 
satisfy the tests for independence under the Australian Securities 
Exchange Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 
(“ASX Principles”) and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate 
Governance Standards (“NYSE Standards”).
Conflict of interests
UK company law allows the board to authorise a situation in which 
there is, or may be, a conflict between the interests of Rio Tinto and 
the direct or indirect interests of a director or between the director’s 
duties to Rio Tinto and to another person. Further to the approval 
obtained from shareholders in 2008, Rio Tinto plc’s articles of 
association give directors the power to authorise such conflicts.  
The board has adopted procedures for ensuring that its powers  
to authorise conflicts operate effectively and for this purpose, a 
register of conflicts and any authorisation granted by the board  
is maintained by the company secretary and reviewed bi-annually 
by the board.
Executive directors’ other directorships
Executive directors may on occasion be invited to become non 
executive directors of other companies. The board has adopted  
a procedure under which approval may be given to accept such 
invitations recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual 
and to Rio Tinto from such exposure. For further information see 
page 139.
Mining/engineering 33%
Consumer goods/services 21%
Business/finance 14%
General industry 14%
Government affairs 14%
Law 4%
Industry/background experience
Strategy 43%
Site visits & familiarisation 25%
Operational & financial 
performance 22%
Governance 8%
Board evaluation 2%
How the board members spent their time in 2010*
*Excludes board committee responsibilities 
  and delegated authorities by the board
0 - 3 years 46%
4 - 6 years 36%
7 - 9 years 18%
Length of tenure – Non executive directors only 116 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Election and re-election
The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during 
the year. Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation 
of the board, offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first 
annual general meetings after their appointment. 
In subsequent years the re-election of directors is subject to each 
director meeting the independence criteria detailed above, the 
absence of any conflicts of interests, ongoing commitment to 
Group activities, and satisfactory performance.
In accordance with a new provision of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (formerly the Combined Code), Rio Tinto expects to submit all 
directors for re-election annually with effect from its annual general 
meetings in 2011. 
Non executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six 
years and, except in special circumstances, would not normally 
serve more than nine years.
Governance 
The board meets regularly in order to effectively conduct its 
business. In 2010, there were eight scheduled board meetings  
and three board meetings convened and held at short notice.  
The number of meetings held in 2010 is a reflection of the 
considerable corporate activity considered by the board during the 
year, particularly in relation to the proposed iron ore production 
joint venture with BHP Billiton in Western Australia, divestments, 
capital expenditure commitments and acquisition opportunities. 
Details of the directors’ attendance at all of the board and 
committee meetings held in 2010 are set out on page 118.
The board has regular discussions with the executives during the 
year on the Group’s strategy. These discussions will typically 
include strategy presentations that are given by product group 
chief executives, other members of the Executive committee or 
global heads of function. The board also holds an annual two day 
strategy-setting meeting with the Executive committee which 
includes broader, detailed review sessions on the Group’s strategic 
direction. The outputs from this event help underpin the board’s 
annual financial planning exercise and provide strategic direction 
and focus to the executive team through effective allocation of the 
Group’s resources.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate management and 
other information to enable them to fulfil their duties. They also 
have direct access to the advice and services of the company 
secretaries. In the event that they consider it to be required in the 
delivery of their fiduciary duties, the directors are also able to 
obtain independent professional advice at the Group’s expense 
through the company secretaries.
In addition to these formal processes, the directors are in regular 
informal communication with members of the Executive 
committee and other senior executives. This helps to foster an 
open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience between 
management and the non executive directors.
To continue building on the formal induction programmes,  
which all new non executive directors undertake, they are 
routinely provided with training and development opportunities. 
In 2010, these opportunities included a briefing on reserves and 
mineral resource reporting. The directors are also encouraged  
to participate in site visits to the Group’s operations around the 
world and to meet local employees. In 2010, directors were able  
to benefit in this way by a visit to the Group’s coal operations  
in Australia. The board also takes the opportunity to combine 
attendance at the annual general meeting in Australia with  
site visits.
Board performance evaluation
Under the leadership and guidance of the chairman and with the 
support of the company secretary, the directors continue to review 
the design and effectiveness of the board evaluation processes. 
These processes have been further refined in 2010 resulting in an 
annual exercise to evaluate not only the board’s effectiveness, but 
also that of the board committees and individual directors. 
Each non executive director’s performance is appraised personally  
by the chairman each year. For 2010, in light of the publication of the 
new UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires the evaluation  
of the board to be externally facilitated at least every three years, a 
range of alternatives for conducting the evaluation of the board and 
committees was considered. The board concluded that an evaluation 
process led by Jan du Plessis, in his capacity as chairman of the 
board, managed by the company secretary, but overseen by an 
independent third party, was appropriate for 2010, since it was 
considered that this approach would promote further transparency 
and objectivity and facilitate a challenging and rigorous self-
assessment process (summarised opposite).
For the board committees, a similar process was followed with the 
assistance of the external facilitator, agreed with the committee 
chairman and completed by each committee member and 
regular attendees.
The senior independent non executive director leads a discussion  
involving all of the non executive directors without the chairman  
in attendance to assess the chairman’s performance, taking into 
consideration the views of the executive. Feedback is provided directly 
to the chairman by the senior independent non executive director.
The chief executive undertakes a performance evaluation of the 
other executive directors. Taking into consideration the views  
of the chairman and non executive directors, feedback is often 
provided directly to the executive directors by the chief executive.
Based upon the results of these evaluations (summarised opposite),  
it was concluded that the board and its committees are operating 
effectively and that the individual directors’ performance continues  
to be effective and demonstrates the level of commitment expected  
by Rio Tinto.
Diversity
Rio Tinto’s commitment to diversity and inclusion
We believe that diversity improves business outcomes. We are a 
global company, and wherever we operate, and across every part 
of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which 
difference is recognised and valued. By bringing together men  
and women from diverse backgrounds and giving each person  
the opportunity to contribute their skills, experience and 
perspectives, we believe that we are best able to develop 
innovative solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable  
value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders. 
What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto
 Embracing workforce diversity irrespective of age, gender, race, 
national and ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, physical 
ability, language. www.riotinto.com 117
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Board and board committee evaluations
Based upon the results of these evaluations, it was concluded that the board and its 
committees are operating effectively
Evaluations completed by 
members of the board, board 
committees, and the Executive 
committee
Assessment Examples of agreed actions
Key areas of focus for the board:
 board structure and dynamics
 board composition and capability
 strategy, planning and risk
 succession planning
 culture and relationships
 board and committee governance
 board process and support 
 directors’ training and development
Key areas of focus for board 
committees:
 roles and responsibilities
 performance and effectiveness
 capabilities of members
 interaction with management
 committee governance and processes
 members’ training and development
For the board:
 the evaluation results informed 
discussions between the chairman 
and each individual director
 the chairman also took the 
opportunity to provide feedback on 
each non executive director’s 
individual performance and 
contribution together with that  
of the chief executive. The chief 
executive undertook this process  
for the other executive directors.
 the board used one of its scheduled 
meetings to discuss the output from 
its performance evaluation and agreed 
a number of actions
For board committees:
 the evaluation results were collated 
and presented for discussion and 
debate and to agree actions
For the board:
 a desire for continued improvement of the process 
by which management proposals are made to, and 
reviewed by, the board and its committees
 seeking to further enhance the non executive 
directors’ induction process and their continued 
training and development
 building on the improvements made in risk 
governance in 2010 and placing increased emphasis 
on the oversight of reputational risk
 enhancing the board’s mix of experience to assist its 
understanding of investor sentiment
For board committees:
 reviewing the Audit committee’s risk governance 
responsibilities in light of the implementation  
of a refreshed risk management process in 2010
 a continued focus for the Remuneration 
committee on ensuring alignment of reward  
with strategic objectives
 reviewing the range of non financial, corporate social 
responsibility-related indicators provided to the 
Committee on social and environmental 
accountability and the board and re-examining the 
quality and substance of stakeholder engagement
 Valuing diversity of perspective – leveraging the diverse 
thinking, skills, experience and working styles of our 
employees.
 Building a flexible organisation – providing opportunities for 
work arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of 
individuals at different life and career stages.
 Respecting stakeholder diversity – developing strong and 
sustainable relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, 
employees, governments, customers and suppliers.
How we are building an inclusive environment at Rio Tinto
We use five levers to drive action and build awareness about 
diversity and inclusion. Long and short term initiatives are 
prioritised based on need and impact. 
 Governance models, such as the recently established Group 
Diversity Council
 Policies, practices and targets
 Leadership and cultural competence
 Stakeholder relationships
 Education and communication
What our current focus is
Priorities for 2011 include five year programmes to:
 Improve the representation of women in senior management 
roles and the pipeline of female talent; and
 Improve the number of individuals from under-represented 
nationalities in professional and leadership roles, especially people 
from emerging regions in which Rio Tinto is developing business. 118 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Attendance at board and committee meetings during 2010
Board
 scheduled 
(b)
Board
 short notice 
(b)
Audit
 committee 
(b)
Nominations
committee 
(b)
Committee on social 
and environmental
accountability 
(b)
Remuneration
committee 
(b)
Chairman’s
committee 
(b)
Tom Albanese 8/8 3/3 – – – – 17/18
Sir David Clementi
 (a)
2/3 1/1 4/4 1/1 1/1 –
Robert Brown 6/6 3/3 – 2/2 4/4 – –
Vivienne Cox 8/8 2/3 7/7 3/3 – – –
Jan du Plessis 8/8 3/3 – 3/3 – – 18/18
Sir Rod Eddington 8/8 2/3 – 3/3 6/6 – –
Guy Elliott 8/8 3/3 – – – – 16/18
Michael Fitzpatrick 8/8 3/3 7/7 3/3 3/3 –
Yves Fortier 8/8 2/3 – 3/3 5/6 – –
Ann Godbehere 8/8 2/3 6/6 2/2 –
Richard Goodmanson 8/8 3/3 – 3/3 6/6 3/3 –
Andrew Gould 8/8 2/3 – 3/3 – 3/3 –
Lord Kerr 8/8 3/3 7/7 3/3 6/6 –
David Mayhew
 (a)
2/3 1/1 – – – – –
Paul Tellier 8/8 3/3 7/7 3/3 – 3/3 –
Sam Walsh 8/8 3/3 – – – – –
(a) Retired from the board on 26 May 2010.
(b)  Number of meetings attended/maximum the director could have attended 
Board committees
The board has established committees which are responsible for audit, remuneration, executive and non executive 
succession, social and environmental matters and assisting the board to deliver its responsibilities. Each committee plays  
a vital role in helping the board ensure that high standards of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group. 
The committees are governed by terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be viewed in the corporate 
governance section of the website.
Governance structure
Audit 
committee
Nominations  
committee
Committee on 
social and 
environmental 
accountability
Remuneration  
committee
Chairman’s  
committee
Disclosure and 
procedures  
committee
Board of directors Board of directors
Board 
committees
Management 
committees
Chief executive Chief financial  
officer
Continuous 
disclosure  
committee 
(a)
Investment  
committee
Executive 
committee
Strategy and 
finance  
committee
Risk 
management 
committee
Ore reserves 
steering  
committee
Closure  
committee
(a) The Continuous disclosure committee is an independent management committee. www.riotinto.com 119
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Audit committee report
Members
 (a) (b)
1. Ann Godbehere – chair
2. Vivienne Cox
3. Michael Fitzpatrick
4. Lord Kerr
5. Paul Tellier
requirement that at least one committee member should have 
recent and relevant financial experience. Following the retirement 
of Sir David Clementi as its chairman with effect from the 
conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings, Ann Godbehere, 
chairman of the Committee since 25 May 2010, and Michael 
Fitzpatrick are considered by the board to have recent and 
relevant financial experience and are therefore the Committee’s 
financial experts. All other members of the Committee are, in the 
opinion of the Audit committee, deemed to be financially literate 
by virtue of their business experience.
The Audit committee applies policies for the pre-approval of 
permitted services provided by the Group’s principal auditors. All of 
the engagements for services provided by them were either within 
the pre-approval policies or approved by the Audit committee. The 
directors are satisfied that the provision of non audit services by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in accordance with this procedure is 
compatable with the general standard of independence for 
auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including the Australian 
Corporations Act 2001, and US legislation.
The Committee considered reports from the Group’s Auditors, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Rio Tinto Corporate Assurance on the 
activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment 
in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control 
system. This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls over financial reporting and the Group’s disclosure 
controls and procedures in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the 
Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 respectively . A review of the scope and the 
outputs from the annual Internal Control Questionnaire, a key element 
of Rio Tinto’s internal control framework, was also evaluated.
Key achievements 
During 2010 the Committee undertook the following activities:
 reviewed and updated the terms of reference to reflect:
i. the Committee’s role with respect to resource and reserves 
evaluation and reporting;
ii. the Committee’s amended responsibility with respect to 
risk. Following the establishment of a Risk management 
committee and the enhancement of the board’s oversight 
role for risk management, the Committee is now responsible 
for conducting an annual review of the maturity and 
effectiveness of management processes relating to risk; 
iii. the Committee’s role in overseeing the operation of the 
integrity and compliance programme including the 
whistleblowing facility. 
 evaluated the effectiveness of PricewaterhouseCoopers, agreed 
the fees payable in respect of the 2010 audit, assessed their 
Key responsibilities
The primary function of the Audit committee, as set out in its 
terms of reference which are summarised below, is to assist the 
board in fulfilling its responsibilities by monitoring decisions and 
processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting 
and sound systems of internal control and risk management. The 
scope of the Committee’s responsibilities includes: financial 
reporting and internal controls over financial reporting; internal 
controls; corporate assurance; external auditors; risk management; 
and the whistleblowing programme.
In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee has full 
authority to investigate all matters that fall within its terms of 
reference. Accordingly, the Committee may:
 obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its 
duties at the cost of the Group; and
 have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may 
reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
The Audit committee’s main responsibilities include the review of 
accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the 
preparation of public financial information, review with 
management of procedures relating to financial and capital 
expenditure controls, including internal audit plans and reports, 
review with external auditors of the scope and results of their audit, 
review and approval of the auditors’ fees, the nomination of 
auditors for appointment by shareholders, and the review of and 
recommendation to the board for approval of Rio Tinto’s risk 
management policies and processes. Its responsibilities also include 
the oversight of the whistleblowing programme.
Governance processes
To ensure the Committee discharges its responsibilities, it meets 
not less than four times per year and arranges occasional training 
sessions which may cover new legislation and other information 
relevant to the Committee’s role. The Audit committee met seven 
times in 2010. The Group’s chairman, chief executive, chief 
financial officer, other senior financial management, external  
and internal auditors regularly attend its meetings.
The members of the Committee are independent and free of  
any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying 
out their responsibilities. The members meet the independence 
requirements of the UK’s Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance (“the Code”), the ASX Principles, the NYSE Code  
and US legislation, and the Committee meets the composition, 
operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles. 
The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit 
committees’ financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles 
(a)  Sir David Clementi was chair of the Audit committee until his retirement on 26 May 2010.
(b)  Ann Godbehere became a member upon her appointment on 9 February 2010, and  
became chair upon Sir David Clementi’s retirement. 120 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Key responsibilities
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly 
assessing the balance of executive and non executive directors and 
the composition of the board in terms of the skills, diversity and 
capacity required to ensure it remains relevant and appropriately 
aligned to oversee the delivery of Rio Tinto’s strategy. 
Taking into account these factors, the Committee develops and 
agrees the desired profiles of potential candidates for board 
membership. In consultation with external search consultants, it 
then oversees a recruitment process to supplement the board’s 
skills or to replace directors as needed. The recruitment process 
itself includes identification of suitable candidates, followed by a 
formal assessment of each candidate, leading to a final selection 
process. Proposals for new board members are submitted to the 
full board for approval. On behalf of the board, the Committee 
also reviews proposals for senior executive appointments, 
monitors executive succession planning and oversees the board’s 
policy on external appointments of executive committee members.
Governance processes
The Committee meets not less than twice a year. In 2010, the 
Committee met three times.
The members of the Committee are all independent and free of any 
relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their 
responsibilties. The chairman is considered independent under the 
ASX Principles and the NYSE Code. Under the Code he is not 
considered independent following his appointment as chairman, 
however the Code specifically allows the chairman to chair the 
Nominations committee. The composition of the Committee is 
therefore also compliant with the Code.
Key achievements in 2010
During 2010, the Committee:
 extended the membership of the Committee to all non 
executive directors of Rio Tinto;
 following consideration of the overall balance of skills, 
knowledge, experience and diversity on the board against 
current and future requirements of the Group, conducted a 
rigorous search and selection process resulting in the 
appointment of Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown as non 
executive directors; and
 considered the proposed annual re-election of directors, taking 
into account the board’s policy on independence and the results 
of the evaluations of the non executive directors;
 undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the 
results to the board. 
Priorities for 2011
 to review plans formulated for both executive and non 
executive director succession ;
 to consider the implications arising from the annual re-election 
of directors, including possible revisions to terms of 
appointment; and
 to monitor emerging regulation, including relating to diversity.
Jan du Plessis, chairman
Nominations committee report
Members
 (a)
1. Jan du Plessis – chair
2. Robert Brown
3. Vivienne Cox 
4. Sir Rod Eddington
5. Michael Fitzpatrick
6. Yves Fortier
7.  Ann Godbehere
8.  Richard Goodmanson 
9.  Andrew Gould
10.  Lord Kerr
11.  Paul Tellier
independence in accordance with both UK and Australian 
standards and US legislation and recommended to the board 
that they be proposed for re-appointment at the 2010 annual 
general meetings.
 appointed a new external audit partner in accordance with the 
policy governing audit partner rotation. 
 reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s third party provider of 
Internal Audit services. 
 engaged in training sessions on the governance process 
surrounding ore reserves and mineral resources.
 completed its annual performance evaluation and reported the 
results to the board.
Priorities for 2011
In addition to discharging the responsibilities set out above, the 
Committee’s priorities for 2011 include:
 reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
processes;
 oversight of the Internal Audit strategic review;
 focusing on training and development, particularly in relation 
to new legislation and regulation, including the US Dodd Frank 
Act and the UK Bribery Act. 
Ann Godbehere, chairman
(a)  Membership of the Nominations committee was extended to all non executive directors  
with effect from 1 January 2010. www.riotinto.com 121
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Committee on social and environmental accountability
Members
 (a)
1. Richard Goodmanson – chair
2. Robert Brown
3. Sir Rod Eddington
4. Yves Fortier
5. Lord Kerr
6. Vivienne Cox
Key responsibilities
The Committee assists the board to oversee management 
processes, standards, and strategies designed to manage social 
and environmental risks and achieve compliance with social and 
environmental responsibilities and commitments. The Committee 
reviews the effectiveness of management policies and procedures 
relating to safety, health, employment practices, relationships 
with neighbouring communities, environment, human rights, 
land access, political involvement and sustainable development.
Governance processes
The Committee meets not less than four times a year. In 2010, the 
Committee met six times. The chairman, chief executive, and 
other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
The members of the Committee are all independent and free of 
any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying 
out their responsibilities. 
Key achievements in 2010
During 2010 the Committee undertook the following activities:
 Reviewed performance during the year against each of the 
Committee’s core areas of activity;
 Reviewed the adequacy of critical controls and corporate 
culture arising from publicised disasters external to the Group; 
 Assessed the Group’s business resilience and corporate recovery 
programme;
 Reviewed the processes for the management of key operational  
(non financial) risks in the Group;
 Oversaw the conduct of an independent internal sustainable 
development assurance audit and reviewed the results; and 
 Undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the 
results to the board.
(a)  Vivienne Cox joined the Committee on social and environmental accountability on  
30 November 2010.
Priorities for 2011
 To assess progress towards embedding a zero harm culture 
through the Group and its non-managed operations;
 To continually review the approach to sustainable development 
to ensure it remains focused on the social, environmental, 
economic and governance risks most relevant to supporting the 
Group’s vision and delivering our strategy;
 To review work plans formulated for health, safety, 
environment, communities and employment practices;
 To consider the implications of emerging legislation; and
 To continue to improve the diversity of the Group’s workforce
The sustainable development review has been reviewed by the 
Committee and approved by the board. 
 For more information read page 29 122 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Chairman’s committee report
Members
 
1. Jan du Plessis – chair
2. Tom Albanese
3. Guy Elliott
Remuneration committee
Members
 (a)
1. Andrew Gould – chair
2. Michael Fitzpatrick
3. Richard Goodmanson
4. Paul Tellier
Key responsibilities
The Remuneration committee assists the board to fulfil its oversight responsibility to shareholders to ensure that remuneration policy 
and practices reward fairly and responsibly and with a clear link to corporate and individual performance.
The report of the Remuneration committee on pages 128 to 155 has been reviewed by the Committee and approved by the board. Key 
responsibilities, governance processes, key achievements in 2010, and priorities for 2011 are set out in the report.
Key responsibilities
The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the 
board or as specifically set out within its terms of reference. It supports the functioning of the board and ensures that the business of 
the board and its committees is properly planned and aligned with management. When mandated by the board, the Chairman’s 
committee will consider urgent matters between board meetings, and deal with the implementation of board decisions on transactions 
and other corporate matters. Other than for the chairman of the board, the Committee performs the annual review of non executive 
directors’ fees and makes a recommendation to the board, as appropriate.
Jan du Plessis, chairman
(a)  Sir David Clementi was a member of the Remuneration committee until his retirement on  
26 May 2010. www.riotinto.com 123
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Australia and Canada forum
An advisory forum has been established in each of Australia and 
Canada to advise the board and executive management on 
political, economic and social developments in those countries 
which could affect the successful development of Rio Tinto’s 
businesses. Each forum meets twice annually and is attended by 
the chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer, local 
directors and senior management.
Management committees 
The chief executive has delegated authority from the board for 
the day to day management of the Group’s operations. The chief 
executive, chief financial officer and the heads of the product and 
global support groups share management responsibility for the 
management of the business.
The chief executive is assisted by the work of management 
committees in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tinto’s 
strategy. The management committees are described below. 
Executive committee 
The Executive committee is responsible, under the leadership of 
the chief executive, for the day to day management of the 
business, setting performance targets and implementation of the 
Group’s strategy and direction as determined by the board. Based 
upon the financial authorities vested in the chief executive by the 
board, each member of this committee has delegated financial 
authorities, within a clear internal control framework, for the 
management of their respective areas. The members of the 
Committee are: the chief executive; the chief financial officer; the 
five product group chief executives; the Group executive, 
Technology & Innovation; the Group executive, Legal & External 
Affairs; the Group executive, People & Organisation; and the Group 
executive, Business Support & Operations.
Other management committees
Other management committees have been established to monitor 
performance, maintain controls and support the delivery of the 
Group’s strategy.
Investment committee
The purpose of the Investment committee is to review proposals  
for major capital decisions to ensure that they accord with the 
strategic objectives established by the board. The members of  
the Committee are: the chief executive (chair); the chief financial 
officer; the Group executive, Technology & Innovation; and the 
Group executive, Business Support & Operations.
Strategy and finance committee
The Strategy and finance committee is responsible, under the 
leadership of the chief financial officer, to review and advise on 
issues that arise in the day to day workings within the functional 
areas of the chief financial officer’s direct reports. The members  
of the Committee are: the chief financial officer; the global head 
of Planning & Reporting; the global head of Treasury; the global 
head of Taxation; the head of Investor Relations; and the head of 
Business Development.
Ore reserves steering committee
The Ore reserves steering committee is the primary governance 
body over the ore reserve estimation and disclosure processes.  
The members of the Committee are: the Group executive, 
Technology & Innovation (chair); the global head of Planning & 
Reporting; the global practice leader, Mining, Technology & 
Innovation; the chief adviser, Evaluation; the chief adviser, 
Orebody Knowledge, Technology & Innovation; the chief adviser, 
Resources and Reserves, Technology & Innovation; the general 
manager, Resource Development, Iron Ore; and the chief 
geologist, Rio Tinto Exploration.
Continuous disclosure committee
The Committee is responsible for determining whether information 
relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets under 
the continuous disclosure requirements in the jurisdictions in 
which Rio Tinto is listed. The members of the committee are: the 
chief financial officer (chair); the company secretary of Rio Tinto 
plc; General counsel Asia Pacific; the head of Business 
Development; the head of Investor Relations; and the global 
practice leader, Media Relations.
Disclosure and procedures committee
The primary role of this Committee is to assist the board, Audit 
committee and individual directors and officers who are required 
under various regulations to endorse the Group’s shareholder reports 
and other public documents. The members of the Committee are:  
the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc (chair); the global head of 
Planning & Reporting; the head of Investor Relations; the head of 
Compliance; and the head of Corporate Assurance.
Closure committee
This Committee oversees the closure management programme  
to manage the significant financial, reputational and operational 
risk of site closures. The members of the Committee are: the 
global head of Planning & Reporting (chair); the global head of 
Health, Safety, Environment & Communities; the Group executive, 
Legal & External Affairs; the global practice leader, Communities; 
the vice president, Human Resources, Functions; and the Group 
executive, Technology & Innovation. The activities of the 
Committee are supported by a sub-committee to implement the 
closure management programme.
Risk management committee
The Risk management committee assists the Executive committee 
and the board in ensuring that robust risk management exists 
across Rio Tinto. The Committee ensures that a sufficient level of 
risk analysis is applied to critical decisions and provides assurance 
to the Executive committee and the board that risk processes at all 
levels are effective and compliant with overall risk policy.
The members of the Committee are: the chief executive (chair); 
the chief financial officer; the Group executive, Business Support 
& Operations; the Group executive, Technology & Innovation; the 
Group executive, People & Organisation and the Group executive, 
Legal and External Affairs. In addition, a product group chief 
executive officer attends the Committee on a rotating basis.
Global code of conduct 
Rio Tinto’s commitment to integrity and compliance is set out  
in The way we work, our global code of business conduct and  
one of the Group’s most important documents. See page 16  
for more information. 
The way we work contains principles and standards of conduct 
which reaffirm the Group’s commitment to corporate 
responsibility. It is inspired by our four core values: accountability, 
respect, teamwork and integrity. It is supported by Rio Tinto’s 
extensive framework of policies and standards. 124 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Core policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, 
externally and within the Group. Once adopted, they are 
communicated to business units worldwide, together with 
mandatory standards, guidance notes and resources to support 
implementation. Business units are required to devote the 
necessary effort by management to implement and report on 
these policies and standards.
Rio Tinto’s core policies, addressed in The way we work, include: 
access to land; business integrity; communities; corporate 
governance; employment; environment; human rights; internal 
controls and reporting; occupational health; political involvement; 
government relations; safety; sustainable development; and 
transparency. These are supported by policies in the areas of data 
privacy, risk, information management and security.
Each policy is supported by standards and guidance, expanding 
on the minimum expectations on topics such as antitrust, 
continuous disclosure, antibribery, compliance, cultural heritage 
and health, safety and the environment. These policies and 
standards apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses. Where the 
Group does not have operating responsibility for a business, Rio 
Tinto’s policies are communicated to its business partners and 
they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own. Rio 
Tinto employees are required to undertake training about the 
requirements of The way we work and other core policies.
“Whistleblowing” programme
The board has adopted a whistleblowing programme called 
Speak-OUT. Employees may report concerns, including suspicion 
of violations of the Group’s financial reporting or environmental 
procedures. The Speak-OUT programme is independently 
administered, confidential, and our employees can use this 
programme without fear of recrimination. A process has been 
established for the investigation of any matters reported. Details 
of Speak-OUT call activity are set out on page 39.
Dealing in Rio Tinto securities
Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto 
securities by directors and employees with access to “inside 
information”. These rules require those people to seek clearance 
from the chairman or the company secretary before any proposed 
dealing to ensure that they do not deal when in possession of 
inside information. Directors and members of the Executive 
committee will not be given clearance during “close periods” 
immediately preceding the announcement of annual and interim 
results. The rules prohibit the hedging of unvested options.  
The “Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto securities” comply with  
the new requirements of the ASX Listing Rules effective from  
1 January 2011 and can be viewed in the corporate governance 
section of the website.
Communication
Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication 
with shareholders and the wider investment community.
To ensure that trading in its securities takes place in an informed 
market, the Group has adopted continuous disclosure standards 
which are overseen by the Continuous disclosure committee and form 
part of the Group’s corporate governance standards (see page 123).  
Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure to the listing authorities  
of any information that a reasonable person would expect to have 
a material effect on its share price in accordance with their rules. 
All information released to the markets is posted on the media 
section of the website.
In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tinto’s website features in 
depth information on health, safety and the environment, as well 
as general investor information, publications and policies and 
guidance. Full and half year results as well as any major 
presentations are also webcast. Presentation material from 
investor seminars is also made available on the website.
The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a 
summary business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent 
developments and to give them the opportunity to ask questions. 
Generally, the chairs of all board committees will be available to 
answer questions raised by shareholders and all directors are 
expected to attend where possible. Rio Tinto’s external auditor, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, attends the annual general meetings 
and is available to answer questions about the conduct of the 
audit and the preparation and content of the auditor’s report.  
Any questions received and answers provided are made available 
at that meeting, and shareholders have the opportunity to meet 
informally with directors after the meeting.
The main channels of communication with the investment 
community are through the chairman, chief executive and chief 
financial officer, who have regular meetings with the Companies’ 
major shareholders. The senior independent director, chairmen  
of board committees, and other non executive directors are also 
available on request. The senior independent director has a 
specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have 
concerns, and where contact with the chairman, chief executive 
or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or for 
whom such contact is inappropriate.
During 2010, these meetings with the investment community 
focused on the issues of strategy, board succession; corporate 
governance; executive remuneration; and the operational and 
financial platform of the Group. Further information on these 
issues is set out on pages 18, 120, 114, 128 and 42 respectively.
The Group also organises regular investor seminars which  
provide a two way communication opportunity with investors  
and analysts. Feedback is communicated to the board. Surveys  
of major shareholders’ opinions and perceptions of the Group are 
presented to the board by the Group’s investor relations advisers 
on a regular basis. www.riotinto.com 125
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Risk management
Rio Tinto’s overriding objective is to maximise the return to 
shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long term, 
cost competitive mines and businesses. The directors recognise 
that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and 
accepting risk. The risks facing shareholders are, to some extent, 
managed by the Group’s diversified portfolio of assets spread 
across multiple geographies, currencies and commodities. 
A description of some of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
could affect Rio Tinto are found on pages 25 to 28.
Risk policy and standard
The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the 
business, and that it is characterised by both threat and 
opportunity. The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in 
all decision making, and is committed to managing all risk in a 
proactive and effective manner through competent risk 
management. To support this commitment, risk is analysed in 
order to inform the management decisions taken at all levels 
within the organisation. The principles of the risk analysis and 
management process are set out in the Risk policy and standard 
which is in the corporate governance section of the website.
Risk approach
The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated 
framework of risk governance and reporting specifying how the 
Group organises the handling of risk. Together with the policy,  
the framework makes up the Rio Tinto approach to identifying, 
evaluating and managing the material business risks faced by  
the Group. Clear accountability for risk management is defined 
throughout the Group and is a key performance area of line 
managers.
The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with  
Rio Tinto’s managers and business leaders at all levels, but a 
number of specific roles have been defined to support the 
implementation of the framework. The top level process has been 
strengthened during 2010 by a review of the Group’s approach to 
managing its risk, the appointment of a head of Group risk to this 
new role, and the introduction of a risk management committee 
that reports to the Executive committee. 
Internal controls
The directors are responsible for the Group’s system of internal 
controls and for reviewing annually its effectiveness in providing 
shareholders with a return on their investments that is consistent 
with a responsible assessment and management of risks. This 
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management procedures and their effectiveness. The 
directors have completed their annual review and assessment for 
2010. Whilst the Audit committee is responsible for oversight of the 
effectiveness of the risk management process, accountability for 
identifying and managing risks rests with the chief executive and is 
cascaded throughout the Group through the Executive committee.
Internal risk control systems
Two of the Group’s management committees, the Executive 
committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee, regularly 
review reports related to the Group’s control framework in order to 
satisfy the internal control requirements of the Code, the ASX 
Principles, the NYSE Code and US legislation. Each year, the leaders 
of the Group’s businesses and administrative offices complete an 
internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm that adequate 
internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are 
designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any 
exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate. The results 
of the internal control evaluation are presented to the Audit 
committee in support of their review of the Group’s internal 
controls. Assurance functions, including internal auditors and 
sustainable development auditors, perform reviews of the integrity 
and effectiveness of control activities and provide regular written 
and oral reports to the Audit committee, Committee on social and 
environmental accountability and management committees.
In 2010, information was reported by management to the Audit 
committee to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the internal 
controls and the management of material business risks. In 
addition, as part of their role, the board and its committees 
routinely monitor the Group’s material business risks. 
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, 
the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material 
business risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk 
and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss. Certain risks, for example natural 
disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree using 
internal controls. Such major risks are transferred to third parties 
in the international insurance markets, to the extent considered 
appropriate. The Group has material investments in a number of 
jointly controlled entities and associates. Where Rio Tinto does 
not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local 
management of mining and related assets will comply with  
Rio Tinto standards or objectives. Accordingly, the review of their 
internal controls is less comprehensive than that of the Group’s 
managed operations.
Auditors and internal assurance
Auditor independence
As indicated in the report of the Audit committee on pages 119  
to 120, Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the 
independence of the Group’s principal external auditors by 
prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting and 
other professional services that might compromise their 
appointment as independent auditors.
The engagement of the Group’s principal auditors to provide 
statutory audit services, other services pursuant to legislation, 
taxation services and certain other services are pre-approved. Any 
engagement of the Group’s principal auditors to provide other 
permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit 
committee or its chairman. 126 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Corporate governance continued
Prior to the commencement of each financial year the Group’s 
chief financial officer and its principal auditors submit to the 
Audit committee a schedule of the types of services that are 
expected to be performed during the following year for its 
approval. The Audit committee may impose a financial limit on 
the total value of other permitted services that can be provided. 
Any non audit service provided by the Group’s principal auditors, 
where the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be 
subject to the Group’s normal tender procedures.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is 
authorised to engage the Group’s principal auditors to provide 
such services without going to tender, but if the fees are expected 
to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the chairman of the 
Audit committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
Further information on audit and non audit fees as well as 
remuneration payable to other accounting firms, is set out in note 
43 to the financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers have been the Group’s auditors for  
a number of years. Each year, the Committee reviews the 
effectiveness of the external audit process and the independence 
of the auditors. Based upon its 2010 review, the Committee  
was satisfied with the external audit process that was conducted 
and that the independence of the auditors was in no way 
compromised. The Committee does not consider it necessary to 
undertake a tender process for the auditors. In accordance with 
rotation rules, the principal auditors’ engagement partners will 
rotate every five years. The UK audit partner will rotate at the  
end of the 2010 audit and the Australian audit partner is due  
to rotate at the end of the 2011 audit.
Corporate Assurance
The Corporate Assurance function provides independent and 
objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
Group’s systems for risk management, internal control, and 
governance together with recommendations to improve the 
efficiency and effectiveness of the relevant systems and processes. 
The function has adopted international auditing standards set by 
the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA).
The function operates independently of management, under a 
mandate approved by the Audit committee and the Committee on 
social and environmental accountability (CSEA) and has full 
access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the 
Group. The head of Corporate Assurance reports functionally to 
both the Audit committee and CSEA, providing each committee 
with information relevant to their specific terms of reference.
A risk based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high 
risk areas and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit 
committee and CSEA for approval.
In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the 
services of external service providers. The Audit committee has a 
policy which addresses conflicts of interest in relation to 
management requested engagements of the service provider. The 
policy complies with the IIA’s standards on independence. Certain 
services are pre-approved under the policy as they would not be in 
conflict with the internal auditor’s role. There is a list of prohibited 
services which may not be undertaken without approval of the 
head of Corporate Assurance, and guidance on the consideration  
of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
Financial reporting
Financial statements
The directors are required to prepare financial statements  
for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial period 
and of the profit or loss and cash flows for that period. This 
includes preparing financial statements in accordance with UK 
company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Company’s affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which 
includes the information required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8  
of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups  
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the Australian 
Corporations Act 2001.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting 
records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and  
the Australian Corporations Act 2001. They have a general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to  
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and 
detect fraud and other irregularities. The directors are also 
responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems are in place  
to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Group’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from current and 
future legislation in other jurisdictions. The work carried out by 
the auditors does not involve consideration of such developments 
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any 
changes, should any be made, to the financial statements after 
they are made available on the website.
The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other 
members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course 
of the preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct 
themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the 
ethical standards of their profession and/or business.
The directors consider that the 2010 Annual report presents a  
true and fair view and has been prepared in accordance with 
applicable accounting standards, using the most appropriate 
accounting policies for Rio Tinto’s business and supported by 
reasonable judgments and estimates. The accounting policies 
have been consistently applied. The directors have received  
a written statement from the chief executive and the chief 
financial officer to this effect. In accordance with the internal 
control requirements of the Code and the ASX Principles 
Recommendation 7.3, this written statement relies on a sound 
system of risk management and internal controls and confirms 
that the system is operating effectively in all material respects  
in relation to financial reporting risks.
Disclosure controls and procedures
The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such 
term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Management, 
with the participation of the chief executive and chief financial 
officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and 
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures 
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the 
period covered by this report and has concluded that these 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable 
assurance level. www.riotinto.com 127
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Management’s report on internal control over  
financial reporting
The common management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 
internal control over financial reporting. The Companies’ internal 
control over financial reporting is a process designed under the 
supervision of their common chief executive and finance officer 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of 
the Group’s published financial statements for external reporting 
purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent 
or detect all misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if 
any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group’s internal control over financial reporting includes 
policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of 
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
transactions and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable 
assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and 
that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance 
with authorisations of management and directors of each of the 
Companies; and provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or 
disposition of the Group’s assets that could have a material effect 
on our financial statements.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of 
internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2010, 
based on the Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO), and concluded that it was effective.
There were no changes in the internal controls over financial 
reporting that occurred during the period that have materially 
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the internal 
controls over financial reporting of each of Rio Tinto plc and  
Rio Tinto Limited.
Statement of compliance with 
governance codes and standards in 2010
In compiling this report, the directors have referred to The Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council (the Code), the Australian Securities Exchange 
(ASX) Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 2nd 
edition (the ASX Principles), and the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE) Corporate Governance Standards (the NYSE Standards). 
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and 
the ASX, Rio Tinto confirms that throughout 2010 and at the date of 
this document the Group applied the principles of, and was compliant 
with, the provisions of Section 1 of the Code and was also fully 
compliant with the ASX Principles. 
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares 
listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any 
significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ 
from the NYSE Standards.
The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its 
practices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception. The 
NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating/
corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent 
directors, with written terms of reference which, in addition to 
identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops 
and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance 
principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, information about which is 
set out on page 120. This committee does not develop corporate 
governance principles for the board’s approval. The board itself 
performs this task and approves the Group’s overall system of 
governance and internal controls.
Rio Tinto’s website contains further information about the corporate 
governance framework.  128 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report  
 
 
About the report and committee 
This report explains the roles, responsibilities and activities of  
the Remuneration committee and includes detailed disclosures  
on director and executive remuneration. It outlines how Rio Tinto 
ensures that its people are appropriately focused on driving continuous, 
sustainable improvements in performance to maximise total 
shareholder return by sustainably finding, developing, mining  
and processing natural resources in order to achieve our vision of 
becoming the sector leading global mining and metals company. 
Following the outcome of the shareholder vote on the Remuneration 
report at the 2010 annual general meetings, the chairman led a 
consultation process with a range of shareholders to more fully 
understand any concerns that they have with the Group’s executive 
remuneration policy and practice and to discuss the Committee’s 
review of the Group’s long term incentive plans (LTIPs). The feedback 
provided was discussed by the Committee and has been taken into 
account in further developing the executive remuneration policy. 
During 2010, the Committee conducted a detailed review of its 
competitive benchmarking policy for members of the Executive 
committee. The conclusions are set out below, and have informed  
the remuneration decisions made by the Committee for the Executive 
committee. The Committee is proposing to review the LTIPs and 
commence a further round of consultation with shareholders on  
the form of any new plans before the plans expire in 2014. 
Based upon the support expressed by shareholders during the earlier 
consultation exercise, the Committee is recommending to shareholders 
for approval at the 2011 annual general meetings amendments to the 
LTIPs to mitigate any unintended consequences from recent legislative 
changes in Australia. To ensure that Australian participants are not 
adversely impacted by the change in tax treatment of share options in 
Australia, the Committee has concluded that certain amendments are 
required to the rules of the Group’s Performance Share Plan (PSP), 
formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan (MCCP). The 
proposed changes mean that, participants in the Performance Share 
Plan and Share Option Plan will be given the opportunity to express 
their preference as to whether they receive their entire award in the 
form of Performance Shares as opposed to the current mix of 
Performance Shares and Performance Options. In order to implement 
these changes, a resolution to amend the rules of the PSP is being 
submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2011 annual general 
meetings. The notices of meeting for the 2011 annual general meetings 
contain further detailed information. 
This report has been drawn up in accordance with applicable legislation 
and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia, which are 
the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008, the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules, the 
Australian Corporations Act 2001and Principle 8 of the revised Australian 
Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Principles and 
Recommendations 2nd edition (the ASX Principles). 
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of “key 
management personnel”, being those persons having authority and 
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of 
the Group, including the directors. For the purposes of this report, the 
Committee has determined that the key management personnel are, 
in addition to the directors, members of the Executive committee.  
The Executive committee comprises the executive directors, product 
group chief executive officers (PGCEOs) and Group executives. 
Throughout this report, the members of the Executive committee, 
including the executive directors, are collectively referred to as  
“executives”. The executives are listed on page 139 together with  
the positions held during the year and dates of appointment. 
Australian legislation further requires disclosures in respect of the  
five highest paid executives below board level selected from the 
senior managers who make, or participate in making, decisions that 
affect the whole, or a substantial part, of the business of the Group,  
or have the capacity to significantly affect the Group’s financial 
standing. The Committee has determined that below board level, only 
members of the Executive committee constitute the group of senior 
managers that make decisions that affect the whole, or a substantial 
part, of the business of the Group. 
In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers the chairman’s 
and the non-executive directors’ remuneration, see page 140. 
Remuneration committee responsibilities 
The Committee’s role is to ensure that remuneration policy and 
practices reward employees fairly and responsibly with a clear link to 
corporate and individual performance, and are aligned with shareholders’ 
interests in maximising shareholder return. The Committee’s 
responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available 
in the corporate governance section of the Rio Tinto website.  
These responsibilities include: 
   monitoring the effectiveness and appropriateness of executive 
remuneration policy and practice; 
   reviewing and determining the terms of service, including 
remuneration and any termination arrangements, for the 
chairman, executive directors, PGCEOs, Group executives  
and the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc; 
   reviewing and confirming the remuneration framework and 
policies for other senior managers; and 
   approving the use of share and cash based short and long term 
incentive plans for the Group, taking into account their alignment 
with the Group strategy. 
The Committee considers the level of pay and conditions throughout 
the Group when determining executive remuneration and ensures 
the same principles are used when designing the broader employee 
remuneration policies. The Committee takes into account aggregate 
remuneration levels and the mix between the executives and 
professional staff. This ensures the comparative ratios are reasonable 
given differences in scope and responsibilities. The Committee is 
committed to ensuring that remuneration policy and practices reward 
people fairly and responsibly with a clear link to corporate and 
individual performance and reflecting, to the extent practicable, 
global corporate governance guidance on executive remuneration. 
During 2010, the Committee met three times. The membership and 
meeting attendances are detailed in the corporate governance section 
on page 118. The Committee reviewed its terms of reference in 2010 
and concluded that its responsibilities had been met and that its 
terms of reference remain appropriate. The Committee also 
undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the 
results to the board. 
The chairman and chief executive participated in meetings at the 
invitation of the Committee during 2010. The members of the Committee 
are all independent and free of any relationship that would affect their 
impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities. The Committee is 
supported by members of senior management who regularly attend 
meetings to provide information as requested by the Committee.  
These included Hugo Bague (Group executive, People & Organisation), 
Jane Craighead (Global practice leader, Total Rewards) and Ben Mathews  www.riotinto.com 129
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
(company secretary, Rio Tinto plc). None of the attendees mentioned 
above were present when matters associated with their own 
remuneration were considered.  
Remuneration committee advisers 
The independent advisers engaged by and reporting to the 
Committee during 2010 were Deloitte LLP. In addition to specialist 
remuneration advice, Deloitte LLP provided unrelated taxation advice 
and advisory services to Rio Tinto. Deloitte LLP did not provide advice 
on executive remuneration matters other than to the Committee. The 
Committee has also drawn on the services and publications of a range 
of external service providers and remuneration consultants such as 
Towers Watson, Hay Group and Mercer in relation to market data and 
external validation of total shareholder return (TSR) performance. 
 
Executive remuneration 
Remuneration strategy  
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited pool of talented executives. To support its strategic drivers, the 
Group needs high quality, committed people. The executive remuneration strategy, and underlying policy, provides this support by enabling  
the Group to attract and retain talent that will maximise shareholder value. 
The remuneration strategy (summarised below) is guided by our B-E-S-T approach, which is based on the principles of aligning remuneration 
arrangements with strategic Business objectives, Empowering employees by differentiating top performers, whilst fostering Simplicity and 
Transparency in the design and communication of these arrangements. 
The components of this strategy, and how it supports our overall business strategy for achieving our vision of global sector leadership, are set 
out below: 
Remuneration strategy Supporting our business strategy 
Shareholder alignment 
We aim to incentivise management to deliver shareholder value, for example,  
by having relative TSR as the metric for our performance based long term  
incentive plans. 
Delivering rewards based on the relative standing of our performance against both  
the HSBC Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as 
measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital Index (MSCI) helps drive superior 
performance, by providing greater upside potential and rewarding high wealth  
creation for our shareholders in growth periods. 
Long term focus 
We aim to provide incentive plans that focus on longer term performance. 
Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision making with  
a positive long term impact so that our executives successfully contribute to our  
business of focusing on investing in and operating large, long term, cost competitive 
mines and businesses. The Performance Options and Performance Shares have a three 
and four year time horizon, respectively. The Committee has also introduced a deferral 
of a proportion of the annual bonus, payable in shares after three years. 
Health and safety 
We aim to promote and reward sustainable development, with a strong focus  
on health and safety in the annual bonus targets. 
As an organisation, we strive for superior long term shareholder value creation in a 
healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way. These are key elements of our 
commitment to operational excellence and licence to operate, two of the Group’s 
strategic drivers. This is why we have health and safety as key performance indicators  
in the Short Term Incentive Plan (measured in relation to all injury frequency rates, 
significant potential incidents rate and semi quantitative risk assessment). 
Competitive, performance related packages 
We aim to provide remuneration levels necessary to recruit and retain executives  
of the high calibre required to deliver our strategy. We benchmark our remuneration 
against our key peers to ensure we offer packages that are appropriate, with due 
regard for performance, without being excessive. 
High quality people, who are capable of achieving stretching performance targets, are 
essential in generating superior returns for the Group. By providing competitive and 
performance related remuneration, we can attract the talent needed to further solidify 
our strategic advantage and respond quickly and strategically to changing market 
opportunities and challenges. 
Remuneration policy 
The Committee has recently conducted a review of the comparator groups which should be used for remuneration benchmarking comparisons. 
It has concluded that, for the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the FTSE 30, (excluding financial services 
companies, and with due regard for size and complexity) will be an initial comparator group. Additional references will be made to a 
supplementary comparator group, composed of a cross section of international industrial organisations (broadly comparable to Rio Tinto in 
terms of global reach, revenue, market capitalisation and complexity) for which the Company competes for talent. Specific comparisons will 
also be made against other international mining companies where appropriate. 
Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of these comparator groups, with total remuneration positioned across the full market 
range according to performance. 130 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
A summary of the current remuneration arrangements is set out below: 
 Objective of component Remuneration arrangements 
Base Salary  
(fixed) 
   Provides the fixed element of the 
remuneration package 
   Typically, base salaries will be positioned at 
the median of the identified comparator 
groups, with total remuneration positioned 
across the full market range according to 
performance 
   Salary adjustments effective 1 March 2011 
   Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group 
performance and global economic conditions 
Short Term Incentive Plan (“STIP”)  
(at risk) 
   Focuses participants on achieving annual 
performance goals, which are based on  
the Group’s KPIs, to create sustainable 
shareholder value  
   50 per cent of the bonus delivered in cash and 
50 per cent delivered in deferred shares under 
the Rio Tinto Bonus Deferral Plan (BDP), vests 
in the December of the third year after the 
end of performance year to which they relate 
(generally subject to continued employment) 
to ensure ongoing alignment between the 
executives and shareholders 
   Target STIP opportunity 100 per cent for PGCEOs and Group executives 
to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors 
   Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 per cent of base salary  
   Performance targets include earnings, cash flow, safety and individual 
performance objectives 
 
Performance Options –  
Share Option Plan (“SOP”) 
(at risk) 
   Rewards participants for increasing the share 
price and delivering superior TSR performance 
against other companies over a long term horizon 
   Three year performance period to provide 
long term alignment with shareholders 
   “How” performance is generated is as 
important as “what level” of performance is 
delivered. Therefore, before awards vest, the 
Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR 
performance is an appropriate reflection of 
the underlying performance of the business 
and can adjust vesting accordingly 
   Market value Performance Options vest based on the TSR performance 
against the HSBC Global Mining Index  
   Target (and maximum) face value of 300 per cent of base salary  
Performance Shares –  
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
(formerly the Mining Companies 
Comparative Plan) 
(at risk) 
   Rewards participants for increasing the share 
price and delivering superior TSR 
performance against other companies over  
a long term horizon 
   Four year performance period to provide  
long term alignment with shareholders 
   As with Performance Options, before vesting 
the Committee must also satisfy itself that 
TSR performance is an appropriate reflection 
of the underlying performance of the business 
and can adjust vesting accordingly 
   Conditional share awards vest based on TSR performance relative to  
50 per cent – the HSBC Global Mining Index; 50 per cent – the Morgan 
Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI) 
   Target award equal to face value of 200 per cent of base salary 
   1.5 times target award vesting for outperformance of the relevant index  
   Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 annual general meetings, 
from 2011 executives allowed to express a preference regarding the 
“mix” of the long term incentive opportunity between: 
   Keeping the current mix of Performance Shares / Performance Options 
   Receiving their full opportunity in Performance Shares 
   Overall the expected value of the total compensation opportunity will 
remain the same. In order to facilitate this choice it is proposed that the 
individual grant limits under the PSP be increased 
Management Share Plan (“MSP”)  
(usually time based) 
   Enhance the Group’s ability to attract and 
retain key staff in an increasingly tight and 
competitive labour market 
   Conditional share awards generally vest based on continued service  
with the company until the date of vesting 
   Members of the Executive committee are not eligible to participate  
in awards under this plan  
   Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new 
shares are issued to satisfy awards 
Post employment Benefits  
(fixed) 
   Provides locally competitive post employment 
benefits for participants in a cost efficient 
manner 
   Post employment benefit arrangements offered  
 
Shareholding requirement 
 
   Provides alignment with shareholders’ interests   Executive directors – Two times base salary over a three year period  
from appointment  
   Other members of the Executive committee – Two times base salary  
over a five year period from appointment   www.riotinto.com 131
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Remuneration mix 
Consistent with the Group’s strategy, the Committee seeks to  
achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the long term nature  
of the business. As such, the total remuneration package is designed  
to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable 
components with a focus on long term variable pay.  
The remuneration mix assuming target STIP and LTIP awards with 
the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance Options is 
set out below and is identical for each group . 
2010 Remuneration mix (%)
13% 13% 15%
Base salary
PGCEOs and 
Group executives
STIP – cash
(b)
STIP – deferred shares
(a,b)
Performance Options (SOP) 
(a,c)
Performance Shares (PSP)
(a)
At risk 76%
14.5% 14.5% 15% 32%
33%
24%
26%
Executive directors
Fixed 24%
At risk 74% Fixed 26%
(a) Performance Options, Performance Shares and STIP deferred shares constitute long term 
incentives
(b) Annual bonus constitutes STIP cash and STIP deferred shares
(c) The Performance Options are the percentage of each executive’s remuneration that 
consists of options
Remuneration components 
Base salary 
The Committee has completed a comprehensive review of the 
remuneration levels of the chief executive, executive directors, 
PGCEOs and Group executives.  
This review took into account:  
   Rio Tinto’s strong performance in 2010 and the Group’s growth 
ambitions for the future  
   an assessment of individual performance 
   the motivation of people with critical skills, at a time of a highly 
competitive market for talent in the industry 
   the retention of individuals within the Group’s succession planning 
processes who are vital to the creation of long term shareholder 
value, and 
   that salaries have remained at March 2008 levels for the chief 
executive and members of the Executive committee.  
These factors were viewed in light of the results of a full, independent 
review of base salary and total compensation, which was commissioned 
by the Committee to enable it to make fully informed decisions around 
pay. This made reference to the Company’s benchmarking 
comparator groups, namely the FTSE 30, excluding financial services, 
and additional references to global industrial companies that the 
Company competes with for talent. The conclusion from this review 
was that it was considered in the best interests of our shareholders to 
restore pay to a more competitive market position. The Committee 
therefore approved adjustments in base salaries, which take effect on 
1 March 2011, as shown in the table below.  
The Committee was aware, when making this decision, that these 
adjustments were outside the range of a typical annual salary review 
in its major markets. However, it is equally aware that this still leaves 
the remuneration of the majority of executives below market rate, 
within a highly competitive global market for talent. 
Name 
2011 
Base salary 
2010 
Base salary
2009 
Base salary
Executive directors   
Tom Albanese £1,030,000 £907,500 £907,500
Guy Elliott £720,000 £675,500 £675,500
Sam Walsh A$1,590,000 A$1,475,000 A$1,475,000
Other members  
of executive committee 
Hugo Bague £415,000 £360,000 £360,000
Preston Chiaro US$770,000 US$725,000 US$725,000
Bret Clayton US$745,000 US$700,000 US$700,000
Jacynthe Côté  US$885,000 US$825,000 US$825,000
Andrew Harding
 (a)
 £420,000 US$650,000 US$650,000
Harry Kenyon-Slaney £420,000 £360,000 £360,000
Doug Ritchie A$930,000 A$850,000 A$850,000
Debra Valentine US$630,000 US$570,000 US$570,000
(a) Andrew Harding was paid in US$ until his relocation to the UK  132 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Short Term Incentive Plan (“STIP”) 
Awards made under the STIP are based on performance against 
financial, safety and individual business objectives. The financial 
objectives are balanced equally between earnings performance and 
cash flow performance. The Committee selected these measures as they 
are key performance indicators (KPIs) used in managing the business.  
As the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and some 
prices are outside the control of the Group, for earnings and cash flow 
metrics, the Committee compares on an equal weighting the actual 
results (unflexed) and underlying performance (flexed) for prices  
and exchange rates. 
Safety performance is a priority for Rio Tinto. Its inclusion in the  
STIP (measured in relation to all injury frequency rates, significant 
potential incidents rate and semi-quantitative risk assessment) is a 
strong reminder that the safety of our employees is paramount and 
should not be compromised when targeting superior financial results. 
Individual performance metrics for executives are calibrated to be 
specific, measurable objectives which are aligned with Rio Tinto’s  
strategy. Seventy per cent of the STIP awards are based on business 
measures (earnings, cash flow and safety) and 30 per cent on individual 
measures. For PGCEOs, the business measures of the relevant product 
group contribute to nearly half of the 70 per cent weighting. 
The maximum annual bonus opportunity under the STIP for the 
executives is 200 per cent of salary (target opportunity of 120 per cent 
of salary for executive directors and 100 per cent of salary for PGCEOs 
and Group executives). Half of any bonus earned will be payable in 
cash with the remaining 50 per cent being deferred into shares, under 
the Rio Tinto Bonus Deferral Plan. These shares vest, generally subject 
to continued employment, in December of the third year after the end 
of the performance year to which they relate. 
The Committee continues to review the appropriateness of using STIP 
to incentivise both environmental as well as health performance. 
 
STIP measures for 2010 
Business measures 
Weighting for Executive 
directors and Group 
executives % 
Weighting for 
PGCEOs
(b)
 %
Rio Tinto Group
(a)
  
Earnings  26.25 10.50
Cash flow 26.25 10.50
Product group
(a) (b)
  
Earnings  – 15.75
Cash flow  – 15.75
Safety
(c)
 17.50 17.50
Individual objectives 
Individual objectives are tailored to each executive but are generally based on the achievement of strategic initiatives, key 
project deliverables and leadership competencies 30.00 30.00
(a) The earnings and cash flow measures are weighted 50:50 between flexed and unflexed performance respectively 
(b) Sam Walsh is considered a PGCEO with regard to STIP performance measures 
(c)  Safety measures included All Injury Free Rate (AIFR), Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment (SQRA) and Significant Potential Incidents (SPI). which make up 50 per cent, 30 per cent and 20 per cent of overall 
safety weighting respectively 
The same weightings for the STIP will apply for 2011. 
STIP business performance outcomes 
Rio Tinto had both strong earnings and cash flow results in 2010 
which resulted in the Group and product groups achieving above 
target outcomes for the STIP financial measures. 
Rio Tinto met or exceeded the Group’s and product group’s safety 
targets across all three measures including an 18 per cent reduction 
in the AIFR. However, three fatalities in 2010 necessitated a 
downward adjustment of the overall Group’s safety results. The safety 
scores for Tom Albanese, Sam Walsh, and Hugo Bague were capped at 
100 per cent of target and Bret Clayton’s score was further reduced as 
a result of the fatalities.  
Performance evaluation process for individual executives 
Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance management process for 
all of its senior executives. In the case of members of the Executive 
committee, the chief executive conducts the review. In the case of the 
chief executive, the chairman of the Committee conducts the review 
in conjunction with the chairman of the board.  
The key objectives of the performance process are to: 
   improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment 
between the executive’s individual objectives and Rio Tinto’s 
strategy, and  
   provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to 
measure, recognise and reward executive performance.  
Annual individual objectives are set with the Committee in the first 
quarter of each year. Annual performance reviews are completed 
during early January of the following year.  
Performance evaluations for each executive took place in January 
2011 in accordance with the process described. Individual objectives 
and awards for 2010 for the executives are set out opposite.  www.riotinto.com 133
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
STIP outcomes by executive for 2010 
 
Name 
Business /Individual objectives 
(% of target) Summary of individual objectives  
Executive directors 
   
Tom Albanese Group Financial 
Individual 
Safety 
159.8 
150.0 
100.0 
   Provide effective leadership across the Group  
   Deliver operational improvements 
   Ensure Rio Tinto’s portfolio remains strong 
   Strengthen Rio Tinto’s “licence to operate” 
Guy Elliott Group Financial 
Individual 
Safety 
159.8 
150.0 
154.4 
   Provide effective leadership of the finance function 
   Ensure continued primacy in strategic formation and development 
   Complete the Group’s divestment programme 
Sam Walsh Group Financial 
PG Financial 
Individual 
PG Safety 
159.8 
188.3 
165.5 
100.0 
   Provide effective leadership of Rio Tinto Iron Ore. 
   Provide successful leadership of the design and (subject to regulatory approvals), commence 
the implementation of the Western Australian  
Iron Ore Production Joint Venture with BHP Billiton 
   Gain approval for strategic initiatives 
   Target new global growth opportunities 
Other members of the Executive committee 
 
Hugo Bague Group Financial 
Individual 
Safety 
159.8 
130.0 
100.0 
   Provide effective leadership across health, safety, environment & communities and human 
resource streams 
   Foster employee engagement for operational improvement 
   Ensure organisational agility and workforce flexibility through functional optimisation  
and business partnering 
Preston Chiaro Group Financial 
Individual 
T&I Safety 
159.8 
134.5 
177.3 
   Provide effective leadership of the Technology & Innovation function 
   Create value through effective engagement with business units 
   Demonstrate progression of the climate and energy strategy 
   Broaden strategic production planning across Rio Tinto 
Bret Clayton Group Financial 
Individual 
BS&O Safety 
159.8 
125.0 
 83.4 
   Provide effective leadership of the Business Support & Operations function 
   Expand corporate risk management to drive a cultural shift in risk management over the 
longer term 
   Establish additional evaluation techniques for large, long term assets, where appropriate,  
and consistent with the Group strategy  
   Progress the long term business model to reflect business and geographical diversity 
Jacynthe Côté  Group Financial 
PG Financial 
Individual 
PG Safety 
159.8 
144.5 
133.3 
200.0 
   Provide effective leadership of Rio Tinto Alcan 
   Drive further sustainable cost reduction  
   Continue the divestment programme of selected assets 
   Drive value improvement on key growth projects to reduce capital expenditure intensity  
Andrew Harding Group Financial 
PG Financial 
Individual 
PG Safety 
159.8 
148.8 
143.0 
180.0 
   Provide effective leadership of Copper 
   Ensure appropriate resources, structure and support to deliver sustainable value in key  
strategic locations 
   Pursue growth opportunities  
   Establish relationships with key partners, governments and NGOs  
Harry Kenyon-Slaney Group Financial 
PG Financial 
Individual 
PG Safety 
159.8 
171.5 
143.0 
200.0 
   Provide effective leadership of Diamonds & Minerals 
   Develop and communicate a clear vision, growth strategy and structure 
   Develop product group wide collaborative structures and provide active guidance and coaching 
to ensure the development of talent  
   Ensure effective management of new strategic joint ventures 
Doug Ritchie Group Financial 
PG Financial 
Individual 
PG Safety 
159.8 
154.8 
139.0 
103.3 
   Provide effective leadership of Energy 
   Develop clear and deliverable plans for volume delivery and economic expansion in a 
sustainable manner 
   Conduct a global energy study to gain insights into the development and changes to the global 
energy market and its impact on our existing and future strategy 
Debra Valentine Group Financial 
Individual 
Safety 
159.8 
137.0 
154.4 
   Provide effective leadership to the legal, external relations, media, security and  
compliance functions 
   Deliver key corporate projects and support for business needs 
   Focus on developing government relations capabilities across key countries  134 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
STIP awards by executive for 2010 
2010 STIP
 
Stated in ‘000 Cash Deferred Shares
% of maximum 
STIP awarded
% of maximum  
STIP forfeited 
% of target 
STIP awarded
Executive directors 
 
Tom Albanese £797 £797 73.2 26.8 146.4
Guy Elliott £632 £632 78.0 22.0 155.9
Sam Walsh A$1,416 A$1,416 80.0 20.0 160.0
Other members of Executive committee 
 
Hugo Bague £253 £253 70.2 29.8 140.4
Preston Chiaro US$563 US$563 77.6 22.4 155.2
Bret Clayton US$476 US$476 68.0 32.0 136.0
Jacynthe Côté  US$636 US$636 77.0 23.0 154.1
Andrew Harding US$249 US$249 77.4 22.6 154.8
 £140 £140 
Harry Kenyon-Slaney £298 £298 82.8 17.2 165.5
Doug Ritchie A$604 A$604 71.0 29.0 142.1
Debra Valentine US$433 US$433 76.0 24.0 152.0
 
Long term incentives 
The Group operates the following long term incentive plans: 
   The Share Option Plan – a market value share option plan  
which is subject to TSR performance and has been approved  
by shareholders. 
   Performance Share Plan (formerly the Mining Companies 
Comparative Plan) – a performance share plan which is subject  
to TSR performance and has also been approved by shareholders. 
The name changed from MCCP to PSP and all references to the 
MCCP have been changed to the PSP. 
   The Management Share Plan – a plan which generally provides 
time based awards.  
Share Option Plan (“SOP”) 
Under the SOP, options are granted to purchase shares at an exercise 
price based on the share price at the date of grant. The maximum  
face value of grants under the SOP is 300 per cent of base salary. 
The vesting of options is subject to the achievement of a stretching 
total shareholder return (TSR) performance condition, comparing 
Rio Tinto’s TSR performance to that of the HSBC Global Mining Index 
as at 31 December of the third year after grant. If Rio Tinto’s TSR 
performance is equal to the performance of the index, the higher  
of one third of the actual grant or 20,000 options may vest. No 
options will vest if Rio Tinto’s TSR performance is less than the index’s 
performance. The full award will only vest if TSR performance is equal 
to or greater than the HSBC Global Mining Index plus five per cent per 
annum. Between these points, options will become exercisable on a 
sliding scale. 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
Rio Tinto’s performance share plan, the PSP, is designed to incentivise 
management to drive business performance. Target awards under the 
plan can be made with a face value of up to 200 per cent of base salary.  
 
Vesting of PSP awards, made since 2010, are subject to Rio Tinto TSR 
performance compared against: 
   50 per cent – the performance of the HSBC Global Mining Index;  
   50 per cent – the performance of the Morgan Stanley Capital 
World Index (MSCI). 
The use of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the 
fact that Rio Tinto competes against a global market for investors as 
well as within the mining sector and is consistent with rewarding 
executives for providing stable returns over the long term relative  
to the broader market as well as the mining sector. 
Vesting for awards is as follows: 
Outperformance of the index by 8% per annum 1.5 times target award vests
Performance between index and 8% out performance Straight line vesting 
Performance equal to index 0.35 times target award 
Performance less than index Nil vesting 
The outperformance required for maximum vesting has been calibrated 
to be equivalent to the upper quartile performance against these indices 
and, as such, is considered by the Committee to be particularly stretching.  
The Committee considers that TSR is an appropriate performance 
measure for the SOP and PSP as it captures objectively the return  
Rio Tinto delivers to its shareholders over the long term and rewards 
executives for the extent to which the Group’s TSR has outperformed 
its comparators.  
The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the level 
of vesting is commensurate with the underlying performance of the 
business. Therefore, when approving vesting under the SOP and PSP, 
the Committee will ensure it is satisfied that TSR performance is a 
genuine reflection of the value available to shareholders and the 
underlying performance of the Group and will adjust levels 
accordingly, if required.  www.riotinto.com 135
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Proposed changes to the Performance Share Plan from 2011  
As referred to on page 128 in relation to the shareholder consultation 
exercise conducted in 2010, the Committee is recommending to 
shareholders for approval at the 2011 annual general meetings 
certain changes to the PSP rules. These changes ensure that 
participants are not adversely impacted by the recent change  
in the tax treatment of options in Australia. As set out above, the 
Committee currently grants Performance Shares under the PSP with  
a face value of up to 200 per cent of base salary and Performance 
Options with a face value of up to 300 per cent of base salary.  
The Committee believes that Performance Options continue to be an 
appropriate incentive tool for senior executives as they create a strong 
degree of alignment with shareholders. However, following the tax 
changes in Australia, the Committee intends that, for LTIP awards 
granted from 2011 onwards, executives will be given an opportunity 
to indicate their preference regarding the “mix” of their LTIPs. The 
alternative approaches will be to: 
   retain the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance 
Options, which is determined annually by the Remuneration 
committee; or  
   receive their full long term incentive opportunity in  
Performance Shares. 
To allow Rio Tinto the flexibility to grant participants their full LTIP 
award in the form of Performance Shares (where they choose to do 
so), the individual limits under the rules of the PSP will need to be 
increased to a face value award of up to 300 per cent of base salary. 
Participants would have the opportunity to earn up to one and half 
times this amount based on the extent to which the performance 
condition is met. This amount has been calibrated to be broadly 
equivalent in expected value terms to the value of the LTIP awards 
under the current mix of shares and options. Therefore, the increase 
in face value terms of Performance Shares is not on a one-for-one 
basis to Performance Options.  
The Company will seek shareholder approval at the 2011 annual 
general meetings to increase the individual PSP limits so that annual 
maximum face value of Performance Shares that may be awarded 
is increased from of 200 per cent to 300 per cent of base salary. 
Management Share Plan (“MSP”)  
The primary focus of the MSP is to support the Group’s ability to 
attract and retain key staff in an increasingly tight and competitive 
labour market. MSP awards are conditional awards not subject  
to a performance condition as they vest subject to continued 
employment, at the end of three years, and thus act as a strong 
retention tool. Executive committee members do not participate  
in the MSP and no awards were made to any executives in 2010.  
Jacynthe Côté, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Doug 
Ritchie received grants under the MSP prior to becoming PGCEOs. 
Hugo Bague and Debra Valentine received grants prior to Group 
executives being excluded from participation in the plan in 2010. 
These previous grants vested in part in 2010 and the remainder  
will vest during 2011 as set out in Table 4a.   136 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Long term incentives granted in 2010 
Options over either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares, as appropriate, were granted to each executive under the SOP on  
22 March 2010.  
A conditional award of performance shares in either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares was also made to each executive under the PSP 
on 22 March 2010.  
The LTIP awards for each executive are set out below. 
Stated in ‘000 
2009 LTIP 
Expected value of 
awards granted
2010 LTIP  
Expected value of 
awards granted % change 
Executive directors 
 
Tom Albanese £1,723 £1,723 –
Guy Elliott £1,283 £1,283 –
Sam Walsh A$2,803 A$2,803 –
Other members of Executive committee 
 
Hugo Bague £684 £684 –
Preston Chiaro US$1,378 US$1,378 –
Bret Clayton US$1,092 US$1,092 –
Jacynthe Côté  US$1,287 US$1,287 –
Andrew Harding
 (a)
 US$386 US$618 60.1
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
 (a)
 £175 £684 290.9
Doug Ritchie
 (a)
 A$607 A$1,615 166.1
Debra Valentine US$1,083 US$1,083 –
(a) 2009 LTIP awards were granted prior to Messrs Harding, Kenyon-Slaney and Ritchie on becoming PGCEOs and reflect the award made to them in their former role.  
Long term performance indicators and outcomes 
The graph below illustrates the TSR performance of the Group against the HSBC Global Mining Index and the MSCI over the past five years. 
These two indices have been selected as they are the broad equity indices against which Rio Tinto’s TSR performance is assessed under the  
PSP and SOP, and they reflect the fact that Rio Tinto competes against a global market for investors as well as within the mining sector. 
Total return basis index 2005 = 100 
Rio Tinto DLC  
HSBC Index
MSCI World Index   
TSR (US$) – Rio Tinto Group vs the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
100
200
300
  www.riotinto.com 137
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
In 2010, Rio Tinto achieved strong earnings and share price performance. This strong performance has a direct impact on the LTIP. The effect 
of this performance on shareholder wealth, as measured by TSR delivered during the relevant calendar year, is detailed in the table below.  
Rio Tinto shareholder return 2006-2010 
 
Dividends paid 
during the year 
Share price – Rio Tinto plc
pence
Share price – Rio Tinto Limited
A$
Total shareholder return 
(TSR)
Year US cents per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec RTP% RTL % Group %
2010 90.0 3,390 4,487 74.89 85.47 34.6 15.3 32.6
2009 68.0 1,231 3,390 29.97 74.89 182.2 156.7 172.8
2008 152.0 4,392 1,231 105.65 29.97 (71.5) (71.1) (71.5)
2007 116.0 2,245 4,392 58.60 105.65 99.5 82.9 92.8
2006 191.5 2,193 2,245 54.42 58.60 6.2 9.2 7.4
 
Long term incentive outcomes for 2010 
Despite continued strong share price performance in 2010, the share 
price for the performance period included baseline prices from periods 
of very strong commodity markets that existed prior to the 2008-2009 
downturn. Therefore share options granted in 2008 did not vest and 
were cancelled and awards under the PSP only partially vested. 
SOP  
Plan performance period that ended 31 December 2010 
Comparator group HSBC Global Mining Index  
Index TSR % 6.9 
Rio Tinto TSR % 0.3 
% of shares vested – 
% of shares forfeited 100  
PSP 
Plan performance period that ended 31 December 2010 
Comparator companies Alcoa, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, 
Cameco, Freeport-McMoRan, Gmexico ‘B’, Impala 
Newmont Mining, Peabody Energy, Potash, Teck 
Cominco, Vale do Rio Dolce, Xstrata 
TSR Ranking
(a)
 7
th
 (49% TSR) 
% of shares vested Executive directors and PGCEOs: 36.4 
Group executives: 55.6 
% of shares forfeited Executive directors and PGCEOs: 63.6  
Group executives: 44.4 
(a) Rio Tinto must achieve a ranking of 5
th
 for vesting to begin at 35%. No awards vest below this level. 
MSP 
Plan period Plan period that ended 31 December 2010 
% of shares vested 100 
% of shares forfeited – 
 
All employee share plans 
Executives may participate in broad based share and share option  
plans which are available to Group employees generally and for which 
performance conditions do not apply. These plans form part of standard 
remuneration practice whereby employees are offered participation in 
plans to encourage alignment with the long term performance of the 
Group. Executives may participate in the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings 
Plan or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan depending on whether 
they are employed by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited. The plans 
allow the participant to save up to £250 per month (or equivalent in 
local currency) for a defined period, not exceeding five years, before 
exercising options granted at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the 
market value at the time of grant. Grants made to executives under 
these plans are set out in Table 5 on pages 152 to 155. 
The Share Ownership Plan is available to eligible employees in the  
UK who may receive an annual award of shares up to five per cent  
of salary, subject to a cap of £3,000. Under this plan, employees may 
also make contributions from salary each month to purchase shares 
at the prevailing market price subject to a cap of £1,500 per annum. 
The Company matches the shares purchased on a one for one basis. 
This plan was first approved by shareholders in 2001 and in line with 
the rules of the plan, after being in operation for ten years, it will be 
submitted to shareholders for renewal at the Rio Tinto plc 2011 
annual general meeting.  
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, 
participants are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the 
registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the 
registered owner at the direction of the participant. 
Dilution 
Awards under the SOP and PSP may be satisfied by treasury shares,  
the issuance of new shares or the purchase of shares in the market. 
Currently, Rio Tinto plc satisfies awards by the issuance of new  
shares or the transfer of shares from treasury. Rio Tinto Limited  
satisfies awards by the market purchase and delivery of shares to plan 
participants. Rio Tinto plc complies with the ABI guidelines in relation 
to the issuance of new shares. All other share awards are satisfied by the 
use of shares which are purchased in the market. Further information 
in respect of the number of shares issued under plan arrangements can 
be found in note 49 to the financial statements.
  138 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Post employment benefits 
Executives may participate in post employment benefit arrangements offered by the Group. No post employment benefits are provided to non 
executive directors. The following table details the post employment benefit components for Rio Tinto’s executive directors. 
Details of executive directors’ pension entitlements are set out in Table 2 on pages 146 and 147. 
Country/Executive director Post employment benefit 
UK 
Plan membership – UK employer pension plans as provided to other UK based employees. Pension is indexed to UK price inflation to a 
maximum of ten per cent per annum 
Tom Albanese Tom Albanese specific provision: 
   Target defined benefit of 2/3rds of basic salary at age 60, inclusive of benefits accrued in the US 
Guy Elliott Guy Elliott specific provision: 
   Target defined benefit of 2.3 per cent of basic salary for each year of service with the Company to age 60 
Australia 
Plan membership – Australian employer funded superannuation plan as provided to other Australian based employees 
Sam Walsh   Target defined benefit is a lump sum multiple of 4.05 times final basic salary at age 62 
   Additional Company contribution on a defined contribution basis of 20 per cent of the lesser of 50 per cent of the annual STIP award  
or 20 per cent of basic salary. This is in line with typical market practice in Australia 
 
Other payments during 2010 
This section provides information on any one-time payments  
made during the year which are not a core element of the 
remuneration package. 
Bonus Deferral Plan (“BDP”) / Company Contributed Awards (“CCA”) 
During the global and industry downturn in 2009, the Committee 
decided to defer the 2008 STIP payments into shares in order to 
conserve cash. Executive directors and PGCEOs were required to defer 
100 per cent, and all other executives were required to defer 50 per 
cent, of any bonus due in respect of 2008. The bonus deferral for 
executive directors and PGCEOs vest 100 per cent based on service at 
the end of 2011. In the case of the other executives, an amount equal to 
25 per cent of salary was added to the amount of the bonus deferral to 
provide enhanced retention in a challenging period. The shares vest on 
the basis of 50 per cent vesting at the end of 2010 and 50 per cent at the 
end of 2011. Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the BDP and 
CCA vested for Jacynthe Côté, Hugo Bague, Andrew Harding, Harry 
Kenyon-Slaney, Doug Ritchie and Debra Valentine on 1 December 
2010. These shares were conditionally awarded prior to the named 
executives becoming PGCEOs or Group executives. The payments 
made under these awards are detailed in Table 1a. 
One-off long term incentive grant  
Upon promotion to the role of CEO Rio Tinto Alcan, and based on  
the terms of her legacy Alcan Inc. contract, Jacynthe Côté was granted 
a one-time conditional award of shares equal to 25 per cent of her 
current annual base salary to incentivise her to deliver synergy 
savings and to promote the effective integration of Rio Tinto Alcan 
from an organisational and cultural perspective. The award was 
subject to performance conditions which provided for 50 per cent of 
the award that vested on 1 February 2010 and a further 50 per cent 
that vested on 1 February 2011 as the performance conditions were 
met. The performance conditions attached to vesting related to  
the full achievement of objectives based on the integration and  
re-organisation of Rio Tinto Alcan. Effective from October 2007, 
Jacynthe Côté was also granted a one-off time based, special retention 
grant as part of her legacy Alcan Inc. arrangements on assuming  
the role of president and CEO Primary Metals, Rio Tinto Alcan.  
The remaining 60 per cent of this grant vested on 25 October 2010. 
The payments made under these awards are detailed in Table 1a. 
Relocation payment 
Andrew Harding relocated from the US to the UK in 2010 as part  
of the terms of his promotion to PGCEO Copper. As part of the 
relocation, the Company paid Andrew Harding a one time payment, 
net of taxes, to compensate him for the loss on sale he incurred when 
selling his residence in Salt Lake City, Utah as determined by two 
independent appraisers. The payment is detailed in Table 1a. 
Future tax payment 
In 2011, Rio Tinto will be responsible for a tax payment, the amount of 
which is not yet determined, on behalf of Dick Evans, a former executive 
director who retired on 31 December 2009. These payments are in 
accordance with Rio Tinto’s contractual obligations relating to his 
service for Rio Tinto and will be disclosed when known and paid.  
Other remuneration and statutory 
disclosures 
Executives’ service contracts  
The executives have service contracts that can be terminated by either 
party with 12 months’ notice in writing, or immediately by paying the 
base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice. Debra Valentine’s 
service contract can be terminated by either party with six months’ 
notice in writing. For Jacynthe Côté, the 12 months’ notice includes 
salary and target bonus opportunity, in line with typical market practice 
in Canada and her legacy Alcan Inc. contract. 
If termination is a result of a redundancy, the terms of the relevant 
policy would apply in the same way as for other local employees. In 
the case of involuntary termination, Jacynthe Côté would receive 24 
months’ salary and target bonus opportunity inclusive of notice in 
line with entitlements under her legacy Alcan Inc. contract. 
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate 
employment without notice and without payment of any salary or 
compensation in lieu of notice. Bonus and outstanding awards under 
the LTIP are forfeited in these circumstances.  www.riotinto.com 139
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
STIP and LTIP rules cover any entitlements that participants may 
have upon termination. If termination is due to any reason besides 
cause or resignation, participants are eligible to receive a pro rata  
STIP based on the portion of the performance period worked. Any 
outstanding deferred shares normally vest in full upon termination. 
Outstanding Performance Options or Performance Shares will vest  
at the normal vesting date subject to performance against the 
performance conditions, with any awards held for less than 12 
months at the date of termination reduced pro rata. MSP awards 
generally vest pro rata upon termination.  
Contractual entitlements to severance are not triggered by a change 
of control. All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions 
relating to a change of control. Outstanding deferred shares would 
normally vest in full and outstanding Performance Shares and 
Performance Options would normally vest and become exercisable  
on a change of control on a pro rata basis, subject to the satisfaction 
of any performance conditions at that time. 
 
 
Name Position(s) held during 2010 
Date of appointment 
to current position Notice period
Executive directors  
Tom Albanese Chief executive 1 May 2007 12 months
Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 19 June 2002 12 months
Sam Walsh CEO Iron Ore and Australia  5 June 2009 12 months
Other members of executive committee 
Hugo Bague Group executive, People & Organisation  1 August 2007 12 months
Preston Chiaro Group executive, Technology & Innovation 1 November 2009 12 months
Bret Clayton Group executive, Business Support & Operations 1 November 2009 12 months
Jacynthe Côté  CEO Rio Tinto Alcan  1 February 2009 12 months
Andrew Harding CEO Copper  1 November 2009 12 months
Harry Kenyon-Slaney CEO Diamonds & Minerals  1 November 2009 12 months
Doug Ritchie CEO Energy 1 November 2009 12 months
Debra Valentine Group executive, Legal & External Affairs  15 January 2008 6 months
 
Shareholding policy for executives 
The Company recognises the importance of aligning executives’ 
interests with those of shareholders and they are therefore expected 
to build up a shareholding. The Committee determined that executive 
directors should aim to reach a holding equivalent in value to two 
times their base salary over three years, with PGCEOs and Group 
executives aiming to achieve this holding over five years.  
Share dealing policy 
Key management personnel and employee insiders are bound by  
the “Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto securities” which comply with the 
requirements of the ASX Listing Rules and are consistent with the  
UK Listing Authority’s Model Code. These rules are available on the 
Rio Tinto website. The rules apply fixed closed periods before results 
announcements as well as other periods during which key management 
personnel are prohibited from trading Rio Tinto securities. Directors 
and executives are required to certify that they do not hold  
any inside information when seeking clearance to deal in  
Rio Tinto securities.  
Executives participate in long term incentive plans which involve  
the award of Rio Tinto securities at a future date and are dependent 
upon the satisfaction of performance conditions. Therefore, the rules 
contain a provision prohibiting an executive from limiting his or her 
exposure to risk in relation to the securities. The award of shares and 
options under the incentive plans is conditional upon compliance 
with the rules. All employees subject to the rules receive regular 
training and information. 
 
Executives’ external and other appointments 
Executives may be invited to become non executive directors of  
other companies. It is Rio Tinto’s policy that such appointments can 
broaden their experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the Group. 
This policy limits each executive’s external directorships to one FTSE 
100 company or equivalent. Consequently, where there is no likelihood 
that such a directorship will give rise to a conflict of interest, the boards 
will normally give their consent to the appointment. The executive is 
permitted to retain the fees earned. 
In 2010, the following executives received fees from external 
appointments: Guy Elliott received US$100,537 (2009: US$124,000) 
and Sam Walsh A$120,690 (2009: A$120,000). 
Details of all board members’ and executives’ external appointments 
can be found on pages 102 to 105. 
Company secretary remuneration 
The executive remuneration policy applies to the company secretary 
of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. They participate in the 
same performance-based remuneration arrangements as the executives. 
The individual performance measures for the company secretaries’ 
STIP comprise Group and individual objectives. Their personal 
measures reflect the key responsibilities of the company secretarial 
role and include ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements, 
oversight of good corporate governance practice and the provision  
of corporate secretarial services.  140 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Chairman and non executive  
directors’ remuneration 
Remuneration policy 
Chairman 
The Remuneration committee determines the terms of service, 
including remuneration, of the chairman. The chairman receives  
a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional fee or 
allowance for either committee membership or for overseas travel.  
He is provided with a car and driver for business purposes, private 
medical insurance and he participates in the Rio Tinto Medical 
Expenses Plan which Group employees are eligible to join. He is also 
covered under the Group’s accident policy. These are disclosed as 
benefits in Table 1b on page 146. He does not participate in the 
Group’s incentive plans or pension arrangements. 
It is Rio Tinto’s policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a 
competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the 
Group, as assessed by the board. The chairman is not present at any 
discussion regarding his own remuneration. 
Non executive directors 
Fees paid to non executive directors reflect their respective duties and 
responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to 
make a meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto. 
Non executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base 
fee, committee membership or committee chairmanship fees, as 
applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which involve 
medium or long distance air travel. Rio Tinto does not pay retirement 
benefits to non executive directors, nor do any of them participate  
in any of the Group’s incentive plans. 
The fees payable to non executive directors are subject to review by  
the chairman’s committee. During 2010, the review took into account 
market and related developments. In light of Rio Tinto’s size, the 
complexity of its Dual Listed Companies’ structure and the resulting 
demands on directors as well as market developments, the base fee for 
non executive directors was increased to £80,000 from 1 January 2011. 
Committee fees were also increased, as indicated in the table below, 
with effect from 1 January 2011. Fees were last increased in November 
2007. Allowances for overseas meetings involving long and medium 
distance flights were increased for the first time since 2005 effective 1 
January 2010 to take into account market developments. 
Remuneration components  
The table below sets out the annual fees payable to the chairman and the non executive directors in £/A$, as appropriate.  
 2011 2010 
(a)
 2009
Director fees  
Chairman’s fee £700,000 £700,000    £700,000
Non executive director base fee £80,000 £70,000    £70,000/A$160,000
Senior independent director £35,000 £35,000    £35,000
Committee fees  
Audit committee chairman £35,000 £30,000    £30,000
Audit committee member £15,000 £15,000    £15,000/A$37,500
Remuneration committee chairman £30,000 £20,000    £20,000
Remuneration committee member £10,000 £10,000    £10,000/A$25,000
Nominations committee member £7,500 £7,500    £7,500
Committee on social and environmental accountability chairman £25,000 £20,000    £20,000
Committee on social and environmental accountability member £10,000 £7,500    £7,500/A$18,750
Overseas meeting allowances  
Long distance (flights over 10 hours per journey) £7,500 £7,500    £4,000/A$10,000
Medium distance (flights of 5-10 hours per journey) £3,500 £3,500    £2,000/A$5,000
(a) From 1 January 2010, fees were set in £ only. 
  www.riotinto.com 141
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Remuneration paid during 2010 
Details of each element of remuneration paid to the chairman and 
non executive directors during 2010 is set out in Table 1b. No post 
employment, long term or termination payments were paid and  
no share based payments were made. The total payments made to  
the chairman and non executive directors in 2010 are within the 
maximum aggregate annual amount of £3 million set out in the 
Group’s constitutional documents approved by shareholders at  
the 2009 annual general meetings. 
Shareholding policy 
In 2006, the board recommended that non executive directors be 
encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their 
appointment equal in value to one year’s base fee. To help facilitate 
this, a non executive directors’ share purchase plan has been 
established under which non executive directors may elect to invest a 
proportion of their fees net of tax on a regular basis to acquire shares 
on the open market. Details of non executive directors’ share interests 
in the Group are set out in Table 3 on page 147. 
Letters of appointment 
Non executive directors have formal letters of appointment setting 
out their duties and responsibilities. These letters are available for 
inspection at Rio Tinto plc’s registered office, and at the annual 
general meeting. Each non executive director is appointed by  
the board subject to their election and periodic re-election by 
shareholders as detailed on page 116. Non executive directors’ 
appointments may be terminated by giving three months notice.  
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination  
of their appointment. 
The chairman’s letter of appointment stipulates his duties as chairman 
of the Group. His appointment may be terminated without liability on 
the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Group’s constitutional 
documents dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or 
other vacation from office. Otherwise his appointment may be 
terminated by giving 12 months notice.  
Audited information 
Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the information 
included in respect of the non executive directors and the directors’ 
short term employee benefits and termination benefits in Tables 1a 
and 1b, and the information included in respect of the directors 
accrued benefits, transfer values and defined contribution pension  
in Table 2, Tables 4a and 4b and Table 5 are all auditable. 
The information provided in this Remuneration report has been 
audited as required by section 308(c) of the Corporations Act 2001.  
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order 
dated 22 December 2010 under which the information included in the 
Remuneration report to comply with paragraph 25 of Australian 
Accounting Standard AASB 124 “Related Party Disclosures” (relating  
to “key management personnel” compensation) is also auditable. This 
information comprises Tables 1 (executive and non executive directors 
set out in Table 1a and 1b respectively), 3, 4 and 5 and the disclosures 
provided under the headings Executive remuneration and Chairman 
and non executive director remuneration. 
Annual general meetings 
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Remuneration report at the 
Companies’ 2011 annual general meetings. 
By order of the board 
 
 
Ben Mathews 
Secretary 
Remuneration committee 
4 March 2011 
  142 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Remuneration tables 
Remuneration received in 2010 
The table below provides a summary of the executives’ actual remuneration in 2009 and 2010 stated in the relevant currency. This  
is in addition to statutory disclosure requirements. The purpose of this table is to enable shareholders to better understand the actual 
remuneration received by executives and to provide an overview of the actual outcomes of the Group’s remuneration arrangements. The 
remuneration details set out in Tables 1a and 1b on pages 144 and 146, include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the 
remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements. 
Actual remuneration received in 2010 
Stated in ‘000 Year Base salary paid 
Other payments    
and benefits 
(a)
 STIP payment 
 (b)
Total short 
term pay
Value of LTIP      
awards granted 
 (c)
 
Remuneration 
received  
% change from 
2009 to 2010
Executive directors 
    
Tom Albanese 2010 £907 £1,313   £1,594    £3,814 £1,723    £5,537 
 2009 £907 £995   £589    £2,491 £1,723    £4,214 
31.4%
Guy Elliott 2010 £675 £504   £1,264    £2,443 £1,283    £3,726 
 2009 £675 £370   £552    £1,597 £1,283    £2,880 
29.4%
Sam Walsh 2010 A$1,475 A$477   A$2,832    A$4,784 A$2,803    A$7,587 
 2009 A$1,475 A$511   A$1,308    A$3,294 A$2,803    A$6,097 
24.4%
Other key management personnel 
   
Hugo Bague 2010 £360 £220   £505    £1,085 £684    £1,769 
 2009 £360 £437   £284    £1,081 £684    £1,765 
0.2%
Preston Chiaro
 (d)
 2010 US$725 US$1,098   US$1,126    US$2,949 US$1,378    US$4,327 
 2009 US$725 US$792   US$390    US$1,907 US$1,378    US$3,285 
31.7%
Bret Clayton
 (d)
 2010 US$700 US$1,270   US$952    US$2,922 US$1,092    US$4,014 
 2009 US$700 US$574   US$534    US$1,808 US$1,092    US$2,900 
38.4%
Jacynthe Côté
 (e)
 2010 US$825 –   US$1,271    US$2,096 US$1,287    US$3,383 
 2009 US$813 –   US$686    US$1,499 US$1,287    US$2,786 
21.4%
 2010 – C$2,094   –    C$2,094 –    C$2,094 
 2009 – C$2,200   –    C$2,200 –     C$2,200 
-4.8%
Andrew Harding
 (f)
  2010 £180 £255   £281    £716 –    £716 
 2010 – A$143   –    A$143 –    A$143 
NA
 2010 US$325 US$113   US$499    US$937 US$618    US$1,555 
 2009 US$421 US$556   US$402    US$1,379 US$386    US$1,765 
NA 
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
 (g)
  2010 £360 £173   £596    £1,129 £684    £1,813 
 2009 £267 £258   £114    £639 £175    £814 
122.7%
Doug Ritchie
 (h)
 2010 A$850 A$360   A$1,208    A$2,418 A$1,615    A$4,033 
 2009 A$734 A$873   A$540    A$2,147 A$607    A$2,754 
46.4%
Debra Valentine
 (d)
 2010 US$570 US$1,100   US$866    US$2,536 US$1,083    US$3,619 
 2009 US$570 US$713   US$468    US$1,751 US$1,083    US$2,834 
27.7%
(a) Includes superannuation, pension, health care, expatriate payments, car allowances or cars, and other contractual payments. 
(b) The increase in STIP payments is attributable to improved performance and the change in STIP structure compared to 2009.  
(c) The LTIP value is the current expected value of the LTIP awards granted. The expected value of the awards was recalibrated in 2010 to reflect updated assumptions used in the valuation model. 
(d) Tax equalisation costs are significantly higher in 2010 based on higher earnings on STIP and equity income. 
(e) The 2009 values are based on pay received in US$ for time as both CEO Rio Tinto Alcan – Primary Metal and PGCEO Rio Tinto Alcan. ‘Other payment and benefits’ includes a one time special bonus. 
(f) The 2009 values are based on pay received in US$ for time as both CEO KUCC and PGCEO Copper. In 2010 Andrew Harding relocated to the UK. The payment in A$ is for the payment of his long service 
leave balance in Australia. 
(g) The 2009 values are based on pay received for time as both CEO RTI&T and PGCEO Diamonds and Minerals. 
(h) The 2009 values are based on pay received for time as both Managing Director Strategy within Rio Tinto Australia and PGCEO Energy.   www.riotinto.com 143
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
2011 performance payment potential  
Executives are eligible for bonuses and grants in respect of 2011 if they meet service and performance criteria. Provided below is the minimum and 
maximum performance payment potential for each current executive based on the remuneration framework. 
 Election 1 Election 2 
 Annual bonus Annual bonus 
Performance options 
(SOP) 
Performance shares 
(PSP) 
Performance options 
(SOP) 
Performance shares 
(PSP) 
 
Potential range of cash bonus 
payments in March 2012  
in respect of 2011 
Potential range of bonus 
deferral in March 2012  
in respect of 2011 
(% of March  
2011 salary) 
(% of March  
2011 salary) 
(% of March  
2011 salary) 
(% of March  
2011 salary) 
Executive Min Max Min Max Min Max 
(b)
Min Max 
(b)
 Min Max 
(c)
Min Max 
(c)
Tom Albanese 0 £1,030,000 0 £1,030,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Guy Elliott 0 £720,000 0 £720,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Sam Walsh 0 A$1,590,000 0 A$1,590,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Hugo Bague 0 £415,000 0 £415,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Preston Chiaro 0 US$770,000 0 US$770,000 0 0   0 450    0 300      0 200   
Bret Clayton 0 US$745,000 0 US$745,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Jacynthe Côté
(a)
 0 US$885,000 0US$885,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Andrew Harding 0 £420,000 0 £420,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 0 £420,000 0 £420,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Doug Ritchie 0 A$930,000 0 A$930,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
Debra Valentine 0 US$630,000 0 US$630,000 0 0   0 450    0 300   0 200   
(a) In addition, Jacynthe Côté’s remaining MSP award vested on 1 February 2011. See page 135. 
(b)  Maximum reflects potential under the plan to vest one and a half times the original award for outstanding performance if the participant elects their full long-term incentive opportunity in Performance 
Shares. This assumes the amendments to the PSP are approved by shareholders at the 2011 annual general meetings. 
(c)  Maximum reflects the potential under the plans to vest if the participants  elect for a mix of Performance Options and Performance Shares. 
 
  144 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration 
  Short term benefits 
Long term benefits  
Value of share based awards
 (f)
 
Stated in US$’000
 (a)
  Base salary Cash bonus
 (b)
Other     
cash based     
benefits
  (c)
Non    
    monetary     
benefits
 (d)
Total     
short term    
    benefits
 (e)
Other long 
term benefits BDP 
(g)
 CCA
 (h)
PSP
Executive director 
   
Tom Albanese 2010 1,403 1,248   3   318   2,972   – 487    –   1,522
 2009 1,421 947   8   323   2,699   – 186    –   3,915
Guy Elliott 2010 1,044 989   23   244   2,300   – 359    –   1,061
 2009 1,057 888   24   168   2,137   – 122    –   2,862
Dick Evans 2009 1,500 5,491   –   422   7,413   – 505    –   4,013
Sam Walsh 2010 1,354 1,391   83   9   2,837   – 552    –   1,220
 2009 1,167 1,170   71   20   2,428   – 184    –   2,697
Other key management personnel 
  
Hugo Bague 2010 557 396   103   196   1,252   – 130    62   354
 2009 564 752   139   210   1,665   – 36    59   344
Preston Chiaro 2010 725 563   –   888   2,176   – 262    –   708
 2009 725 390   83   492   1,690   – 125    –   2,265
Bret Clayton 2010 700 476   –   1,106   2,282   – 147    –   705
 2009 700 534   –   444   1,678   – 34    –   1,486
Jacynthe Côté 2010 907 2,214   –   40   3,161   – 213    102   643
 2009 813 2,226   –   27   3,066   – 60    97   556
Andrew Harding 2010 603 469   168   413   1,653   – 141    59   408
 2009 421 596   –   298   1,315   – 26    47   415
Keith Johnson 2009 383 287   78   19   767   – –    –   2,340
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2010 557 466   112   25   1,160   – 148    43   336
 2009 418 362   77   61   918   – 37    41   455
Doug Ritchie 2010 780 593   32   92   1,497   – 178    71   522
 2009 581 986   23   2   1,592   – 31    57   756
Grant Thorne 2009 728 593   4   1   1,326   – 60    74   1,232
Debra Valentine 2010 570 433   –   906   1,909   – 153    70   286
 2009 570 468   –   543   1,581   – 50    67   203
Notes to Table 1a 
(a) The total remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of £1= US$1.5459, A$1= US$0.9178, €1= US$1.3262 and  
C$1= US$0.9704. The annual cash bonus payable under the STIP has been converted using the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates of £1= US$1.5660, A$1= US$0.9825 and C$1= US$0.9886. 
(b) ‘Cash bonus’ relates to the cash portion of the STIP. For Jacynthe Côté, it also includes a special one-off bonus as described in the Remuneration report on page 138. 
(c) ‘Other cash based benefits’ include cash in lieu of a car and fuel. For Hugo Bague, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Andrew Harding, it includes a cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which 
their ‘Contributory Salary’ exceeds the ‘Earning Cap’ as defined in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund. For Andrew Harding, it also includes a Long Service Leave payment for his service in Australia.  
(d) ‘Non monetary benefits’ for executives include healthcare. The provision of a car, professional advice, and secondment costs comprising housing, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on 
behalf of executives living outside their home country. Preston Chiaro, Bret Clayton and Debra Valentine’s 2010 tax equalisation costs are higher than their 2009 figures. This is a result of higher earnings 
on their STIP and share based income in 2010. For Andrew Harding, as described in the Remuneration report on page 138, it also includes a one time payment, net of taxes, to compensate him for the loss 
on sale he incurred when selling his residence in Salt Lake City, Utah in the amount of US$109,425. For Doug Ritchie, it includes tax equalisation costs in respect of his expatriate arrangements in 2006. 
For Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott, it includes the value of Company provided transport. Rio Tinto provides accident cover for employee members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund. The accident cover for 
executive members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund in 2010 was US$7,537. 
(e)  ‘Total short term benefits’ represent the short term benefits total required under regulations made under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 
and applicable accounting standards. 
(f) The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 “Share-based Payment”. The fair value of awards granted under the 
SOP, the MSP, the BDP and the SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent lattice-based option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP. 
Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tinto’s share price at 31 December 2010. 
With effect from 2010, the Group’s policy for settling awards granted under the Performance Share Plan (the PSP) changed. For settlement of all future awards under this plan, participants will be assigned 
shares and offered a third party facility to realise these shares for cash and/or to meet any tax liabilities. Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 
2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards. This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR 
performance at 30 June 2010. The fair value of awards granted after July 2010 is measured at date of grant. Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in 
note 49 (Share Based Payments) in the 2010 Full financial statements. The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market. The non executive 
directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes. 
(g) ‘BDP (Bonus Deferral Plan)’ represents the accounting value in note f above of the deferral of the 2008 and 2010 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto Shares. The shares granted under the BDP are shown in 
Table 4a. The number of shares awarded in 2010 have not been approved and granted and are therefore not shown in Table 4b.  www.riotinto.com 145
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Table 1a – Executives’ remuneration continued 
  
Long term benefits  
Value of share based awards
 (f)
 Post employment benefits
 (l)
  
 Stated in US$’000
 (a)
 MSP 
(i)
SOP 
(j)
Others 
(k)
Pension and 
superannuation
Other post  
employment 
benefits 
Termination 
benefits 
Total 
remuneration
Currency       
of actual      
payment
 (m)
Executive director         
 Tom Albanese 2010 –   1,667   7   1,708 – – 8,363 £   
  2009 –   1,179   4   1,230 – – 9,213 £   
 Guy Elliott 2010 –   1,059   7   512 – – 5,298 £   
  2009 –   691   5   389 – – 6,206 £   
 Dick Evans 2009 –   1,838   –   342 – – 14,111 US$/C$   
 Sam Walsh 2010 –   1,136   3   346 – – 6,094 A$   
  2009 –   636   –   313 – – 6,258 A$   
Other key management personnel       
 Hugo Bague 2010 209   338   5   41 – – 2,391 £   
  2009 341   72   2   41 – – 2,560 £   
 Preston Chiaro 2010 –   767   1   210 – – 4,124 US$   
  2009 –   550   1   218 – – 4,849 US$   
 Bret Clayton 2010 –   739   –   163 1 – 4,037 US$   
  2009 –   494   1   129 1 – 3,823 US$   
 Jacynthe Côté 2010 952   483   –   409 4 – 5,967 US$/C$   
  2009 1,106   75   –   364 3 – 5,327 US$/C$   
 Andrew Harding 2010 178   330   2   58 – – 2,829 £/US$/A$   
  2009 144   36   3   64 – – 2,050 US$   
 Keith Johnson 2009 –   689   2   158 – 1,357 5,313 £   
 Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2010 96   290   9   131 – – 2,213 £   
  2009 114   44   1   88 – – 1,698 £   
 Doug Ritchie 2010 424   354   1   207 – – 3,254 A$   
  2009 247   69   3   164 – – 2,919 A$   
 Grant Thorne 2009 280   101   3   188 – – 3,264 A$   
 Debra Valentine 2010 515   307   1   187 7 – 3,435 US$   
  2009 427   29   1   163 8 – 2,529 US$   
 
  
(h) ‘CCA (Company Contributed Awards)’ represents the shares provided to employees below the executive directors and PGCEO level under the 2008 BDP to provide and enhance retention. 
(i) Jacynthe Côté’s 2009 MSP award was granted with special terms. Subject to satisfying certain non-marker performance conditions, 50 per cent of her award vested on 1 February 2010 and the remaining  
50 per cent vested on 1 February 2011. Allowance for these special terms has been made in the 2010 figure and the 2009 figure has been recalculated (previously stated in 2009: US$990,000) 
(j) Hugo Bague’s 2009 SOP award was previously omitted from the 2009 Annual report and has now been included in the restated 2009 figures. 
(k) ‘Others’ include the Share Savings Plan and Share Ownership Plan as described in the Remuneration report on page 137. 
(l) The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19. The cost for defined 
contribution plans is the amount contributed in the year by the Company. For Andrew Harding, the 2009 cost has been restated to remove US$2,374 which were his own contributions. For Tom Albanese, 
the 2009 cost has been restated as an incorrect methodology was used in 2008 and 2009 to value future salary increases to retirement. The restated figure for 2008 is US$1,702,000. The figure previously 
disclosed in 2009 was US$1,056,00 and in 2008 was US$1,443,000. 
(m) Jacynthe Côté’s remuneration is stated in US dollars. To convert the base salary and service based retention to Canadian dollars, a fixed exchange rate of US$1= C$1.13740 was used during the year. All 
other short term benefits received are paid in Canadian dollars.  146 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 1b – Non executive directors’ remuneration 
 Short term benefits  
Stated in US$’000
 (a)
 Fees
Other cash     
based benefits 
(b)
Non monetary    
 benefits 
(c) 
Total remuneration 
(d)
 
Currency of 
actual payment
Chairman 
 
Jan du Plessis 2010 1,082 –    243   1,325    £
 2009 808 –    37   845    £
Non executive directors 
    
Robert Brown 2010 98 44    –   142    £
Sir David Clementi 2010 74 –       5   79    £
 2009 172 9    –   181    £
Vivienne Cox 2010 144 12    –   156    £
 2009 133 9    –   142    £
Sir Rod Eddington 2010 120 33    –   153    A$
 2009 143 29    –   172    A$
Michael Fitzpatrick 2010 145 22    –   167    A$
 2009 162 29    –   191    A$
Yves Fortier 2010 131 41    –   172    £
 2009 133 22    –   155    £
Ann Godbehere 2010 144 23    –   167    £
Richard Goodmanson 2010 166 66    –   232    £
 2009 157 13    6   176    £
Andrew Gould 2010 197 –    –   197    £
 2009 200 –    –   200    £
Lord Kerr 2010 178 23    –   201    £
 2009 168 9    –   177    £
Jim Leng 2009 37 –    13   50    £
David Mayhew 2010 58 –    6   64    £
 2009 197 –    –   197    £
Paul Skinner 2009 584 14    82   680    £
Paul Tellier 2010 158 59    –   217    £
 2009 149 22    –   171    £
Notes to Table 1b 
(a) The total remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of £1= US$1.5459  and A$1= US$0.9178. 
(b) ‘Other cash based benefits’ for non executive directors comprise overseas meeting allowances. 
(c) ‘Non monetary benefits’ include for Jan du Plessis the value of Company provided transport and medical insurance premiums. Company provided transport was made available to  Jan du Plessis with 
effect from his appointment as chairman on 20 April 2009.  The cost of this facility was shared with his former principal employer until his retirement from that role on 31 October 2009.  For Sir David 
Clementi and David Mayhew, it includes the value of a retirement gift. Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors; the total premium paid in 2010 was US$5,092.  
(d) Represents disclosure of total emoluments and compensation required by regulations made under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under Australian Corporations Act 2001 and 
applicable accounting standards. 
Table 2 – Directors’ pension entitlements (as at 31 December 2010)  
Defined benefit pensions 
   Accrued benefits Transfer values  
  Age 
Years of 
service 
completed 
At  
31 Dec 2009  
£’000 pa 
pension 
At 
31 Dec 2010 
£’000 pa 
pension
Change in accrued 
benefits during the 
year ended 31 Dec 2010 
£’000 pa pension
Change in     
accrued benefit     
net of inflation 
(a)
£’000 pa pension     
At 
31 Dec 2009 
£’000
At      
31 Dec 2010 
(e)
  
£’000     
Change, net  
of personal 
contributions 
£’000 
Transfer value     
of change     
in accrued    
 benefit net of     
inflation 
(a)
 
£’000    
UK directors      
Tom Albanese 
(b) (c) (d)
 53 29 336 395 59 47    4,060 5,561    1,501 862   
Guy Elliott 
(c)
 55 30 456 471 15 (6)    7,706 9,054    1,348 (119)  
      
   
A$’000  
lump sum 
A$’000 
lump sum
A$’000 
lump sum
A$’000 
lump sum A$’000 A$’000 A$’000 A$’000
Australian director       
Sam Walsh 61 19 5,203 5,493 290 144 5,203 5,493 209 144
Notes to Table 2 
(a) Price inflation is calculated as the increase in the relevant retail or consumer price index over the year to 31 December 2010, except for Australia where a September to September change is used. 
(b) Tom Albanese accrued pension benefits in the US plans for service up to 30 June 2006 and is accruing benefits in the UK plans for subsequent service. 
(c) The transfer value of benefits in the UK plans is calculated in a manner consistent with “Retirement Benefit Schemes -Transfer Values (GN11)” published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries. 
(d) The transfer value of benefits in the US plans is represented by the Accumulated Benefit Obligation calculated on the accounting assumptions used for the Group’s post-retirement benefits disclosures. 
(e) The assumptions used to calculate cash equivalent transfer values for the UK directors changed with effect from 1 May 2010. The factors were updated following completion of the formal Trustee funding 
valuation of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund to reflect the Trustee’s revised assumptions for calculating cash equivalent transfer values. This has resulted in a significant increase in the transfer value of Tom 
Albanese’s and Guy Elliott’s benefits over 2010.  www.riotinto.com 147
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Table 2 – Directors’ pension entitlements (as at 31 December 2010) continued  
Defined contribution pensions 
   Company contributions 
 Age 
Years of service 
completed 
Year to 
31 Dec 2009 
A$’000
Year to 
31 Dec 2010 
A$’000
Australian director   
Sam Walsh 61 19 59 59
Table 3 – Directors’ and executives’ beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares 
Provided below are the beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares of directors and executives, including connected persons. 
 Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited Movements 
 
1 Jan     
2010 
(a)
 
31 Dec    
2010 
(b)
21 Feb    
2011 
(b)
 
1 Jan    
2010 
(a)
31 Dec    
2010 
(b)
21 Feb     
2011 
(b)
 
Exercise of     
options 
(c)
 Compensation 
(d)
Other 
(e)
Directors    
Tom Albanese  129,438    227,955   237,094   –   –   –    276,059    41,102   (209,505)   
Robert Brown –    2,200   2,200   –   –   –    –    –   2,200   
Sir David Clementi 1,024    1,173   1,173   –   –   –    –    –   149   
Vivienne Cox 2,912    2,912   2,912   –   –   –    –    –   –   
Jan du Plessis 30,000    30,000   30,000   –   –   –    –    –   –   
Sir Rod Eddington –    –   –   –   –   –    –    –   –   
Guy Elliott 95,099    96,435   96,447   –   –   –    33,000    19,676   (51,328)  
Michael Fitzpatrick –    –   –   6,252   6,252   6,252    –    –   –   
Yves Fortier 2,697    3,954   3,954   –   –   –    –    –   1,257   
Ann Godbehere –    –   –   –   –   –    –    –   –   
Richard Goodmanson 4,990    7,028   7,028   –   –   –    –    –   2,038   
Andrew Gould 1,642    2,642   2,642   –   –   –    –    –   1,000   
Lord Kerr 12,000    12,000   12,000   –   –   –    –    –   –   
David Mayhew 3,812    3,812   3,812   –   –   –    –    –   –   
Paul Tellier 10,396    12,093   12,093   –   –   –    –    –   1,697   
Sam Walsh –    –   –   66,950   46,950   46,950    113,223    27,192   (160,415)   
Executives       
Hugo Bague  16,296    18,822   21,665   –   –   –    –    11,132   (5,763)   
Preston Chiaro  79,776    91,012   99,070   –   –   –    207,576    22,416   (210,698)   
Bret Clayton  18,927    22,579   27,079   –   –   –    30,281    17,384   (39,513)   
Jacynthe Côté –    7,045   10,840   –   –   –    –    18,708   (7,868)   
Andrew Harding –    –   –   5,184   11,293   11,293    21,786    8,392   (24,069)   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
 (f)
 18,501    18,710   18,722   –   –   –    –    16,815   (16,594)   
Doug Ritchie –    –   –   6,825   19,469   27,891       455    20,832   (221)   
Debra Valentine –    4,624   4,991   –   –   –    367    6,369   (1,745)   
Notes to Table 3 
(a) Or date of appointment, if later. 
(b) Or date of retirement or resignation or at date no longer a KMP, if earlier. 
(c) Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan. The number of shares retained may differ from the number of  
options exercised.  
(d) Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and/or vesting of awards under the Performance Share Plan, Management Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan. 
(e) Share movements due to sale or purchase of shares, shares received under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased/sold through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan or non executive  
directors share purchase plan. 
(f) The balance as at 31 December 2009 for Harry Kenyon-Slaney was understated in the 2009 Remuneration report by 2,683 shares.  
(g) Interests in outstanding awards under option schemes and LTIPs are set out in Tables 4 and 5.  148 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 4a – Executives with awards under long term incentive plans 2010 
 
Conditional 
award 
granted 
Market price 
at award 1 Jan 2010 
(a)
 Awarded
Lapsed/ 
cancelled
Dividend 
shares Vested
31 Dec    
2010 
(b)
Performance 
period 
concludes 
Date of 
election 
Market price 
at election
Monetary   
value of   
vested    
award    
US$’000 
(f)
Bonus Deferral Plan     
Tom Albanese 17-Mar-09 £19.82 28,278    –– –– 28,278   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Hugo Bague  17-Mar-09 £19.82 2,320    –– 31 2,351 –   01-Dec-10 15-Dec-10 £44.30 161  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 2,721    –– 37 2,758 –   01-Dec-10 17-Dec-10 £44.18 188  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,043    –– –– 5,043   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Preston Chiaro 17-Mar-09 £19.82 19,082    –– –– 19,082   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Bret Clayton 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,229    –– –– 5,229   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Jacynthe Côté 17-Mar-09 £19.82 8,342    –– 113 8,455 –   01-Dec-10 13-Dec-10 £44.79 585  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 8,342    –– –– 8,342   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Guy Elliott 17-Mar-09 £19.82 18,644    –– –– 18,644   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Andrew Harding 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 2,598    –– 31 2629 –   01-Dec-10 20-Dec-10 A$85.45 206  
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 2,599    –– –– 2,599   01-Dec-11 – – –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 546    –– 5 551 –   01-Dec-10 20-Dec-10 A$85.45 43  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 547    –– –– 547   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 17-Mar-09 £19.82 4,284    –– 57 4,341 –   01-Dec-10 14-Dec-10 £44.40 298  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 4,284    –– –– 4,284   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Doug Ritchie 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 3,168    –– 37 3,205 –   01-Dec-10 20-Dec-10 A$85.45 251  
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 3,169    –– –– 3,169   01-Dec-11 – – –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 666    –– 7 673 –   01-Dec-10 20-Dec-10 A$85.45 53  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 667    –– –– 667   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Debra Valentine 17-Mar-09 £19.82 3,183    –– 43 3,226 –   01-Dec-10 17-Dec-10 £44.18 220  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 3,101    –– 42 3,143 –   01-Dec-11 30-Dec-10 £45.84 223  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 6,286    –– –– 6,286   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Sam Walsh 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 19,022    –– –– 19,022   01-Dec-11 – – –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 4,004    –– –– 4,004   01-Dec-11 – – –  
Performance Share Plan   
Tom Albanese 07-Mar-06 £26.30 54,480    – 32,906 – 21,574 –   31-Dec-09 09-Mar-10 £36.94 1,232  
 13-Mar-07 £26.81 53,412    –– –– 53,412   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 59,362    –– –– 59,362   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 48,019    –– –– 48,019   31-Dec-12 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    79,486 – –– 79,486   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Hugo Bague  09-Sep-07 £35.45 7,305    –– –– 7,305   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 14,128    –– –– 14,128   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    31,531 – –– 31,531   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Preston Chiaro 07-Mar-06 £26.30 41,377    – 24,992 – 16,385 –   31-Dec-09 24-Feb-10 £33.625 852  
 13-Mar-07 £26.81 31,084    –– –– 31,084   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 23,688    –– –– 23,688   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 20,904    –– –– 20,904   31-Dec-12 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    40,559 – –– 40,559   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Bret Clayton 07-Mar-06 £26.30 13,033    – 5,592 – 7,441 –   31-Dec-09 15-Feb-10 £32.75 377  
 13-Mar-07 £26.81 27,316    –– –– 27,316   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 22,871    –– –– 22,871   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 20,182    –– –– 20,182   31-Dec-12 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    39,160 – –– 39,160   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Jacynthe Côté 10-Mar-08 £52.58 22,299    –– –– 22,299   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 23,787    –– –– 23,787   31-Dec-12 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    46,153 – –– 46,153   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Guy Elliott 07-Mar-06 £26.30 49,231    – 29,736 – 19,495 –   31-Dec-09 01-Mar-10 £34.685 1,045  
 13-Mar-07 £26.81 37,328    –– –– 37,328   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 30,930    –– –– 30,930   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 35,743    –– –– 35,743   31-Dec-12 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –    59,166 – –– 59,166   31-Dec-13 – – –  
Andrew Harding 07-Mar-06 A$69.60 5,253    – 2,254 – 2,999 –   31-Dec-09 22-Feb-10 A$72.51 200  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,105    – 475 – 630 –   31-Dec-09 22-Feb-10 A$72.51 42  
 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 3,777    –– –– 3,777   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 795    –– –– 795   31-Dec-10 – – –  
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 6,485    –– –– 6,485   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,365    –– –– 1,365   31-Dec-11 – – –  
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 –    31,064 – –– 31,064   31-Dec-13 – – –   www.riotinto.com 149
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Table 4a – Executives with awards under long term incentive plans 2010 continued 
 
Conditional 
award 
granted 
Market price 
at award 1 Jan 2010 
(a)
Awarded
Lapsed/ 
cancelled
Dividend 
shares Vested
31 Dec     
2010 
(b)
Performance 
period 
concludes 
Date of 
election
Market price 
at election
Monetary   
value of    
vested   
award    
US$’000 
(f)   
Performance Share Plan  
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 07-Mar-06 £26.30 6,028   – 2,587 – 3,441 –   31-Dec-09 18-Feb-10 £34.41 183  
 13-Mar-07 £26.81 8,514   –– –– 8,514   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 7,210   –– –– 7,210   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –   31,531 – –– 31,531   31-Dec-13 –– –  
Doug Ritchie 07-Mar-06 A$69.60 7,308   – 3,136 – 4,172 –   31-Dec-09 18-Mar-10 A$76.99 295  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,538   – 660 – 878 –   31-Dec-09 18-Mar-10 A$76.99 62  
 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 10,200   –– –– 10,200   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 2,147   –– –– 2,147   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 8,691   –– –– 8,691   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,829   –– –– 1,829   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 –   32,180 – –– 32,180   31-Dec-13 –– –  
Debra Valentine 10-Mar-08 £52.58 13,967   –– –– 13,967   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 –   31,887 – –– 31,887   31-Dec-13 –– –  
Sam Walsh 07-Mar-06 A$69.60 33,655   – 20,328 – 13,327 –   31-Dec-09 19-Feb-10 A$71.00 868  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 7,084   – 4,279 – 2,805 –   31-Dec-09 19-Feb-10 A$71.00 183  
 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 25,103   –– –– 25,103   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 5,284   –– –– 5,284   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 21,366   –– –– 21,366   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 4,497   –– –– 4,497   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 26,670   –– –– 26,670   31-Dec-12 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 5,614   –– –– 5,614   31-Dec-12 –– –  
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 –   55,842 – –– 55,842   31-Dec-13 –– –  
Management Share Plan  
Hugo Bague  10-Mar-08 £52.58 1,826   –– –– 1,826   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 16,769   –– –– 16,769   31-Dec-11 –– –  
Jacynthe Côté 10-Mar-08 £52.58 7,296   –– –– 7,296   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,462   –– – 5,462 –   01-Feb-10 26-Feb-10 £33.64 284  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,463   –– –– 5,463   01-Feb-11 –– –  
Andrew Harding 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 1,250   –– 70 1,320 –   31-Dec-09 22-Feb-10 A$72.51 88  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 263   –– – 263 –   31-Dec-09 22-Feb-10 A$72.51 18  
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 837   –– –– 837   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 176   –– –– 176   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 8,490   –– –– 8,490   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,787   –– –– 1,787   31-Dec-11 –– –  
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 13-Mar-07 £26.81 3,026   –– 136 3,162 –   31-Dec-09 18-Feb-10 £34.41 168 
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 932   –– –– 932   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 7,403   –– –– 7,403   31-Dec-11 –– –  
Doug Ritchie 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 2,750   –– 154 2,904 –   31-Dec-09 03-Mar-10 A$73.87 197  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 578   –– – 578 –   31-Dec-09 03-Mar-10 A$73.87 39  
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 1,252   –– –– 1,252   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 263   –– –– 263   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 8,572   –– –– 8,572   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,804   –– –– 1,804   31-Dec-11 –– –  
 14-Sep-09 A$58.05 9,879   –– –– 9,879   31-Dec-11 –– –  
Debra Valentine 10-Mar-08 £52.58 1,820      – – –– 1,820   31-Dec-10 –– –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 6,052   –– –– 6,052   15-Jan-11 –– –  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 6,053   –– –– 6,053   15-Jan-12 –– –  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 19,107   –– –– 19,107   31-Dec-11 –– –   150 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 4b – Executives with awards under long term incentive plans 2011 
 
Conditional 
award 
granted 
Market price 
at award 1 Jan 2011 
(a)
 Awarded
Lapsed/ 
cancelled
Dividend 
shares Vested
21 Feb      
2011 
(b)
Date of 
election 
Market price 
at election
Monetary   
value of    
vested    
award    
US$’000 
(f)
Bonus Deferral Plan   
Tom Albanese 17-Mar-09 £19.82 28,278    –– –– 28,278   – ––  
Hugo Bague 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,043    –– –– 5,043   – ––  
Preston Chiaro 17-Mar-09 £19.82 19,082    –– –– 19,082   – ––  
Bret Clayton 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,229    –– –– 5,229   – ––  
Jacynthe Côté 17-Mar-09 £19.82 8,342    –– –– 8,342   – ––  
Guy Elliott 17-Mar-09 £19.82 18,644    –– –– 18,644   – ––  
Andrew Harding 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 2,599    –– –– 2,599   – ––  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 547    –– –– 547   – ––  
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 17-Mar-09 £19.82 4,284    –– –– 4,284   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 4,284    –– –– 4,284   – ––  
Doug Ritchie 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 3,169    –– –– 3,169   – ––  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 667    –– –– 667   – ––  
Debra Valentine 17-Mar-09 £19.82 6,286    –– –– 6,286   – ––  
Sam Walsh 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 19,022    –– –– 19,022   – ––  
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 4,004    –– –– 4,004   – ––  
Performance Share Plan  
Tom Albanese 13-Mar-07 £26.81 53,412    –– –– 53,412   – ––  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 59,362    –– –– 59,362   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 48,019    –– –– 48,019   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 79,486    –– –– 79,486   – ––  
Hugo Bague  09-Sep-07 £35.45 7,305    – 3,244 – 4,061 –   15-Feb-11 £45.50 286  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 14,128    –– –– 14,128   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 31,531    –– –– 31,531   – ––  
Preston Chiaro 13-Mar-07 £26.81 31,084    – 19,770 – 11,314 –   16-Feb-11 £45.20 791  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 23,688    –– –– 23,688   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 20,904    –– –– 20,904   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 40,559    –– – 40,559   – ––  
Bret Clayton 13-Mar-07 £26.81 27,316    – 17,373 – 9,943 –   14-Feb-11 £46.82 719  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 22,871    –– –– 22,871   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 20,182    –– –– 20,182   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 39,160    –– –– 39,160   – ––  
Jacynthe Côté 10-Mar-08 £52.58 22,299    –– –– 22,299   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 23,787    –– –– 23,787   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 46,153    –– –– 46,153   – ––  
Guy Elliott 13-Mar-07 £26.81 37,328    –– –– 37,328   – ––  
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 30,930    –– –– 30,930   – ––  
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 35,743    –– –– 35,743   – ––  
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 59,166    –– –– 59,166   – ––   www.riotinto.com 151
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
Table 4b – Executives with awards under long term incentive plans 2011 continued 
 
Conditional 
award 
granted 
Market price 
at award 1 Jan 2011 
(a)
Awarded
Lapsed/ 
cancelled
Dividend 
shares Vested
21 Feb      
2011 
(b)
 
Date of 
election 
Market price 
at election
Monetary    
value of     
vested     
award     
US$’000 
(f)
Performance Share Plan   
Andrew Harding 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 3,777   –– –– 3,777    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 795   –– –– 795    – ––   
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 6,485   –– –– 6,485    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,365   –– –– 1,365    – ––   
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 31,064   –– –– 31,064    – ––   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 13-Mar-07 £26.81 8,514   – 3,781 – 4,733 –    17-Feb-11 £44.99 329   
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 7,210   –– –– 7,210    – ––   
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 31,531   –– –– 31,531    – ––   
Doug Ritchie 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 10,200   – 4,529 – 5,671 –    18-Feb-11 A$87.61 456   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 2,147   – 954 – 1,193 –    18-Feb-11 A$87.61 96   
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 8,691   –– –– 8,691    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,829   –– –– 1,829    – ––   
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 32,180   –– –– 32,180    – ––   
Debra Valentine 10-Mar-08 £52.58 13,967   –– –– 13,967    – ––   
 22-Mar-10 £37.30 31,887   –– –– 31,887    – ––   
Sam Walsh 13-Mar-07 A$74.50 25,103   – 15,966 – 9,137 –    15-Feb-11 A$88.14 739   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 5,284   – 3,361 – 1,923 –    15-Feb-11 A$88.14 156   
 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 21,366   –– –– 21,366    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 4,497   –– –– 4,497    – ––   
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 26,670   –– –– 26,670    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 5,614   –– –– 5,614    – ––   
 22-Mar-10 A$75.03 55,842   –– –– 55,842    – ––   
Management Share Plan          
Hugo Bague  10-Mar-08 £52.58 1,826   –– 49 1,875 –    15-Feb-11 £45.50 132   
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 16,769   –– –– 16,769    – ––   
Jacynthe Côté 10-Mar-08 £52.58 7,296   –– –– 7,296    – ––   
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 5,463   –– –– 5,463    – ––   
Andrew Harding 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 837   –– –– 837    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 176   –– –– 176    – ––   
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 8,490   –– –– 8,490    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,787   –– –– 1,787    – ––   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 10-Mar-08 £52.58 932   –– 25 957 –    17-Feb-11 £44.99 67   
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 7,403   –– –– 7,403    – ––   
Doug Ritchie 10-Mar-08 A$126.48 1,252   –– 40 1,292 –    18-Feb-11 A$87.61 104   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 263   –– 3 266 –    18-Feb-11 A$87.61 21   
 17-Mar-09 A$52.01 8,572   –– –– 8,572    – ––   
 09-Jul-09 A$47.60 1,804   –– –– 1,804    – ––   
 14-Sep-09 A$58.05 9,879   –– –– 9,879    – ––   
Debra Valentine 10-Mar-08 £52.58 1,820   –– –– –    – ––   
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 6,052   –– –– 6,052    – ––   
 10-Mar-08 £52.58 6,053   –– –– 6,053    – ––   
 17-Mar-09 £19.82 19,107   –– –– 19,107    – ––   
Notes to Tables 4a and 4b 
(a) Or at date of appointment, if later. 
(b) Or at date of resignation, if earlier. 
(c) Awards denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto Limited shares. 
(d) The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2010 was as follows: Performance Share Plan was £38.26 for Rio Tinto plc and A$79.54 for Rio Tinto Limited. 
(e) Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any shares granted. 
(f)  The amount in US dollars has been converted from sterling at the rate of £1 = US$1.5459 and Australian dollars at the rate of A$1 = US$0.9178, being the average exchange rates for 2010.  152 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 5 – Executives holding options to acquire Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares 2010 
 Date of Grant 1 Jan 10 
(a)
Granted
Vested during
 2010 Exercised Lapsed/ cancelled 
(i) 
Share Savings Plan  
Tom Albanese 06-Oct-06 957   – – – –   
Hugo Bague 17-Oct-08 288   – – – –   
 20-Oct-09 84   – – – –   
Preston Chiaro 17-Oct-08 367   – – – –   
 05-Oct-10 –   189 – – –   
Bret Clayton 05-Oct-07 197   – 197 197 –   
Guy Elliott 17-Oct-08 629   – – – –   
Andrew Harding 06-Oct-06 455   – 455 455 –   
 20-Oct-09 723   – – – –   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 05-Oct-07 280   – – – –   
 20-Oct-09 434   – – – –   
Doug Ritchie 06-Oct-06 455   – 455 455 –   
 20-Oct-09 422   – – – –   
Debra Valentine 17-Oct-08 367   – – – –   
 05-Oct-10 –   189 – – –   
Sam Walsh 17-Oct-08 505   – – – 505  
 20-Oct-09 125   – – – –   
 05-Oct-10 –   457 – – –   
Share Option Plan  
Tom Albanese 06-Mar-01 30,840   – – 30,840 –   
 06-Mar-01 93,500   – – 93,500 –   
 13-Mar-02 151,719   – – 151,719 –   
 07-Mar-03 168,459   – – – –   
 22-Apr-04 101,706   – – – –   
 09-Mar-05 101,592   – – – –   
 07-Mar-06 81,722   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 80,117   – – – 80,117  
 10-Mar-08 89,045   – – – –   
 17-Mar-09 72,029   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   119,230 – – –   
Hugo Bague 09-Sep-07 10,693   – – – 10,693  
 17-Mar-09 15,714   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   47,297 – – –   
Preston Chiaro 07-Mar-03 44,982   – – 44,982 –   
 22-Apr-04 85,328   – – 85,328 –   
 09-Mar-05 76,899   – – 76,899 –   
 07-Mar-06 62,067   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 46,627   – – – 46,627  
 10-Mar-08 35,533   – – – –   
 17-Mar-09 31,355   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   60,838 – – –   
Bret Clayton 22-Apr-04 16,117   – – 16,117 –   
 09-Mar-05 13,967   – – 13,967 –   
 07-Mar-06 13,033   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 40,975   – – – 40,975  
 10-Mar-08 34,307   – – – –   
 17-Mar-09 30,274   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   58,740 – – –   
Jacynthe Côté 17-Mar-09 35,680   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   69,230 – – –    www.riotinto.com 153
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
 
  
Vested and     
exercisable on      
31 Dec 2010 
(b)
 31 Dec 2010 
(b)
Exercise price
Value of options     
exercised during     
2010 
(g)
Market price on  
date of exercise 
Date from 
which first 
exercisable Expiry date
Share Savings Plan  
Tom Albanese –     957   £17.084 –    – 01-Jan-12 01-Jul-12
Hugo Bague –     288   £26.576 –    – 01-Jan-12 01-Jul-12
 –     84   £21.480 –    – 01-Jan-13 01-Jul-13
Preston Chiaro –     367   £16.935 –    – 01-Jan-11 17-Jan-11
 –     189   £31.660 –    – 01-Jan-13 06-Jan-13
Bret Clayton –     –   £29.385 £1,046    £34.695 01-Jan-10 06-Jan-10
Guy Elliott –     629   £26.576 –    – 01-Jan-14 01-Jul-14
Andrew Harding –     –   A$40.691 A$11,815    A$66.660 01-Jan-10 01-Jul-10
 –     723   A$48.73 –    – 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
Harry Kenyon-Slaney –     280   £23.850 –    – 01-Jan-13 01-Jul-13
 –     434   £21.480 –    – 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
Doug Ritchie –     –   A$40.691 A$14,218    A$71.940 01-Jan-10 01-Jul-10
 –     422   A$48.73 –    – 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
Debra Valentine –     367   £16.935 –    – 01-Jan-11 18-Jan-11
 –     189   £31.660 –    – 01-Jan-13 06-Jan-13
Sam Walsh –     –   A$66.081 –    – 01-Jan-14 01-Jul-14
 –     125   A$48.73 –    – 01-Jan-15 01-Jul-15
 –     457   A$59.26 –    – 01-Jan-16 01-Jul-16
Share Option Plan  
Tom Albanese –     –   £10.455 £816,797    £36.940 06-Mar-05 06-Mar-11
 –     –   £10.455 £2,426,792    £36.410 06-Mar-05 06-Mar-11
 –     –   £12.050 £3,776,285    £36.940 13-Mar-05 13-Mar-12
 168,459     168,459   £10.434 –    – 07-Mar-06 07-Mar-13
 101,706         101,706   £10.979 –    – 22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 101,592     101,592   £15.086 –    – 09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 81,722     81,722   £22.397 –    – 07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –     –   £22.315 –    – 13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –     89,045   £47.280 –    – 10-Mar-11 10-Mar-18
 –     72,029   £16.530 –    – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –     119,230   £37.050 –    – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Hugo Bague –     –   £28.506 –    – 09-Sep-10 09-Sep-10
 –     15,714   £16.530 –    – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –     47,297   £37.050 –    – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Preston Chiaro –     –   £10.434 £972,780    £32.060 07-Mar-06 07-Mar-13
 –         –   £10.979 £1,798,799    £32.060 22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 –     –   £15.086 £1,305,283    £32.060 09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 62,067     62,067   £22.397 –    – 07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –     –   £22.315 –    – 13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –     35,533   £47.280 –    – 10-Mar-11 10-Mar-18
 –     31,355   £16.530 –    – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –     60,838   £37.050 –    – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Bret Clayton –     –   £10.979 £476,756    £40.560 22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 –     –   £15.086 £355,795    £40.560 09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 13,033    13,033   £22.397 –    – 07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –     –   £22.315 –    – 13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –     34,307   £47.280 –    – 10-Mar-11 10-Mar-18
 –     30,274   £16.530 –    – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –     58,740   £37.050 –    – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Jacynthe Côté –     35,680   £16.530 –    – 17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –     69,230   £37.050 –    – 22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20 154 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Remuneration report continued 
 
 
Table 5 – Executives holding options to acquire Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares 2010 continued 
 Date of Grant 1 Jan 10 
(a)
Granted
Vested during
 2010 Exercised Lapsed/cancelled 
(i)
Share Option Plan  
Guy Elliott 13-Mar-02 74,691   – – 33,000 –   
 07-Mar-03 117,886   – – – –   
 22-Apr-04 89,213   – – – –   
 09-Mar-05 88,332   – – – –   
 07-Mar-06 70,330   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 53,324   – – – 53,324   
 10-Mar-08 44,186   – – – –   
 17-Mar-09 53,615   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   88,749 – – –   
Andrew Harding 13-Mar-02 2,894   – – 2,894 –   
 07-Mar-03 9,383   – – 9,383 –   
 22-Apr-04 1,526   – – 1,526 –   
 09-Mar-05 2,275   – – 2,275 –   
 07-Mar-06 5,253   – – 5,253 –   
 13-Mar-07 3,777   – – – 3,777   
 17-Mar-09 6,268   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   46,597 – – –   
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
 (h) 
13-Mar-07 9,103   – – – 9,103  
 17-Mar-09 6,938   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   47,297 – – –   
Doug Ritchie 07-Mar-06 7,308   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 10,200   – – – 10,200  
 17-Mar-09 8,230   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   48,270 – – –   
Debra Valentine 17-Mar-09 13,558   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   47,831 – – –   
Sam Walsh 22-Apr-04 54,400   – – 54,400 –   
 09-Mar-05 58,823   – – 58,823 –   
 07-Mar-06 48,079   – – – –   
 13-Mar-07 35,861   – – – 35,861   
 10-Mar-08 30,523   – – – –   
 17-Mar-09 40,005   – – – –   
 22-Mar-10 –   83,763 – – –   
Notes to Table 5 
(a) Or at date of appointment, if later. 
(b) Or at date of retirement or resignation, if earlier. 
(c) All options granted over ordinary shares. Rio Tinto plc – ordinary shares of 10p each stated in sterling; Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares – stated in Australian dollars. Each option is granted  
over one share at no cost to participants.  The performance conditions for the Share Option Plan are detailed on page 134. 
(d) The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was £44.87 (2009: £33.90) and the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 31 December 2010 was A$85.70 (2009: A$74.89). 
The high and low prices during 2010 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were £28.12 and £45.84 and A$61.70 and A$87.94 respectively. 
(e) The exercise price represents the price payable on the options.  
(f) The weighted fair value per option during 2010, at date of grant was as follows: Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan two year contract £9.36; three year contract £11.15 and five year contract £10.61. Rio Tinto 
Limited Share Savings Plan three year contract A$24.56 and five year contract A$23.85. Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan £13.91 (March 2010 grant); Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$26.97 (March 
2010 grant). 
(g) The value of options exercised during 2010 is calculated by multiplying the number of options exercised by the difference between the market price and the exercise price on date of exercise. 
(h) In 2001 Harry Kenyon-Slaney was granted 6,857 phantom options over Rio Tinto plc shares at a price of £10.455 per share. These were exercised on 18 February 2010 at a price of £33.50 per share. 
(i) Options granted in 2007 under the Share Option Plan failed to satisfy their performance condition and did not vest. The value of the lapsed options are shown in the table below. 
 
 Market price at  
date of lapse 
Value of options 
lapsed during 2010
Tom Albanese £37.09 £1,183,728
Hugo Bague £35.40 £73,717
Preston Chiaro £37.09 £688,913
Bret Clayton £37.09 £605,405
Guy Elliott £37.09 £787,862
Andrew Harding $75.96 A$66,025
Harry Kenyon-Slaney £37.09 £134,496
Doug Ritchie $75.96 A$178,306
Sam Walsh $75.96 A$626,886
  www.riotinto.com 155
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
  
 
  
 
  
Vested and    
exercisable on     
31 Dec 2010 
(b)
 31 Dec 2010 
(b)
Exercise price
Value of options     
exercised during     
2010 
(g)
Market price on     
date of exercise    
Date from which 
first exercisable Expiry date
Share Option Plan     
Guy Elliott 41,691    41,691   £12.050 £845,460   £37.670    13-Mar-05 13-Mar-12
 117,886    117,886   £10.434 –   –    07-Mar-06 07-Mar-13
 89,213    89,213   £10.979 –   –    22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 88,332    88,332   £15.086 –   –    09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 70,330    70,330      £22.397 –   –    07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –    –   £22.315 –   –    13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –    44,186   £47.280 –   –    10-Mar-11 10-Mar-18
 –    53,615   £16.530 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    88,749   £37.050 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Andrew Harding –    –   A$23.762 A$148,311   A$75.010    13-Mar-05 13-Mar-12
 –    –   A$17.227 A$542,177   A$75.010    07-Mar-06 07-Mar-13
 –    –   A$18.297 A$86,544   A$75.010    22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 –    –   A$30.933 A$100,275   A$75.010    09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 –    –   A$54.951 A$105,369   A$75.010    07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –    –   A$58.479 –   –    13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –    6,268   A$33.451 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    46,597   A$76.150 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Harry Kenyon-Slaney
 (h) 
–    –   £22.315 –   –    13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –    6,938   £16.530 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    47,297   £37.050 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Doug Ritchie 7,308    7,308   A$54.951 –   –    07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –    –   A$58.479 –   –    13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –    8,230   A$33.451 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    48,270   A$76.150 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Debra Valentine –    13,558   £16.530 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    47,831   £37.050 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
Sam Walsh –    –   A$18.297 A$3,030,243   A$74.000    22-Apr-09 22-Apr-14
 –    –   A$30.933 A$2,533,330   A$74.000    09-Mar-08 09-Mar-15
 48,079    48,079   A$54.951 –   –    07-Mar-09 07-Mar-16
 –    –   A$58.479 –   –    13-Mar-10 13-Mar-10
 –    30,523   A$118.067 –   –    10-Mar-11 10-Mar-18
 –    40,005   A$33.451 –   –    17-Mar-12 17-Mar-19
 –    83,763   A$76.150 –   –    22-Mar-13 22-Mar-20
  156 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
2010 Financial statements 
 
Contents 
Primary financial statements Page 
Group income statement 157 
Group statement of comprehensive income 158 
Group cash flow statement 159 
Group statement of financial position 160 
Group statement of changes in equity 161 
Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 162 
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis  
of financial statements 162 
  
Notes to the 2010 financial statements  
Note 1 – Principal accounting policies 163 
  
Group income statement  
Note 2 – Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings 182 
Note 3 – Net operating costs 183 
Note 4 – Employment costs 183 
Note 5 – Impairment charges 184 
Note 6 – Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 184 
Note 7 – Interest receivable and payable 185 
Note 8 – Taxation 185 
Note 9 – Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 188 
Note 10 – Dividends 188 
  
Group statement of financial position  
Note 11 – Goodwill 189 
Note 12 – Intangible assets 191 
Note 13 – Property, plant and equipment 193 
Note 14 – Investments in equity accounted units 194 
Note 15 – Net debt of equity accounted units 194 
Note 16 – Inventories 195 
Note 17 – Trade and other receivables 195 
Note 18 – Deferred taxation 196 
Note 19 – Assets and liabilities held for sale 197 
Note 20 – Other financial assets 197 
Note 21 – Cash and cash equivalents 198 
Note 22 – Borrowings 198 
Note 23 – Capitalised finance leases 199 
Note 24 – Consolidated net debt 199 
Note 25 – Trade and other payables 200 
Note 26 – Other financial liabilities 200  
Note 27 – Provisions (not including taxation) 201 
  
Capital and reserves 
 
Note 28 – Share capital – Rio Tinto plc 202 
Note 29 – Share capital – Rio Tinto Limited 203 
Note 30 – Other reserves and retained earnings 204 
 
 
Additional disclosures 
Page 
Note 31 – Operating segments  206 
Note 32 – Operating segments – additional information 208 
Note 33 – Financial risk management 210 
Note 34 – Financial instruments 216 
Note 35 – Contingent liabilities and commitments 221 
Note 36 – Average number of employees 222 
Note 37 – Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations 223 
Note 38 – Principal jointly controlled entities 224 
Note 39 – Principal associates 225 
Note 40 – Principal jointly controlled assets and other 
   proportionally consolidated units 225 
Note 41 – Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures,
   associates and other interests in businesses 226 
Note 42 – Directors’ and key management remuneration 230 
Note 43 – Auditors’ remuneration 231 
Note 44 – Related party transactions 232 
Note 45 – Exchange rates in US$ 232 
Note 46 – Rights issues 233 
Note 47 – Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) 233 
Note 48 – Events after the statement of financial position date 233 
Note 49 – Share based payments 234 
Note 50 – Post retirement benefits 241 
Note 51 – Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 246 
  
Rio Tinto plc 247 
  
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 250 
  
Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief 254 
  
Directors’ declaration 255 
  
Auditors’ independence declaration 256 
  
Independent auditors’ report to the members of  
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 257 
  
Financial summary 2001–2010 259 
  
Summary financial data 261 
  
  www.riotinto.com 157
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Group income statement 
Years ended 31 December 
 
 Note 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Gross sales revenue (including share of equity accounted units) 
(a)
  60,323  44,036 58,065 
    
Continuing operations   
Consolidated sales revenue 31 56,576  41,825 54,264 
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) 3 (36,667) (33,818) (37,641)
Impairment charges less reversals 5 (982) (1,573) (8,015)
Gain on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses  2, 41 839  692 2,231 
Exploration and evaluation costs 12 (594) (514) (1,134)
Profits on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 12 522  894 489 
Operating profit  19,694  7,506 10,194 
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 6 1,101  786 1,039 
Profit before finance items and taxation  20,795  8,292 11,233 
    
Finance items   
Net exchange gains/(losses) on external debt and intragroup balances 24 529  365 (176)
Net gains/(losses) on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting  162  261 (173)
Interest receivable and similar income 7 163  120 204 
Interest payable and similar charges 7 (778) (929) (1,618)
Amortisation of discount   (294) (249) (292)
  (218) (432) (2,055)
Profit before taxation  20,577  7,860 9,178 
Taxation 8 (5,296) (2,076) (3,742)
Profit from continuing operations  15,281  5,784 5,436 
Discontinued operations   
Loss after tax from discontinued operations 2 (97) (449) (827)
Profit for the year  15,184  5,335 4,609 
– attributable to non-controlling interests  860  463 933 
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (Net earnings)  14,324  4,872 3,676 
    
Basic earnings/(loss) per share 
(b)
    
Profit from continuing operations  9 735.4c 301.7c 286.8c
Loss from discontinued operations 9 (4.9c) (25.5c) (52.7c)
Profit for the year 9 730.5c 276.2c 234.1c 
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share 
(b)
   
Profit from continuing operations 9 731.1c 300.7c 285.5c
Loss from discontinued operations  9 (4.9c) (25.4c) (52.4c)
Profit for the year 9 726.2c 275.3c 233.1c 
(a) Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries) of US$4,254 million (2009: US$3,197 million; 2008: US$3,801 million) in addition to 
Consolidated sales revenue. Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.  
(b) The 2009 rights issues were at a discount to the then market price. Accordingly, earnings per share for all periods up to the date on  which the shares were issued have been adjusted for the bonus element 
of the issues. See note 46 for other information relating to the rights issues.   158 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Group statement of comprehensive income 
Years ended 31 December 
 
 
2010  
Attributable to: 
2009  
Attributable to: 
 
Owners of 
Rio Tinto 
US$m
Non-
controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Owners of  
Rio Tinto  
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests  
US$m 
Total 
US$m
Profit after tax for the year   14,324  860 15,184 4,872  463  5,335 
Other comprehensive income:   
Currency translation adjustment 1,230 274 1,504 3,732  429  4,161 
Currency translation on companies disposed  
of transferred to the income statement 6 – 6 (13) –  (13)
Cash flow hedge fair value gains/(losses):   
– Cash flow hedge fair value losses (72) (21) (93) (206) (107) (313)
– Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income 
statement 47 48 95 16  34  50 
– Cash flow hedge gains on companies disposed  
of transferred to the income statement – – – (4) (1) (5)
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 213 2 215 357  1  358 
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities 
transferred to the income statement (10) – (10) (3) – (3)
Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans (note 50) (765) (17) (782) (847) 3  (844)
Share of other comprehensive income of equity  
accounted units, net of tax 206 – 206 368  – 368 
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive 
income (note 8) 257 (4) 253 297  24  321 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,112 282 1,394 3,697  383  4,080 
Total comprehensive income for the year 15,436 1,142 16,578 8,569  846  9,415 
 
 
2008 
Attributable to: 
Owners of  
Rio Tinto  
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests  
US$m 
Total 
US$m
Profit after tax for the year  3,676  933  4,609 
Other comprehensive income:   
Currency translation adjustment (4,383) (411) (4,794)
Currency translation on companies disposed of transferred to the income statement (2) –  (2)
Cash flow hedge fair value gains/(losses):   
– Cash flow hedge fair value gains 28  6  34 
– Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 245  107  352 
Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities (173) (1) (174)
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement (1) –  (1)
Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans (note 50) (1,294) (20) (1,314)
Share of other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units, net of tax (283) –  (283)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income/(expense) (note 8) 280  (36) 244 
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (5,583) (355) (5,938)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,907) 578  (1,329) www.riotinto.com 159
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Group cash flow statement 
Years ended 31 December 
 
 
Note 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Cash flow from consolidated operations 
(a)
  22,126  13,224 19,195 
Dividends from equity accounted units  1,404  610 1,473 
Cash flows from operations  23,530  13,834 20,668 
Net interest paid  (696) (1,136) (1,538)
Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries  (457) (410) (348)
Tax paid  (4,100) (3,076) (3,899)
Net cash generated from operating activities  18,277  9,212 14,883 
Cash flow from investing activities   
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 41 (907) (396) (9)
Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates 41 604  2,424 2,572 
Net proceeds from the disposal of assets held for sale 19 3,196  – –
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets  (4,591) (5,388) (8,574)
Sales of financial assets  227  253 171 
Purchases of financial assets  (145) (44) (288)
Other funding of equity accounted units  (154) (265) (334)
Other investing cash flows  59  59 281 
Cash used in investing activities  (1,711) (3,357) (6,181)
Cash flow before financing activities  16,566  5,855 8,702 
Cash flow from financing activities   
Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto   (1,754) (876) (1,933)
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares in Rio Tinto  92  14,877 23 
Proceeds from additional borrowings  1,947  5,775 4,697 
Repayment of borrowings  (11,307) (22,220) (12,677)
Receipt from close out of interest rate swaps  – – 710 
Proceeds from issue of shares to non-controlling interests  250  53 72 
Other financing cash flows  162  (72) –
Cash used in financing activities  (10,610) (2,463) (9,108)
Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents  (139) (284) (101)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  5,817  3,108 (507)
Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts  4,142  1,034 1,541 
Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 21 9,959  4,142 1,034 
(a) Cash flow from consolidated operations   
Profit from continuing operations  15,281  5,784 5,436 
Adjustments for:   
– Taxation 8 5,296  2,076 3,742 
– Finance items  218  432 2,055 
– Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 6 (1,101) (786) (1,039)
– Gain on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses  41 (839) (692) (2,231)
– Impairment charges less reversals 5 982  1,573 8,015 
– Depreciation and amortisation  3,437  3,427 3,475 
– Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 27 907  930 265 
Utilisation of provisions 27 (507) (363) (464)
Utilisation of provision for post retirement benefits 27 (1,110) (470) (448)
Change in inventories  (492) 653 (1,178)
Change in trade and other receivables  (1,316) 908 658 
Change in trade and other payables  983  (570) 951 
Other items  387  322 (42)
  22,126  13,224 19,195 160 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Group statement of financial position 
At 31 December 
 
Note 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Non-current assets  
Goodwill 11 15,296 14,268 
Intangible assets 12 5,700 5,730 
Property, plant and equipment 13 56,024 45,803 
Investments in equity accounted units 14 6,503 6,735 
Loans to equity accounted units  227 170 
Inventories 16 375 284 
Trade and other receivables 17 1,826 1,375 
Deferred tax assets 18 1,863 2,231 
Tax recoverable  89 85 
Other financial assets 20 1,334 841 
   89,237 77,522 
Current assets  
Inventories 16 4,756 4,889 
Trade and other receivables 17 5,582 4,447 
Loans to equity accounted units  110 168 
Tax recoverable  542 501 
Other financial assets 20 521 694 
Cash and cash equivalents 21 9,948 4,233 
  21,459 14,932 
Assets of disposal groups held for sale  19 1,706 4,782 
Total assets  112,402 97,236 
Current liabilities  
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 21 (7) (91)
Borrowings 22 (1,057) (756)
Trade and other payables 25 (6,576) (5,759)
Other financial liabilities 26 (265) (412)
Tax payable  (2,773) (1,329)
Provisions 27 (1,117) (1,182)
  (11,795) (9,529)
Non-current liabilities  
Borrowings 22 (13,277) (22,155)
Trade and other payables 25 (879) (591)
Other financial liabilities 26 (416) (601)
Tax payable  (417) (299)
Deferred tax liabilities 18 (5,175) (4,304)
Provision for post retirement benefits 27 (4,339) (4,993)
Other provisions 27 (9,023) (7,519)
  (33,526) (40,462)
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale  19 (1,807) (1,320)
Total liabilities  (47,128) (51,311)
Net assets  65,274 45,925 
Capital and reserves  
Share capital – Rio Tinto plc 28 246 246 
  – Rio Tinto Limited (excluding Rio Tinto plc interest) 29 5,601 4,924 
Share premium account 
(a)
  4,258 4,174 
Other reserves 30 15,643 14,010 
Retained earnings 30 32,585 20,477 
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto   58,333 43,831 
Attributable to non-controlling interest 
(a)
  6,941 2,094 
Total equity  65,274 45,925
(a) Refer to statement of changes in equity. 
The notes on pages 163 to 246 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The financial statements on pages 157 to 256 
were approved by the directors on 4 March 2011 and signed on their behalf by 
   
Jan du Plessis Chairman Tom Albanese Chief executive Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 
  www.riotinto.com 161
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Group statement of changes in equity 
Years ended 
 
Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 
31 December 2010 
Share capital
(notes 28 
and 29) 
US$m
Share 
premium 
US$m
Other 
reserves
 (note 30) 
US$m
Retained 
earnings 
(note 30) 
US$m 
Total  
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
equity 
US$m
Opening balance  5,170  4,174  14,010  20,477   43,831   2,094  45,925 
Total comprehensive income for the year 
(a)
 – – 1,645  13,791   15,436   1,142  16,578 
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s  
share capital 
(b)
  677 – – –  677  – 677 
Dividends  – – – (1,754)  (1,754)  (457) (2,211)
Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto  
to satisfy share options – – (84) (39)  (123) – (123)
Treasury shares reissued – 84 – 8   92  – 92 
Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi 
(c)
 – – – – –  3,912  3,912 
Shares issued to holders of non-controlling interests – – – – –  250  250 
Employee share options  – – 48  69   117  – 117 
Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled – – 24  33   57  – 57 
Closing balance  5,847  4,258  15,643  32,585   58,333   6,941  65,274 
 
Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 
31 December 2009 
Share capital
(notes 28 
and 29) 
US$m
Share   
premium
(d)
 
US$m   
Other 
reserves
 (note 30) 
US$m
Retained 
earnings 
(note 30) 
US$m 
Total  
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
equity 
US$m
Opening balance  1,121  4,705    (2,322) 17,134   20,638   1,823  22,461 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 (a)
 – –   4,401  4,168   8,569   846  9,415 
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s  
share capital 
(b)
  710 –  – –  710  –  710 
Dividends  – –  – (876)  (876)  (410) (1,286)
Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto  
to satisfy share options – –   (35) (17)  (52) – (52)
Ordinary shares issued  3,339  (531)   11,936  3   14,747  – 14,747 
Shares issued to holders of non-controlling interests – –  – – –  53  53 
Subsidiaries now equity accounted – –  – – –  (218) (218)
Employee share options  – –   30  65   95  – 95 
Closing balance  5,170  4,174    14,010  20,477   43,831   2,094  45,925
 
Attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 
31 December 2008 
Share capital
(notes 28 
and 29) 
US$m
Share 
premium 
US$m
Other 
reserves
 (note 30) 
US$m
Retained 
earnings 
(note 30) 
US$m 
Total  
US$m 
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
equity 
US$m
Opening balance  1,391  1,932  2,416  19,033   24,772   1,521  26,293 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 
(a)
 – – (4,649) 2,742  (1,907)  578  (1,329)
Currency translation arising on Rio Tinto Limited’s  
share capital 
(b)
  (258)––
 
–  (258) – (258)
Dividends  – – – (1,933)  (1,933)  (348) (2,281)
Own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto  
to satisfy share options – – (128) –  (128) – (128)
Ordinary shares issued – 6 – 25   31  – 31 
Own shares purchased and cancelled  (12) 2,767  12  (2,767) – – –
Shares issued to holders of non-controlling interests –––– –  72  72 
Employee share options  – – 27  34   61  – 61 
Closing balance  1,121  4,705  (2,322) 17,134   20,638   1,823  22,461
(a) Refer to Statement of comprehensive income for further details. 
(b) Refer to note 1 (d). 
(c) Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines. Refer to note 41. 
(d) Charges to share premium in 2009 include underwriting fees and other fees for the Rio Tinto plc rights issue together with the mark-to-market losses from inception to receipt of proceeds on forward 
contracts taken out by Rio Tinto plc to provide confidence in the absolute dollar proceeds of the rights issue. Refer to note 46.  162 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
 
 
 
Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards  
The financial statements of Rio Tinto Group (“the Group“) have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (“EU IFRS”), which differs in certain respects from the version of IFRS that is 
applicable in Australia referred to as Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). 
Prior to 1 January 2004, the Group’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). Under EU IFRS, goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1998 which was eliminated directly against equity in 
the Group’s UK GAAP financial statements, has not been reinstated. This was permitted under the rules governing the transition to EU 
IFRS set out in IFRS 1. The equivalent Australian Standard, AASB 1, does not provide for the netting of goodwill against equity. As a 
consequence, shareholders’ funds under AAS include the residual of such goodwill, which amounted to US$584 million at 31 December 
2010 (2009: US$597 million; 2008: US$752 million). 
Save for the exception described above, the Group’s financial statements drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS are consistent with the 
requirements of AAS. 
Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements 
The Rio Tinto Group 
These are the financial statements of the Group formed through the merger of economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 
Limited (“Merger“), and presented by both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as their consolidated accounts in accordance with both 
United Kingdom and Australian legislation and regulations. 
Merger terms 
On 21 December 1995, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, which are listed respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom  
and Australia, entered into a dual listed companies (DLC) merger. This was effected by contractual arrangements between the 
companies and amendments to Rio Tinto plc’s Memorandum and Articles of Association and Rio Tinto Limited’s constitution.  
As a result, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their respective groups operate together as a single economic enterprise, with 
neither assuming a dominant role. In particular, the arrangements: 
   confer upon the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited a common economic interest in both groups; 
   provide for common boards of directors and a unified management structure;  
   provide for equalised dividends and capital distributions; and 
   provide for the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to take key decisions, including the election of directors, through an 
electoral procedure in which the public shareholders of the two companies effectively vote on a joint basis.  
The merger involved no change in the legal ownership of any assets of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor any change in the 
ownership of any existing shares or securities of Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited, nor the issue of any shares, securities or payment  
by way of consideration, save for the issue by each company of one special voting share to a trustee company which provides the joint 
electoral procedure for public shareholders. During 2002, each of the parent companies issued a DLC Dividend Share to facilitate the 
efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. 
Accounting standards 
The financial statements have been drawn up in accordance with EU IFRS. The Merger was accounted for as a merger under UK GAAP. 
As permitted under the rules governing the transition to EU IFRS, which are set out in IFRS 1, the Group did not restate business 
combinations that occurred before the transition date of 1 January 2004. As a result, the DLC merger of economic interests described 
above continues to be accounted for as a merger under EU IFRS. 
The main consequence of adopting merger rather than acquisition accounting is that the statement of financial position of the merged 
Group includes the assets and liabilities of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited at their carrying values prior to the merger, subject to 
adjustments to achieve uniformity of accounting policies, rather than at their fair values at the date of the merger. For accounting 
purposes, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed as a single public parent company (with their respective public shareholders 
being the shareholders in that single company). As a result the amounts attributable to both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited public 
shareholders are included in the amounts attributed to owners of Rio Tinto on the statement of financial position, income statement 
and statement of comprehensive income. 
Australian Corporations Act 
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with an order, under section 340 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, issued 
by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) on 22 December 2010. The main provisions of the order are that the 
financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS and include a reconciliation from EU IFRS to the Australian Accounting 
Standards (see above). 
For further details of the ASIC Class Order relief, see page 254.  www.riotinto.com 163
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Notes to the 2010 financial statements 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies 
Corporate information 
The financial statements of the Group were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors’ resolution on 4 March 2011. Rio Tinto 
plc and Rio Tinto Limited are listed and incorporated respectively on Stock Exchanges in the United Kingdom and Australia. Rio Tinto 
plc’s registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, United Kingdom. Rio Tinto Limited’s registered office is at 120 
Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000. 
Rio Tinto’s business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources. Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, 
coal, uranium, gold and industrial minerals (borax, titanium dioxide, salt, talc). Activities span the world but are strongly represented  
in Australia and North America with significant businesses in South America, Asia, Europe and Africa. 
Basis of preparation 
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010  
are set out below. 
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards both as adopted by the EU (“EU IFRS”) and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”), 
interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) adopted by the 
European Union that are mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2010, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting 
under IFRS and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities 
and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation. 
The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial 
statements for the year to 31 December 2009, except for the following: 
   IAS 1 (amendment), “Presentation of financial statements” 
   IAS 27 (revised) “Consolidated and separate financial statements”. The standard requires the effects of all increases or decreases in the 
ownership of subsidiaries to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control. They will therefore no longer result in goodwill or gains 
and losses. The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost. Any remaining interest in the company is re-measured to fair 
value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. 
   IAS 38 (amendment), “Intangible Assets” 
   IFRS 3 (amendment) “Business combinations”. Under the revised standard, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair 
value at the acquisition date with contingent payments classified as debt subsequently re-measured through the income statement. All 
acquisition related costs should be expensed. When a business is acquired in which the Group previously held a non-controlling stake, the 
existing stake is re-measured to fair value at the date of acquisition. Any difference between fair value and carrying value is taken to the 
income statement. 
   IFRS 5 (amendment), “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” 
   Eligible Hedged Items (an amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement) 
   IFRIC 17 Non cash distributions to owners 
   IFRS 2 amendment, “Share-based payment” – Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions 
   Improvements to IFRS 2009. This standard collates further minor changes to IFRS. 
The effect of adopting these standards, where the standards require retrospective application, is not material to Group earnings or to 
shareholders’ funds in the prior year. Therefore, prior year information has not been restated. A post tax gain of US$531 million has 
been recorded on the control of Oyu Tolgoi LLC in 2010 as a result of the application of the amendment to IFRS 3 with a consequent 
increase in the provisional fair value of identifiable net assets associated with the transaction. 
The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2010 but have been endorsed by the European Union:  
   Amendment to IAS 24, “Related party disclosures” – mandatory for year 2011. The definition of a related party has been clarified to simplify  
the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control. When the revised standard  
is applied, the Group and the parent will need to disclose any transactions between its subsidiaries and its associates. The Group is currently 
putting systems in place to capture the necessary information. It is, therefore, not possible at this stage to disclose the impact, if any, of the 
revised standard on the related party disclosures. 
   IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments – mandatory for year 2011 
   Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19, “Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement” – mandatory for year 2011 
   Improvements to IFRS 2010 – mandatory for year 2011. This standard collates further minor changes to IFRS  164 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
Standards and interpretations not yet endorsed by the European Union 
   Amendment to IAS 12, “Deferred Tax: Recovery of underlying assets“, mandatory for year 2012  
   IFRS 9, “Financial instruments”, mandatory for year 2013  
The Group is evaluating the impact of the above pronouncements. The above changes are not expected to be material to the Group’s 
earnings or to shareholders’ funds. 
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgment and/or estimation. These judgments and estimates are 
based on management’s best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual 
results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements. Information about such judgments and estimation is 
contained in the accounting policies and/or the Notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below. 
Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: 
   Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies  
(DLC) structure (page 162) 
   Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges and reversals note 1(e) and (i), note 5 and note 11  
   Estimation of asset lives – note 1(e) and (i) 
   Determination of ore reserve estimates – note 1(j) 
   Close down, restoration and clean up obligations – note 1(k) 
   Deferral of stripping costs – note 1(h) 
   Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions – note 1(m) 
   Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 1(m) and note 18(d) and (e) 
   Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs – note 1(f) 
   Identification of functional currencies – note 1(d) 
   The definition of Underlying earnings – note 2 
   Acquisitions – note 1(b) 
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities within the next financial year are: 
   Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges and reversals note 1(e) and (i), note 5 and note 11 
   Estimation of close down and restoration costs and the timing of expenditure – note 1(k) and note 27 
   Estimation of environmental clean up costs and the timing of expenditure – note 1(k) and note 27 
   Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs – note 50 
   Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets – note 1(m) and note 18(d) and (e) 
   Contingencies – note 1(k) and note 35 
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further on page 178. 
(a) Accounting convention 
The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, and for the related comparative 
period, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts, financial 
assets and post retirement assets and liabilities. The Group’s policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.  www.riotinto.com 165
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(b) Basis of consolidation 
The financial statements consist of the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (together “the Companies”) 
and their respective subsidiaries (together “the Group”).  
All intragroup balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits or losses, including unrealised profits arising from intragroup 
transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that 
they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. 
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities over which the Companies have the power to govern the financial and operating policies in order 
to obtain benefits from their activities. Control is presumed to exist where the Companies own more than one half of the voting rights 
(which does not always equate to percentage ownership) unless it can be demonstrated that ownership does not constitute control. 
Control does not exist where other parties hold veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions or where the Companies 
cannot obtain benefits from the activities of the entities they have the power to govern. Similarly, the Group has control where another 
party owns more than one half of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a contractual 
arrangement. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The 
consolidated financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Companies and their 
subsidiaries after eliminating intragroup transactions as noted above. 
For partly owned subsidiaries, the allocation of net assets and net earnings to outside shareholders is shown in the line ‘Attributable  
to non-controlling interests’ on the face of the Group statement of financial position and Group income statement. 
Associates: An associate is an entity, that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, over whose operating and financial policies the Group 
exercises significant influence. Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group has between 20 per cent and 50 per cent  
of the voting rights, but can also arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent if it has the power to be actively involved and 
influential in policy decisions affecting the entity. The Group’s share of the net assets, post tax results and reserves of associates are 
included in the financial statements using the equity accounting method. This involves recording the investment initially at cost to  
the Group, which therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition, and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the 
investment to reflect the Group’s share of the associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses, which is recognised in the income statement, 
and its share of post-acquisition comprehensive income, which is recognised within the line item ‘share of other comprehensive 
income of equity accounted units’ in the Group statement of comprehensive income. Unrealised gains on transactions between the 
Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. 
Joint ventures: A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject 
to joint control. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that significant operating and financial decisions 
require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. In some situations, joint control exists even though the Group has an ownership 
interest of more than 50 per cent because of the veto rights held by joint venture partners. The Group has two types of joint ventures: 
Jointly controlled entities (JCEs): A JCE is a joint venture that involves the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity  
in which each venturer has a long term interest. JCEs are accounted for using the equity accounting method. In addition, for both associates 
and jointly controlled entities, the carrying value will include any long term debt interests that in substance form part of the Group’s  
net investment. 
Jointly controlled assets (JCAs): A JCA is a joint venture in which the venturers have joint control over the assets contributed to or acquired 
for the purposes of the joint venture. JCAs do not involve the establishment of a corporation, partnership or other entity. This includes 
situations where the participants derive benefit from the joint activity through a share of the production, rather than by receiving a 
share of the results of trading. The Group’s proportionate interest in the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of JCAs are 
incorporated into the Group’s financial statements under the appropriate headings. The Group uses the term “Equity accounted units” 
to refer to associates and jointly controlled entities collectively. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.  166 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
Acquisitions 
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of accounting is used whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to  
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities (identifiable net assets) of the subsidiary on the basis of fair value at the  
date of acquisition. Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.  
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and  
the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from  
a contingent consideration arrangement. Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred. On an acquisition  
by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Where the Group has a previously held interest in the acquiree, this is 
remeasured to fair value at acquisition with any gain or loss being recognised in the income statement. 
The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint 
control or significant influence commences. 
Disposals 
Individual non-current assets or “disposal groups” (ie groups of assets and liabilities) to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single 
transaction, are classified as “held for sale” if the following criteria are met: 
   the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and 
   the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales, and 
   the sale is highly probable. 
Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are presented separately  
on the face of the statement of financial position with the related assets and liabilities being presented as a single asset and a single 
liability respectively. Comparative statement of financial position information is not restated. Disposal groups acquired with a view  
to resale are held at fair value determined at the acquisition date and no profits or losses are recognised between acquisition date  
and disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment. 
For a disposal group held for sale that continues to be carried at its carrying amount, the profit on disposal, calculated as net sales proceeds less 
the carrying amount, is recognised in the income statement in the period during which control passes to the buyer. Where the fair 
value less costs to sell of a disposal group is lower than the carrying amount at the time of classification as held for sale, the resulting 
charge is recognised in the income statement in that period. On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated. 
When the fair value less costs to sell of a disposal group falls below the carrying amount during the period in which it is classified as 
held for sale, the charge is included in the income statement at that time. 
If the disposal group or groups represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or are part of a single 
coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or are subsidiaries acquired 
exclusively with a view to resale, they are classified as “discontinued operations”. The net results attributable to such discontinued 
operations are shown separately and comparative figures in the income and cash flow statements are restated.  
The Group accounts for transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. 
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the 
carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also 
recorded in equity. The results of businesses are taken out of the financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or 
significant influence ceases. At this point any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying 
amount recognised in the income statement. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting 
for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the appropriate share of the 
related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the 
income statement.  www.riotinto.com 167
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(c) Sales revenue 
Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts, with most sales being priced ex works, free on board (fob) or cost, 
insurance and freight (cif). Amounts billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classed as sales revenue where the 
Group is responsible for carriage, insurance and freight. All shipping and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as 
operating costs. If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against the relevant costs. Revenue  
from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. 
Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes. Mining royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance  
a profit based tax, within taxes. Gross sales revenue disclosed as part of the income statement includes the Group’s share of the sales 
revenue of equity accounted units. To avoid duplication, this excludes sales by jointly controlled entities to third parties of products 
purchased from the Group and sales by jointly controlled entities of products to the Group for onward sale to third parties. It also 
excludes charges by jointly controlled entities to the Group. Co-product revenues are included in sales revenue. 
A large proportion of Group production is sold under medium to long term contracts, but sales revenue is only recognised on individual 
sales when all of the following criteria are met: 
   the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer; 
   neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods  
sold, has been retained; 
   the amount of revenue can be measured reliably; 
   it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group; and 
   the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably. 
These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer. In most instances sales revenue is recognised when  
the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped,  
the destination port or the customer’s premises. 
Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer. In such cases, sales revenue  
is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Group’s best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently. 
Certain products are “provisionally priced”, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging 
from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract. 
As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration 
receivable based on forward market prices. At each reporting date provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward 
selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract. For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those 
products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange  
and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market. 
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue. Information on 
provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note 33.  
Certain of the Group’s products, such as iron ore, were previously sold under long term contracts at a benchmark price. During 2010, 
pricing for the majority of iron ore customers changed to a quarterly basis reflecting the structural shift away from annual benchmark 
pricing. Consistent with prior years, where the benchmark price has not been formally agreed by individual customers at the end of  
an accounting period, revenue is reported based on the best available information, having reference to the terms of the contractual 
agreement and, where appropriate, to sales with other customers. 
(d) Currency translation 
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which it operates. For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they operate. Transactions 
denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction 
unless hedge accounting applies, in which case the contract rate is used. Generally, this applies when derivatives or embedded derivatives  
are designated as cash flow hedges of the Group’s sales. The Group’s accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and  
hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1(p) (iii). Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  
currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.  168 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
The US dollar is the currency in which the Group’s financial statements are presented, as it most reliably reflects the global business 
performance of the Group as a whole. On consolidation, income statement items are translated from the functional currency into US 
dollars at average rates of exchange. Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars at year end exchange rates. 
Exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar, and any offsetting 
exchange differences on net debt hedging those net assets, are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve via the 
statement of comprehensive income (with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limited’s share capital which 
are shown in the Group statement of changes in equity). 
Exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Group entities are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve where 
the intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Group’s net investment in the entity.  
The balance of the foreign currency translation reserve relating to an operation that is disposed of is transferred to the income 
statement at the time of the disposal. 
The Group finances its operations primarily in US dollars but part of the Group’s US dollar debt is located in subsidiaries having 
functional currencies other than the US dollar. Except as noted above, exchange gains and losses relating to such US dollar debt are 
charged or credited to the Group’s income statement in the year in which they arise. This means that the impact of financing in US 
dollars on the Group’s income statement is dependent on the functional currency of the particular subsidiary where the debt is located. 
Exchange differences arising on closure provisions are capitalised at operating mines. Except as noted above, or in note 1 (p) relating to derivative 
contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise. 
(e) Goodwill and intangible assets (excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure) 
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair 
value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase,  
the values assigned are reassessed. Any excess after that reassessment is recognised directly in the income statement. 
Goodwill is initially determined based on provisional fair values. Fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date. 
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is separately disclosed and goodwill on acquisitions of associates and JCEs is included within 
investments in equity accounted units. Acquisitions of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests are described in note 1 (b).  
In 1997 and previous years, goodwill was eliminated against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy, as was 
then permitted under UK GAAP. Such goodwill was not reinstated under subsequent UK accounting standards or on transition to IFRS. 
Goodwill is not amortised; rather it is tested annually for impairment. Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit or group of cash 
generating units expected to benefit from the related business combination for the purposes of impairment testing which is carried out 
in accordance with accounting policy note 1(i). Goodwill impairments cannot be reversed. Investments in equity accounted units are 
tested for impairment as a single asset. Goodwill included in the Group’s investment in equity accounted units is not tested on an 
annual basis therefore but only as part of the Group’s overall testing for impairment when a trigger for impairment has been identified. 
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or 
arises from contractual or legal rights, and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition. 
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost and finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives 
on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate. Intangible assets having indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not 
yet ready for use are not amortised and are reviewed annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1(i). 
Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable 
limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. The factors considered in making this determination 
include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms; or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant 
incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Group’s future investment intentions. The life 
cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered. Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line 
basis, the following useful lives have been determined for classes of intangible assets: 
Trademark, patented and non-patented technology 
Trademarks: 14 to 20 years 
Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years 
Other intangible assets 
Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years 
Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years 
Contract based intangible assets 
Power contracts: 2 to 39 years 
Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years  www.riotinto.com 169
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(f) Exploration and evaluation 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: 
   researching and analysing existing exploration data; 
   conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling; 
   examining and testing extraction and treatment methods; and/or 
   compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies. 
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential. Evaluation expenditure arises from a 
detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential. Expenditure on exploration 
activity is not capitalised. 
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence in the project’s viability and hence it is 
probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group. 
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation amounts are reviewed twice per annum by management and the results of these reviews 
are reported to the Audit committee. In the case of undeveloped projects, there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for the 
impairment review. The review is based on a status report regarding the Group’s intentions for development of the undeveloped 
project. In some cases, the undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production. 
Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or 
to replace the reduced output which results where existing smelters and/or refineries are closed. It is often the case that technological  
and other improvements will allow successor smelters and/or refineries to more than replace the capacity of their predecessors. 
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project. If a project 
does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off. 
(g) Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of property, 
plant and equipment comprises its purchase price, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary 
for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimated close down and restoration costs associated with 
the asset. Once a mining project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and 
equipment is capitalised under “Mining properties and leases” together with any amount transferred from “Exploration and evaluation”. 
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be 
extracted economically. The process of mining overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping. During the development of a 
mine (or pit), before production commences, stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine. 
Costs associated with commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, are capitalised. Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are 
expected to give rise to a future economic benefit. Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised 
until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete. 
(h) Deferred stripping 
As noted above, stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine (or pit) before production commences are capitalised as part of 
the cost of constructing the mine (or pit) and subsequently amortised over the life of the mine (or pit) on a units of production basis. 
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs are 
accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit. If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of 
mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs. In such 
cases, the initial stripping (ie overburden and other waste removal) of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production 
phase stripping relating to the combined operation.  170 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
The Group’s determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mine’s specific 
circumstances. The following factors would point towards the stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: 
   If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently. 
   If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset. 
   If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden and ore mining, rather than as an 
integrated unit. 
   If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large. 
   If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody. 
This additional factor would point to an integrated operation in accounting for stripping costs: 
   If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits 
combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits. 
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case to determine whether, on balance, the stripping costs 
should be attributed to the individual pit or to the combined output from the several pits.  
The Group defers stripping costs incurred subsequently, during the production stage of its operations, for those operations where this is the 
most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits and the effect is material. This is generally the case where 
there are fluctuations in stripping costs over the life of the mine (or pit). The amount of stripping costs deferred is based on the ratio (“Ratio”) 
obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste mined either by the quantity of ore mined or by the quantity of minerals contained in the ore. In 
some operations, the quantity of ore is a more practical basis for matching costs with the related economic benefits where there are important 
co-products or where the grade of the ore is relatively stable from year to year. Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent 
that the current period Ratio exceeds the life of mine (or pit) Ratio. Such deferred costs are then charged against reported profits to the extent 
that, in subsequent periods, the current period Ratio falls short of the life of mine (or pit) Ratio. 
The life of mine (or pit) Ratio is based on proved and probable reserves of the mine (or pit). The life of mine (or pit) waste-to-ore Ratio  
is a function of the pit design(s) and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the Ratio. Changes in other technical  
or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life of mine (or pit) Ratio even if they do not affect the 
pit design(s). Changes to the life of mine (or pit) Ratio are accounted for prospectively. 
In the production stage of some mines (or pits), further development of the mine (or pit) requires a phase of unusually high overburden removal 
activity that is similar in nature to pre-production mine development. The costs of such unusually high overburden removal activity are deferred 
and charged against reported profits in subsequent periods on a units of production basis. This accounting treatment is consistent with that for 
stripping costs incurred during the development phase of a mine (or pit), before production commences. 
Deferred stripping costs are included in “Mining properties and leases” within property, plant and equipment or in “Investments in 
equity accounted units”, as appropriate. These form part of the total investment in the relevant cash generating unit, which is reviewed 
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Amortisation of deferred 
stripping costs is included in net operating costs or in the Group’s share of the results of its equity accounted units, as appropriate. 
(i) Depreciation and impairment 
Depreciation of non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter. Depreciation 
commences when an asset is available for use. The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units  
of production and/or straight line basis as follows: 
Units of production basis 
For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the economic benefits from the asset are consumed in a pattern which 
is linked to the production level. Except as noted below, such assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.   www.riotinto.com 171
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Straight line basis 
Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life 
shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: 
Land and Buildings 
Land: Not depreciated  
Buildings: 5 to 50 years 
Plant and equipment 
Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years 
Power assets: 25 to 100 years 
Capital work in progress: Not depreciated 
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date. Changes to the estimated 
residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively. In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated 
using the quantity of material extracted from the mine in the period as a percentage of the total quantity of material to be extracted in current 
and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources. Such non-reserve material may be 
included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction. 
Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an orebody, and which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves, are 
depreciated over the estimated life of that discrete section. Development costs incurred which benefit the entire orebody are 
depreciated over the estimated life of the orebody. 
Impairment of non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the 
carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 
“Impairment of Assets”, are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows, which are largely independent of the 
cash inflows from other assets. In some cases, the business units within product groups consist of several operations with independent 
cash generating streams, which therefore constitute separate cash-generating units. 
In addition, an impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount over the fair value less costs to sell of a non-current 
asset or disposal group held for sale. 
Goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment annually or at any 
time during the year if an indicator of impairment is identified. Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the 
cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the related business combination. The  
cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored  
for internal management purposes, and these groups are not larger than the reporting segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 
“Operating segments”. 
When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use (being the net 
present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition) and fair value less costs to sell 
(“fair value”). The best evidence of fair value is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement. Where neither 
exists, fair value is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit 
in an arm’s length transaction. This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques. 
Where recoverable amount is assessed using fair value based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on 
detailed “life of mine“ and/or production plans. For value in use, recent cost levels are considered, together with expected changes in 
costs that are compatible with the current condition of the business and which meet the requirements of IAS 36. 
The cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on management’s best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including  
the future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental clean up. These may include net cash flows 
expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of mineral resources that do not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or 
probable ore reserves. Such non-reserve material is included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction. This 
expectation is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing reserves. 
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve reserve status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring  
costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of the mine. 
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for fair value purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long 
term production plan for the cash-generating unit. Because future cash flows are estimates for the asset in its current condition, value  
in use does not reflect future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an asset’s performance. Anticipated enhancements  
to assets are included in fair value calculations.  172 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows 
reflect long term mine plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from 
investment, output and sequence of extraction. The mine plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including 
waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the ore impacting on process recoveries and 
capacities of processing equipment that can be used. The life-of-mine plan is therefore the basis for forecasting production output in 
each future year and for forecasting production costs. 
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate. Where this is 
the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long lived processing equipment generally 
relate to the expected life of the orebody. The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan. Where the major 
assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining 
service potential of long lived assets. In the case of smelters, factors affecting the remaining service potential include smelter technology and 
electricity contracts when the power is not sourced from the company’s own electricity generating capacity. 
Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for Joint Ore Reserves Committee (JORC) purposes and for impairment testing are generally based 
on Rio Tinto’s long term price forecasts of commodity prices, which assume market prices will revert to the Group’s assessment of the  
long term price, generally over a period of three to five years. These long term commodity prices, for most commodities, are derived from a 
combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities. These assessments often differ 
from current price levels and are updated periodically. For the long run, the Group does not believe that forward prices quoted in the metals 
markets provide a good indication of future price levels since forward prices tend to be strongly influenced by spot price levels.  
In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales volumes of a cash-generating unit are predetermined by existing sales 
contracts. The effects of such contracts are taken into account in forecasting future cash flows. 
The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. The Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk 
profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units operate. For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, 
internal hurdle rates are used which are generally higher than the weighted average cost of capital. 
For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional 
currency. The great majority of the Group’s sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars. To the extent that the currencies of 
countries in which the Group produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, 
therefore, net present values are reduced. 
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to compensate to some extent 
for movements in the value of the US dollar (and vice versa). However, such compensating changes are not synchronised and do not 
fully offset each other. In estimating fair value, a forecast of the long term exchange rates, for the Australian and Canadian dollars, is 
made having regard to spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and is linked to price assumptions.  
When calculating value in use, IAS 36 requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment. 
Non financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are tested for possible reversal of the impairment whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment may have reversed. 
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment regardless 
of whether there has been any change in events or circumstances. 
(j) Determination of ore reserve estimates 
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance 
with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 (“the JORC 
code”). Reserves, and for certain mines, other mineral resources, determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, 
amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payment  
of close down and restoration costs and clean up costs. 
In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree  
of confidence of economic extraction.  www.riotinto.com 173
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(k) Provisions and contingencies 
The Group holds provisions for close down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and 
the removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas. Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, 
and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the life of the mine. Although the ultimate cost to 
be incurred is uncertain, the Group’s businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using 
current restoration standards and techniques. 
Estimated close down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related 
disturbance occurs, whether this occurs during the mine development or during the production phase, based on the net present value 
of estimated future costs. Provisions for close down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected 
to arise from future disturbance. The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan. The cost estimates are updated annually during 
the life of the operation to reflect known developments, eg revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives of operations, and are 
subject to formal review at regular intervals. 
The initial closure provision together with other movements in the provisions for close down and restoration costs, including those 
resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are 
capitalised within property, plant and equipment. These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate. 
The amortisation or “unwinding” of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income 
statement in each accounting period. The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating cost. 
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for 
the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the 
income statement. 
Clean up costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of mining, including remediation, compensation and 
penalties. Provision is made for the estimated present value of the costs of environmental clean up obligations outstanding at the statement of 
financial position date. These costs are charged to the income statement. Movements in the environmental clean up provisions are presented 
as an operating cost, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown as a financing cost. Remediation procedures may commence 
soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years 
depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques. 
Other provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting 
from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow and timing can be reliably estimated. The timing of recognition and 
quantification of the liability requires the application of judgment to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to change. A 
change in estimate of a recognised provision or liability would result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the change 
occurs, with the exception of close down and restoration costs described above. 
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised within finance costs.  
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of 
the Group. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of 
economic resources is considered remote. 
(l) Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis. Average costs are 
calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the current month together with those in opening inventory. Cost for raw 
materials and stores is purchase price and for partly processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production. For this  
purpose the costs of production include: 
   labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore; 
   the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore; and 
   production overheads. 
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing. If there is significant uncertainty as to when  
the stockpiled ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred. Where the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, eg 
because it exceeds the mine’s cut off grade, it is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. If the ore will not be processed 
within the 12 months after the statement of financial position date it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value  
is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis. Work in progress inventory includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material. 
Quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.  174 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
(m) Taxation 
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or 
substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date. It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable 
in respect of previous periods. 
Temporary differences are the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability and its tax base. Full provision is made for 
deferred taxation on all temporary differences existing at the statement of financial position date with certain limited exceptions. The 
main exceptions to this principle are as follows: 
   tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities is provided for except 
where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future; 
   deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable 
profit and is not a business combination, such as on the recognition of a provision for close down and restoration costs and the related asset 
or on the recognition of new finance leases. Furthermore, with the exception of the unwinding of discount, deferred tax is not recognised on 
subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, for example where the related assets are depreciated or finance leases 
are repaid; and 
   deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered. Probable is defined as “more likely than 
not”. Recoverability is assessed having regard to the reasons why the deferred tax asset has arisen and projected future taxable profits for the 
relevant entity (or group of entities). 
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions. These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining 
rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances. In such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference 
between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base. The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not 
taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mineral rights because it is expected that the carrying 
amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from the disposal of mineral rights. Also, the Group is only entitled to a 
deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are sold or formally relinquished. 
Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.  
(n) Post employment benefits 
For defined benefit post employment plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets (if any) and the present value of the 
plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.  
Any asset recognised is restricted, if appropriate, to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds 
from the plan or reductions in future contributions. Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the statement of 
comprehensive income. For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and 
experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred. 
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including the current service cost, any past 
service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements. The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the 
income statement. The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the 
Group’s share of the results of equity accounted units as appropriate. 
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the long term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and 
the mortality assumptions. The long term rate of return on plan assets is used to calculate interest income on pension assets, which is credited 
to the Group’s income statement. The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of future liabilities. The discount rate used is the 
yield on high quality corporate bonds with maturity and terms that match those of the post employment obligations as closely as possible. 
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used. Each year, the unwinding of the 
discount on those liabilities is charged to the Group’s income statement as the interest cost. The mortality assumption is used to project the 
future stream of benefit payments, which is then discounted to arrive at a net present value of liabilities. 
Valuations of liabilities are carried out using the projected unit method. The long term rate of return on pension plan assets is 
determined as management’s best estimate of the long term return on the major asset classes, ie equity, debt, property and other, 
weighted by the actual allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date. The expected rate of return is calculated 
using geometric averaging. 
The values attributed to plan liabilities and the long term rate of return are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent 
qualified actuaries. 
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the 
contributions relate.  www.riotinto.com 175
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(o) Cash and cash equivalents 
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with 
banks and short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to 
insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand which are shown as current liabilities on the statement of financial position. 
(p) Financial instruments 
(i) Financial assets 
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-
for-sale and held to maturity investments. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition. 
(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 
Derivatives are included in this category unless they are designated as hedges. Assets in this category are classified based on their maturity. 
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term. Financial assets carried at fair value 
through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement. 
(b) Loans and receivables 
Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market, with the exception of items for which the Group may not recover substantially all of its investment for reasons other than 
credit deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale. Loans and receivables are classified as current assets or non-current 
assets based on their maturity date. Loans and receivables are included within “other financial assets” in the statement of financial 
position. Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost less any impairment. 
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the 
other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of 
the statement of financial position date. 
Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the 
holder other than equity investments, are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the 
security. The translation differences are recognised in profit or loss. Any impairment charges are also recognised in profit or loss, while 
other changes in fair value are recognised in equity. 
When financial assets classified as available-for-sale are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included 
in the income statement within “net operating costs”. 
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are also recognised in the income statement within “interest receivable and similar 
income” when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. 
Financial assets not carried at fair value through profit and loss are initially recognised on the trade date at fair value plus transaction costs. 
Financial assets are derecognised when the investments mature or are sold, and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
have been transferred. 
(ii) Financial liabilities 
Borrowings and other financial liabilities (excluding derivative liabilities) are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs 
incurred and are subsequently stated at amortised cost. Any difference between the amounts originally received (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method. 
Borrowings and other financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.  176 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
(iii) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 
The Group’s policy with regard to “Financial risk management” is set out in note 33. When the Group enters into derivative contracts 
these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions. 
Commodity based contracts that meet the definition of a derivative in IAS 39 but are entered into in accordance with the Group’s 
expected purchase or sales requirements are recognised in earnings as described in note 1(c), Sales revenue. 
All other derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs 
are expensed in the income statement. They are subsequently re-measured subject to IAS 39 at their fair value at each statement of 
financial position date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as  
a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the 
fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments (fair value hedges) or hedges of highly probable forecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges). 
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group 
wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The documentation 
includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the 
entity will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash 
flows attributable to the hedged risk. 
Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows are assessed on an ongoing basis to 
determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated. 
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income 
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the 
hedged risk. Where derivatives are held with different counterparties or with the same counterparty with no intention to settle net to 
the underlying asset or liability or firm commitment, the fair values of the derivative assets and liabilities are shown separately in the 
statement of financial position as there is no legal right of offset. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps 
hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within “interest payable and similar charges”. 
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the 
criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income 
statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is derecognised. 
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is 
recognised in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within “net 
operating costs”. Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place. The realised gain or loss relating to the effective 
portion of forward foreign exchange or commodity contracts hedging sales is recognised in the income statement within “sales revenue”. 
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously 
deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset. The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the 
income statement within “net operating costs” when the non-financial asset is amortised. 
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
although the forecasted transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in 
equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. 
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 
transferred to the income statement.  
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting: Any derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to 
market at the statement of financial position date.  
In respect of currency swaps, the gain or loss on the swap and offsetting gain or loss on the financial asset or liability against which the 
swap forms an economic hedge are shown in separate lines in the income statement within the lines “net gains/(losses) on derivatives 
not qualifying for hedge accounting” and “net exchange gains/(losses) on external debt and intragroup balances”. 
In respect of other derivatives, the mark to market may give rise to charges or credits to the income statement in periods before the 
transaction against which the derivative is held as an economic hedge is recognised. These charges or credits would be recognised  
in the line “net gains/(losses) on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting”. 
Embedded derivatives: Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives 
when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts. In some cases, the embedded derivatives may be 
designated as hedges and will be accounted for as described above.  www.riotinto.com 177
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(iv) Fair value 
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and 
willing parties. Where relevant market prices are available, these have been used to determine fair values. In other cases, fair values 
have been calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques consistent with 
general market practice applicable to the instrument. 
(a) The fair values of cash, short term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values,  
as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest. 
(b) The fair values of medium and long term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using  
quoted prices in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve. The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost. 
(c) Derivative financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based on published price quotations for the period for which  
a liquid active market exists. Beyond this period, the Group’s own assumptions are used. 
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 34. Movements on the hedging 
reserve are disclosed within note 30. 
(v) Impairment of financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets 
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of 
financial assets is impaired. In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a 
decline in fair value is “significant” or “prolonged” based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the 
technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates. 
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost (net of any principal payment 
and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement is transferred from 
equity to the income statement. Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income 
statement. Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair  
value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. 
(vi) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
Financial assets 
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows that comprise the financial asset expire or substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset are transferred. 
Financial liabilities 
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired. Gains and losses on 
derecognition are recognised within finance income and finance costs respectively. 
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and 
the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. 
(vii) Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost reduced by any provision for impairment. 
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect 
all amounts due. Indicators of impairment would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtor’s insolvency, 
default in payment or a significant deterioration in credit worthiness. Any impairment is recognised in the income statement within 
“net operating costs”. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously 
written off are credited against “net operating costs” in the income statement. 
(viii) Trade payables 
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  178 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
(q) Share based payments 
The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards. Movements in that liability 
between accounting dates are recognised as an expense. The grant date fair value of the awards is determined from the market value  
of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any market based vesting conditions attached to the award eg relative Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) performance. Fair values are subsequently re-measured at each accounting date to reflect the market value of shares at the 
measurement date and, where relevant, the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance. If  
any awards are ultimately settled in shares, the liability is transferred directly to equity as part of the consideration for the equity 
instruments issued. 
The Group’s equity-settled share plans are settled either by the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, by the purchase of shares  
on market or by the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy back. The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an 
expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves 
for Rio Tinto Limited plans. 
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to the appropriate reserve. The fair 
value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions attached to the 
award (eg TSR). 
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using a lattice based option valuation model. 
Non-market based vesting conditions (eg earnings per share targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest. 
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which 
point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited 
or not exercised. 
The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date. If a cash-settled plan changes to become equity-
settled then the accumulated liability is transferred directly to equity at the date of change. 
Further information about the treatment of individual share based payment plans is provided in note 49. 
(r) Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity 
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 
Where any group company purchases the Group’s equity share capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly 
attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. Where such shares are 
subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related 
income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. 
(s) Contingent assets 
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements but they are disclosed by way of note if they are deemed probable.  
Critical accounting policies and estimates 
(i) Dual listed company reporting  
As explained in detail in the “Outline of dual listed companies’ structure and basis of financial statements” section on page 162, the 
consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed 
companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries. In other words, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are viewed 
as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company. 
The 2010 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law,  
as amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 22 December 2010. The 2010 financial 
statements disclose the effect of the adjustments to consolidated EU IFRS profit, consolidated total comprehensive income and 
consolidated shareholders’ funds for the Group that would be required under the Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). 
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Group’s global business performance. 
(ii) Impairment review of asset carrying values 
Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment in a particular year.  
Where the recoverable amounts of Group cash generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting 
valuations are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of long term commodity prices including the impact of carbon pricing  
on certain commodities, exchange rates, operating costs, the grouping of assets within cash-generating units and discount rates.  www.riotinto.com 179
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(iii) Estimation of asset lives determination of ore reserve estimates 
Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable 
limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group. The factors considered in making this determination 
include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms; or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant 
incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Group’s future investment intentions. 
Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance  
with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 (“the JORC 
code”). The amounts presented under EU IFRS and AAS are based on the reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined  
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may 
change significantly when new information becomes available. 
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status  
of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated. Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and 
amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close down and restoration costs. 
(iv) Close down, restoration and clean up obligations 
Provision is made for environmental remediation costs when the related environmental disturbance occurs, based on the net present 
value of estimated future costs. 
The ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes 
to the relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites. 
The expected timing of expenditure can also change, for example in response to changes in ore reserves or production rates or 
economic conditions. As a result there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down and restoration, which would 
affect future financial results. 
(v) Deferral of stripping costs 
Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production stage of the mine or pit. Some mining companies expense these 
production stage stripping costs as incurred, while others defer such stripping costs. In operations that experience material fluctuations 
in the ratio of waste materials to ore or contained minerals on a year to year basis over the life of the mine or pit, deferral of stripping 
costs reduces the volatility of the cost of stripping expensed in individual reporting periods. Those mining companies that expense 
stripping costs as incurred will therefore report greater volatility in the results of their operations from period to period. 
The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio is a function of an individual mine’s pit design and therefore changes to that design will generally 
result in changes to the ratio. Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves will also have an impact on the life  
of mine or pit ratio even if they do not affect the pit design. Changes to the life of mine or pit ratio are accounted for prospectively. 
The Group’s determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mine’s 
specific circumstances and the analysis requires judgment; another company could make the determination that a mine is separate or 
integrated differently than the Group, even if the fact pattern appears to be similar. To the extent the determination is different, the 
resulting accounting would also be different. 
During 2010, production stage stripping costs incurred by subsidiaries and equity accounted operations were US$123 million higher 
than the amounts charged against pre-tax profit (2009: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre tax profit by 
US$174 million; 2008: production stage costs exceeded the amounts charged against pre-tax profit by US$175 million).  
There was no impairment of deferred stripping in 2010. In 2009, US$59 million (2008: nil) of deferred stripping was written off as part 
of the Diamonds businesses impairment. 
The net book value carried forward in property, plant and equipment and in investments in jointly controlled entities and associates at 
31 December 2010 was US$1,298 million (2009: US$1,171 million; 2008: US$1,026 million). 
Information about the stripping ratios of the business units, including equity accounted units that account for the majority of the deferred 
stripping balance at 31 December 2010, along with the year in which deferred stripping is expected to be fully amortised, is set out  
in the following table:  
 
Actual stripping ratio for year  Life of mine stripping ratio 
 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Kennecott Utah Copper (2019) 
(a)
 2.09 2.13 1.98 1.48 1.21 1.24
Grasberg Joint Venture (2016) 
(a)
 4.15 3.42 3.27 3.13 3.00 2.87
Diavik (2012) 
(b)
 1.21 1.17 1.23 0.95 1.02 1.20
Escondida (2043) 
(c)
  0.13 0.11 0.12 0.14 0.14 0.10
(a) Stripping ratios shown are waste to ore. 
(b) Diavik’s stripping ratio is disclosed as bench cubic metre per carat. The 2010 deferred stripping ratio is based on commercial production of the A418 open pit scheduled to end commercial production in 
the last quarter of 2012. 
(c) Escondida’s stripping ratio is based on waste tonnes to pounds of copper mined. 
under the JORC code.  180 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
1 Principal accounting policies continued 
Rio Tinto Borax capitalised stripping costs as part of a distinct period of new development during the production stage of the mine. Capitalisation 
stopped in 2004. The capitalised costs will be fully amortised in 2034. 
(vi) Recognition of deferred tax on mineral rights recognised in acquisitions 
On transition to EU IFRS with effect from 1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions 
in previous years. No other adjustments were made to the assets and liabilities recognised in such prior year acquisitions and, accordingly, 
shareholders’ funds were reduced by US$720 million on transition to EU IFRS primarily as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments to 
mining rights. In general, these mining rights are not eligible for income tax allowances. In such cases, the provision for deferred tax 
was based on the difference between their carrying value and their nil income tax base. The existence of a tax base for capital gains tax 
purposes was not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision relating to such mineral rights because it is expected 
that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use and not from the disposal of the mineral rights. Also, the Group is  
only entitled to a deduction for capital gains tax purposes if the mineral rights are sold or formally relinquished. 
For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, provision for such deferred tax on acquisition results in a corresponding increase in the amounts 
attributed to goodwill under EU IFRS. 
(vii) Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs 
Under the Group’s accounting policy, exploration and evaluation expenditure is not capitalised until the point is reached at which there is a 
high degree of confidence in the project’s viability and it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group. 
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project. If a project 
does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are written off. 
(viii) Identification of functional currencies 
The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for jointly controlled entities and associates, is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which it operates. Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other mining 
companies may make different judgments based on similar facts. For many of Rio Tinto’s entities, this is the currency of the country in 
which they operate. The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its entities if there is a change in the underlying transactions, 
events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment. 
The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the statement of financial 
position and, as a consequence, the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement. It also impacts exchange gains and 
losses included in the income statement. 
(ix) The definition of Underlying earnings  
The Group presents “Underlying earnings” as an additional measure to provide greater understanding of the underlying business 
performance of its operations. The adjustments made to net earnings to arrive at Underlying earnings are explained in note 2. 
(x) Estimation of liabilities for post retirement costs 
The difference between the fair value of the plan assets (if any) of post retirement plans and the present value of the plan obligations  
is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position. The Group has adopted the option under IAS 19 to record 
actuarial gains and losses directly in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income. 
The sources used to determine management’s best estimate of long term returns are numerous and include country specific bond 
yields, which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country specific 
inflation and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts’ or governments’ expectations as applicable. 
In particular, the Group estimates long term expected returns on equity based on the economic outlook, analysts’ views and those of 
other market commentators. This is the most subjective of the assumptions used and it is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains 
consistent with best practice. 
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 50. 
For 2010 the charge against income for post retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$437 million. This 
charge included both pension and post retirement healthcare benefits. The charge is net of the expected return on assets which was  
US$531 million after tax and non-controlling interests. 
In calculating the 2010 expense, the average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.6 per cent and this will increase to  
3.7 per cent for 2011. The average discount rate used was 5.8 per cent and the average discount rate used in 2011 will be 5.2 per cent 
reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the regions where the Group has pension obligations. 
The weighted average expected long term rate of return on assets used to determine 2010 pension cost was 6.4 per cent. This will 
decrease to 5.9 per cent for 2011. This decrease results mainly from lower government bond yields in most territories which drives  
the assumed return on other asset classes.  www.riotinto.com 181
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the impact of post retirement costs on the 
Group’s EU IFRS net earnings in 2011 would be an expected increase of US$29 million to US$466 million. The actual charge may be 
impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such as the effect of changes in benefits and exchange rates. 
The table below sets out the potential change in the Group’s 2010 net earnings (after tax and outside interests) that would result from 
hypothetical changes to post retirement assumptions and estimates. The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a 
change in one assumption is likely to result in some offset elsewhere. 
The figures in the below table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings. Changing the assumptions would also have an 
impact on the statement of financial position. 
US$m 
Sensitivity of Group’s 2010 net earnings to changes in: 
Expected return on assets 
increase of 1 percentage point 82 
decrease of 1 percentage point (82)
Discount rate 
increase of 0.5 percentage points 7 
decrease of 0.5 percentage points (6)
Salary increases 
increase of 0.5 percentage points (9)
decrease of 0.5 percentage points 9 
Demographic – allowance for additional future mortality improvements 
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 18
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger (18)
(xi) Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets  
The Group has carried forward losses, mainly in the UK, French, Canadian and Australian tax groups, that have the potential to reduce 
tax payments in future years. Deferred tax assets have been recognised on these tax losses to the extent their recovery is probable, 
having regard to the projected future taxable profits of the relevant tax groups. 
The “possible tax assets” on these losses totalled US$2,013 million at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$1,882 million). Of these, US$1,452 million 
have been recognised as deferred tax assets (2009: US$1,286 million), leaving US$561 million (2009: US$596 million) unrecognised, as 
recovery is not considered probable. These amounts exclude capital losses which can only be recovered against future capital gains. 
Within the UK tax group, US$75 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets (2009: US$303 million), with no amounts 
unrecognised. Within the French tax group, US$485 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets (2009: US$419 million) 
with US$467 million unrecognised. Within the Canadian tax group, US$674 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 
(2009: US$393 million), with no amounts unrecognised. In addition to the above, capital losses of US$147 million have been recognised  
as deferred tax assets (2009: nil) which are recoverable against unrealised foreign exchange gains. Within the Australian tax group,  
US$192 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets (2009: US$132 million), with no amounts unrecognised. 
(xii) Contingencies 
Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote. Contingencies are 
disclosed in note 35. 
(xiii) Basis of consolidation 
In determining whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence, the Group considers whether other parties hold 
veto rights over significant operating and financial decisions. In some instances, the Group has control of an entity where other parties 
own more than one half, or in some cases all, of the voting rights of an entity but the Group can control those voting rights through a 
contractual arrangement. In such circumstances, the Group considers, in particular, whether it obtains non-financial benefits from its 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity.   182 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
2 Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings 
 
Pre-tax 
(i)
 
2010    
US$m   
Taxation
2010
US$m
Non-
controlling 
interests
2010
US$m
Discontinued   
   operations 
(i)
2010    
US$m   
Net  
Amount 
2010 
US$m 
Net 
Amount
2009
US$m
Net 
Amount
2008
US$m
Exclusions from Underlying earnings  
Gain on consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi 
(a)
 531  – – –  531  –– 
Profits on disposal of interests in businesses 
(b)
 308  (134) – –  174  499 1,470 
Impairment charges 
(c)
 (982)  243 – –  (739) (1,103) (7,579)
Loss after tax from discontinued operations 
(c)
 –  – – (97) (97) (449) (827)
Exchange and derivative gains/(losses):  
– Exchange gains/(losses) on US dollar net debt and 
intragroup balances 
(d)
 530   (133) 37 –  434  (56) 960 
– Gains/(losses) on currency and interest rate derivatives 
not qualifying for hedge accounting 
(e)
 75   (16) (3) –  56  9 (22)
– (Losses)/gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying 
for hedge accounting 
(f)
 (76)  15 – –  (61) 75 (95)
Chinalco break fee –  – – –  – (182) –
Restructuring costs from global headcount reduction 
(g)
 –  – – –  – (231) (57)
Other exclusions 
(h)
 (28)  67 – –  39  12 (477)
Total excluded from Underlying earnings 358   42 34 (97) 337  (1,426) (6,627)
Net earnings 20,577   (5,296) (860) (97) 14,324  4,872 3,676 
Underlying earnings 20,219   (5,338) (894) –  13,987  6,298 10,303 
“Underlying earnings” is an alternative measure of earnings which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations. Underlying earnings and 
Net earnings both represent amounts attributable to owners of Rio Tinto. 
Items (a) to (h) below are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings. 
(a) Rio Tinto consolidated Oyu Tolgoi LLC on 15 December 2010 following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines. The gain arising on consolidation represents the excess of the provisional fair 
value ascribed to the Group’s indirect share of the assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi over the historic cost of acquiring that share through its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. 
(b) Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2010 relate principally to the sale of the Group’s 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy Inc. Refer to note 41. 
 Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2009 related principally to sales of the Corumbá iron ore mine, the Jacobs Ranch coal mine and 52 per cent of  
Rio Tinto’s interest in Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC (CPER), and were partially offset by a loss from the sale of Alcan Composites.  
 Profits arising on the disposal of interests in businesses in 2008 related principally to the sales of the Cortez gold mine and the Greens Creek mine. 
 Profits arising on the disposal of interests in undeveloped projects which in 2010 included gains of US$229 million on disposal of the Vickery and Maules Creek coal projects, and in 2009 included gains 
on disposal of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada amounting to US$797 million, net of tax, were not excluded from Underlying earnings. 2008 profits on disposals of undeveloped 
projects, related principally to the sale of the undeveloped Kintyre uranium project in Western Australia and were not excluded from Underlying earnings. 
(c) Charges relating to impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets other than undeveloped projects but including discontinued operations.  
 Year ended 31 December 2010  
 The impairment charges of US$739 million for the year ended 31 December 2010 related mainly to Alcan Engineered Products businesses: US$589 million, the Group’s Diamond businesses: US$115 
million (net of reversals), and US$35 million in other impairments. All impairments have been measured based upon assessment of fair value. Divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products, 
excluding the Cable Division, was completed on 4 January 2011. Refer to note 41. 
 Loss after tax from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December 2010 of US$97 million (inclusive of divestment costs) relates to the completion of the disposal of Alcan Packaging global 
pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor on 1 February 2010, and the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. on 1 March 2010.  
 The impairment to the Group’s Diamond business was caused by changes in assumptions about future capital costs required to complete the Argyle underground project, offset by recovery in prices, 
which resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$158 million. 
 Years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 
 The impairment charges of US$1,103 million for the year ended 31 December 2009 related mainly to a write down on Alcan Engineered Products of US$500 million, the Group’s aluminium businesses of 
US$212 million, US$348 million on the Group’s Diamond businesses and US$43 million in other impairments. All impairments were measured based upon an assessment of fair value. 
 An impairment of US$318 million (31 December 2008: US$960 million) relating to the Alcan Packaging business was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2009, and was included in “Loss after 
tax from discontinued operations”. This impairment was based on an estimate of fair value less costs to sell, being the Group’s best estimate of expected proceeds to be realised on sale of Alcan Packaging, 
less an estimate of remaining costs to sell. “Loss after tax from discontinued operations” for the year ended 31 December 2009 of US$449 million (31 December 2008: US$827 million) also included a 
US$131 million tax charge (31 December 2008: US$133 million tax benefit) relating to an increase in the Group’s estimate of the tax to be paid on sale of the Alcan Packaging business. 
 The impairment charge of US$7,579 million for the year ended 31 December 2008 related mainly to the Group’s aluminium businesses: US$6,127 million and Alcan Engineered Products: US$980 million. 
This includes amounts relating to equity accounted units (EAUs) of US$15 million.  
(d) Exchange gains and losses on US dollar debt and intragroup balances.  
 The 2010 and 2009 tax on exchange gains and losses on external debt and intragroup balances include tax charges on gains on US dollar denominated debt. However, in 2009 a significant proportion  
of the pre-tax losses on intragroup balances were not subject to tax. 
 The 2008 tax on exchange gains and losses on external debt and intragroup balances included a benefit of US$254 million through recovery of tax relating to prior years. It also included tax relief for  
losses on US dollar denominated debt. The pre-tax gains on intragroup balances were largely not subject to tax. 
(e) Valuation changes on currency and interest rate derivatives which are ineligible for hedge accounting, other than those embedded in commercial contracts, and the currency revaluation of embedded  
US dollar derivatives contained in contracts held by entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar.  www.riotinto.com 183
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
(f) Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, including those embedded in commercial contracts, that are ineligible for hedge accounting, but for which there will be an offsetting change in future  
Group earnings. 
(g) During 2009, the Group incurred restructuring costs relating to the cost saving measures announced in December 2008. 
(h) Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance. 
 During 2008, the Group incurred advisory and other costs related to the rejection by the board of the pre-conditional takeover proposal from BHP Billiton, which was withdrawn in November 2008.  
These costs totalled US$270 million (net of tax) in 2008 and have been excluded from Underlying earnings. Other charges excluded from Underlying earnings in 2008, 2009 and 2010 comprise costs 
relating to acquisitions, disposals and similar corporate projects. 
(i) Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to both EAUs and discontinued operations are stated net of tax. Exclusions from Underlying earnings relating to EAUs are included in the column 
“Pre-tax“ and the results of discontinued operations are shown in the column “Discontinued operations”. 
3 Net operating costs  
Note 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Raw materials and consumables  13,409  11,501 16,248 
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 369  387 429 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 3,068  3,040 3,046 
Employment costs  4 6,406  6,198 6,603 
Repairs and maintenance  1,946  1,771 1,960 
Shipping costs  1,890  1,828 2,495 
Other freight costs  838  756 815 
(Increase)/decrease in finished goods and work in progress  (377) 517 (163)
Royalties   2,104  1,539 1,946 
Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities 
(a)
  2,934  2,420 2,473 
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses  (4) 123 (379)
Other external costs  3,304  3,127 2,230 
Provisions (including exchange differences on provisions) 27 907  930 265 
Research and development  187  193 307 
Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation  (140) (136) (259)
Other operating income  (174) (376) (375)
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately)  36,667  33,818 37,641 
(a) Amounts charged by jointly controlled entities mainly relate to toll processing but also include purchases from jointly controlled entities of bauxite and aluminium which are then processed by the 
product group or sold to third parties. Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Group’s share of the jointly controlled entity but in 2010, US$564 million (2009: US$491 million; 2008: nil) related to 
purchases of the other venturer’s share of production.  
 Information on auditors’ remuneration is included in note 43. 
4 Employment costs 
Note 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Employment costs    
– Wages and salaries  6,328  6,130 6,414 
– Social security costs  98  101 113 
– Net post retirement cost 50 573  524 502 
– Share option charge/(credit) 49 124  177 (22)
  7,123  6,932 7,007 
Less: charged within provisions  (717) (734) (404)
Total employment costs 3 6,406  6,198 6,603
  184 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
5 Impairment charges 
Pre-tax 
(a)
 
2010     
US$m    
Taxation
2010 
US$m
Outside 
interests
2010 
US$m
Net  
amount 
2010 
US$m 
Net 
amount
2009
US$m
Net     
amount    
2008 
(f)
US$m    
Aluminium 
(b)
 –    – – – (212) (6,127)  
Alcan Engineered Products 
(c)
 (805)  216 – (589) (500) (980)  
Diamonds 
(d)
 (135)  20 – (115) (348) (107)  
HIsmelt
®
 
(e)
  (41)  7 – (34) – (182)  
Other (1)  – – (1) (43) (168)  
Total 
(a)
 (982)  243 – (739) (1,103) (7,564)  
(a) The majority of the 2010 pre-tax impairment charge related to property, plant and equipment (US$773 million – net of US$248 million of reversals) and provisions raised (US$197 million). The majority of 
the 2009 impairment charge relates to property, plant and equipment (US$1,290 million) and intangible assets (US$179 million), with the remainder relating to investments in EAUs. The majority of the 
2008 impairment charge related to goodwill (US$6,621 million), property, plant and equipment (US$1,222 million) and intangible assets (US$129 million), with the remainder relating to investments in 
EAUs. 
(b) The 2009 impairment charge related mainly to the planned closure of certain smelters, and was caused by a decrease in short term price assumptions at the date of the impairment review. The 
recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs to sell, and was assessed in line with the policy in note 1(i). The 2008 impairment charge related mainly to the write-down of goodwill resulting from 
the annual impairment review, due to the deferral of growth projects following significant weakening in economic and market circumstances, and increases in input costs. 
(c) Impairment to the Alcan Engineered Products businesses during 2010 arose following finalisation of the proceeds and terms of the proposed sales transaction, which affected the assessment of fair value 
less costs to sell. The proceeds are assessed in line with the policy in note 1(i). Refer to note 19 for further details. 
(d) The impairment to the Group’s Diamonds business during 2010 was caused by changes in assumptions about future capital costs required to complete the Argyle underground project, offset by recovery  
in prices, which resulted in a reversal of impairment relating to Diavik of US$158 million post-tax. The estimate of fair value less costs to sell was based on the policy in note 1(i). The impairment to the 
Group’s Diamonds business during 2009 was caused by weak demand for luxury items and higher input costs. Impairment of property, plant and equipment was assessed by reference to the fair value 
less costs to sell of the cash generating units (CGUs). 
(e) In December 2010, the HIsmelt
®
 joint venture partners agreed to permanently close the Kwinana site and terminate the joint venture. The majority of closure work is expected to be completed by 2014.  
In 2008, full provision was made against the carrying value of the HIsmelt
®
 operation, which is within the Iron Ore product group.  
(f) Total impairment charges in the reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings for 2008, included US$15 million relating to EAUs, which is not included in the table above. 
6 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Sales revenue 
(a)
 4,722  3,020 3,801 
Operating costs (2,818) (1,717) (2,158)
Profit before finance items and taxation 1,904  1,303 1,643 
Finance items (87) (49) (44)
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 21  23 36 
Profit before taxation 1,838  1,277 1,635 
Taxation (737) (491) (596)
Profit for the year (Rio Tinto share) 1,101  786 1,039 
(a) Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by jointly controlled entities to Group subsidiaries.  www.riotinto.com 185
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
7 Interest receivable and payable  
Note 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Interest receivable and similar income from:    
– Equity accounted units  33  36 43 
– Interest income from bank deposits  81  45 72 
– Interest income from other financial assets  21  21 35 
  135  102 150 
Other interest receivable  28  18 54 
Total interest receivable and similar income  163  120 204 
    
Interest payable and similar charges 
(a)
  (853) (1,127) (1,821)
Net refinancing charge 
(b)
  (107) – – 
Amounts capitalised 13 182  198 203 
Total interest payable and similar charges  (778) (929) (1,618)
(a) Interest payable and similar charges relates to interest on bank loans and other borrowings. This includes a fair value gain on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$186 million and an offsetting fair value 
loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk of US$196 million (2009: fair value loss on the interest rate swaps of US$59 million and an offsetting fair value gain on bank borrowings attributable to 
interest rate risk of US$59 million; 2008: fair value gain on the interest rate swaps of US$669 million and a US$655 million fair value loss on bank borrowings attributable to interest rate risk). 
(b) Net charge on the refinancing of bonds in October 2010 includes premium of US$252 million, offset by mark to market hedge fair value adjustments of US$167 million (note 33). 
8 Taxation 
Note 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
UK taxation    
Corporation tax at 28%    
– Current  –  1 – 
– Deferred  286  – (46)
  286  1 (46)
Australian taxation   
Corporation tax at 30%    
– Current  3,785  1,829 3,005 
– Deferred  398  391 (812)
  4,183  2,220 2,193 
Other countries taxation   
– Current  1,241  763 1,711 
– Deferred  (414) (908) (116)
  827  (145) 1,595 
Total taxation charge   
– Current  5,026  2,593 4,716 
– Deferred 18 270  (517) (974)
  5,296  2,076 3,742 
  186 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
8 Taxation continued 
Prima facie tax reconciliation 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Profit before taxation  20,577  7,860 9,178 
Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units  (1,101) (786) (1,039)
Parent companies’ and subsidiaries’ profit before tax  19,476  7,074 8,139 
    
Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 28%   5,453  1,981 2,279 
Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings at 30%  295  136 226 
Impact of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings 
(a)
  (143) 347 919 
Adjustments to deferred tax liabilities following changes in tax rates  (96) (22) (25)
Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia   110  113 206 
Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances  (163) (132) (129)
Research, development and other investment allowances  (74) (55) (72)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets  (13) (36) (160)
Unrecognised current year operating losses  95  105 163 
Foreign exchange differences  (63) (167) 197 
Withholding taxes  35  73 95 
Non-taxable gains on asset disposals 
(b)
  –  (208) – 
Other items  (140) (59) 43 
Total taxation charge 
(c)
   5,296  2,076 3,742
(a) An analysis of the impact on the tax reconciliation of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings is given below: 
 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Impairment charges (23) (5) 1,806 
Gains on disposals of businesses and on newly consolidated operations (101) – 136 
Exchange losses/(gains) on intragroup balances 46  332 (723)
Exchange gains on external debt (61) – (332)
Exchange (gains)/losses on derivatives and others (17) 25 (19)
Other exclusions 13  (5) 51 
 (143) 347 919 
(b) The non-taxable gains on asset disposals in 2009 relate to undeveloped potash assets in Argentina. 
(c) This tax reconciliation relates to the Group’s parent companies, subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units. The Group’s share of profit of equity accounted units is net of tax charges of US$737 
million (2009: US$491 million; 2008: US$596 million).  www.riotinto.com 187
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
The tax credit/(charge) relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 
2010 
Attributable to: 
2009 
Attributable to: 
Owners 
of Rio Tinto
US$m
Non-
controlling 
interests
US$m
Total  
US$m 
Owners  
of Rio Tinto 
US$m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
US$m
Total 
US$m
Tax on exchange adjustments 27 – 27  – – –
Cash flow hedge fair value losses/(gains):   
– Cash flow hedge fair value losses 17 7 24  62  35 97 
– Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement (18) (16) (34) (10) (10) (20)
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities (24) (1) (25) (1) – (1)
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred  
to the income statement 1 – 1  1  – 1 
Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 210 6 216  233  (1) 232 
Deferred tax on share options 47 – 47  50  – 50 
 260 (4) 256  335  24 359 
Share of tax on other comprehensive expense  
of equity accounted units (3) – (3) (38) – (38)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive 
income/(expense) for the year 
(a)
 257 (4) 253  297  24 321
 
 
2008 
Attributable to: 
 
Owners  
of Rio Tinto 
US$m 
Non-
controlling 
interests
US$m
Total 
US$m
Tax on exchange adjustments 99  – 99 
Cash flow hedge fair value losses/(gains):  
– Cash flow hedge fair value gains (11) (8) (19)
– Cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement (77) (35) (112)
Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 10  – 10 
Gains on revaluation of available for sale securities transferred to the income statement – – –
Actuarial losses on post retirement benefit plans 457  7 464 
Deferred tax on share options (179) – (179)
 299  (36) 263 
Share of tax on other comprehensive expense of equity accounted units (19) – (19)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 
(a)
 280  (36) 244 
(a) This comprises US$226 million (2009: US$319 million; 2008: US$205 million) of deferred tax and US$27 million (2009: US$2 million; 2008: US$39 million) of current tax. See note 18.  188 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
9 Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 
2010 
Earnings 
US$m
2010
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
(millions)
2010
Per share
amount
(cents)
2009 
Earnings 
US$m 
2009
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
(millions)
2009    
Per share    
amount    
(cents) 
(a)
Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – continuing operations 14,421 1,961.0 735.4 5,321  1,763.6 301.7     
Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – discontinued operations (97) 1,961.0 (4.9) (449) 1,763.6 (25.5)    
Total basic earnings per share – profit for the year 
(b)
 14,324 1,961.0 730.5 4,872  1,763.6 276.2     
Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – continuing operations 14,421 1,972.6 731.1 5,321  1,769.6 300.7     
Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – discontinued operations (97) 1,972.6 (4.9) (449) 1,769.6 (25.4)    
Total diluted earnings per share – profit for the year 
(c)
 14,324 1,972.6 726.2 4,872  1,769.6 275.3     
Underlying earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders 
(d)
  
– Basic 
(b)
 13,987 1,961.0 713.3 6,298  1,763.6 357.1     
– Diluted 
(c)
 13,987 1,972.6 709.1 6,298  1,769.6 355.9    
 
2008 
Earnings 
US$m 
2008
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
(millions)
2008    
Per share    
amount    
(cents)
 (a)
Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – continuing operations 4,503  1,570.1 286.8   
Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – discontinued operations (827) 1,570.1 (52.7)  
Total basic earnings per share – profit for the year 
(b)
 3,676 1,570.1234.1   
Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – continuing operations 4,503 1,577.3 285.5   
Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders  
of Rio Tinto – discontinued operations (827) 1,577.3 (52.4)  
Total diluted earnings per share – profit for the year 
(c)
 3,676 1,577.3233.1   
Underlying earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders 
(d)
  
– Basic 
(b)
 10,303 1,570.1 656.2   
– Diluted 
(c)
 10,303 1,577.3 653.2   
(a) The 2009 rights issues were at a discount to the then market price. Accordingly, earnings per share for all periods up to the date on which the shares were issued have been adjusted for the bonus element 
of the issues. The bonus factor for Rio Tinto plc was 1.2105 and for Rio Tinto Limited was 1.2679. Other information relating to the rights issues is shown in note 46. 
(b) The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,525.2 million (2009: 1,366.1 million; 2008: 1,207.8 million) 
plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding not held by Rio Tinto plc of 435.8 million (2009: 397.5 million; 2008: 362.3 million).  
(c)  For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 11.6 million shares in 2010 (2009: 6.0 million shares; 2008: 7.2 million shares) is added to the weighted average 
number of shares described in (b) above. This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method. The Group’s only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are 
described in note 49.  
(d) Underlying earnings per share is calculated from Underlying earnings, detailed information on which is given in note 2. 
10 Dividends 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Rio Tinto plc previous year Final dividend paid  686  670 838 
Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid  664  – 679 
Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final dividend paid  206  206 228 
Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid  198  – 188 
Dividends paid during the year 1,754  876 1,933 
Dividends per share: paid during the year 90.0c 55.6c 124.3c
Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year  63.0c 45.0c 55.6c
  www.riotinto.com 189
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
 
Dividends  
per share 
2010 
Dividends 
per share
2009
Dividends 
per share
2008
Rio Tinto plc previous year Final (pence) 28.84p  37.85p 35.27p 
Rio Tinto plc Interim (pence) 28.21p  – 29.64p 
Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 51.56c  82.97c 76.08c 
Rio Tinto Limited Interim – fully franked at 30% (Australian cents) 49.27c  – 63.25c 
 
 
Number  
of shares 
2010 
(millions) 
Number 
of shares
2009
(millions)
Number 
of shares
2008
(millions)
Rio Tinto plc previous year Final  1,524.8 1,208.4 1,207.8
Rio Tinto plc Interim  1,526.0 – 1,208.2
Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final  435.8 362.3 362.3
Rio Tinto Limited Interim  435.8 – 362.3
The dividends paid in 2010 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2009 final – 45.0 cents, 2010 interim – 45.0 cents (2009 
dividends paid: 2008 final – 55.6 cents, 2009 interim – nil; 2008 dividends paid: 2007 final – 68.7 cents, 2008 interim – 55.6 cents).  
The number of shares on which the Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based excludes those shares held by Rio Tinto plc, in order that the 
dividends shown represent those paid to public shareholders. The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based 
excludes those held as treasury shares.  
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 63.0 cents per share on 10 February 2011. This is expected to  
result in payments of US$1,236 million (Rio Tinto plc: US$962 million; Rio Tinto Limited: US$274 million). The dividends will be paid  
on 31 March 2011 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 March 2011 and to Rio Tinto Limited 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 March 2011.  
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the 
payment of income tax during 2011. 
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax group’s retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as 
dividends and franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2010 (after 
deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2010 final dividend declared), is US$7,380 million. 
11 Goodwill 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Net book value 
At 1 January  14,268 14,296 
Adjustment on currency translation 72 156 
Newly consolidated operations 963 – 
Disposals (7) (184)
At 31 December 15,296 14,268 
– cost 21,886 20,854 
– accumulated impairment (6,590) (6,586)
At 1 January  
– cost 20,854 21,123 
– accumulated impairment (6,586) (6,827)
  190 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
11 Goodwill continued 
Impairment tests for goodwill 
At 31 December 2010, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Net book value 
Aluminium 13,678 13,691 
Copper – Oyu Tolgoi (note 41) 963 – 
Australian Iron Ore 507 446 
Other 148 131 
 15,296 14,268 
 
Aluminium 
The majority of the Group’s goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units within the Aluminium group of cash generating units 
(“Aluminium“). A large component of Aluminium’s carrying value relates to the former Alcan businesses purchased in 2007. 
Aluminium’s annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2010 (2009: no impairment charge; 2008: US$6,127 million  
after taxation). The recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, using discounted cash flows,  
in line with the policy in note 1(i).  
In arriving at fair value less costs to sell, a post-tax discount rate of 6.5 per cent (2009: 6.8 per cent) has been applied to the post-tax 
cash flows expressed in real terms. Fair value less costs to sell was determined by estimating cash flows for a period of 11 years. The  
cash flow projections are based on long term production plans. These cash flows are then aggregated with a “terminal value”. The terminal 
value represents the value of cash flows beyond the 11th year, incorporating an annual real-term growth rate of one and a half per 
cent, with a corresponding increase in capital expenditure to support the real term growth rate, resulting in a zero per cent growth in 
net cash flows. Aluminium benefits from a global marketplace with substantial barriers to entry and there are a limited number of 
competitors who are able to access effectively the key resources necessary to make aluminium. In addition, continued global 
industrialisation is expected to support demand for aluminium. The operating cost levels included in the fair value assessment are 
calculated based on Aluminium’s long term production plans. Price assumptions for inputs into the aluminium smelting process are 
based on analysis of market fundamentals and are made consistent with related output price assumptions. Approximately 80 per cent 
of Aluminium’s production is located in the first half of the industry cost curve. Aluminium’s intention is to improve its relative 
position on the industry cash cost curve. 
The key assumptions to which the calculation of fair value less costs to sell for Aluminium is most sensitive are the long term aluminium price; 
the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar exchange rates against the US dollar; operating costs; and discount rates. Future selling 
prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy in note 1(i). Management believes that, currently, there are no 
reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions, that would lead to the recoverable amount being below the carrying 
amount, except for the long term aluminium price.  
The long term aluminium price used in the terminal year of the fair value calculations includes a component to reflect the impact  
of carbon pricing. The Group’s price without this carbon component is within the range published by market commentators of US$2,010  
to US$2,566 per tonne, with an average of US$2,329 per tonne, in real terms. The carbon element within the long term price used  
in the fair value calculations is based on a price per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions (tCO
2
e). This price is based on an 
assessment of future climate policy evolution and the range of carbon prices that could result from this process. It is comparable to the 
range published by market commentators, of between US$10 and US$40 per tCO
2
e in real terms. The relationship between the price per 
tCO
2
e and the price per tonne of aluminium is dependent on how many tonnes of carbon dioxide are emitted per tonne of aluminium 
produced by marginal cost smelters. Industry data show that emissions for all producers range from approximately two tonnes, to in 
excess of 20 tonnes, of CO
2
 per tonne of aluminium produced, depending on the primary energy source used to generate the consumed 
electric power. The weighted industry average for all producers is approximately 10-12 tonnes of CO
2
 per tonne of aluminium. The 
assumptions used in the Group’s long term aluminium price used in the terminal year imply a carbon emission intensity for the 
marginal producers above the weighted industry average but below the top end of the industry range. 
Based on the assessment of fair value less costs to sell, the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value by approximately 16 per cent. The 
calculation is highly sensitive to changes in the key assumptions, and a seven per cent decrease in the long term aluminium price, in 
isolation, would lead to the fair value less costs to sell of Aluminium being equal to its carrying amount. However, management believe 
that a decrease in the long term aluminium price would have an associated beneficial impact on input costs which would, to a certain 
extent, offset the impact of the change in the long term aluminium price. In addition, the assumed relationship between the long term 
aluminium price and the Australian and Canadian currencies provides further natural protection in the long term (see also note 33 – 
Financial risk management).  www.riotinto.com 191
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Oyu Tolgoi 
Goodwill of US$963 million arose following consolidation on 15 December 2010 of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, of which US$834 million was 
calculated in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional 
fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base. 
Refer to note 41 for further information relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.  
Australian Iron Ore 
The recoverable amount of the goodwill relating to Australian Iron Ore has been assessed by reference to fair value less costs to sell, 
which is estimated in line with the policy in note 1(i). In line with normal practice in the mining industry, the cash flow projections are 
based on long term mine plans covering the expected life of each operation. Therefore, the projections generally cover periods well in 
excess of five years. 
Assumptions about selling prices, operating costs, exchange rates, and discount rates are particularly important in these valuations. 
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy in note 1(i). Long term average selling prices are 
forecast taking account of estimates of the costs of producers of iron ore. Forecasts of operating costs are based on detailed mine plans 
which take account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody. 
Goodwill relating to Australian Iron Ore has been reviewed applying a discount rate of 6.5 per cent (2009: 6.8 per cent) to the post-tax 
cash flows expressed in real terms.  
There are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, which would cause the goodwill allocated to Australian Iron Ore to be impaired. 
Other 
The recoverability of the remaining goodwill, which is included within Other in the table above, has been assessed by reference to fair 
value less costs to sell, using assumptions consistent with those described above. The recoverable amounts were determined to be in 
excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill  
to be impaired by a significant amount. 
12 Intangible assets 
Year ended 31 December 2010 
Exploration    
 and    
evaluation 
(a)
US$m    
Trademarks, 
patented and 
non patented 
technology 
US$m 
Contract     
based     
intangible     
assets 
(b)
 
US$m      
Other 
intangible 
assets
US$m
Total 
(c)
US$m    
Net book value   
At 1 January 2010 145    289  4,802    494 5,730   
Adjustment on currency translation 25    (5) (1)   52 71    
Expenditure during the year 143    – –    186 329    
Amortisation for the year  –   (25) (167)   (177) (369)   
Newly consolidated operations (note 41) –   – –    38 38    
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated –   – (7)    – (7)   
Disposals, transfers and other movements (6)   – (90)    4 (92)   
At 31 December 2010 307    259  4,537    597 5,700    
– cost 307    370  5,525    1,373 7,575    
– accumulated amortisation and impairment –    (111) (988)   (776) (1,875)   
Refer to footnotes (a) to (c) on page 192.  192 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
12 Intangible assets continued 
Year ended 31 December 2009 
Exploration and    
evaluation 
(a)
US$m    
Trademarks,
patented and
non patented 
technology
US$m
Contract     
based     
intangible     
assets 
(b)
 
US$m      
Other 
intangible 
assets
US$m
Total 
(c)
 
US$m    
Net book value  
At 1 January 2009  133   444 5,208     500 6,285    
Adjustment on currency translation 10    6 2     71 89    
Expenditure during the year 2    – –    53 55    
Amortisation for the year  –    (25) (188)    (174) (387)   
Impairment charges –   (23) (156)    – (179)   
Subsidiaries now equity accounted –   – –    (2) (2)   
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated –   (113) (54)    – (167)   
Disposals, transfers and other movements –   – (10)    46 36    
At 31 December 2009 145    289 4,802    494 5,730    
– cost 145    398 5,445     1,062 7,050    
– accumulated amortisation and impairment –   (109) (643)    (568) (1,320)   
(a) Exploration and evaluation: useful life not determined until transferred to property, plant and equipment. 
(b) The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights. The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency 
and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation. These water rights constitute the 
majority of the amounts in the column of the above table entitled “Contract based intangible assets“. The water rights have been allocated to cash generating units within Aluminium.  
 In 2010, the recoverable amount of these cash-generating units was determined based on fair value less costs to sell, using a methodology and assumptions consistent with those described in note 1(i) and 
note 11. No impairment of these indefinite-lived intangible assets was recognised during 2010 (2009: no impairment), as the fair value less costs to sell of the related cash-generating units was in excess of 
their carrying amounts. 
(c) There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure 
The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Net (expenditure)/proceeds in the year (net of proceeds of US$568 million (2009: US$932 million;  
2008: US$673 million) on disposal of undeveloped projects) (135) 486 (440)
Changes in accruals (including impairment of undeveloped projects of nil (2009: nil; 2008:  
US$156 million) and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects) (80) (104) (205)
Amount capitalised during the year 143 (2) – 
Net (charge)/credit for the year  (72) 380 (645)
Reconciliation to income statement  
Exploration and evaluation costs (594) (514) (1,134)
Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 522  894 489 
Net (charge)/credit for the year  (72) 380 (645) www.riotinto.com 193
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
13 Property, plant and equipment 
Year ended 31 December 2010 
Mining    
properties    
and leases 
(a)
US$m   
Land and      
buildings 
(b)
 
US$m     
Plant and 
equipment 
US$m 
Capital 
works in 
progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value   
At 1 January 2010 6,738   5,958     25,595  7,512 45,803 
Adjustment on currency translation 785  214     1,810  541 3,350 
Capitalisation of additional closure costs (note 27) 872  –    – – 872 
Interest capitalised 
(c)
 (note 7) –   –    – 182 182 
Additions 170  171     829  3,117 4,287 
Depreciation for the year 
(a)
 (432)  (320)    (2,316) – (3,068)
Impairment charges, net of reversals 66   (248)    (314) (277) (773)
Disposals –  (17)    (77) (6) (100)
Newly consolidated operations (note 41) 4,881   –    – 874 5,755 
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated –   (18)    (11) (1) (28)
Transfers and other movements 
(d)
 949   559    3,099  (4,861) (256)
At 31 December 2010 14,029   6,299    28,615  7,081 56,024 
– cost 19,173   9,289    47,374  7,955 83,791 
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (5,144)  (2,990)    (18,759) (874) (27,767)
    
Non-current assets held under finance leases 
(e)
 –   19     33  – 52 
Other non-current assets pledged as security 
(f)
 4    15     1,742  37 1,798
 
Year ended 31 December 2009 
Mining    
properties     
and leases 
(a)
US$m    
Land and    
buildings 
(b)
 
US$m     
Plant and 
equipment 
US$m 
Capital works 
in progress
US$m
Total
US$m
Net book value   
At 1 January 2009 6,118    5,706     22,112  7,817 41,753 
Adjustment on currency translation 1,130    349     2,890  1,257 5,626 
Capitalisation of additional closure costs (note 27) 268    –     – – 268 
Interest capitalised 
(c)
 (note 7) 8    –    9  181 198 
Additions 242    115     1,346  3,108 4,811 
Depreciation for the year 
(a)
 (412)   (364)    (2,264) – (3,040)
Impairment charges, net of reversals (170)   (308)    (473) (321) (1,272)
Disposals 4    (16)    (49) (21) (82)
Subsidiaries now equity accounted  (250)   (156)    (476) (349) (1,231)
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated (319)   (184)    (503) (6) (1,012)
Transfers and other movements 
(d)
 119    816     3,003  (4,154) (216)
At 31 December 2009 6,738    5,958     25,595  7,512 45,803 
– cost 11,028    8,973     41,990  8,154 70,145 
– accumulated depreciation and impairment (4,290)   (3,015)    (16,395) (642) (24,342)
    
Non-current assets held under finance leases 
(e)
 –    21     67  – 88 
Other non-current assets pledged as security 
(f)
 6    15     1,703  27 1,751
(a) Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$1,033 million (2009: US$900 million). Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$11 million (2009: US$3 million; 2008: US$35 million) is 
included within “Depreciation for the year”. There is no impairment of deferred stripping costs charged to the income statement in 2010 (2009: US$59 million; 2008: nil). 
(b) At 31 December 2010, the net statement of financial position amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,037 million (2009: US$5,834 million); long leasehold US$217 million (2009: US$83 million); 
and short leasehold US$45 million (2009: US$41 million). 
(c) Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Group’s cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable. The Group’s average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is  
5.0 per cent (2009: 4.2 per cent; 2008: 3.9 per cent). 
(d) “Transfers and other movements” include reclassifications between categories. 
(e) The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. 
(f) Excludes assets held under finance leases. Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$244 million (2009: US$224 million) of loans, which are included  
in note 22.  194 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
14 Investments in equity accounted units 
Summary statement of financial position (Rio Tinto share) 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Rio Tinto’s share of assets 
– Non-current assets 9,737 9,707 
– Current assets 2,576 2,329 
 12,313 12,036 
Rio Tinto’s share of liabilities 
– Current liabilities (1,394) (1,089)
– Non-current liabilities  (4,416) (4,212)
 (5,810) (5,301)
Rio Tinto’s share of net assets 
(a)
 6,503 6,735 
(a) Further details of investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 38 and 39. 
At 31 December 2010, the quoted value of the Group’s share in associates having shares listed on recognised stock exchanges was US$5,280 million 
(2009: US$1,230 million). 
15 Net debt of equity accounted units (excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto) 
Group 
interest
2010
%
Rio Tinto 
share of 
net debt 
2010 
US$m 
Group 
interest
2009
%
Rio Tinto 
share of
net debt
2009
US$m
Jointly controlled entities  
Sohar Aluminium Company LLC 20.0 330  20.0 343 
Minera Escondida Limitada 30.0 163  30.0 226 
Richards Bay Minerals  37.0 94  37.0 199 
Halco Mining Inc. 45.0 27  45.0 37 
Queensland Alumina Limited (QAL) 80.0 11  80.0 18 
   
Associates  
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. 
(a)
 40.3 (404) 19.7 (58)
Port Waratah Coal Services 27.6 305  27.6 225 
Mineração Rio do Norte S.A.  12.0 39  12.0 36 
Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC – – 48.3 170 
Other equity accounted units – (86) – (99)
 479  1,097
(a)  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which is consolidated by Rio Tinto. Net debt of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. excludes its share of the net debt of Oyu Tolgoi LLC. Refer to note 41 for further 
information relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC.  
In accordance with IAS 28 and IAS 31, the Group includes its net investment in equity accounted units in its consolidated statement of 
financial position. This investment is net of the Group’s share of the net debt of such units, which is set out above. Further details of 
investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are set out in notes 38 and 39. 
Some of the debt of equity accounted units is subject to financial and general covenants. US$12 million of the debt shown above is with 
recourse to Rio Tinto at 31 December 2010 (2009: nil). 
  www.riotinto.com 195
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
16 Inventories 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Raw materials and purchased components 1,162 1,120 
Consumable stores 1,279 1,278 
Work in progress 1,357 1,410 
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,333 1,365 
 5,131 5,173
Comprising: 
Expected to be used within one year 4,756 4,889 
Expected to be used after more than one year 375 284 
 5,131 5,173 
Inventory write downs amounting to US$115 million (2009: US$99 million; 2008: US$280 million) were recognised during the year.  
17 Trade and other receivables 
Non-current 
2010  
US$m 
Current 
2010  
US$m 
Non-current
2009 
US$m
Current
2009 
US$m
Trade receivables 10  3,939  14 3,442 
Provision for doubtful debts 
(a)
 –  (37) – (62)
Trade receivables – net 10  3,902  14 3,380 
Amounts due from equity accounted units  337  217  320 197 
Other receivables 300  1,017  247 641 
Pension surpluses (note 50) 110  – 15 2 
Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 
(b)
 787  – 424 –
Other prepayments  282  446  355 227 
 1,826  5,582  1,375 4,447 
(a) At 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables of US$37 million (2009: US$62 million) were impaired. The majority of these receivables were more than 90 days overdue.  
(b) Rio Tinto Alcan has made certain prepayments to jointly controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina. These prepayments will be charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.  
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing. 
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other receivables approximates their carrying value. 
As of 31 December 2010, trade and other receivables of US$292 million (2009: US$454 million) were past due but not impaired. The ageing of 
these receivables is as follows: 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
less than 30 days overdue 162 262
between 30 and 60 days overdue 67 93
between 60 and 90 days overdue 17 18
more than 90 days overdue 46 81
 292 454
These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default or other indicators of impairment.  
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the 
debtors will not meet their payment obligations.   196 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
18 Deferred taxation 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
At 1 January 2,073 2,687 
Adjustment on currency translation 340 297 
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 270 (517)
Credited to statement of comprehensive income 
(a)
 (226) (319)
Newly consolidated operations (note 41) 
(b)
 834 – 
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated (2) (82)
Subsidiaries now equity accounted – (14)
Transfer to asset held for sale (3) (190)
Other movements 
(c)
 26 211 
At 31 December 3,312 2,073 
Comprising: 
– deferred tax liabilities 
(d)
 5,175 4,304 
– deferred tax assets 
(d)
 (1,863) (2,231)
Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the statement of financial 
position as permitted by IAS 12. The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below. 
UK tax 
US$m
Australian 
tax 
US$m
Other 
countries’ tax 
US$m   
Total
2010 
US$m
Total
2009
US$m
Deferred tax liabilities arising from:   
Allowances for property, plant and equipment 80 2,231 5,113   7,424 5,982 
Post retirement benefits – – 36   36 –
Unremitted earnings – – 437   437 616 
Unrealised exchange gains – 601 92   693 84 
Other temporary differences – 516 109   625 594 
 80 3,348 5,787   9,215 7,276 
Deferred tax assets arising from:   
Capital allowances – – (71)  (71) (63)
Provisions (95)(1,008)(1,075)  (2,178) (1,908)
Post retirement benefits (67) (28) (1,206)  (1,301) (1,556)
Tax losses (75) (192) (1,332)  (1,599) (1,286)
Unrealised exchange losses – (528) (1)  (529) (149)
Other temporary differences – (68) (157)  (225) (241)
 (237) (1,824) (3,842)  (5,903) (5,203)
Charged/(credited) to the income statement   
Accelerated/(decelerated) capital allowances (14) 76 (27)   35 (388)
Provisions 4 (75) (173)  (244) (228)
Post retirement benefits 38 11 210  259 6 
Tax losses 257 (60) (261)  (64) (448)
Tax on unremitted earnings – – (12)  (12) (18)
Unrealised exchange losses – 173 49  222 618 
Other temporary differences 1 273 (200)  74 (59)
 286 398 (414)  270 (517)
(a) The amounts credited directly to the statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as 
part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes and post retirement healthcare plans.  
(b) Deferred tax relating to newly consolidated operations arises on the difference between the provisional fair value and the tax base of the assets of Oyu Tolgoi LLC at the date of consolidation. Refer to note 41. 
(c) “Other movements” include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates. Other movements in 2010 also 
included amounts relating to the divestment of the Alcan Packaging businesses and Alcan Engineered Products, excluding Cable Division classified as assets held for sale at year end.  
(d) The deferred tax liability of US$5,175 million (2009: US$4,304 million) includes US$5,009 million (2009: US$4,091 million) due in more than one year. The deferred tax asset of US$1,863 million (2009: 
US$2,231 million) includes US$853 million (2009: US$2,109 million) receivable in more than one year. 
(e) US$1,217 million (2009: US$1,426 million) of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in these accounts. There is a time limit for the recovery of US$22 million of these potential 
assets (2009: US$20 million). US$449 million (2009: US$620 million) of the potential assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in 
future years. US$467 million (2009: US$503 million) of the potential assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition. 
(f) Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be 
no remittance in the foreseeable future. If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$146 million (2009: US$888 million) would be payable. 
(g) There is a limited time period for the recovery of US$675 million (2009: US$401 million) of tax losses which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.   www.riotinto.com 197
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale 
At 31 December 2010  
At 31 December 2010, assets and liabilities held for sale comprise Alcan’s Engineered Products group (AEP), excluding the Cable 
Division following the receipt on 5 August 2010, of a binding offer from funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC. 
(“Apollo”) and the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement (FSI) to buy a 61 per cent stake in AEP, excluding the Cable Division. The 
divestment was completed on 4 January 2011. The terms of the transaction are confidential. Refer to note 48 – Events after the 
statement of financial position date. 
At 31 December 2009 
At 31 December 2009, assets and liabilities held for sale mainly comprised Alcan’s Packaging group (“Packaging”). An impairment of 
US$318 million relating to the Packaging business was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2009, and included in “Loss after 
tax from discontinued operations”. “Loss after tax from discontinued operations” of US$449 million also included a US$131 million tax charge 
relating to an increase in the Group’s estimate of the tax to be paid on sale of the Packaging business. 
Proceeds from disposal  
Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Packaging global pharmaceuticals, global tobacco, food Europe and food Asia divisions to Amcor 
for a total consideration of US$1,948 million on 1 February 2010. The consideration was adjusted to exclude Medical Flexibles operations and 
to reflect actual business performance over the six months preceding completion. 
The sale of the Alcan Packaging Food Americas division to Bemis Company Inc. for a total consideration of US$1.2 billion, was completed on  
1 March 2010. 
On 5 July 2010, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of the remainder of its Alcan Packaging business with the closing of the sale of the 
Medical Flexibles business acquired by Amcor for US$66 million and of the sale of the Alcan Beauty Packaging business acquired by 
Sun European Partners LLP for an undisclosed sum. 
20 Other financial assets 
 
Non-current 
2010  
US$m 
Current 
2010  
US$m 
Non-current
2009 
US$m
Current
2009 
US$m
Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges –  – –8 
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 19  124  65 226 
Derivatives related to net debt 137  6  – – 
Equity shares and quoted funds 585  365  439 219 
Other investments, including loans  593  26  337 168 
Other liquid resources (non-cash equivalent) – – – 73 
 1,334  521  841 694 
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 34.   198 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
21 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,785 831 
Short term bank deposits 8,163 3,402 
Balance per Group statement of financial position 9,948 4,233 
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (unsecured) (7) (91)
Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 18 – 
Balance per Group cash flow statement 9,959 4,142 
Cash and cash equivalents include US$398 million (2009: US$16 million) for which there are restrictions on remittances. 
22 Borrowings 
Borrowings at 31 December Note
Non-current 
2010
US$m
Current 
2010 
US$m 
Non-current 
2009
US$m
Current 
2009
US$m
Syndicated bank loans 
(a)
 – – 8,480 –
Other loans  
Finance leases 23 70 12  104 19 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% 2013 
(b)
 98 – 100 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 5.875% 2013 
(b) (c)  
621 –  2,622 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014 
(b)
 1,922 –  1,967 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 1.875% 2015  500 –  –– 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018 
(b) (c)
 1,953 –  1,878 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 
(b)
 1,446 –  1,449 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 992 –  –– 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 7.125% 2028 
(b) (c)
 906 –  871 – 
Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds 5.20% 2040  500 –  –– 
Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45% due 2011 
(b)
 – 401  406 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 4.875% due 2012 
(b)
 496 – 494 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 4.50% due 2013 
(b)
 486 – 486 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.20% due 2014 
(b)
 487 – 495 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.00% due 2015 
(b)
 470 – 485 – 
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2028 108 – 109 – 
Alcan Inc. Debentures 7.25% due 2031 436 – 437 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 6.125% due 2033 738 – 737 – 
Alcan Inc. Global Notes 5.75% due 2035  282 – 281 – 
Colowyo Coal Company L.P. Bonds 9.56% 2011 – 12  23 – 
Colowyo Coal Company L.P. Bonds 10.19% 2016 35 – 69 5 
European Medium Term Notes 
(d)
 – – – 322 
Other secured loans 356 41  325 63 
Other unsecured loans 375 591  337 347 
Total borrowings 
(e)
 13,277 1,057  22,155 756
(a)  Syndicated bank loans related to revolving credit facilities arranged for the acquisition of Alcan Inc. in 2007, all of which had been fully repaid and cancelled at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$8.5 billion). 
The US$5 billion revolving syndicated bank Facility C was undrawn at 31 December 2009. In addition to the syndicated bank loan facilities shown above, there were US$2.3 billion of unused committed 
bilateral banking facilities at 31 December 2009 consisting of US$1.0 billion maturing December 2011 and US$1.3 billion maturing December 2012. These facilities were cancelled in November 2010 
when a US$6 billion five year stand-by revolving credit facility was entered into by the Group. The US$6 billion facility was undrawn at 31 December 2010. Any borrowings under this facility are at 
prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group. The facility is not subject to any financial covenants. Refer to note 33 (v) – 
Liquidity and Capital risk management for further details. 
(b) As at 31 December 2010, US$7.6 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings shown were fully swapped to floating rates and US$0.3 billion notional of the Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited 9.0 per cent 
2019 fixed interest rate bond was swapped for the first two years to floating rates. Fair value hedge accounting has been applied to all borrowings except for Alcan Inc. Debentures 6.45 per cent due 2011 
and Alcan Inc. Global Notes 4.875 per cent due 2012. The fair value of interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 was US$143 million and US$34 million, respectively. These are 
included in “other financial assets” and “other financial liabilities” in the statement of financial position. Details of the major interest rate swaps are shown in note 34 – B(c). 
(c) As at 31 December 2009, US$5.0 billion notional of the fixed rate borrowings shown were fully swapped to floating rates. Fair value hedge accounting was applied to all borrowings. The fair value  
of interest rate swaps at 31 December 2009 was US$97 million. These are included in “other financial liabilities” in the statement of financial position. Details of the major currency swaps are shown  
in note 34 – B(c).  
(d)  Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion (2009: US$10 billion) European Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme for the issuance of debt, of which nil was outstanding at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$0.3 billion). 
The Group‘s EMTNs were swapped to US dollars; there were no fair value of currency swap liabilities at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$68 million included in “other financial liabilities” in the statement of 
financial position). Details of the major currency swaps are shown in note 34 – B(c).  
(e) The Group’s borrowings of US$14.3 billion (2009: US$22.9 billion) include some US$4.4 billion (2009: US$4.6 billion) which relates to borrowings of subsidiaries that are without recourse to the Group, 
some of which are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2010.   www.riotinto.com 199
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
23 Capitalised finance leases 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Present value of minimum lease payments 
Total minimum lease payments 89 131 
Effect of discounting (7) (8)
 82 123 
 
Payments under capitalised finance leases: 
Due within one year  12 19 
Between 1 and 3 years 21 40 
Between 3 and 5 years 12 29 
More than 5 years 37 35 
 82 123
24 Consolidated net debt 
 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt 
At 1 January (18,861) (38,672)
Adjustment on currency translation (1,269) (2,265)
Exchange gains credited to the income statement 
(a)
 1,130 2,222 
Gains on derivatives related to net debt – 20 
Cash movements excluding exchange movements 15,244 19,909 
Newly consolidated operations (213) – 
Other movements (315) (75)
At 31 December (4,284) (18,861)
  
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories: 
Borrowings (note 22) (14,334) (22,911)
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (note 21) (7) (91)
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 9,948 4,233 
Other liquid resources (note 20) – 73 
Derivatives related to net debt (note 34) 109 (165)
 (4,284) (18,861)
 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Exchange gains/(losses) on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded  
from Underlying earnings  
Exchange gains/(losses) on US dollar net debt  1,119  2,211 (1,675)
Exchange (losses)/gains on intragroup balances (589) (1,912) 1,523 
Exchange gains/(losses) on loans from equity accounted units 20  36 (36)
Exchange (losses)/gains on settlement of dividend (21) 30 12 
Credited/(charged) to income statement 529  365 (176)
(a) Exchange gains taken to the income statement include amounts taken to Underlying earnings.  
Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 34 – B(c) 
on Financial instruments.  200 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
25 Trade and other payables 
Non-current
2010
US$m
Current 
2010 
US$m 
Non-current
2009
US$m
Current
2009
US$m
Trade payables – 2,068  –1,959 
Amounts owed to equity accounted units 505 222  197 205 
Other payables 
(a)
 138 865  128 512 
Employee entitlements – 681  – 856 
Royalties and mining taxes – 594  – 325 
Accruals and deferred income 109 2,097  125 1,865 
Government grants deferred 127 49  141 37 
 879 6,576  591 5,759 
(a) “Other payables” include deferred consideration of US$108 million (2009: US$119 million) relating to certain assets acquired. The deferred consideration is included at its net present value. The 
amortisation of the discount applied in establishing the net present value is treated as a finance cost. All other accounts payable and accruals are non-interest bearing. 
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.  
26 Other financial liabilities 
Non-current
2010
US$m
Current 
2010 
US$m 
Non-current
2009
US$m
Current
2009
US$m
Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges 262 159  371 128 
Derivatives related to net debt 34 –  97 68 
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 63 106  133 167 
Other financial liabilities 57 –  – 49 
 416 265  601 412 
Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 34.  www.riotinto.com 201
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
27 Provisions (not including taxation) 
 
Pensions and post    
retirement   
healthcare 
(a)
 
US$m    
Other employee    
entitlements 
(b)
 
US$m    
Close down and 
restoration/
environmental
(c) (d) (e)
US$m
Other  
US$m   
Total
2010 
US$m
Total
2009 
US$m
At 1 January 5,150    795    6,916 833   13,694 10,933 
Adjustment on currency translation (68)   63    465 1   461 913 
Amounts capitalised –    –   872 –   872 268 
Subsidiaries now equity accounted –   –   – –  – (277)
Charged/(credited) to income statement:   
– new provisions –   209    – 20   229 62 
– increases to existing provisions 346    124    123 62   655 769 
– unused amounts reversed –   (25)   (48) (1)  (74) (82)
– exchange (gains)/losses on provisions –   (4)   97 4  97 181 
Amortisation of discount –   4   293 2  299 255 
Utilised in year (1,110)   (272)   (102) (133)  (1,617) (833)
Actuarial losses recognised in equity 860   –   – –  860 693 
Transfers (to)/from assets held for sale (718)   (21)   (19) (71)  (829) 774 
Transfers and other movements  12   (7)   5 (178)  (168) 38
At 31 December 4,472   866   8,602 539  14,479 13,694 
Statement of financial position analysis:   
Current  133   508    267 209  1,117 1,182 
Non-current 4,339   358    8,335 330   13,362 12,512 
Total 4,472   866    8,602 539   14,479 13,694
(a)  The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those 
arrangements, are given in note 50. 
(b) The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$267 million (2009: US$205 million), based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and 
includes US$132 million (2009: US$229 million) of provision for redundancy and severance payments. On 1 July 2010, the Performance Share Plan (formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan) 
was redesignated from cash-settled to equity-settled due to a change in settlement terms. This resulted in a provision balance of US$57 million being reclassified to reserves, refer to note 30. Further 
details of the plan’s treatment are provided in note 49.  
(c) The Group’s policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1(k). Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration 
expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation. Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 21 
years (2009: 23 years). Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Group’s businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration 
standards and techniques. Provisions of US$8,602 million (2009: US$6,916 million) for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future 
inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk. These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average rate of approximately four per cent per annum, being an estimate of the long 
term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing. Excluding the effects of future inflation, and before discounting, this provision is equivalent to some US$12.3 billion (2009: US$10.1 billion). 
(d) Some US$687 million (2009: US$505 million) of environmental clean up expenditure is expected to take place within the next five years. The remainder includes amounts for the operation and 
maintenance of remediation facilities in later years. The provision for environmental clean up expenditure includes the issue described in (e) below.  
(e) Includes provision for remediation of contamination of ground water in the vicinity of the Bingham Canyon mine as a result of the agreement between Kennecott Utah Copper (KUC) with the US 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the State of Utah in 1995. In September 2008, the EPA withdrew its proposal to list the Kennecott South Zone Site on the Superfund National Priorities List. 
This action recognises that soil clean up work is complete and that groundwater clean up is adequately initiated and financial assurance is in place to assure completion of the work.  202 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
28 Share capital – Rio Tinto plc 
2010 
Number
(million)
2009 
Number
(million)
2008 
Number
(million)
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital  
At 1 January 1,529.00 1,004.10 1,071.80 246  160 172 
Ordinary shares issued 
(a) (c)
 – 524.90 0.18 – 86 –
Own shares purchased and cancelled 
(b)
 – – (67.88) – – (12)
At 31 December 1,529.00 1,529.00 1,004.10 246  246 160 
– Special Voting Share of 10p 
(d)
 1 only 1 only 1 only 
– DLC Dividend Share of 10p 
(d)
 1 only 1 only 1 only 
– shares repurchased and held in treasury  2.69 5.03 5.91  
– shares held by public 1,526.31 1,523.97 998.19  
   
Shares held by public  
At 1 January 1,523.97 998.19 997.25  
Ordinary shares issued 
(a) (c)
 – 524.90 0.18  
Shares reissued from treasury 
(a) (b)
 2.34 0.88 0.76  
At 31 December 1,526.31 1,523.97 998.19  
   
Unissued share capital  
Ordinary shares of 10p each 171.00 171.00 417.13 27  27 63 
Equalisation Share of 10p 
(d)
 1 only 1 only 1 only – ––
Total authorised share capital 1,700.00 1,700.00 1,421.23 273  273 223
(a) No new Ordinary shares were issued in 2010. 2,336,005 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based 
payment plans, with exercise prices between £7.98p and £40.07p per share (2009: 440,018 shares issued, and 874,925 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between £7.98p and £29.38p per 
share; 2008: 183,714 shares issued, and 763,919 shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between £8.09p and £35.57p per share). 524,460,478 new Ordinary shares were issued in July 2009 as 
a result of the Rio Tinto plc rights issue. Further detail on rights issues is provided in note 46. 
(b) The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2010 annual general meeting. No shares were bought back and held in treasury from 2008 to 2010. Refer to note 48 for 
details of the share buy-back programme announced after the statement of financial position date. 
 During 2008, as part of the Group’s internal capital management programme, Rio Tinto undertook a series of transactions, whereby 67,880,000 shares held by Rio Tinto plc in treasury were sold to  
 Rio Tinto Limited at market value, before being immediately repurchased by Rio Tinto plc for a nominal amount, pursuant to the share purchase approval granted by Rio Tinto plc shareholders at the 2008  
 Rio Tinto plc annual general meeting. The shares were then cancelled upon their repurchase by Rio Tinto plc. 
(c) The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was US$92 million (2009: US$3 million; 2008: US$25 million). No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under  
Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans. The aggregate consideration for new shares issued resulting from the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans was 
US$32 million in 2009 and US$6 million in 2008. 
 The aggregate gross consideration received for new shares issued arising from the rights issue during 2009 was US$12.0 billion. The difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares 
issued was credited to merger reserve and expenses associated with the rights issue were charged against the share premium account. 
(d) The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger. Directors have the ability to issue an 
Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement. The “DLC Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. 
During 2010, US$39 million of shares (2009: US$17 million of shares; 2008: nil) were purchased by the Employee Share Ownership Trust on 
behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest. 
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 49 on share based payments.  www.riotinto.com 203
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
29 Share capital – Rio Tinto Limited  
 
2010 
Number
(million)
2009 
Number
(million)
2008  
Number 
(million) 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital    
At 1 January 435.76 285.75 285.75  4,924  961 1,219 
Adjustment on currency translation – –– 677  710 (258)
Ordinary shares issued 
(a)
 –150.01 – – 3,253 –
At 31 December 435.76 435.76 285.75  5,601  4,924 961 
– Share capital held by Rio Tinto plc 
(c)
 – 171.07 171.07   
– Special Voting Share of 10p 
(b)
 1 only 1 only 1 only  
– DLC Dividend Share of 10p 
(b)
 1 only 1 only 1 only  
Total share capital 
(b)
 435.76 606.83 456.82   
(a) No new Ordinary shares were issued during 2010. 150,015,297 Ordinary shares were issued during 2009 as a result of the Rio Tinto Limited rights issue. The aggregate gross consideration received for 
new shares issued during 2009 was US$3.2 billion. Further detail on rights issues is provided in note 46. 
(b)  The “Special Voting Share” was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger. Directors have the ability to issue an 
Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement. The “DLC Dividend Share” was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure. 
(c) The authority for the Company to buy back shares was renewed at the 2010 annual general meeting. During the year ended 31 December 2010, Rio Tinto Limited purchased and cancelled 171,072,520 
ordinary shares off-market, which were held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited (a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc). The selective buy-back and cancellation were approved by shareholders 
at the 2010 Rio Tinto Limited annual general meeting. As a result of these transactions, no ordinary shares in Rio Tinto Limited were held by the above subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc at 31 December 2010. No 
shares were bought back during 2009 and 2008. Refer to note 48 for details of the share buy-back programme announced after the statement of financial position date. 
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2010 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied 
by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Group’s behalf.  
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 49 on share based payments.  204 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
30 Other reserves and retained earnings  
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Capital redemption reserve 
(a)
  
At 1 January 12  12 –
Own shares purchased and cancelled –  – 12 
At 31 December 12  12 12 
   
Hedging reserves 
(b)
  
At 1 January (128) 14 (174)
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge fair value (losses)/gains (72) (206) 28 
Parent and subsidiaries’ net cash flow hedge losses transferred to the income statement 47  16 245 
Net movement on equity accounted units’ cash flow hedges (1) –3 
Cash flow hedge gains reclassified on disposal – (4) –
Tax on the above (1) 52 (88)
At 31 December (155) (128) 14 
   
Available for sale revaluation reserves 
(c)
  
At 1 January 247  (107) 57 
Gains/(losses) on available for sale securities 213  357 (173)
Gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement (10) (3) (1)
Tax on the above (23) – 10 
At 31 December 427  247 (107)
   
Other reserves 
(d)
  
At 1 January 11,776  (169) 19 
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options (84) (35) (128)
Employee share options: value of services 48  30 27 
Merger reserve arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue 
(d)
 – 11,936 –
Deferred tax on share options 21  14 (87)
Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 24  ––
At 31 December 11,785  11,776 (169)
   
Foreign currency translation reserve 
(e)
  
At 1 January 2,103  (2,072) 2,514 
Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 1,230  3,732 (4,383)
Equity accounted units’ currency translation adjustments 208  456 (300)
Currency translation reclassified on disposal 6  (13) (2)
Tax on the above 27  – 99 
At 31 December 3,574  2,103 (2,072)
   
Total other reserves per statement of financial position 15,643  14,010 (2,322)
  www.riotinto.com 205
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Retained earnings 
(f)
  
At 1 January  20,477  17,134 19,033 
Parent and subsidiaries’ profit for the year 14,315  4,497 3,879 
Equity accounted units’ retained profit/(loss) for the year 9  375 (203)
Actuarial losses 
(g)
 (769) (973) (1,299)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 236  269 365 
Total comprehensive income for the year 13,791  4,168 2,742 
Dividends paid (1,754) (876) (1,933)
Own shares purchased and cancelled – – (2,767)
Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto plc shareholders to satisfy share options (39) (17) –
Ordinary shares held in treasury, reissued to satisfy share options 8  3 25
Employee share options 
(h)
 69  65 34 
Cash settled share options reclassified as equity settled 33  ––
At 31 December 32,585  20,477 17,134
(a) The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 170 of the Companies Act 1985, when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the company’s profits. The amount 
at 31 December 2010 reflects the amount by which the Company’s issued share capital is diminished in accordance with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006. 
(b) The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1(p.iii). 
(c) The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1(p.i). 
(d) Other reserves record the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to 
satisfy share options exercised. The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings. 
 Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue completed in July 2009. 
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985. 
(e) Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Group’s net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in note 1(d). The 
cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of. 
(f) Retained profit and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Group’s share of proportionally consolidated units. 
(g) This includes actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units of US$4 million (2009: US$126 million; 2008: US$5 million).  
(h) The movement during 2009 included IFRS 2 charges arising from a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) transaction. The discount to fair value arising from this transaction was treated as 
a share based payment in accordance with IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 (Share based Payments) and AC 503 Accounting for BEE Transactions.   206 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
31 Operating segments   
Gross sales revenue 
(a)
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Iron Ore 24,024 12,598 16,527
Aluminium 15,206 12,038 18,297
Copper  7,782 6,206 5,748
Energy  5,652 4,869 5,984
Diamonds & Minerals 3,035 2,618 3,820
Other Operations 5,734 6,563 9,405
Reportable segments total 61,433 44,892 59,781
Inter-segment transactions (1,110) (856) (1,716)
Gross sales revenue  60,323 44,036 58,065
Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for intra-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales  (3,747) (2,211) (3,801)
Consolidated sales revenue per income statement 56,576 41,825 54,264
     
Underlying earnings 
(b)
    
Iron Ore 10,189 4,126 6,017
Aluminium  773 (560) 1,281
Copper  2,534 1,878 1,615
Energy  1,187 1,167 2,432
Diamonds & Minerals 328 800 474
Other Operations 71 71 13
Reportable segments total 15,082 7,482 11,832
Inter-segment transactions (15) (28) 25
Other items (554) (577) (391)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups (52) 5 (133)
Net interest (474) (584) (1,030)
Underlying earnings 13,987 6,298 10,303
Items excluded from Underlying earnings (note 2) 337 (1,426) (6,627)
Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 14,324 4,872 3,676
   
Depreciation and amortisation 
(c)
  
Iron Ore 993 763 705
Aluminium 1,563 1,551 1,543
Copper  565 541 442
Energy  367 296 415
Diamonds & Minerals 268 290 361
Other Operations 89 315 332
Reportable segments total 3,845 3,756 3,798
Other items 114 111 91
Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units (522) (440) (414)
Depreciation and amortisation per note 3 3,437 3,427 3,475
  www.riotinto.com 207
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
Tax charge 
(d)
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Iron Ore 4,602 1,868 2,869
Aluminium (110) (565) 875
Copper  705 582 261
Energy  537 521 944
Diamonds & Minerals (39) 37 287
Other Operations 10 70 4
Reportable segments total 5,705 2,513 5,240
Other items (216) (270) (99)
Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 1 (30) (31)
Net interest  (152) (228) (380)
  5,338 1,985 4,730
Tax charge excluded from Underlying earnings (note 2) (42) 91 (988)
Tax charge per income statement 5,296 2,076 3,742
   
Capital expenditure  
Iron Ore 1,716 2,148 2,996
Aluminium 1,328 1,690 2,417
Copper  958 553 804
Energy  685 510 666
Diamonds & Minerals 300 519 1,283
Other Operations 237 404 662
Reportable segments total 5,224 5,824 8,828
Other items 75 54 151
Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units (746) (522) (491)
Capital expenditure per Financial information by business units 4,553 5,356 8,488
Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 38 32 90
Less: Funding of equity accounted units for major capital expenditure – –(4)
Capital expenditure per cash flow statement  4,591 5,388 8,574
Rio Tinto’s management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the 
business. The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto. The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the 
performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying 
earnings being the key financial performance indicator. Interest costs and net debt are managed on a group basis.   
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product. The Energy product group includes both coal and 
uranium businesses. The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, talc and titanium dioxide 
feedstock together with diamonds operations. The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper. The Aluminium group 
excludes Alcan Engineered Products which is included in “Other Operations”. Other Operations includes Rio Tinto’s interests in its US coal 
operations formerly reported under Rio Tinto Energy America within the Energy product group. 2009 and 2008 comparatives have been 
restated accordingly.  
The Financial information by business unit provided on page 250 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which 
the Group considers is useful to the users of the financial statements. 
(a) Gross sales revenue 
Product group gross sales revenue includes the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales  
to subsidiaries. Rio Tinto’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units is deducted in arriving at consolidated sales revenue  
as shown on the face of the income statement. 
Inter-segment transactions relate to sales between Aluminium and Alcan Engineered Products which is included in Other Operations.   208 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
31 Operating segments  continued 
(b) Underlying earnings 
As discussed in note 2, “Underlying earnings” is an alternative measure of earnings which provides a greater understanding of the 
underlying business performance of the Group’s operations. The measure of Underlying earnings is used by the chief executive  
of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups. 
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the 
amortisation of discount.  
Rio Tinto’s share of the Underlying earnings of equity accounted units amounts to US$1,202 million in 2010 (2009: US$864 million; 
2008: US$1,047 million). This amount is attributable as follows: US$1,016 million profit to the Copper group and US$186 million  
profit to other product groups (2009: US$750 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$114 million profit to  
other product groups; 2008: US$852 million profit attributable to the Copper product group and US$195 million profit to other product 
groups). These amounts are included in Underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the Underlying earnings  
of the Group’s tolling entities which process bauxite and alumina. Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and would 
generally have minimal earnings.  
The Energy product group’s Underlying earnings in 2010 included US$229 million profit after tax in relation to the divestment of Maules Creek 
and Vickery coal projects. The Diamonds & Minerals product group’s Underlying earnings in 2009 included US$797 million profit after tax in 
relation to the divestment of undeveloped potash assets in Argentina and Canada. In 2008, the Energy product group’s Underlying earnings 
included a US$483 million profit after tax in relation to divestment of the undeveloped Kintyre uranium project in Western Australia. 
(c) Depreciation and amortisation 
Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ depreciation and amortisation and include  
Rio Tinto’s share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units. Rio Tinto’s share of the depreciation and amortisation 
charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in 
note 3. These figures exclude impairment charges, which are excluded from Underlying earnings. 
(d) Tax charge 
This relates to the tax charge on the product group’s Underlying earnings. The reconciling item is the tax on amounts that are excluded 
in arriving at Underlying earnings. Within product groups, tax of subsidiaries is stated before tax on finance items but after tax on  
the amortisation of the discount related to provisions. The tax charge excludes tax on the earnings of equity accounted units of  
US$737 million (2009: US$491 million; 2008: US$596 million) of which US$677 million (2009: US$498 million; 2008: US$515 million) 
relates to the Copper product group. 
32 Operating segments – additional information 
Gross sales revenue by destination 
(a)
 
2010
%
2009
%
2008
%
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
China 27.8 24.3 18.8 16,743  10,691 10,934 
Japan 15.6 13.5 15.2 9,410  5,921 8,825 
United States of America 14.9 19.5 18.8 9,013  8,569 10,900 
Other Europe (excluding United Kingdom) 14.4 14.4 20.7 8,682  6,337 12,015 
Other Asia 14.4 13.2 11.1 8,665  5,822 6,453 
Canada 3.6 3.6 3.6 2,174  1,621 2,084 
United Kingdom 2.3 2.6 3.6 1,398  1,161 2,112 
Australia  2.1 3.1 3.0 1,252  1,373 1,737 
Other  4.9 5.8 5.2 2,986  2,541 3,005 
Gross sales revenue 100.0 100.0 100.0 60,323  44,036 58,065 
Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity 
accounted units sales (3,747) (2,211) (3,801)
Consolidated sales revenue  56,576  41,825 54,264 
(a) Sales by geographical destination are based on the ultimate country of destination of the product if known. If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is 
allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed. Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom and Australia.  www.riotinto.com 209
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Gross sales revenue by product 
Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: 
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Iron ore 23,834  12,096 15,975 
Aluminium 13,808  11,126 16,542 
Copper 5,716  4,775 4,495 
Coal  5,360  5,683 7,011 
Industrial minerals 2,955  2,677 3,388 
Gold 1,086  972 379 
Diamonds 682  450 840 
Other 6,882  6,257 9,435 
Gross sales revenue 60,323  44,036 58,065 
Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales (3,747) (2,211) (3,801)
Consolidated sales revenue 56,576  41,825 54,264 
Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets  
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, post-employment benefit assets and assets held 
for sale by location is shown below. This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.  
Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets 
(a)
 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
Australia   36,460  31,543 
Canada  25,349  24,766 
United States  4,398  4,720 
South America  2,404  2,419 
France  1,890  2,298 
Africa  1,642  1,665 
United Kingdom  1,433  928 
Europe (excluding France)  1,322  2,041 
Indonesia  646  587 
Other countries  8,266  1,212 
  83,810  72,179 
Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: 
Deferred tax assets  1,863  2,231 
Tax recoverable  89  85 
Derivatives and other financial assets  1,334  841 
Loans to equity accounted units
 (b)
  1,363  1,593 
Accounts receivable  778  593 
Total non-current assets per statement of financial position  89,237  77,522 
(a) Includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$5,367 million (2009: US$5,312 million) which represents the Group’s share of net assets excluding quasi-equity loans shown separately within 
“Loans to equity accounted units” above.  
(b) Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi-equity loans of US$1,136 million (2009: US$1,423 million) included in “Investments in equity accounted units” on the face of the statement of financial 
position and non-quasi equity loans of US$227 million (2009: US$170 million) shown separately.   210 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
33 Financial risk management 
The Group’s policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied. They are a fundamental  
part of the Group’s long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and capital management.   
Generally, the Group only sells commodities it has produced but also enters into third party direct transactions and physical swaps on 
alumina to balance the regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities. In the long term, natural hedges operate 
in a number of ways to help protect and stabilise earnings and cash flow. 
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle. The relationship 
between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides further natural protection 
in the long term. Production of minerals is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia and Canada, countries 
in which the Group has a large presence. As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen 
when commodity prices are high. In addition, the Group’s policy of borrowing primarily at floating US dollar interest rates, after the 
impact of hedging, helps to counteract the effect of economic and commodity price cycles. These natural hedges significantly reduce  
the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging. Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited 
degree, as described below.  
Treasury operates as a service to the business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a profit centre. Strict limits on the size and type of 
transaction permitted are laid down by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to rigorous internal controls. Senior management is  
advised of corporate debt and currency, commodity and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.  
Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes; nor does it believe that it has 
material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint ventures and associates. Derivatives are used 
to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management. The Group uses interest 
rate and cross currency interest rate swaps in conjunction with longer term funds raised in the capital markets to achieve a predominantly 
floating rate obligation which is consistent with the Group’s interest and exchange rate policies, ie primarily US dollar LIBOR. However, 
the Group reserves the right to realise swap positions to take advantage of favourable market conditions and to manage counterparty 
credit risk. No material exposure to financial instruments held by the Group is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non 
performance of the counterparties.  
Derivative contracts are carried at fair value based on published quotations for the period for which a liquid active market exists. 
Beyond this period, Rio Tinto’s own assumptions are used.  
(i) Foreign exchange risk 
Rio Tinto’s shareholders’ equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity  
of the Group’s sales and the countries in which it operates. The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the great majority of the 
Group’s sales are denominated. Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Group’s mines and 
processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.  
The Australian and Canadian dollars and the Euro are the most important currencies (apart from the US dollar) influencing costs. In  
any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tinto’s financial results. A strengthening of the US 
dollar against the currencies in which the Group’s costs are denominated has a positive effect on Rio Tinto’s Underlying earnings. 
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Group’s affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented 
both internally and externally. It is also the most appropriate currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of 
surplus cash may also be held in other currencies, most notably Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro. This cash is held in 
order to meet short term operational and capital commitments and, for the Australian dollar, dividend payments. The Group finances  
its operations primarily in US dollars, either directly or using cross currency interest rate swaps.  
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities including intragroup balances are not held in the functional currency  
of the relevant subsidiary. This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are 
translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that accounts for those assets and liabilities. These exchange gains and losses 
are recorded in the Group’s income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Group’s accounting policy 
which is explained in note1(d). Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings. 
Other exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.  
As noted above, Rio Tinto hedges interest rate and currency risk on most of its foreign currency borrowings by entering into cross 
currency interest rate swaps. These have the economic effect of converting fixed rate foreign currency borrowings to floating rate US 
dollar borrowings. See note 34 – B(c), Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating to borrowings.  www.riotinto.com 211
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Group’s net debt is either denominated in US dollars or in the 
functional currency of the entity holding the debt. The table below summarises the net debt by currency. 
Net (debt)/funds by currency 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
United States dollar (4,182) (18,466)
Australian dollar (201) (232)
South African rand 62 60
UK sterling 24 (35)
Euro (9) (140)
Canadian dollar (123) (137)
Other 145 89
Total (4,284) (18,861)
Currency hedging  
Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term 
benefits to shareholders. The Group reviews on a regular basis its exposure and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial 
stability. Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances and are subject to strict limits laid 
down by the Rio Tinto board, typically hedging of capital expenditures and other significant financial items such as tax and dividends. There 
was a legacy of currency forward contracts used to hedge operating cash flow exposures which were acquired with the North companies; these 
matured in 2010. Refer to note 34-B(a to c), Financial instruments for the currency forward and option contracts used to manage the currency 
risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2010.  
Foreign exchange sensitivity: Risks associated with exposure to financial instruments 
The sensitivities below give the estimated effect of a ten per cent weakening in the full year closing exchange rate of significant currencies against 
the US dollar on the value of financial instruments. The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, Underlying earnings and equity, 
assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation. The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at year end, where balances 
are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units. They 
also exclude exchange movements on local currency deferred tax balances and provisions. These balances will not remain constant throughout 
2011, and therefore these numbers should be used with care.  
At 31 December 2010 
Gains/(losses) associated with 10% weakening of the currency  
Currency exposure 
Closing 
exchange 
rate  
US cents 
Effect on net 
earnings 
US$m 
Of which 
amount 
impacting 
Underlying 
earnings 
US$m
Impact 
directly on 
equity 
US$m
Australian dollar 
(a)
 102  209  75 2 
Canadian dollar 100  35  56 – 
South African rand 15  (5) – 8 
Euro 133  276  2 –
New Zealand dollar 77  19  3 –
  212 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
33 Financial risk management continued 
At 31 December 2009 
Gains/(losses) associated with 10% weakening of the currency  
Currency exposure 
Closing 
exchange 
rate 
US cents
Effect on net 
earnings 
US$m 
Of which 
amount 
impacting 
Underlying 
earnings 
US$m
Impact 
directly on 
equity 
US$m
Australian dollar 
(a)
 89 225  79 (1)
Canadian dollar 95 (1) 64 – 
South African rand 14 2  – (6)
Euro 144 251  13 –
New Zealand dollar 73 2  – –
(a) The sensitivities show the net sensitivity of US$ exposures in A$ functional currency companies, for example, and A$ exposures in US$ functional currency companies. The sensitivity associated with a 
ten per cent strengthening of the particular currency would be equal and opposite to the figures presented. 
(b) The sensitivities presented are on financial assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and proportionally consolidated units, and do not include non-financial instruments such as provisions or post retirement 
benefits, or sensitivities arising from financial assets and liabilities within equity accounted units. The impact of reflecting these items primarily impacts the Canadian dollar sensitivity, with a US$87 
million reduction in net earnings (2009: US$69 million reduction), a US$85 million reduction in Underlying earnings (2009: US$67 million reduction), and a US$167 million increase recorded directly in 
equity (2009: US$114 million increase).  
(c)  Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. which has a US functional currency for accounting purposes, has a significant amount of US dollar denominated external and intragroup debt held in Canada and is taxed on a 
Canadian currency basis. The above sensitivities as at 31 December 2010 for a ten per cent weakening of the Canadian dollar do not include the tax benefit related to this debt. If the Canadian dollar 
weakened below 1.01 US dollars, capital losses would be generated and not recognised. If the Canadian dollar had strengthened then tax charges would have begun to be recognised at 13 per cent.  
 Similarly at 31 December 2009, the above sensitivities for a ten per cent weakening of the Canadian dollar did not include any tax benefit related to this debt because the capital losses generated would 
not have been recognised. If the Canadian dollar had strengthened above 1.03 US dollars then tax charges would have begun to be recognised at 15 per cent.  
(ii) Interest rate risk 
Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate 
due to changes in market interest rates. Rio Tinto’s interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating 
interest rates. This approach is based on historical correlation between interest rates and commodity prices. In some circumstances, an 
element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate. Rio Tinto hedges interest rate risk on most of its borrowings by entering 
into interest rate swaps in order to convert fixed rate foreign currency borrowings to floating rate US dollar borrowings. The market 
value of these interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as 
alternative sources of funding. The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to either monetise in-the-money value 
or achieve lower costs of funding. See note 34-B(c), Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts relating 
to borrowings. At the end of 2010, US$5.8 billion (2009: US$8.3 billion) of the Group’s gross debt was at fixed rates after taking into 
account interest rate swaps and finance leases, making the fixed to floating debt ratio 40 per cent fixed to 60 per cent floating (2009: 
36 per cent fixed to 64 per cent floating). On a net debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 114 per cent fixed to (14) per cent 
floating (2009: 58 per cent to 42 per cent). The net debt ratio at the end of 2010 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and 
other liquid resources held by the Group, which offset floating rate liabilities in 2010.  
A monthly Treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks and, where 
applicable, the offsetting derivatives. See note 34-B(c), Financial instruments for the details of currency and interest rate contracts 
relating to borrowings. See note 22 – Borrowings for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2010.  
Based on the Group’s net debt (refer to note 24) and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2010, the 
effect on net earnings of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would 
be an increase of US$2 million (2009: US$37 million) reflecting the high level of cash at period end. These balances will not remain 
constant throughout 2011, however, and therefore these numbers should be used with care.  
(iii) Commodity price risk 
The Group’s normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices. Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down 
by the Rio Tinto board and to rigid internal controls. Rio Tinto’s exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad 
commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide long term benefit to shareholders. 
However, commodity price protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically to obtain 
certainty over specific site sales where the cost base is relatively fixed and medium term margin achieved is deemed beneficial to 
shareholders. The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers. Details of commodity derivatives 
held at 31 December 2010 are set out in note 34 – B (a to c), Financial instruments.  
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contract, often long term, at prices determined by reference to 
prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange (LME) and COMEX in New York, usually at the time 
of delivery. Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the 
marginal cost of supply. Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and 
sought. Newly mined gold is only one source of supply; investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and 
demand. Contract prices for many other natural resource products including iron ore and coal are generally agreed quarterly or for 
longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.   www.riotinto.com 213
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are “provisionally priced”, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the 
end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant 
quotation point stipulated in the contract. Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on estimates of fair value of the 
consideration receivable based on forward market prices. At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based 
on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract. For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for 
those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and freely traded commodity market such as the London Metal 
Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.  
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue. 
At the end of 2010, the Group had 270 million pounds of copper sales (2009: 267 million pounds) that were provisionally priced  
at US 428 cents per pound (2009: US 335 cents per pound). The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half  
of 2011. A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings  
by US$72 million (2009: US$55 million). 
Approximately 24 per cent of Rio Tinto’s 2010 Underlying earnings from operating businesses came from products whose prices were 
terminal market related and the remainder came from products priced by direct negotiation. 
Commodity price sensitivity: Risks associated with derivatives 
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on the following commodity derivatives including those 
aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2010, but excluding 
the impact of commodity and embedded derivatives held by equity accounted units (see footnote (a) below). The impact is expressed in 
terms of the resulting change in the Group’s net earnings for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity. The sensitivities are 
based on the assumption that the market price increases by ten per cent with all other variables held constant. The Group’s “own use 
contracts” are excluded from the sensitivity analysis below as they are outside the scope of IAS 39. Such contracts to buy or sell non-
financial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-
financial item in accordance with the business unit’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. 
These sensitivities should be used with care. The relationship between currencies and commodity prices is a complex one; changes in 
exchange rates can influence commodity prices and vice versa. 
At 31 December 2010 
Gains/(losses) associated with 10% increase from year end price 
Products 
Effect on net 
earnings 
US$m
Effect 
directly on 
equity 
attributable 
to Rio Tinto 
US$m
Copper – (21)
Aluminium 10 (15)
Oil 4 – 
Total 14 (36)
At 31 December 2009 
Gains/(losses) associated with 10% increase from year end price 
Products 
Effect on net 
earnings 
US$m
Effect directly 
on equity 
attributable 
to Rio Tinto 
US$m
Copper (1) (18)
Aluminium (19) (24)
Oil 3 – 
Total (17) (42)
(a) The sensitivities presented do not include those arising from balances within equity accounted units. The impact of reflecting equity accounted units primarily relates to the aluminium sensitivity, with a 
US$100 million reduction in net earnings (2009: US$55 million reduction).  
(iv) Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial 
loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily from customer receivables) and from its financing activities, 
including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.   214 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
33 Financial risk management continued 
Credit risks related to receivables 
Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to Rio Tinto’s established policies, procedures and controls relating to customer 
credit risk management. Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria. Where customers are rated 
by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits. In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, 
the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly 
monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management. High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters 
of credit or other forms of credit insurance.  
At 31 December 2010, the Group had approximately 138 customers (2009: 70 customers) that owed the Group more than US$5 million 
each and these balances accounted for approximately 70 per cent (2009: 52 per cent) of all receivables owing. There were 57 customers 
(2009: 17 customers) with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 53 per cent (2009: just over 30 per cent) of total 
amounts receivable.  
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets mentioned on page 
216. The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.  
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits 
Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved 
policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. 
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the Rio Tinto board on an annual basis, and may be updated throughout the year subject  
to approval of the Rio Tinto Finance committee. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the 
potential for financial loss through counterparty failure.  
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non-performance of the counterparties to financial instruments. 
(v) Liquidity and Capital risk management 
The Group’s total capital is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non–controlling interests 
plus net debt, and amounted to US$70 billion at 31 December 2010 (2009: US$65 billion).  
 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
Total capital 
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto  58,333 43.831
Equity attributable to non–controlling interests 6,941 2,094
Net debt (note 24)  4,284 18,861
Total capital 69,558 64,786
The Group’s overriding objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern; to maximise returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and to maintain an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial 
flexibility at the lowest cost of capital. The board and senior management regularly review the capital structure of the Group taking account  
of strategic priorities and economic conditions within which the Group operates. 
The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and  
Rio Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other. During the 2010 financial year, in recognition of the Group’s improved 
balance sheet, Moody’s improved the Group’s long term credit rating from Baa1 to A3 and the short term credit rating was P–2 with  
a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s (S&P) retained the Group’s long term rating at BBB+ and the short term rating at A–2 with an 
improvement in outlook from stable to positive. In 2009, following the successful US$15.2 billion rights issues, both Moody’s and S&P 
improved the Group’s credit rating. S&P upgraded the long term rating to BBB+ from BBB and its short term credit ratings to A–2 from  
A–3, the outlook improved from negative to stable. Moody’s affirmed the long term rating of Baa1 and short term corporate credit rating 
of P–2 also with a stable outlook. 
In October 2010, the Group tendered US$1.9 billion of its Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited 5.875% bond due in 2013 and refinanced  
this with the issue of three fixed rate Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited bonds amounting to US$500 million 1.875% bond due 2015, 
US$1,000 million 3.5 per cent bond due 2020 and US$500 million 5.2 per cent bond due 2040. 
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion five year multi–currency committed revolving credit facility with its relationship 
banks. At 31 December 2010, the facility was undrawn. Any borrowings under this facility are at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed 
margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group. The facility is not subject to any financial covenants. 
The overall agreement also enables same day access to a US$ swing–line facility. The funds available under the facility agreement may 
be used for general corporate purposes of the Group.  www.riotinto.com 215
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Prior to the new US$6 billion facility, the Group’s back–up facilities consisted of the US$5 billion revolving syndicated bank facility  
C from the Alcan acquisition facility and a series of standby bi–lateral bank facilities totalling US$2.3 billion. These bi–lateral bank 
facilities contained no covenants. At 31 December 2009, the bi–lateral facilities were not drawn. 
In 2007, Rio Tinto acquired Alcan which was financed using a US$40 billion syndicated bank facility, comprising two term facilities 
(Facilities A and D) and two revolving facilities (Facilities B and C). This facility contained a financial covenant requiring the maintenance of a 
ratio of no greater than 4.5 times of net borrowings to EBITDA. Advances under each facility generally bore interest at rates per annum 
equal to the margin for that facility plus LIBOR and any mandatory costs. 
Facility A was fully repaid during 2009. US$8.5 billion was drawn under Facility D at 31 December 2009 but this was fully repaid  
during 2010. At 31 December 2009, US$2.1 billion of Facility B remained available but undrawn. In February 2010, in accordance  
with the acquisition facility agreement, proceeds from the sale of the majority of Alcan Packaging to Amcor were used to cancel  
US$2 billion of the outstanding capacity. At the same time, the Group voluntarily surrendered the remaining US$0.1 billion of this 
facility. At 31 December 2009, US$5 billion of Facility C was available but undrawn. This facility was cancelled in November 2010.  
The Group’s net debt as a percentage of total capital was six per cent at 31 December 2010 (2009: 29 per cent).  
The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time, taking into 
account the results for the past year and the outlook. In February 2011, as part of the Group’s capital management programme, a share 
buy-back of US$5 billion was announced which, subject to market conditions, is planned to be completed by the end of 2012. 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the 
statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date. As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the statement of financial position. 
At 31 December 2010 
Trade 
and other 
payables 
US$m
Borrowings 
before swaps 
US$m
Expected     
future     
interest     
payments 
(a) 
 
US$m     
Derivatives 
related to net 
debt 
 US$m 
Other  
financial  
liabilities  
US$m 
Total 
financial 
liabilities 
US$m
Financial liabilities   
Within 1 year, or on demand (4,985) (1,066) (705)    15  (312) (7,053)
Between 1 and 2 years (575) (557) (742)   17  (276) (2,133)
Between 2 and 3 years – (1,232) (730)   18  (159) (2,103)
Between 3 and 4 years – (2,605) (606)   15  (30) (3,226)
Between 4 and 5 years – (965) (530)   11  (30) (1,514)
After 5 years – (7,783) (4,166)   (26) (22) (11,997)
 (5,560) (14,208) (7,479)   50  (829) (28,026)
 
At 31 December 2009 
Trade 
and other 
payables 
US$m
Borrowings 
before swaps 
US$m
Expected     
future     
interest     
payments 
(a) 
 
US$m     
Derivatives 
related to net 
debt  
US$m 
Other  
financial  
liabilities  
US$m 
Total 
financial 
liabilities 
US$m
Financial liabilities   
Within 1 year, or on demand (4,416) (878) (942)    (52) (365) (6,653)
Between 1 and 2 years – (463) (884)    – (203) (1,550)
Between 2 and 3 years – (9,087) (910)    2  (204) (10,199)
Between 3 and 4 years – (3,269) (840)    – (177) (4,286)
Between 4 and 5 years – (2,767) (591)     – (58) (3,416)
After 5 years – (6,725) (3,857)   (162) (54) (10,798)
 (4,416) (23,189) (8,024)   (212) (1,061) (36,902)
(a) Interest payments have been projected using spot interest rates applicable at 31 December, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements, where appropriate. Much of the debt is subject to 
variable interest rates. Future interest payments are therefore subject to change in line with market rates.  
  216 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
34 Financial instruments 
Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and 
proportionally consolidated units, and exclude those of equity accounted units. The information is grouped in the following sections: 
A – Financial assets and liabilities by categories 
B – Derivative financial instruments 
C – Fair values 
(A) Financial assets and liabilities by categories 
At 31 December 2010 
Total 
US$m
Loans and 
receivables 
US$m
Available  
for sale 
securities 
US$m 
Held at 
fair value 
US$m
Other 
financial 
assets and 
liabilities 
US$m
Financial assets  
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 9,948 9,948 –  – – 
Trade and other receivables 
(a)
 5,708 5,708 –  – – 
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 950 – 950  – – 
Other investments, including loans (note 20) 
(b)
 619 185 64 289 81 
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated  
as hedges (note 20) 143 – – 143 – 
Derivatives related to net debt (note 20) 143 – –  143 – 
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi-equity loans 1,473 1,473 –  – – 
Total financial assets 18,984 17,314 1,014  575 81 
   
Financial liabilities  
Trade and other payables 
(c)
 (5,560) – –  – (5,560)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts (notes 21 and 22) (1,064) – –  – (1,064)
Medium and long term borrowings (note 22) (13,277) – –  – (13,277)
Deferred consideration (note 25) 
(a)
 (108) – –  – (108)
Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges (note 26) (421) – –  (421) – 
Derivatives related to net debt (note 26) (34) – –  (34) – 
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges (note 26) (169) – –  (169) – 
Other financial liabilities (note 26) (57) – –  – (57)
Total financial liabilities (20,690) – – (624) (20,066)
  www.riotinto.com 217
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
At 31 December 2009 
Total 
US$m
Loans and 
receivables 
US$m 
Available  
for sale 
securities 
US$m 
Held at 
fair value 
US$m
Other 
financial 
assets and 
liabilities 
US$m
Financial assets   
Cash and cash equivalents (note 21) 4,233 4,233  – – –
Trade and other receivables 
(a)
 4,739 4,739  – ––
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 658 – 658  – –
Other investments, including loans (note 20) 
(b)
 505 270  77  158 – 
Other liquid resources (note 20) 73 73 – – – 
Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges (note 20) 8 – – 8 –
Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated  
as hedges (note 20) 291 – – 291 –
Loans to equity accounted units including quasi-equity loans 1,761 1,761  – – –
Total financial assets 12,268 11,076  735  457 –
    
Financial liabilities   
Trade and other payables 
(c)
 (4,416)– – –(4,416)
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts (notes 21 and 22) (847) – – – (847)
Medium and long term borrowings (note 22) (22,155) – – – (22,155)
Deferred consideration (note 25) 
(a)
 (119)– – –(119)
Forward commodity contracts: designated as hedges (note 26) (499) – – (499) –
Derivatives related to net debt (note 26) (165) – – (165) –
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated as hedges (note 26) (300) – – (300) –
Other financial liabilities (note 26) (49) – – – (49)
Total financial liabilities (28,550) – – (964)(27,586)
(a) This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities and other prepayments and accrued income. 
(b) This includes US$81 million of held to maturity investments within “Other financial assets and liabilities”. 
(c)  Trade and other payables includes trade creditors, amounts owed to equity accounted units, other creditors, excluding deferred consideration shown separately, and accruals. 
(B) Derivative financial instruments 
The Group’s derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2010, are summarised below: 
(a) Forward contracts relating to operating transactions: designated as hedges 
 Total fair value 
 
2010  
Asset 
US$m 
2010 
Liability 
US$m 
2009 
Asset
US$m
2009
Liability
US$m
Currency forward contracts –  –  8 – 
Copper forward contracts –  (409) – (435)
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts –  (12) – (4)
Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts –  –  – (56)
Coal forward contracts –  –  – (4)
Total –  (421) 8 (499)
     
Less than 1 year –  (159) 8 (128)
Between 1 and 5 years –  (262) – (371)
Total –  (421) 8 (499)
  218 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
34 Financial instruments continued 
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives designated as hedges 
 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
– current assets (note 20) – 8 
– current liabilities (note 26) (159) (128)
– non-current liabilities (note 26) (262) (371)
Total derivatives designated as hedges, detailed above (421) (491)
The above copper forward contracts were entered into as a condition of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005, and reduce the Group’s exposure  
to movements in the copper price. Coal forward contracts have been entered into in order to reduce exposure to movements in the coal price. 
The above currency forward contracts were acquired with companies purchased in 2000 and were entered into by those companies in order  
to reduce their exposure to the US dollar through forecast sales.  
Aluminium price exposures are embedded within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts. These contracts reduce the Group’s 
exposure to movements in the aluminium price.  
The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the hedged commodity purchase or sales contracts are expected to 
occur in line with the maturity dates of the derivatives hedging these particular exposures. Gains and losses recognised in equity for these cash 
flow hedges will be recycled into the income statement in the period during which the hedged transaction affects the income statement. Where 
the hedged transaction relates to capital expenditures, the gain or loss on the derivative will be recognised in the income statement within 
“depreciation” as the fixed asset is amortised. 
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity, net of tax and non–controlling interests, for the year to 31 December 2010, 
comprised cash flow hedge fair value losses of US$56 million including equity accounted units (2009: losses of US$151 million) and net cash 
flow hedge losses reclassified from equity and included in the income statement for the year amounted to US$29 million (2009: US$13 million; 
2008: US$168 million). 
The ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement was US$1 million (2009: US$2 million; 2008:  
US$6 million). 
(b) Forward and option contracts relating to operating transactions: not designated as hedges 
 Total fair value 
 
2010 
Asset
US$m
2010 
Liability 
US$m 
2009 
Asset
US$m
2009
Liability
US$m
Currency forward contracts and swaps 5 (4) 61 – 
Aluminium forward contracts 131 (17) 216 (47)
Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts – (43) – (146)
Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts – (4) ––
Other embedded derivatives – (101) – (100)
Other commodity contracts 7 –  14 (7)
Total 143 (169) 291 (300)
   
Less than 1 year 124 (106) 226 (167)
Between 1 and 5 years 18 (47) 65 (119)
More than 5 years 1 (16) – (14)
Total 143 (169) 291 (300)
  www.riotinto.com 219
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for derivatives not designated as hedges 
 
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
– non current assets (note 20) 19 65 
– current assets (note 20) 124 226 
– current liabilities (note 26) (106) (167)
– non current liabilities (note 26) (63) (133)
Total derivatives not designated as hedges, detailed above (26) (9)
Embedded options exist within electricity purchase contracts for certain smelters. These derivatives reduce the Group’s exposure to movements 
in the aluminium price. A number of put and call options were combined to form synthetic forward contracts that were designated as hedges of 
variable priced aluminium sales.  
The above aluminium forward contracts were taken out to manage exposure to movements in the aluminium price. These contracts are not 
designated as hedges as they are predominantly offset by other aluminium forward contracts.  
(c) Currency and interest contracts relating to borrowings 
 Total fair value 
 
2010  
Asset 
US$m 
2010 
Liability 
US$m 
2009 
Asset
US$m
2009
Liability
US$m
Currency and interest rate swap contracts –  –  – (68)
Interest rate swap contracts (designated as hedges) 132  (34) – (97)
Interest rate swap contracts (not designated as hedges) 11  –  – – 
Total 143  (34) – (165)
    
Less than 1 year 6  –  – (68)
Between 1 and 5 years 137  (34) – (8)
More than 5 years –  –  – (89)
Total 143  (34) – (165)
Reconciliation to statement of financial position categories for currency and interest derivatives 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
– non current assets (note 20) 137 – 
– current assets (note 20) 6 – 
– current liabilities (note 26) – (68)
– non current liabilities (note 26) (34) (97)
Total currency and interest rate contracts, detailed above 109 (165)
The currency contracts are used to swap non–US dollar denominated external debt to US dollar floating. The interest rate contracts are used to 
convert certain fixed rate obligations to a floating rate. Refer to note 22 – Borrowings for further details. 
The ineffective portion arising from fair value hedges recognised in the income statement was US$10 million (2009: nil; 2008: US$91 million).  
(C) Fair values 
The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to their 
fair value at 31 December are shown in the following table. The fair values of the Group’s cash, short term borrowings and loans to jointly controlled 
entities and associates approximate their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest. 
 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 
 
Carrying 
value  
US$m 
Fair value  
US$m 
Carrying 
value 
US$m
Fair value 
US$m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations     
Medium and long term borrowings (note 22)  (13,277) (15,875) (22,155) (23,318)
  220 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
34 Financial instruments continued 
Valuation hierarchy 
The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value in note 34 (A) by valuation method at 31 December 2010. 
 Total Level 1 
(a)
Level 2 
(b)
 Level 3 
(c)
 
Not held 
at fair value
Assets   
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 950 897    16      37     – 
Other investments, including loans (note 20) 619 150     –     203     266 
 1,569 1,047     16      240     266
Derivatives   
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B 
(a)
 of note 34) (421) –    (409)     (12)     –
Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges  
(Section B 
(b) 
of note 34) (26) –    16     (42)     –
Currency swaps hedging borrowings (Section B 
(c)
 of note 34) – –    –    –      –
Interest rate swap agreements (Section B 
(c)
 of note 34) 109 –    110     (1)      –
 1,231 1,047     (267)     185     266 
The table below includes financial instruments carried at fair value in note 34 (A) by valuation method at 31 December 2009. 
Total Level 1 
(a)
Level 2 
(b)
 Level 3 
(c)
 
Not held at 
fair value
Assets   
Equity shares and quoted funds (note 20) 658 644    14     –    – 
Other investments, including loans (note 20) 505 129    –    106     270 
 1,163 773    14     106     270
Derivatives   
Forward contracts: designated as hedges (Section B 
(a)
 of note 34) (491) –   (430)    (61)    –
Forward contracts and option contracts not designated as hedges  
(Section B 
(b)
 of note 34) (9) –   132    (141)    –
Currency swaps hedging borrowings (Section B 
(c)
 of note 34) (68) –   (68)    –    –
Interest rate swap agreements (Section B 
(c)
 of note 34) (97) –   (97)    –    –
 498 773    (449)    (96)    270
(a) Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.  
(b)  Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be 
active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.  
(c) Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).  www.riotinto.com 221
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Level 3 Financial assets and financial liabilities 
The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Group’s level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the 
year ended 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009.  
 
31 December 2010  
Level 3 financial  
assets and financial 
liabilities 
31 December 2009 
Level 3 financial 
assets and financial 
liabilities
Opening balance (96) (50)
Currency translation adjustments (2) (1)
Realised gains to income statement 91  24 
Unrealised gains/(losses) to income statement 147  (35)
Unrealised losses to comprehensive income –  (66)
Additions 27  38 
Disposals 18  (6)
Closing balance 185  (96)
Total losses for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities  
held at year end 97  (31)
35 Contingent liabilities and commitments 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Capital commitments (including those related to joint ventures and associates) 
(a)
 
Within 1 year 5,219 2,439 
Between 1 and 3 years 2,264 1,050 
Between 3 and 5 years 90 308 
After 5 years – 78 
Total 7,573 3,875 
(a) Included in the above table are other commitments of US$25 million (2009: US$117 million). Capital commitments incurred by the Group relating to joint ventures and associates amount to US$1,421 million 
(2009: US$261 million). Capital commitments incurred jointly with other venturers (Rio Tinto share) relating to joint ventures amount to US$695 million (2009: US$539 million).  
 In addition to the above, the Group has agreed to provide Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. with an interim loan facility of US$1,800 million while Rio Tinto and Ivanhoe work together to complete project financing for 
the development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project. Refer to note 41 for further details relating to the Group’s interest in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and Oyu Tolgoi. 
Operating leases 
The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Within 1 year 507 484 
Between 1 and 3 years 854 628 
Between 3 and 5 years 561 287 
After 5 years 1,107 451 
 3,029 1,850 
  222 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
35 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued 
Unconditional purchase obligations 
The aggregate amount of future payment commitments for the next five years under unconditional purchase obligations outstanding  
at 31 December was: 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Within 1 year 2,295 1,339 
Between 1 and 2 years 1,466 1,054 
Between 2 and 3 years 1,468 1,113 
Between 3 and 4 years 1,305 1,006 
Between 4 and 5 years 1,210 891 
After 5 years 10,156 7,404 
 17,900 12,807 
Unconditional purchase obligations relate to commitments to make payments in the future for fixed or minimum quantities of goods  
or services at fixed or minimum prices. The future payment commitments set out above have not been discounted and mainly relate to 
commitments under “take or pay” power and freight contracts. They exclude unconditional purchase obligations of jointly controlled entities 
apart from those relating to the Group’s tolling arrangements. 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Contingent liabilities (excluding those relating to joint ventures and associates) 
Indemnities and other performance guarantees 557 316 
Contingent liabilities relating to joint ventures and associates
 (a)
 
Incurred in relation to interests in joint ventures  214 233 
Incurred in relation to other venturers’ contingent liabilities 79 73 
(a) Amounts disclosed include those arising as a result of the Group’s investments in both jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled entities. 
(b) There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group. No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.  
36 Average number of employees 
 
Subsidiaries and proportionally 
consolidated units 
(a)
 
Equity accounted units  
(Rio Tinto share) 
(a)
  Group total
 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
The principal locations of 
employment were:    
Australia and New Zealand 18,772  17,537  17,875 2,428 2,355 2,471 21,200  19,892 20,346 
Europe 15,205  16,965  16,909 223 274 520 15,428  17,239 17,429 
Canada 13,418  12,957  12,948 295 500 265 13,713  13,457 12,948 
United States 6,416  8,830  10,219 721 80 105 7,137  8,910 10,589 
Africa 5,451  6,539  6,329 2,204 1,673 1,980 7,655  8,212 8,309 
Indonesia 2,261  2,165  2,206 13 – – 2,274  2,165 2,206 
South America 430  2,039  2,909 1,175 1,148 1,116 1,605  3,187 4,025 
Other countries 869  844  942 833 356 605 1,702  1,200 1,547 
Discontinued operations  6,180  27,732  28,386 – –– 6,180  27,732 28,386 
 69,002  95,608  98,723 7,892 6,386 7,062 76,894  101,994 105,785
(a)  Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies. Employee numbers for proportionally consolidated and equity accounted units 
are proportional to the Group’s interest. Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year. 
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis. Temporary employees are included in employee numbers. 
People employed by contractors are not included.  www.riotinto.com 223
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
37 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations 
At 31 December 2010 
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities 
Class of  
shares held 
Proportion of 
class held (%)
Group 
interest (%)
Australia   
Argyle Diamonds Limited Mining and processing of diamonds  Ordinary  100 100 
Coal & Allied Industries Limited  Coal mining  Ordinary  75.71 75.71
Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary  68.40 68.40
Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A  68.39 68.39
Hamersley Iron Pty Limited  Iron ore mining Ordinary  100 100 
Queensland Coal Pty Limited 
(a)
 Coal mining  Ordinary  100 100 
Rio Tinto Aluminium (Holdings) Limited Bauxite mining; alumina production;  
primary aluminium smelting 
Ordinary  100 100 
Canada   
Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. 
(b)
 Iron ore mining; iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72
QIT–Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock;  
high purity iron and steel 
Common shares  100 100 
Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining; alumina refining; 
production of specialty alumina; 
aluminium smelting; engineered products
Class B preference shares 
Common shares 
100 
100
100 
100 
France   
Talc de Luzenac France SA Mining, refining and marketing of talc  Ordinary 15.25 100 100 
Madagascar   
QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 
Mongolia   
Oyu Tolgoi LLC  Copper and gold mining (in development) (c) – –
Namibia   
Rössing Uranium Limited 
(d)
 Uranium mining 71.16
  
B N$1 
C N10c 
70.59
} 
68.58
Papua New Guinea   
Bougainville Copper Limited 
(e)
 Copper and gold mining Ordinary 1 Kina 53.58 53.58
South Africa   
Palabora Mining Company Limited Copper mining, smelting and refining Ordinary R1 72.03 57.67 
United States of America   
Kennecott Holdings Corporation (including 
Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott Land 
and Kennecott Exploration) 
Copper and gold mining, smelting and 
refining, land development and 
exploration activities 
Common US$0.01 100 100 
U.S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group. 
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited. 
With the exception of Iron Ore Company of Canada, which is incorporated in the US companies operate mainly in the countries in 
which they are incorporated. 
(a) Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that owns the shares shown in note 40 of Hail Creek, Blair Athol, Clermont and Kestrel.  
(b) This entity is incorporated in the United States of America but operates in Canada. 
(c) The Group holds no direct equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC; this entity is consolidated by virtue of contractual rights which permit the exercise of control over certain policies and activities of Oyu Tolgoi 
LLC. Refer to note 41 for further details relating to the consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC from 15 December 2010. 
(d) The Group’s shareholding in Rössing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights. Rössing is consolidated by virtue of board control. 
(e) The results of Bougainville Copper Limited are not consolidated. See note 47.  224 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
 
38 Principal jointly controlled entities 
At 31 December 2010 
Company and country of incorporation/operation Principal activities 
Number of 
shares held
Class of  
shares held 
Proportion of 
class held (%)
Group 
interest (%)
Australia   
Boyne Smelters Limited 
(a)
 Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 
Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited 
(b)
 Coal mining 20,115,000 Ordinary 44.7 44.7 
Queensland Alumina Limited 
(a)
 Alumina production 1,769,600 Ordinary 80 80 
Chile   
Minera Escondida Limitada 
(c)
 Copper mining and refining  30 30 
New Zealand   
New Zealand Aluminium Smelters  
Limited 
(a)
 
Aluminium smelting 24,998,400 Ordinary 79.4 79.4 
Norway   
Sor–Norge Aluminium A.S. Aluminium smelting 500,000 Ordinary 50 50 
Oman   
Sohar Aluminium Company L.L.C. Aluminium smelting/power 
generation 
37,500 Ordinary 20 20 
South Africa   
Richards Bay Titanium (Pty) Ltd Titanium dioxide/high purity  
iron production – 
 
Preferred Ordinary – 
  – A Ordinary – 
  150,960 B Ordinary 51 
} 
37.7 
  –A Preference – 
  140,046 B Preference 51 
} 
38.5 
Richards Bay Mining (Pty) Ltd  Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining – Preferred Ordinary – 
  – A Ordinary – 
  36,260 B Ordinary 49 
} 
36.3 
  – A Preference – 
  31,335B Preference 49 
} 
37.0 
United States of America   
Halco (Mining) Inc. (d) 4,500 Common 45 45 
Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. (e) 100 Common  50 
  1Preferred 100 
} 
50.3 
The Group has joint control of the above operations which, except as disclosed in note (d) below, are independent legal entities. It therefore 
includes them in its accounts using the equity accounting method. 
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only 
includes those jointly controlled entities that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. 
The Group’s principal jointly controlled entities are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or  
Rio Tinto Limited. 
With the exception of footnote (d) and (e), all jointly controlled entities operate mainly in the countries in which they are incorporated. 
(a) While the Group holds more than a 50 per cent interest in these entities, other participants have veto rights over operating, financing and strategic decision making. Accordingly, the Group does not  
have the ability to unilaterally control, and therefore does not consolidate these entities.  
(b) Leichhardt has a 31.4 per cent interest in the Blair Athol Coal joint venture. As a result, the Group has a further beneficial interest of 14 per cent in addition to its direct interest of 57.2 per cent, which  
is owned via a subsidiary of Rio Tinto Limited. The Blair Athol Coal joint venture is disclosed as a jointly controlled asset in note 40. 
(c) The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June. However, the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that  
are coterminous with those of the Group. 
(d) Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinée, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea. 
(e) Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie de Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.  www.riotinto.com 225
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
39 Principal associates 
At 31 December 2010 
Company and country of incorporation/operation 
Principal 
activities
Number of 
shares held
Class of  
shares held 
Proportion of 
class held (%)
Group 
interest (%)
Brazil 
     
Mineração Rio do Norte SA 
(a)
 Bauxite mining25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 
 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 
} 
12 
Cameroon 
     
Compagnie Camerounaise de l’Aluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 
Canada 
     
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd 
(b)
 Copper and gold mining 229,251,843 Common 40.3 40.3 
The Group’s principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited. 
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes those 
associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. 
With the exception of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd, the core assets of which are located in Mongolia, all associates operate mainly in the countries in 
which they are incorporated. 
(a) Mineração Rio do Norte SA is accounted for as an associated company because the Group has significant influence through representation on its board of directors.  
(b) Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, which the Group consolidates (refer to note 37). The Group only equity accounts for its interest in the net assets of Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. that does 
not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC. Refer to note 41 for further details of additions to the Group’s investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. during 2010.  
40 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units 
At 31 December 2010 
Name and country of operation Principal activities 
Group 
interest (%)
Australia 
  
Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 
Bengalla 
(a)
 Coal mining 30.3 
Blair Athol Coal 
(b)
 Coal mining 71.2 
Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 
Hail Creek Coal mining 82 
Kestrel Coal mining 80 
Mount Thorley 
(c)
 Coal mining 60.6 
Warkworth Coal mining 42.1 
Northparkes Mine Copper/gold mining and processing 80 
Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 
Robe River Iron Associates 
(d)
 Iron ore mining 53 
Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 
HIsmelt
® 
 Iron technology 60 
Brazil 
  
Consórcio de Alumínio Maranhão Alumina production 10 
Canada 
  
Alouette Aluminium production 40 
Diavik Mining and processing of diamonds 60 
Indonesia 
  
Grasberg expansion  Copper and gold mining 40 
The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list. The list therefore only includes 
those proportionally consolidated units that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group. 
The Group’s proportionally consolidated units are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited. 
(a) The Group owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla through its 75.71 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 30.3 per cent.  
(b)  The Group has a direct interest of 57.2 per cent in Blair Athol Coal, and an additional 14 per cent interest through its investment in Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited, which is disclosed as a jointly controlled 
entity in note 38. 
(c) The Group owns an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley through its 75.71 per cent investment in Coal and Allied, giving a beneficial interest to the Group of 60.6 per cent.  
(d) The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary. The Group’s net beneficial interest is, therefore, 53 per cent, net of amounts 
attributable to outside equity shareholders.   226 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests 
in businesses 
2010 acquisitions 
Consolidation of Oyu Tolgoi LLC 
On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto gained control of Oyu Tolgoi LLC, following the signing of a new agreement with Ivanhoe Mines Ltd 
(“Ivanhoe”). Oyu Tolgoi LLC is consolidated by virtue of Rio Tinto’s contractual rights which permit it to exercise control over certain policies 
and activities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC. No direct equity interest was acquired under the agreement and the existing equity arrangements were not 
changed as a result of the agreement. Oyu Tolgoi LLC is owned 66 per cent by Ivanhoe and 34 per cent by the Government of Mongolia. The 
signing of the agreement did not affect the Government of Mongolia’s economic interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC. 
As part of the agreement by which Rio Tinto obtained its contractual rights, Rio Tinto agreed to exercise its remaining warrants for 
common shares in Ivanhoe, participate fully in Ivanhoe’s US$1.2 billion rights offering, and to provide Ivanhoe with a US$1.8 billion 
interim loan facility to fund the Oyu Tolgoi project. 
The agreement secured for Rio Tinto the right to increase its ownership in Ivanhoe to 49 per cent by, in addition to exercising its 
remaining warrants for common shares, acquiring a total of 20 million shares at current market prices, evenly from Citibank  
and Ivanhoe executive chairman and chief executive officer, Robert Friedland, purchasing shares in the market, and exercising its  
right to subscribe for Ivanhoe common shares from treasury at market prices until January 2012. 
On 15 December 2010, Rio Tinto exercised 33,783,784 Series B warrants for common shares at an exercise price of US$8.88 per share, 
paying a total of US$300 million, and acquired ten million shares in Ivanhoe from Robert Friedland at a market price of US$25.34 per share, 
paying a total of US$253 million. These transactions increased Rio Tinto’s ownership in Ivanhoe to 40.5 per cent. 
100 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi LLC’s identifiable assets and liabilities have been recognised in the statement of financial position at fair 
values estimated with the assistance of an independent third party valuer, together with goodwill. The historic cost of acquiring the 
Group’s indirect share of Oyu Tolgoi LLC through its investment in Ivanhoe was deducted from investments in equity accounted units. 
The Group’s remaining interest in the assets of Ivanhoe that does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC continues to be equity accounted. The 
transaction generated a non-cash gain of US$531 million. 
Due to the complexity of the valuation process, and the proximity of the date on which the agreement was effective to the reporting 
date, fair values on consolidation are provisional and will be subject to further review during the 12 months from the date on which  
the agreement was effective. 
Oyu Tolgoi LLC owns and manages the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold complex in Mongolia, where full scale mine construction and development  
of a copper concentrator and related infrastructure are under way.  www.riotinto.com 227
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Oyu Tolgoi LLC were provisionally estimated as follows: 
Provisional 
fair value 
US$m
Intangible assets 38 
Property, plant & equipment 5,755 
Inventories  6 
Cash 90 
Other assets 171 
Loans and borrowings (213)
Deferred tax liabilities (834)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (2)
Other liabilities (218)
Non-controlling interests (3,912)
Goodwill 963 
Net attributable assets including goodwill 1,844 
  
Total consideration 
Provisional fair value of indirect equity interest in Oyu Tolgoi 1,476 
Series B warrants exercised 300 
Shares acquired from Robert Friedland 253 
Non-Oyu Tolgoi share of Ivanhoe assets acquired (185)
Total consideration 1,844 
  
Reconciliation of gain recognised on acquisition 
Amount allocated from investments in EAUs (1,313)
Attributable assets recognised per above 1,844 
Amount included within gain on consolidation per the income statement 531
A non-controlling interest arises from the Government of Mongolia’s 34 per cent direct interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC, and from the portion of 
Ivanhoe’s 66 per cent direct interest not attributable to Rio Tinto’s 40.5 per cent equity holding in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. as at 15 December 2010. 
In arriving at the non-controlling interest figure, an adjustment is made to reflect the fact that repayment of funding made by Ivanhoe is 
required before Oyu Tolgoi LLC can begin to pay dividends. 
Goodwill arising on consolidation of US$963 million mostly comprises US$834 million calculated in accordance with the requirement 
in IFRS to recognise a deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and 
liabilities and their tax base. 
There was no impact on Group sales revenue or profit after tax attributable to continuing operations for the period since Oyu Tolgoi 
LLC’s consolidation in the Group income statement. 
Had Oyu Tolgoi been consolidated from 1 January 2010, the consolidated income statement would have reduced by US$118 million to 
show profit after tax (before attributing amounts to non-controlling interests) of US$15,066 million. Consolidated sales revenue would 
have been unaffected. 
Ivanhoe Mines Limited 
In addition to the agreement described above, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Rio Tinto also entered into the transactions 
described below in relation to its investment in Ivanhoe Mines Limited (“Ivanhoe”). 
On 1 March 2010, Rio Tinto announced that it had agreed to acquire 15 million shares in Ivanhoe at a subscription price of C$16.31 per share, 
increasing its ownership in Ivanhoe by 2.7 per cent to 22.4 per cent. The total consideration for this acquisition was C$244.7 million 
(US$241 million). The shares were issued to Rio Tinto in satisfaction of an agreement with Ivanhoe in 2008 to finance equipment  
for the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold complex in Mongolia’s South Gobi region. After the completion of the acquisition, Rio Tinto owned  
98.6 million shares in Ivanhoe.  228 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests 
in businesses continued  
On 30 June 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership in Ivanhoe to 29.6 per cent following the exercising of all its Series A warrants for  
a total consideration of US$393 million. After the completion of the exercise of the Series A warrants, Rio Tinto owned 144.66 million 
shares in Ivanhoe. 
On 13 September 2010, Rio Tinto increased its ownership to 34.9 per cent following automatic conversion of the US$350 million convertible 
debt facility Rio Tinto made available to Ivanhoe in 2007, which was fully drawn down by mid-2008. After the completion of the conversion  
of the debt facility, Rio Tinto owned 184.75 million shares in Ivanhoe. 
The progressive issue of share options and a share purchase plan at Ivanhoe which occurred after the date on which Oyu Tolgoi LLC  
was initially consolidated impacted Rio Tinto’s effective share, reducing it to 40.3 per cent at 31 December 2010. 
The cash flow statement includes US$907 million in “Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates”. In accordance with  
IAS 7, this is stated net of US$90 million cash held in newly consolidated operations at the date of consolidation. 
2009 acquisitions 
On 28 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the second tranche of its private placement investment in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., increasing its 
ownership by 9.8 per cent to 19.7 per cent of Ivanhoe’s common shares. The second tranche consisted of 46,304,473 common shares  
at a subscription price of US$8.38 per share for a total consideration of US$388 million. 
There were no other significant acquisitions for the year ended 31 December 2009. 
2008 acquisitions 
There were no significant acquisitions for the year ended 31 December 2008. 
2010 disposals 
Disposals in 2010 relate mainly to the divestment on 21 December 2010 of the Group’s remaining 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak 
Energy Inc., through a secondary offering, for gross proceeds of US$573 million. 
Proposed Simandou transaction with Chalco 
On 29 July 2010, Rio Tinto and Chalco signed a binding agreement to establish a joint venture (JV) covering the development and operation  
of the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea. The binding agreement followed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between 
Rio Tinto and Chalco’s parent Chinalco announced on 19 March 2010. The agreement covers all aspects of how the JV and the project 
itself will operate and be governed, including planning, construction and management of the mine and associated rail and port infrastructure. 
Under the terms of the agreement, Rio Tinto’s 95 per cent interest in the Simandou project will be held in the new JV. Chalco will 
acquire a 47 per cent interest in the new JV by providing US$1.35 billion on an earn-in basis through sole funding of ongoing 
development work over the next two to three years. 
Once Chalco has paid its US$1.35 billion, the effective interests of Rio Tinto and Chalco in the Simandou project would be 50.35 per cent and 
44.65 per cent respectively. The remaining five per cent is owned by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the financing arm of 
the World Bank. Rio Tinto will retain control of the entity established to own the project. 
The Government of Guinea holds an option to acquire up to a 20 per cent interest in the project, and has indicated an intention to 
exercise this option. Upon the exercise taking effect, the effective interests in the project of each of Rio Tinto, Chalco and IFC would  
be reduced proportionately; however control would be retained by Rio Tinto. 
The formation of the Rio Tinto/Chalco JV remains subject to the satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements. 
Once the JV takes effect, a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto will be appointed manager of the project, providing management services to 
the JV and being responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project. Rio Tinto and Chalco will also establish a joint marketing company 
to market and distribute Simandou product to customers under an agency agreement with a wholly owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto. 
Chinalco and Rio Tinto have entered into an agreement under which Chinalco guarantees the performance of Chalco’s obligations 
under the Agreement. 
Rio Tinto will continue to account for its interest in the Simandou project as a subsidiary. The contributions to funding made by Chalco 
to acquire an interest in the project will be credited to equity. 
2009 disposals 
On 1 December 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Composites, part of Alcan Engineered Products, to Schweiter Technologies 
for a total  consideration of US$349 million.   www.riotinto.com 229
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
On 20 November 2009, Rio Tinto received US$741 million in connection with Cloud Peak Energy Inc’s initial public offering (IPO)  
and related transactions, comprising US$434 million net proceeds from the sale of part of Rio Tinto’s interest in Cloud Peak Energy 
Resources LLC (CPER), in connection with Cloud Peak Energy Inc’s IPO of common stock, and a cash distribution by CPER of US$307 million 
from the proceeds of its debt offering of US$600 million. An additional US$7 million was received as part of a working capital adjustment at 
31 December 2009. Rio Tinto retained an interest in CPER of 48 per cent, which was treated as an equity accounted unit (EAU) until its 
disposal on 21 December 2010.  
US$660 million of sales proceeds arose from these transactions and US$151 million was received as dividends from an EAU. The sales 
proceeds comprised the gross IPO proceeds of US$459 million, 52 per cent of the cash distribution by CPER (representing the 
percentage not retained by the Group) and US$38 million of deferred consideration. 
On 1 October 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Jacobs Ranch coal mine to Arch Coal Inc. for a final cash consideration of US$764 million. 
On 18 September 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its Corumbá iron ore mine and associated river logistics operations to Vale SA 
for a cash consideration of US$750 million.  
On 26 January 2009, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 50 per cent equity share of the Alcan Ningxia aluminium joint venture in China 
to Qingtongxia Aluminium Group Co Ltd (QTX) for gross cash consideration of US$125 million.  
The aggregated carrying value of the Group’s share of the major classes of assets and liabilities at the dates of sale were: 
2009 
US$m
Goodwill 184 
Intangible assets 169 
Property, plant & equipment 2,021 
Investments in equity accounted units 11 
Inventories  288 
Other financial assets 251 
Borrowings (12)
Deferred tax liabilities (82)
Provisions  (796)
(1)
Net assets 2,033 
  
Add: Divestment of investment in associate 80 
Less: Retained investment in associates (359)
Less: Recycled gains and losses and movements in other comprehensive income (18)
Net assets and investments in associates disposed of 1,736 
  
Consideration 
Cash proceeds (net of transactions costs) 
(a)
 2,424 
Deferred consideration 46 
Accrued disposal costs (42)
Net consideration 2,428 
Gain on disposal  692 
  
Net cash inflow from disposals 2,424 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (396)
Cash flow from disposals/acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 2,028 
(a) Cash proceeds were stated net of US$20 million cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries. 
2008 Disposals 
On 5 March 2008, the Group completed the sale of its interest (Rio Tinto share 40 per cent) in the Cortez gold mine (previously in the 
Copper product group) for a sales price which included cash consideration of US$1,695 million. The Group benefits from a deferred 
bonus payment in the event of a significant discovery of additional reserves and resources at the Cortez mine and also retains a 
contingent royalty interest in the future production of the property. 
Non-controlling interests  230 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests 
in businesses continued  
On 16 April 2008, the Group completed the sale of its joint venture interest (Rio Tinto share 70.3 per cent) in the Greens Creek mine to Hecla 
Mining Company. Greens Creek, which mines silver, gold, zinc and lead, was previously part of the Copper product group. The sale price was 
US$750 million, comprising a cash component of US$700 million with the balance in the common stock of Hecla Mining Company. 
The aggregate profit on disposal of interests in businesses (including investments) in 2008 was US$2,231 million (US$1,470 million net 
of tax). These gains were excluded from Underlying earnings, as shown in note 2. 
The cash flow statement includes US$2,572 million in “Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates” and US$9 million paid for acquisitions 
in 2008. In accordance with IAS 7, these proceeds were stated net of US$5 million cash and cash equivalents transferred on sale of subsidiaries.  
Non-cash disposal proceeds of US$88 million were received during the year. 
42 Directors’ and key management remuneration 
Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 
2010  
US$’000 
2009 
US$’000
2008 
US$’000
Emoluments 11,384 18,021 10,620 
Long term incentive plans  3,334 3,092 2,647 
 14,718 21,113 13,267 
Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 54 389 338 
Gains made on exercise of share options 17,265 20 – 
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$10,510,000 (2009: US$17,784,000; 2008: US$13,214,000). 
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was nil (2009: US$342,000; 2008: US$338,000). The aggregate remuneration, 
including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$4,262,000 
(2009: US$3,718,000; 2008: US$391,000). The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$54,000 (2009: US$47,000; 
2008: US$43,000). 
During 2010, three directors (2009: three; 2008: two) accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and one director 
(2009: two; 2008: one) accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements. 
Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception  
of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate. 
Detailed information concerning directors’ remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration report, including 
Tables 1 to 5, on pages 144 to 155 of the 2010 Annual report.  
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under EU IFRS, of the Group’s key management, including directors, was 
as follows: 
2010  
US$’000 
2009 
US$’000
2008 
US$’000
Short term employee benefits and costs 28,487 35,881 21,086 
Post employment benefits 3,984 3,692 3,664 
Termination benefits – 1,357 – 
Share based payments 20,822 34,476 (5,360)
 53,293  75,406 19,390 
The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll  
taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional cost of hire. In total, they amount to US$2,020,000 (2009: US$2,269,000;  
2008: US$1,389,000) and although disclosed here, are not included in Table 1 of the Remuneration report.  
In 2005, prior to being appointed a member of key management personnel, Andrew Harding relocated to the United States (US). As an 
expatriate in the US, Mr Harding was unable to access car leasing arrangements and so was loaned a sum of US$30,000 by the Group 
for the purposes of purchasing a car. The loan repayable over 60 months attracted interest of US$3,235 during the term of the loan.  
The balance as at 1 January 2010 was US$4,531 and the loan was repaid in full on 21 December 2010. 
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration report, including Tables 1  
to 5 on pages 144 to 155 of the 2010 Annual report.  www.riotinto.com 231
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
43 Auditors’ remuneration 
 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Group auditors’ remuneration 
(a)
  
Audit services pursuant to legislation  
– audit of the Group’s annual accounts 2.9  2.3 3.2 
– audit of the accounts of the Group’s subsidiaries 13.8  20.9 26.5 
   
Audit services in connection with divestment programme 
(b)
 9.1  22.0 24.4 
 25.8  45.2 54.1 
Other services   
– services in connection with bond issues/capital raising 0.3  4.2 – 
– services in connection with bid defence –  – 9.4 
– services in connection with divestment programme 5.0  8.4 25.8 
– taxation services 
(c)
 0.4  2.1 3.3 
– other services  1.8  2.2 2.6 
Total other services 7.5  16.9 41.1 
 33.3  62.1 95.2 
   
Remuneration payable to other accounting firms 
(d)
  
Audit services pursuant to legislation  
– audit of accounts of the Group’s subsidiaries 2.6  0.5 0.2 
   
Non audit services  
– taxation services 
(c)
 6.6  9.1 15.8 
– financial systems design and implementation – – 0.2 
– internal audit 6.5  8.4 7.1 
– litigation services 0.4  0.1 – 
– other services 
(e)
 15.9  12.2 42.0 
 32.0  30.3 65.3 
Fees in respect of pension scheme audits –  0.1 0.3 
 32.0  30.4 65.6 
 65.3  92.5 160.8 
(a) The remuneration payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Group auditors, is approved by the Audit committee. The committee sets the policy for the award of non audit work to the auditors  
and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained. The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Group’s share of the payments made by proportionally consolidated units. Non-audit services arise largely  
from assurance and/or regulation related work. 
(b) Audit services represent assurance provided in respect of carve-out financial statements.  
(c) ‘Taxation services’ includes tax compliance and advisory services. Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes. Tax advisory services 
includes advice on non recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility. 
(d) ‘Remuneration payable to other accounting firms’ does not include fees for similar services payable to suppliers of consultancy services other than accountancy firms. 
(e) ‘Other services’ in 2010, 2009 and 2008 in respect of other accounting firms includes costs relating to capital raising, divestments and similar corporate services, pension fund and payroll administration, 
advice on accounting matters, secondments of accounting firms’ staff, forensic audit and other consultancy.  
 ‘Other services’ in 2008 in respect of other accounting firms includes one off costs related to the rejection by the board of the pre-conditional takeover proposal from BHP Billiton which was withdrawn in 
November 2008.  232 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
44 Related party transactions 
Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: 
Subsidiary companies and proportionally consolidated units 
Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 37. 
Information relating to proportionally consolidated units can be found in note 40. 
Equity accounted units 
Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below. Purchases relate largely to amounts charged by jointly 
controlled entities for toll processing of bauxite and alumina. Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing 
entities for onward sale to third party customers. 
Income statement items 
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
2008 
US$m
Purchases from equity accounted units (3,009) (2,558) (2,770)
Sales to equity accounted units 3,038  2,088 3,011 
 
Cash flow statement items US$m US$m US$m
Net funding of equity accounted units (154) (265) (334)
 
Statement of financial position items US$m US$m
Investments in equity accounted units (note 14) 
(a)
 6,503  6,735 
Loans to equity accounted units 337  338 
Loans from equity accounted units (278) (157)
Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units (note 17) 1,341  941 
Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units (note 25) (727) (402)
(a) Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 38 and 39.  
In November 2009, as part of the disposal process of Cloud Peak, Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. and Cloud Peak Energy Resources LLC (CPER) 
agreed for existing Rio Tinto plc guaranteed surety bonds and letters of credit, principally securing the reclamation obligations for the Cloud 
Peak business, to continue for a transition period. All of these guaranteed surety bonds and letters of credit had been replaced by CPER credit 
enhancements as at 31 December 2010 and Rio Tinto plc has therefore been released from these obligations. 
Pension funds 
Rio Tinto plc guarantees to pay the Rio Tinto Pension Fund (UK) any contributions due from Group companies participating in that 
fund, pro rata to its ownership of those companies, in the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements. 
Furthermore, Rio Tinto plc agreed to put in place a guarantee for the Rio Tinto Pension Fund, in the standard form required by the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF), to cover 105 per cent of the Fund’s liabilities measured on the PPF’s prescribed assumptions. Other 
similar guarantees in place include a Rio Tinto plc guarantee to the Rio Tinto 2009 Pension fund, with no limit on liabilities, and a 
guarantee from British Alcan Aluminium plc to the British Alcan Pension Plan, covering the contributions due from participating 
employers up to a PPF funding level of 105 per cent.  
Detailed information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 50. 
Directors and key management 
Details of directors’ and key management remuneration are set out in note 42 and in the Remuneration report on pages 128 to 155. 
45 Exchange rates in US$ 
The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2010 financial statements are: 
Annual average Year end 
2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Sterling 1.55 1.57 1.86 1.55  1.61 1.44 
Australian dollar 0.92 0.79 0.86 1.02  0.89 0.69 
Canadian dollar 0.97 0.88 0.94 1.00  0.95 0.82 
South African rand 0.14 0.12 0.12 0.15  0.14 0.11 
Euro 1.33 1.39 1.47 1.33  1.44 1.41 
  www.riotinto.com 233
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
46 Rights issues 
The terms of the rights issues in 2009 were: 21 New Rio Tinto plc Shares offered for every 40 existing shares at 1,400 pence per  
share and 21 New Rio Tinto Limited Shares offered for every 40 existing shares at A$28.29 per share, completed on 2 July 2009  
and 3 July 2009 respectively. 
Both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited entered into a series of forward US dollar derivative exchange contracts to minimise exposure 
to foreign exchange rates and provide confidence in absolute US dollar rights issue proceeds. The forward contracts taken out by both 
companies were accounted for as derivatives, for which different accounting treatments were applied in accordance with IFRS hedge 
accounting rules. This was due to the different functional currencies of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (US dollar and Australian 
dollar respectively). Losses on contracts entered into by Rio Tinto plc were charged against share premium as share issue costs, while 
losses on the contracts entered into by Rio Tinto Limited were recognised in the income statement and excluded from Underlying 
earnings. Settlement of losses on all contracts were included within “Other investing cash flows” in the cash flow statement. 
The rights issues were at a discount to the then market price. Accordingly, the earnings per share for all periods up to the date on which the shares 
were issued have been adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issues. The bonus factor for Rio Tinto plc was 1.2105 and for Rio Tinto 
Limited was 1.2679. 2008 comparatives for both earnings per share and ordinary dividends per share were adjusted accordingly. 
47 Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL) 
Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989. Safe mine access by company employees has not been possible since that 
time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made. Considerable funding would be required to 
recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mine’s closure in 1989. An Order of Magnitude study undertaken  
in 2008 indicates that costs in a range of US$2 billion to US$4 billion would be required to re-open the mine assuming all site infrastructure  
is replaced. The directors consider that the Group does not currently realise a benefit from its interest in BCL and therefore BCL information 
continues to be excluded from the financial statements.  
BCL reported a net profit of US$1 million for the financial year (2009: net profit of US$3 million). This is based upon actual transactions 
for the financial year. The aggregate amount of capital and reserves reported by BCL as at 31 December 2010 was US$142 million 
(2009: US$138 million). The Group owns 214,887,966 shares in BCL, representing 53.6 per cent of the issued share capital. The 
investment of US$195 million was fully provided against in 1991. At 31 December 2010, the number of shares in BCL held by the 
Group, multiplied by the share price as quoted in the Australian Stock Exchange, resulted in an amount of US$354 million (2009: 
US$114 million). 
48 Events after the statement of financial position date 
On 4 January 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products (AEP) to certain investment funds 
affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC (Apollo) and the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement (FSI). The terms of the transaction 
are confidential. 
Apollo is now the majority shareholder in AEP with a 51 per cent stake in a new holding company for AEP, with the FSI holding 10 per cent. 
Rio Tinto holds a 39 per cent stake and will treat its interest in AEP as an equity accounted unit. 
On 3 February, Rio Tinto acquired an additional 34,387,776 additional shares in Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (“Ivanhoe”), by participating fully  
in Ivanhoe’s strategic rights offering, paying a total of US$477 million and maintaining the Group’s interest in Ivanhoe. On 3 February,  
Rio Tinto also completed the purchase of ten million shares in Ivanhoe, together with the rights (1.5 million shares) associated with 
these shares from Citibank, in accordance with the announcement made on 15 December 2010, paying a total of US$274 million. The 
transaction increased Rio Tinto’s ownership of Ivanhoe to 42.1 per cent. 
On 10 February 2011, as part of its capital management programme, the Group announced a share buy back of US$5 billion which, subject  
to market conditions, is planned for completion by the end of 2012. At 21 February 2011, 1 725 million Rio Tinto plc shares had been 
repurchased and held in treasury at an average price of £45.02 per share, resulting in total consideration paid of US$125.5 million.  
No Rio Tinto Limited shares had been repurchased at 21 February 2011. 
On 23 February 2011, Rio Tinto has received a binding offer from Imerys to acquire its talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 
million. A period of exclusivity with Imerys has been agreed, and Rio Tinto will respond to this binding offer following consultation with the 
relevant European works councils. 
  
. 234 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
49  Share based payments 
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited (“the Companies”) have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in  
the Remuneration report. These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of “IFRS 2 Share 
based Payment”, which means that IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of employee share based payments that had not vested as at  
1 January 2004. 
The charge/(credit) that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tinto’s share based compensation plans, and the related 
liability (for cash-settled plans), is set out in the table below. 
 
Charge/(credit) recognised for the year Liability at the end of the year 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008   
US$m  
2010  
US$m 
2009 
US$m
Equity-settled plans 119 76 61  – –
Cash-settled plans 
(a)
 5 101 (83)  5 111
Total 124 177 (22)  5 111
(a) From 1 July 2010, the accounting treatment for the Performance Share Plan (formerly called the Mining Companies Comparative Plan) changed from cash settled to equity settled. This resulted in six 
months of expense being classified as “cash-settled” and the remaining six months as “equity-settled”. For further detail, refer to the Performance Share Plan section in this note. 
Effect of the 2009 rights issues 
All options and awards outstanding when the rights issues took place were adjusted to nullify any impact on the economic position  
of the participant at exercise. For Rio Tinto plc options the fair values and exercise prices were reduced by the bonus element and  
the number of options and awards were increased by the same proportion. 
For the Rio Tinto Limited awards, but not options, “top-up” awards were granted to increase the number held with a corresponding decrease  
in the associated fair value. For Rio Tinto Limited options the exercise price was reduced so that their intrinsic value measured at  
June 2009 remained unchanged as a result of the rights issue. 
Lattice-based option valuation model 
The fair value of share options is estimated as at the date of grant using a lattice-based option valuation model. The significant assumptions 
used in the valuation model are disclosed below. Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of Rio Tinto’s share returns 
under the UK and Australian listings. Historical data was used to estimate employee forfeiture and cancellation rates within the valuation 
model. Under the Share Option Plans, it is assumed that after options have vested, 20 per cent per annum of participants will exercise 
their options when the market price is at least 20 per cent above the exercise price of the option. Participants in the Share Savings Plans 
are assumed to exercise their options immediately after vesting. 
The implied lifetime of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that 
options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate used in the valuation model is equal to the yield available on UK and 
Australian zero-coupon government bonds (for Rio Tinto plc and Limited options respectively) at the date of grant with a term equal to 
the expected term of the options. 
Summary of options outstanding 
A summary of the status of the Companies’ equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year ended 
31 December 2010, is presented below.  
Options outstanding at 31 December 2010 Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per option 
£/A$ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life Years
Aggregate 
intrinsic 
value
2010 
US$m
Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan (£13 – £32) 1,359,798 23.85 2.3 44
Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan (A$24 – A$67) 2,152,181 52.15 3.0 73
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (£10 – £48) 3,771,818 21.15 6.1 140
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (A$16 – A$119) 1,397,053 43.86 6.2 60
 8,680,850 317
As at 31 December 2009, there were 11,955,880 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$316 million.  www.riotinto.com 235
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
Options exercisable at 31 December 2010 Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price 
per option 
£/A$ 
Weighted 
average 
remaining 
contractual 
life 
Years
Aggregate 
intrinsic 
value
2010 
US$m
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan (£10 – £23) 1,757,255 14.83 3.5 82
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan (A$16 – A$55) 685,440 38.14 3.9 33
 2,442,695  115
As at 31 December 2010, there were no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans. 
Share Savings Plans 
Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly. The fair value of each award on the day of grant was 
estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price. 
The key assumptions used in the valuation are noted in the following table. 
 
Risk-free 
interest rate
%
Expected 
volatility
%
Dividend 
yield
%
Forfeiture  
rates 
% 
Cancellation     
rates 
(a)
 
%    
Implied 
lifetime 
Years
Awards made in 2010  
– Rio Tinto plc  0.8-2.0 46.0 1.9 5.0 5.0   2.2-5.2
– Rio Tinto Limited  4.8-4.9 37.0 1.5 5.0 5.0   3.2-5.2
(a)  In addition to the regular cancellation rates above it is assumed that on the anniversary of date of grant a proportion of employees will cancel their awards in favour of new awards if the then share price is 
less than the exercise price. The proportion assumed is a sliding scale from 20 per cent cancelling if the then share price equals the exercise price to 100 per cent cancelling if the then share price is 75 per 
cent of the exercise price or less. 
Rio Tinto plc – Share Savings Plan 
2010 
Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price  
2010 
£ 
2009
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price 
2009
£
Options outstanding at 1 January 1,474,390 20.90 1,661,006 18.88
Granted 370,184 28.49 453,616 22.20
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (73,396) 19.57 (57,375) 20.32
Exercised (300,793) 15.76 (269,227) 12.02
Cancellations (51,495) 22.98 (160,546) 23.93
Expired (59,092) 26.60 (153,084) 15.53
Options outstanding at 31 December 1,359,798 23.85 1,474,390 20.90
    
Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (£)  10.76 9.27
Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (£)  36.97 29.72
Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year (£)  34.47 18.29
  236 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
49 Share based payments continued  
Rio Tinto Limited – Share Savings Plan 
2010 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price 
2010  
A$ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2009 
A$
Options outstanding at 1 January 2,139,259 48.17 1,901,417 43.40
Granted 467,076 59.26 1,183,090 48.73
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (67,913) 55.43 (95,677) 51.17
Exercised (245,613) 31.54 (340,646) 20.96
Cancellations (100,533) 55.04 (374,471) 58.39
Expired (40,095) 36.22 (134,454) 23.94
Options outstanding at 31 December 2,152,181 52.15 2,139,259 48.17
   
Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (A$) 24.31 20.89
Share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (A$) 78.08 64.68
Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year (A$) 71.79 46.43
Share Option Plans 
The Group has a policy of settling these awards in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative. The 
awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share based payment transactions. The 
performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return (TSR) have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for  
these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tinto’s TSR and that of the index. The relationship between Rio Tinto’s TSR  
and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option 
valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.  
The key assumptions are noted in the following table. 
Risk-free 
interest rate
%
Expected 
volatility
%
Dividend 
yield 
% 
Forfeiture 
rates
%
Implied 
lifetime 
Years
Awards made in 2010  
– Rio Tinto plc  2.9 46.0 2.0 – 5.2
– Rio Tinto Limited  5.6 37.0 1.6 – 6.2
A summary of the status of the Companies’ performance-based share option plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year ended  
31 December 2010, is presented below. 
Rio Tinto plc – Share Option Plan 
2010
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise  
price 
2010 
£ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
2009
£
Options outstanding at 1 January 5,902,934 17.60 5,647,992 17.25
Granted 539,212 37.05 1,284,749 16.53
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (46,253) 17.37 (112,917) 17.30
Exercised (1,561,451) 13.56 (916,890) 14.03
Failed performance conditions (854,883) 22.56 ––
Expired (207,741) 13.72 ––
Options outstanding at 31 December 3,771,818 21.15 5,902,934 17.60
   
Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (£) 13.91 5.49
Weighted average share price, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (£) 36.70 17.44
Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year (£) 36.94 26.89
In addition to the equity-settled options shown above, there were 52,925 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total 
liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$2 million (2009: US$4 million).  www.riotinto.com 237
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Rio Tinto Limited – Share Option Plan 
2010  
Number 
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
 price  
2010  
A$ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise
 price 
2009 
A$
Options outstanding at 1 January 2,439,297 42.05 2,711,678 38.82
Granted 178,630 76.15 540,422 33.45
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (25,140) 37.66 (43,559) 40.24
Exercised (652,443) 35.21 (769,244) 24.73
Failed performance conditions (497,884) 59.01 ––
Expired (45,407) 35.17 ––
Options outstanding at 31 December 1,397,053 43.86 2,439,297 42.04
    
Weighted average fair value, at date of grant, of options granted during the year (A$)  26.97 13.35
Weighted average share price, at date of grant, for options granted during the year (A$)  76.19 40.03
Weighted average share price at the time the options were exercised during the year (A$)  75.32 54.35
In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 19,915 cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total 
liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million (2009: US$2 million). 
Share Ownership Plan 
The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of 
purchase. These awards are settled in equity. The total fair value of shares awarded during the year was US$2 million (2009: US$1 million). 
Performance Share Plan (formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan) 
Prior to 2010, the Remuneration committee gave the Plan’s participants the option to receive their awards in cash or as shares. This 
option resulted in the Plan being classified as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction and it was accounted for accordingly. 
In 2010, the Group’s policy for settling these awards changed. For settlement of all future awards under this Plan, participants will be 
assigned shares with no option to receive a cash alternative. As a result of this, and with effect from 1 July 2010, the Plan has been 
accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions. As required by IFRS 2 
the provision balance of US$57 million was transferred directly to equity with no impact on the income statement. 
The change in settlement policy has been accounted for under IFRS 2 as a modification. Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted 
prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards. The incremental fair value  
as a result of this modification was nil. This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The fair value of 
awards granted after July 2010 are measured at date of grant. 
For the purpose of the disclosures below, the grant date fair values of the awards made prior to 2008 were calculated as the market value of 
the shares at the date of award reduced by 50 per cent for anticipated relative TSR performance. The grant date fair value of the awards 
made since 2008 were calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. In each case fair values were adjusted for non-receipt of dividends 
between measurement date and date of vesting (excluding awards for executive directors and product group CEOs). Forfeitures are 
assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards (except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior 
executives only with no allowance for forfeitures).  238 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
49 Share based payments continued 
Rio Tinto plc – Performance Share Plan 
2010
Number
Weighted 
average  
fair value  
at grant  
date  
2010 
£ 
2009
Number
Weighted 
average
fair value
 at grant 
date 
2009
£
Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,324,181 14.98 3,148,648 12.21
Reclassification of phantom awards (19,624) 12.81 ––
Awarded 1,127,414 36.35 191,887 13.56
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (51,313) 20.33 (31,116) 16.19
Failed performance conditions (416,765) 7.49 (145,215) 5.81
Vested (488,544) 7.41 (840,023) 5.81
Non-vested shares at 31 December 2,475,349 27.37 2,324,181 14.98
Weighted average share price at date of vesting (£) 32.06 16.13
 
2010
Number
Total fair 
value  
2010 
£’000 
2009
Number
Total fair 
value 
2009
£’000
Shares issued in settlement of vested awards 488,544 15,867 292,719 4,801
Total cash payments made in settlement of vested awards – 9,236
In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 19,624 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total liability 
for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million. 
Rio Tinto Limited – Performance Share Plan 
2010 
Number
Weighted 
average  
fair value at 
 grant date 
2010  
A$ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average 
fair value at
 grant date
2009 
A$
Non-vested shares at 1 January 1,515,643 31.97 2,162,867 26.97
Reclassification of phantom awards (9,563) 28.28 ––
Awarded 576,767 75.81 32,284 32.74
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (156,918) 37.49 (36,541) 35.13
Failed performance conditions (302,218) 19.61 (87,442) 15.03
Vested (334,135) 19.42 (555,525) 15.03
Non-vested shares at 31 December 1,289,576 57.09 1,515,643 31.97
Weighted average share price at date of vesting (A$) 71.94 39.80
 
2010
Number
Total fair 
value  
2010 
A$’000 
2009
Number
Total fair 
value 
2009
A$’000
Shares issued in settlement of vested awards 334,135 24,466 175,916 7,261
Total cash payments made in settlement of shares vested during the year – 17,088
In addition to the equity-settled options shown above there were 9,563 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total liability  
for these awards at 31 December 2010 was less than US$1 million. 
Management Share Plan 
The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share based awards to management. The vesting of these 
awards is dependent on service and/or performance based conditions being met. The awards will be settled in equity including the 
dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting. The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to 
equity-settled share based payment transactions. The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day  
of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends. Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of 
outstanding awards.  www.riotinto.com 239
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
A summary of the status of the Companies’ share plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year, is presented below. 
Rio Tinto plc – Management Share Plan 
2010  
Number 
Weighted 
average fair 
value at 
grant date 
2010 
£ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average fair 
value at grant 
date
2009
£
Non-vested awards at 1 January 2,131,808 24.00 862,850 36.89
Awarded 999,569 36.34 1,593,271 17.84
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (202,063) 25.36 (196,816) 25.77
Vested (423,163) 25.20 (127,497) 31.50
Non-vested awards at 31 December 2,506,151 28.61 2,131,808 24.00
 
2010 
 Number 
Weighted 
average 
share price 
2010 
£ 
2009
 Number
Weighted 
average share 
price
2009
£
Shares issued in respect of vested awards (including dividend shares applied on vesting) 374,609  34.69 127,497 22.77
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 11,545 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total 
liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was US$1 million (2009: US$6 million). 
Rio Tinto Limited – Management Share Plan 
2010 
Number 
Weighted 
average  
fair value  
at grant  
date 
2010  
A$ 
2009
Number
Weighted 
average 
fair value 
at grant 
date
2009 
A$
Non-vested awards at 1 January 1,090,803 59.06 511,643 84.06
Awarded 569,125 75.71 735,282 43.30
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (67,484) 60.72 (119,565) 65.25
Vested (248,325) 67.38 (36,557) 71.77
Non-vested awards at 31 December 1,344,119 64.49 1,090,803 59.06
 
2010  
Number 
Weighted 
average  
share price 
2010  
A$ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average 
share price
2009 
A$
Shares issued in respect of vested awards (including dividend shares applied on vesting) 282,117  73.59 36,557 50.42
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above there were 2,056 cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2010. The total 
liability for these awards at 31 December 2010 was less than US$1 million (2009: less than US$1 million). 
Bonus Deferral Plan 
The Bonus Deferral Plan was introduced during 2009 and is made up of two parts: the Bonus Deferral Award and the Company Contributed 
Award. The Bonus Deferral Award was established for the mandatory deferral of 100 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for executive directors and 
product group executives and 50 per cent of the 2008 Bonus for other executives. In addition, in order to enhance retention of key employees 
the Company Contributed Award was made in respect of 25 per cent of the gross annual basic salary for other executives. The vesting of 
these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met. The awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated 
from date of award to vesting. The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share based 
payment transactions. The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for 
the timing of dividends vesting. Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards. 
A summary of the status of the Companies’ share plans at 31 December 2010, and changes during the year, is presented on page 240.  240 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
49 Share based payments continued 
Rio Tinto plc – Bonus Deferral Plan 
2010 
Number
Weighted 
average fair 
value at 
grant date 
2010 
£ 
2009 
Number
Weighted 
average fair 
value at 
grant date
2009
£
Non-vested awards at 1 January 487,913 17.32 
Awarded – – 536,149 17.32
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (30,889) 17.32 (4,907) 17.32
Vested (204,412) 17.32 (43,329) 17.32
Non-vested awards at 31 December 252,612 17.32 487,913 17.32
 
2010 
Number
Weighted 
average  
share price  
2010 
£ 
2009
Number
Weighted 
average 
share price 
2009
£
Shares issued in respect of vested awards (including dividend shares applied on vesting) 213,786 42.74 9,171 29.75
Rio Tinto Limited – Bonus Deferral Plan  
2010
Number
Weighted 
average  
fair value  
at grant  
date 
2010  
A$ 
2009 
Number 
Weighted 
average 
fair value 
at grant 
date
2009 
A$
Non-vested awards at 1 January 251,939 41.75  
Awarded – – 278,405 41.75
Forfeited on failure to meet service condition (12,210) 41.75 (13,460) 41.75
Vested (108,304) 41.75 (13,006) 41.75
Non-vested awards at 31 December 131,425 41.75 251,939 41.75
 
2010 
Number
Weighted 
average  
share price 
2010  
A$ 
2009  
Number 
Weighted 
average 
share price
2009 
A$
Shares issued in respect of vested awards (including dividend shares applied on vesting) 109,512 86.37 9,714 53.13
  www.riotinto.com 241
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
50 Post retirement benefits  
Description of plans 
The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world. Some of these plans are defined 
contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities. Valuations of these 
plans are produced and updated annually to 31 December by qualified actuaries.  
For plans that are within the perimeter of the Engineered Products business which was divested early in 2011, the asset and obligation 
amounts as at 31 December 2010 have been transferred to “Assets and liabilities held for sale” and are therefore excluded from the 
closing balances shown in this note. The expense, cash flow and actuarial gains/losses for these plans during 2010 are reflected in  
full in this note. 
Pension plans 
The majority of the Group’s pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone. There are some defined 
benefit obligations in Australia but the retirement arrangements there are predominantly defined contribution. In general the Group 
has a policy of moving towards defined contribution provision. 
There are a number of pension arrangements in the UK. The defined benefit sections of these arrangements are linked to final pay and 
are closed to new members, with new employees being admitted to defined contribution sections. During 2010, the UK Government 
announced changes to the index that must be used for increasing certain pensions. This change automatically affects some benefits, 
and has resulted in actuarial gains of approximately US$35 million which are reflected in the figures disclosed below. No amendments 
were made to plan rules in relation to this change. 
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits 
linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form. 
A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US and Canadian entities. The main plans are two Canadian plans for 
salaried and bargaining employees. Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay, while benefits for bargaining 
employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions. 
In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France. The largest single plan is in Switzerland  
and provides benefits linked to final average pay. 
The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below. 
Post retirement healthcare plans 
Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in 
some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants. Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria. These 
arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures below. 
Plan assets 
The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the statement of financial position date were: 
 2010 2009
Equities 53.6% 54.9%
Bonds 34.8% 33.6%
Property 7.1% 5.5%
Other 4.5% 6.0%
 100.0% 100.0%
The assets of the plans are generally managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers. These managers may invest in the 
Group’s securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation. The approximate total holding of Group 
securities within the plans is US$24 million (2009: US$19 million).  242 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
50 Post retirement benefits continued 
Main assumptions (rates per annum) 
The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below. Information on the sensitivity of the results to the 
main assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 245.  
 UK Australia 
(a)
US Canada Eurozone Switzerland 
Other     
(mainly Africa) 
(b)
At 31 December 2010   
Rate of increase in salaries 4.9% 4.3%   3.8% 3.5% 2.5% 2.6% 4.3%   
Rate of increase in pensions 3.2% 2.6%   – 0.9% 1.9% – 2.3%   
Discount rate  5.4% 4.7%   5.3% 5.5% 4.9% 2.6% 5.0%   
Inflation 
(c)
 3.4% 2.6%   2.3% 2.3% 2.1% 1.6% 2.3%   
    
At 31 December 2009   
Rate of increase in salaries 5.0% 4.1%   4.0% 3.5% 2.4% 2.7% 7.7%   
Rate of increase in pensions 3.4% 2.4%   – 0.8% 1.5% – 5.7%   
Discount rate 5.5% 4.8%   5.9% 6.5% 5.2% 2.9% 8.9%   
Inflation 3.5% 2.4%   2.5% 2.3% 2.1% 1.5% 5.7%   
(a) The discount rate shown for Australia is after tax. 
(b) The assumptions vary by location for the ‘Other’ plans. Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa. 
(c) The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index. The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2010 was 2.7 per cent. 
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 5.3 per 
cent (2009: 6.0 per cent), medical trend rate: 7.4 per cent reducing to 4.9 per cent by the year 2017 broadly on a straight line basis (2009: 7.5 
per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2015), claims costs based on individual company experience.  
For both the pension and healthcare arrangements, the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity. 
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the statement of financial position date has a weighted average expected future 
lifetime of 24 years (2009: 24 years) and that a man aged 60 in 2030 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 26 
years (2009: 26 years). 
 UK Australia US CanadaEurozone Switzerland 
Other     
(mainly Africa) 
(a)
Long term rate of return expected at 1 January 2010   
Equities 8.0% 8.7%  8.4% 7.7% 7.8% 6.4% 12.7%    
Bonds 4.5% 4.8%  5.0% 4.8% 4.8% 2.8% 8.7%    
Property 6.1% 6.6%  6.4% 5.8% 6.1% 4.4% 10.7%    
Other 4.2% 2.5%  3.2% 3.1% 2.9% 2.4% 6.5%    
    
Long term rate of return expected at 1 January 2009   
Equities 7.4% 7.0%  7.6% 7.2% 7.4% 6.5% 11.1%    
Bonds 4.5% 3.9%  4.0% 5.2% 3.8% 3.1% 7.1%    
Property 5.5% 5.0%  5.1% 5.2% 5.4% 4.5% 9.1%    
Other 3.6% 2.4%  2.3% 2.2% 2.5% 2.4% 5.0%    
(a) The assumptions vary by location for the “Other” plans. Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.  www.riotinto.com 243
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined as management’s best estimate of the long term returns of the major 
asset classes – equities, bonds, property and other – weighted by the allocation of assets among the categories at the measurement date. 
The expected rate of return is calculated using geometric averaging. The expected rates of return shown have been reduced to allow  
for plan expenses including, where appropriate, taxes incurred within pension plans on investment returns. Based on the assumptions 
made and the distribution of assets the weighted average expected return on assets as at 1 January 2010 was 6.4 per cent (2009: 5.9 per cent) 
and is expected to be 5.9 per cent as at 1 January 2011.  
The sources used to determine management’s best estimate of long term returns are numerous and include country-specific bond yields, 
which may be derived from the market using local bond indices or by analysis of the local bond market, and country-specific inflation 
and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts’ or governments’ expectations as applicable. 
Total expense recognised in the income statement 
Pension 
benefits
Other 
benefits   
2010 
Total  
US$m 
2009
Total 
US$m
2008
Total 
US$m
Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans (218) (15)  (233) (193) (285)
Interest cost (897) (77)  (974) (826) (882)
Expected return on assets 776 1   777  581 857 
Past service cost (15) (14)  (29) (11) (3)
Gains on curtailment and settlement 69 42   111  124 5 
Total defined benefit expense (285) (63)  (348) (325) (308)
Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans (224) (1)  (225) (199) (194)
Total expense recognised in the income statement (509) (64)  (573) (524) (502)
The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs. In 2010, US$88 million (pre-tax) of curtailment and 
settlement gains relating to the sale of businesses have been excluded from Underlying earnings (2009: US$61 million, 2008: nil). 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax  
 
2010 
US$m 
2009
US$m
2008
US$m
Actuarial losses (719) (919) (1,666)
(Loss)/gain on currency translation on plans using US dollar functional currency (67) (70) 321 
Gain on application of asset limit – 19 26 
Total loss recognised in other comprehensive income 
(a)
 (786) (970) (1,319)
Cumulative amount recognised in Other comprehensive income at 31 December (2,586) (1,800) (830)
(a) Actuarial loss includes US$4 million loss related to equity accounted units (2009: US$126 million loss; 2008: US$5 million loss). 
(Deficits)/surpluses in the plans 
The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 
Pension 
benefits
Other 
benefits 
2010
Total 
US$m
2009 
Total  
US$m 
2008 
Total  
US$m 
2007
Total 
US$m
2006
Total 
US$m
Total fair value of plan assets 13,144 – 13,144 12,407  9,306  14,350 4,656 
Present value of obligations – funded (15,499) (8) (15,507) (15,148) (11,044) (14,822) (4,472)
Present value of obligations – unfunded (892) (1,110) (2,002) (2,385) (1,784) (2,089) (597)
Present value of obligations – total (16,391) (1,118) (17,509) (17,533) (12,828) (16,911) (5,069)
Unrecognised past service cost 9 (6) 3 (7) (12) (2) 3 
Effect of asset limit – – – – (19) (45) –
Aggregate deficit to be shown in the statement of 
financial position (3,238) (1,124) (4,362) (5,133) (3,553) (2,608) (410)
Comprising:   
– Deficits (3,348) (1,124) (4,472) (5,150) (3,713) (3,313) (770)
– Surpluses 110 – 110 17  160  705 360 
Net (deficits)/surpluses on pension plans (3,238) – (3,238) (3,803) (2,648) (1,519) 48 
Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation – (1,124) (1,124) (1,330) (905) (1,089) (458)
The surplus amounts shown above are included in the statement of financial position as Trade and other receivables. See note 17.  
Deficits are shown in the statement of financial position as Post retirement benefits. See note 27.    244 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
50 Post retirement benefits continued 
Contributions to plans 
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2010 totalled US$1,036 million (2009: US$560 million; 2008: US$421 million). 
The increase compared to 2009 results from a combination of special contributions as a result of the sale of the Packaging business and 
the acceleration of some contributions from 2011 into 2010. Contributions of US$212 million (2009: US$190 million; 2008: US$184 million) 
were made to defined contribution arrangements and US$12 million (2009: US$9 million; 2008: US$10 million) to industry-wide plans; 
these are charged against profits and are included in the figures for defined contribution current employer service costs shown in the 
previous page.  
Contributions for other benefits totalled US$79 million (2009: US$46 million; 2008: US$53 million). 
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2011 are estimated to be around US$375 million less than for 2010. This is kept 
under regular review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the Group’s wider financing strategy. Healthcare plans  
are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments and therefore cannot be predetermined. 
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of assets 
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of 
employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in operations that are proportionally consolidated or equity accounted. 
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the 
Group. Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below. 
Pension 
benefits
Other  
benefits  
2010
Total 
US$m
2009
Total 
US$m
Change in present value of obligation:  
Present value of obligation at start of the year (16,209) (1,324)  (17,533) (12,828)
Current employer service cost (218) (15)  (233) (204)
Interest cost  (897) (77)  (974) (826)
Contributions by plan participants  (50) (3)  (53) (121)
Experience gain/(loss) 124 22  146 (139)
Changes in actuarial assumptions loss (1,088) (119)  (1,207) (1,671)
Benefits paid 962 83  1,045 951 
Transfers to/(from) Assets held for sale 
(a)
 808 311   1,119 (1,656)
Inclusion of arrangements (15) –  (15) (3)
No longer consolidated ––  – 21 
Past service cost (24) (15)  (39) (11)
Curtailments 62 42  104 80 
Settlements 428 –  428 181 
Currency exchange rate loss (274) (23)  (297) (1,307)
Present value of obligation at end of the year (16,391) (1,118)  (17,509) (17,533)
 
Gains and losses on obligations 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Experience gains/(losses): (ie variances between the estimate of obligations and 
the subsequent outcome) 146 (139) (37) (41) (7)
As a percentage of the present value of the year end obligations 1% (1%) 0% 0% 0%
Change in assumptions (loss)/gain (US$m) (1,207) (1,671) 1,684  315 124 
(a) In 2010, plans within the perimeter of the Engineered Products divestment have been transferred to “Assets and liabilities held for sale”. In 2009, any plans sponsored by the Rio Tinto Alcan Packaging 
business that were not expected to be sold were transferred out of ‘Assets held for sale’ and reflected in this note.  www.riotinto.com 245
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
Pension 
benefits 
Other 
benefits 
2010
Total 
US$m
2009
Total 
US$m
Change in plan assets:   
Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 12,406  1  12,407 9,306 
Expected return on plan assets 776  1  777 581 
Actuarial gain on plan assets 346  – 346 891 
Contributions by plan participants  50  3  53 121 
Contributions by employer 1,038  78  1,116 627 
Benefits paid (962) (83) (1,045) (951)
Transfers (to)/from Assets held for sale 
(a)
 (401) – (401) 882 
Inclusion of arrangements 15  – 15 –
Refunds of contributions – – – (27)
Settlements (421) – (421) (137)
Currency exchange rate gain 297  – 297 1,114 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,144  – 13,144 12,407 
    
Actual return on plan assets   1,123 1,472 
 
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets:   
Gain/(loss) (US$m) 346 891 (3,308) (129) 256
As a percentage of year end plan assets 3% 7% (36%) (1%) 5%
(a) In 2010, plans within the perimeter of the Engineered Products divestment have been transferred to “Assets and liabilities held for sale”. In 2009, any plans sponsored by the Rio Tinto Alcan Packaging 
business that were not expected to be sold were transferred out of ‘Assets held for sale’ and reflected in this note. 
Sensitivity 
The values reported for the defined benefit pension obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future 
benefit payments and discounting those payments. The approximate sensitivities to the principal assumptions used to measure the 
obligations are: 
 
Approximate (increase)/decrease  
in obligations 
Assumption  Change in assumption  
Pensions 
US$m
Other 
US$m
Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,012 64 
 decrease of 0.5 percentage points (1,081) (68)
Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points (609) (37)
 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 578 32 
Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points (131) (3)
 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 127 3 
Demographic – allowance for future improvements  
in longevity 
participants assumed to have the mortality rates 
of individuals who are one year older 390 19 
 
participants assumed to have the mortality rates 
of individuals who are one year younger (390) (19)
Post retirement healthcare sensitivity to changes in assumptions 
An increase of one per cent in the assumed medical cost trend rates would increase the aggregate of the current service cost and 
interest cost components of the post retirement healthcare expense by US$7 million (2009: US$6 million; 2008: US$8 million), and 
increase the benefit obligation for these plans by US$72 million (2009: US$98 million; 2008: US$85 million). A decrease of one per cent in 
the assumed medical cost trend rates would decrease the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost components of the post 
retirement healthcare expense by US$6 million (2009: US$5 million; 2008: US$7 million), and decrease the benefit obligation for these 
plans by US$62 million (2009: US$83 million; 2008: US$75 million).   246 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Notes to the 2010 financial statements continued 
 
51 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures
 (a)
 
As at 31 December 
2010
A$m
2009
A$m
Assets 
Current assets 7,642 11,384 
Non-current assets 11,525 11,372 
Total assets 19,167 22,756 
 
Liabilities 
Current liabilities (2,852) (1,903)
Non-current liabilities (101) (1,040)
Total liabilities (2,953) (2,943)
 
Net assets 16,214 19,813 
  
Shareholders’ equity 
Share capital 4,113 5,728 
Available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve – 1 
Share based payments reserves (137) (143)
Capital reserves 536 536 
Retained earnings 11,702 13,691 
Total equity 16,214 19,813 
  
Profit of the parent company 10,329 13,051 
  
Total comprehensive income of the parent company 10,328 13,051 
  
Contingent liabilities 
Bank and other performance guarantees 
(b)
 15,149 10,596 
(a) Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards (AAS). In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and EU IFRS. 
(b)  Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies. 
 Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred or guaranteed by the other. These 
guarantees are excluded from the figures above.  www.riotinto.com 247
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Rio Tinto plc 
 
Company balance sheet 
At 31 December 
 Note 
2010 
US$m
2009
 US$m
Fixed assets  
Investments B 35,940 22,458 
  35,940 22,458 
Current assets  
Amounts owed by subsidiaries  3,578 5,778 
Other debtors and prepayments  – 1 
Cash at bank and in hand  2 2 
  3,580  5,781 
Creditors amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed to subsidiaries  (11,684) (435)
Dividends payable  (8) (8)
  (11,692) (443)
Net current (liabilities)/assets  (8,112) 5,338 
Total assets less current liabilities  27,828 27,796 
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year  (46) (96)
Net assets  27,782 27,700 
   
Capital and reserves  
Called up share capital C 246 246 
Share premium account D 4,258 4,174 
Other reserves D 11,965 11,965 
Profit and loss account D 11,313 11,315 
Equity shareholders’ funds   27,782 27,700 
(a) The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. Note A explains the principal accounting policies. 
(b) Profit after tax for the year amounted to US$1,290 million (2009: US$5,164 million). As permitted by section 408 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account for the Rio Tinto 
plc parent company is shown. The company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 (revised 1996). The company is also not required under the terms of FRS 8 to disclose 
related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.  
The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, profit and loss account and the related notes, were approved by the directors on 4 March 2011 and 
the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by  
   
Jan du Plessis Chairman Tom Albanese Chief executive Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 
 
Rio Tinto plc 
Registered number: 719885  248 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Rio Tinto plc continued 
 
 
A Principal accounting policies under UK GAAP 
a Basis of Accounting 
The Rio Tinto plc entity financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for financial guarantees 
which have been measured at fair value as set out in note (e) below and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The 
directors have reviewed the Company’s existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with the requirements of 
Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 18 “Accounting Policies”. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 
The directors have reviewed the Company’s existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with last year.  
The principal accounting policies are set out below. 
b Deferred tax 
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except 
that deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax is measured at 
the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax 
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured on an 
undiscounted basis. 
c Currency translation 
The Company’s local or “functional” currency is the US dollar. Transactions denominated in other currencies, including the issue of shares, 
are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other 
currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year. Exchange rates used are consistent with the 
rates used by the Group as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements (see note 45). Exchange differences are charged or 
credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise. 
d Investments 
Fixed asset investments are valued at cost less impairment provisions. Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable 
amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income generating unit or 
disposal value if higher. The discount rate applied is based upon the Company’s weighted average cost of capital, with appropriate 
adjustment for the risks associated with the relevant unit. 
e Financial guarantees 
Obligations for financial guarantees issued by the Company to other Group companies are reflected as liabilities at fair value, in accordance 
with FRS 26 “Financial Instruments – Measurement”. Such obligations result in corresponding increases in the carrying value of amounts owed 
by subsidiaries. Payments received are set off against the asset recognised which is initially recorded at fair value. 
f Share based payments 
The fair value of the grant is recognised as an addition to the cost of the investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees 
work. The fair value is recognised over the relevant vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the profit and loss account reserve. Payments 
received from the Company’s subsidiaries in respect of these share based payments result in a credit to reduce the cost of  
the investment. The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market based vesting conditions 
attached to the award (eg Total Shareholder Return). When market prices are not available, the Company uses fair values provided by 
independent actuaries using a lattice based option valuation model. 
Non-market vesting conditions (eg earnings per share targets) are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest. 
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the 
estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued. No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited  
or not exercised. 
g Revenue recognition 
Interest is accounted for on the accruals basis. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.  
h Dividends 
Dividends payable are recognised when they meet the criteria for a present obligation (ie when they have been approved). 
i Treasury shares 
The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders’ 
funds through the profit and loss account reserve. Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to Rio Tinto’s shareholders.   www.riotinto.com 249
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
B Rio Tinto plc fixed assets 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Fixed asset investments 
(a)
 
Shares in Group companies: 
At 1 January 22,458 2,287 
Additions 13,482 20,171 
At 31 December 35,940 22,458 
(a) US$13.4 billion (2009: US$20.1 billion) of the increase in investments is attributable to the recapitalisation of Rio Tinto International Holdings, which holds the Group’s investment in Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. 
C Rio Tinto plc called up share capital 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Issued and fully paid up share capital  
At 1 January 246 160 
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – 86 
At 31 December 246 246 
(a) During the year, no new shares were issued (2009: 524,460,478 shares issued as a result of Rio Tinto plc rights issue). No shares (2009: 440,018 shares) were issued pursuant to share plans and 2,336,005 
shares (2009: 874,925 shares) were reissued from treasury pursuant to share plans.  
D Rio Tinto plc share premium and reserves 
At 31 December 2010 
 
Share 
premium 
account 
US$m 
Other 
reserves 
US$m
Profit and 
loss account 
US$m
At 1 January  4,174  11,965 11,315 
Adjustment for share based payments 84 – 58 
Profit for the financial year –  – 1,290
Dividends paid –  – (1,350)
At 31 December  4,258  11,965 11,313 
At 31 December 2009 
 
Share 
premium 
account 
US$m 
Other 
reserves 
US$m
Profit and 
loss account 
US$m
At 1 January  4,705  29 6,769 
Adjustment for share based payments 28  – 52 
Premium on issue of shares 4  – – 
Rights issue expenses including mark to market losses on forward contracts (563) – – 
Merger reserve arising from Rio Tinto plc’s rights issue – 11,936 – 
Profit for the financial year –  – 5,164 
Dividends paid –  – (670)
At 31 December  4,174  11,965 11,315 
E Rio Tinto plc contingent liabilities 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Bank and other performance guarantees in respect of subsidiaries 
(a)
 9,559 18,706
(a)  In 2010, the above amount guaranteed by the Company includes US$8.7 billion (2009: US$8.6 billion) Rio Tinto Finance (USA) Limited Bonds with maturity dates ranging from 2013 to 2028, and US$703 
million (2009: US$1.2 billion) Letters of Credits guaranteed on behalf of Rio Tinto Group entities. The amount guaranteed by the Company to finance the acquisition of Alcan Inc was repaid during 2010 
(2009: US$8.5 billion). 
(b)  Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to various pension funds including the Rio Tinto Pension Fund and the Rio Tinto 2009 Pension Fund. Rio Tinto plc will pay any contributions 
due from Group companies participating in the various funds, pro-rata to its ownership of those companies, in the event that the companies fail to meet their contribution requirements.  250 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 
Years ended 31 December 
 
 Gross sales revenue 
(a)
 EBITDA 
(b)
 Net earnings
(c)
 
US$ millions 
Rio Tinto  
 interest   
%  2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008  2010 2009 2008
Iron Ore     
Hamersley 
(d)
 100.0  16,757 8,874 11,006  11,819 5,190 7,038   7,911  3,283 4,642 
Robe River 
(e)
 53.0  4,322 2,186 2,728  3,328 1,422 1,983   1,771  718 1,062 
Iron Ore Company of Canada 58.7  2,447 1,006 2,065  1,379 344 1,251   491  112 443 
Rio Tinto Brasil (f)   – 30 176  – (15) 73   – (19) 44 
Dampier Salt 68.4  442 453 377  79 203 95   29  88 40 
Product group operations  23,968 12,549 16,352  16,605 7,144 10,440   10,202  4,182 6,231 
Evaluation projects/other  56 49 175  – (32) (228)  (13) (56) (214)
  24,024 12,598 16,527  16,605 7,112 10,212   10,189  4,126 6,017 
     
Aluminium     
Bauxite & Alumina  4,959 3,854 6,660  269 (89) 805   1  (332) 220 
Primary Metal  11,828 9,188 14,627  1,976 591 3,010   665  (291) 1,041 
Other product group items  517 556 512  120 77 185   42  52 75 
Upstream intersegment  (2,290) (1,606) (3,546) (8) 3 23   (6) 2 16 
Product group operations   15,014 11,992 18,253  2,357 582 4,023   702  (569) 1,352 
Evaluation projects/other  192 46 44  61 12 (87)  71  9 (71)
  15,206 12,038 18,297  2,418 594 3,936   773  (560) 1,281 
     
Copper     
Kennecott Utah Copper 100.0  3,327 2,368 2,609  2,178 1,449 1,587   1,342  818 998 
Escondida 30.0  2,699 2,039 2,402  1,806 1,327 1,464   1,013  760 854 
Grasberg joint venture (g)  611 991 53  403 706 38   206  385 4 
Palabora 57.7  837 635 560  205 123 167   52  17 49 
Northparkes 80.0  308 173 124  193 98 (1)  112  53 (12)
Product group operations  7,782 6,206 5,748  4,785 3,703 3,255   2,725  2,033 1,893 
Evaluation projects/other   –  –  –  (282) (229) (395)  (191) (155) (278)
  7,782 6,206 5,748  4,503 3,474 2,860   2,534  1,878 1,615 
     
Energy     
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (h)  4,603 3,870 5,142  1,731 1,799 2,900   940  1,017 1,719 
Rössing 68.6  493 376 383  23 83 260   (3) 24 101 
Energy Resources of Australia 68.4  533 620 418  118 358 352   22  138 141 
Product group operations  5,629 4,866 5,943  1,872 2,240 3,512   959  1,179 1,961 
Evaluation projects/other  23 3 41  427 (15) 461   228  (12) 471 
  5,652 4,869 5,984  2,299 2,225 3,973   1,187  1,167 2,432 
Diamonds & Minerals    
Diamonds  (i)  682 450 840  158 (7) 395   70  (68) 137 
Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium (j)  1,331 1,284 1,919  255 209 755   74  (9) 295 
Rio Tinto Minerals  (k)  1,015 882 1,061  209 187 183   199  78 86 
Product group operations  3,028 2,616 3,820  622 389 1,333   343  1 518 
Evaluation projects/other  7 2  –  (16) 820 (41)  (15) 799 (44)
  3,035 2,618 3,820  606 1,209 1,292   328  800 474 
Refer to notes a) to l) on page 253.  www.riotinto.com 251
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
 
 Gross sales revenue 
(a)
 EBITDA 
(b)
 Net earnings 
(c)
 
 
Rio Tinto 
interest 
% 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008  2010 2009 2008
Other Operations (l)  5,734 6,563 9,405  211 467  524   71 71 13 
   
Inter-segment transactions (1,110) (856) (1,716) (22) (28) 58   (15) (28) 25 
Other items   (594) (719) (378)  (554) (577) (391)
Central exploration and evaluation (48) (22) (160)  (52) 5 (133)
Net interest  (474) (584) (1,030)
Underlying earnings 25,978 14,312  22,317   13,987 6,298 10,303 
Items excluded from Underlying earnings 661 159  1,553   337 (1,426) (6,627)
Total 60,323 44,036 58,065  26,639 14,471  23,870   14,324 4,872 3,676 
   
Depreciation and amortisation  
in subsidiaries (3,437) (3,427) (3,475)  
Impairment charges (982) (1,573) (8,030)  
Depreciation and amortisation in equity 
accounted units (522) (440) (414)  
Taxation and finance items in equity 
accounted units (903) (739) (718)  
Profit before finance items and taxation 20,795 8,292  11,233   
Refer to notes a) to l) on page 253.  252 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Rio Tinto financial information by business unit continued 
 
 
 Capital expenditure 
(m)
 Depreciation & amortisation Operating assets 
(n)
 Employees 
 
Rio Tinto 
interest  
% 
2010 
US$m 
2009 
US$m 
2008  
US$m 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
2008  
US$m 
2010 
US$m
2009  
US$m  
2010 
Number 
2009 
Number
2008 
Number
Iron Ore       
Hamersley 
(d)
 100.0 1,227  1,337  1,860  630 506 466  8,010 7,530   7,525  6,556 6,321 
Robe River 
(e)
 53.0 222  599  683  222 140 111  2,612 2,751   1,489  1,114 1,011 
Iron Ore Company of 
Canada 58.7 253  180  256  108 86 83  847 808   2,179  2,027 2,094 
Rio Tinto Brasil (f) – 11  146  – 3 14  – 5    –  666 841 
Dampier Salt 68.4 14  21  27  23 18 21  196 179   439  405 394 
Other  – – 24  10 10 10  (37) (10)  767  607 448 
  1,716  2,148  2,996  993 763 705  11,628 11,263   12,399  11,375 11,109 
Aluminium       
Bauxite & Alumina  484  840  1,183  411 379 381  11,318 10,401   4,975  5,533 5,630 
Primary Metal  848  866  1,218  1,108 1,133 1,104  25,380 25,483   15,011  15,389 16,405 
Other product group 
items  (4) (16) 16  44 39 58  1,628 456   1,998  1,997 2,599 
  1,328  1,690  2,417  1,563 1,551 1,543  38,326 36,340   21,984  22,919 24,634 
Copper       
Kennecott Utah Copper 100.0 227  176  316  293 296 246  1,476 1,533   1,977  1,878 1,915 
Escondida 30.0 206  213  120  119 104 98  1,468 1,625   1,033  997 960 
Grasberg joint venture  (g) 102  79  32  49 47 25  540 378   2,258  2,162 2,185 
Palabora 57.7 33  16  40  69 67 57  – (11)  2,158  2,030 2,116 
Northparkes 80.0 53  17  105  32 25 15  403 301   226  186 210 
Other (o) 337  52  191 3 2 1 2,776 1,361   879  359 169 
  958  553  804  565 541 442  6,663 5,187   8,531  7,612 7,555 
Energy       
Rio Tinto Coal Australia (h) 609  456  449  266 205 194  3,145 2,222   3,186  3,289 3,206 
Rössing 68.6 35  24  73  31 27 20  201 324   1,592  1,415 1,307 
Energy Resources of 
Australia 68.4 41  30  144  70 64 51  348 263   523  521 448 
  685  510  666  367 296 265  3,694 2,809   5,301  5,225 4,961 
Diamonds & Minerals       
Diamonds  (i) 186  250  652  70 104 175  1,185 1,293   1,064  1,040 1,401 
Rio Tinto Iron & 
Titanium (j) 91  247  563  145 129 118  2,708 2,626   3,528  4,121 4,105 
Rio Tinto Minerals  (k) 23  22  63  53 57 68  682 693   2,340  2,214 2,580 
Other  – – 5  – – –  5 –  30   – 103 
  300  519  1,283  268 290 361  4,580 4,612   6,962  7,375 8,189 
Other Operations (l) 237  404  662  89 315 482  264 1,925   11,898  16,369 17,315 
Net (liabilities)/assets 
held for sale (p) – –  –  – – –  (101) 3,462   6,180  27,732 28,386 
Other items  75  54  151  114 111 91  (2,437) (2,906)  3,639  3,387 3,636 
Less: equity accounted 
units  (746) (522) (491) (522) (440) (414)   
Total  4,553  5,356  8,488  3,437 3,427 3,475  62,617 62,692   76,894  101,994 105,785 
Less: Net debt    (4,284) (18,861)   
Total Rio Tinto 
shareholders’ equity    58,333 43,831    
Refer to notes d) to p) on page 253. 
  www.riotinto.com 253
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
 
Business units have been classified according to the Group’s management structure. Generally, business units are allocated to product 
groups based on their primary product. The Energy group includes both coal and uranium businesses. The Diamonds & Minerals product 
group includes businesses with products such as borates, talc and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamonds operations.  
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper. The Aluminium group excludes Alcan Engineered Products 
which is included in “Other Operations” and Alcan Packaging which is included in “Net assets held for sale”.  
Aluminium is now presented based on commercial activities splitting it between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal and Other product 
group items. 2009 comparative information has been restated accordingly. 
(a) Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ sales revenue and the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries). 
(b) EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Group’s share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represent profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation. Underlying EBITDA excludes  
the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings. 
(c) Net earnings represent profit after tax for the year attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group. Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the 
amortisation of discount related to provisions. Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings. 
(d) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Hamersley (100 per cent) and HIsmelt
®
 (60 per cent). 
(e) The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary. The Group’s net interest is, therefore, 53 per cent, net of amounts 
attributable to outside equity shareholders. 
(f) Rio Tinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest in the Corumbá mine, effective 18 September 2009. 
(g) Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. 
(h) Includes Rio Tinto’s 75.7 per cent interest in Coal and Allied, which is managed by Rio Tinto Coal Australia, a 100 per cent subsidiary of Rio Tinto. Coal and Allied owns a 40 per cent interest in Bengalla 
and an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley, giving the Group a beneficial interest in those companies of 30.3 per cent and 60.6 per cent, respectively.  
(i) Diamonds includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Argyle (100 per cent), Diavik (60 per cent) and Murowa (77.8 per cent). 
(j) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane (RTFT) (100 per cent), QMM (80 per cent) and RBM (attributable interest of 37 per cent).  
(k) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Rio Tinto Borax (100 per cent) and Luzenac Talc (100 per cent). 
(l) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in its US coal operations formerly reported under Rio Tinto Energy America. 
(m) Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.  
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ capital expenditure and Rio Tinto’s share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units. Amounts relating to equity accounted units not 
specifically funded by Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group. 
(n) Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt. Operating assets are less non-controlling interests,  
which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies (ie net of such companies’ debt).  
(o) Includes Rio Tinto’s interests in Oyu Tolgoi LLC which are held indirectly through its investment in Ivanhoe and were recognised at a provisional fair value on 15 December 2010. The Group’s remaining 
interest in the assets of Ivanhoe Mines that does not relate to Oyu Tolgoi LLC continues to be recognised at historic cost. 
(p) Net (liabilities)/assets held for sale at 31 December 2010 relate to Alcan Engineered Products (AEP) excluding the Cable Division; at 31 December 2009 these comprised Alcan Packaging and other assets 
held for sale. In 2009 and 2008, AEP was included within Other Operations.  
  254 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Australian Corporations Act – summary of ASIC relief 
 
 
Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 (“Corporations Act“), the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an 
order dated 22 December 2010 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the 
Company’s financial statements and associated reports. The order essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since 
the formation of the Group’s Dual Listed Companies (DLC) structure in 1995. The order applied to Rio Tinto Limited’s financial reporting 
obligations for financial years and half-years ending between 31 December 2010 and 30 June 2014 (inclusive). 
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its 
controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their 
respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity. In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared: 
   in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union  
(EU IFRS) rather than the Australian Accounting Standards (AAS) (except for one limited instance in the case of any concise report), and  
in accordance with United Kingdom financial reporting obligations generally;  
   on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial 
Reporting Standards“ should be applied using the combined financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc  
and their respective controlled entities under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC 
merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for using merger’, rather than ‘acquisition’, accounting (reflecting that 
neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the other, and meaning that the existing carrying amounts, 
rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC merger were used to measure those assets and liabilities at formation); 
   on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single company (with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that 
single company); and  
   with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total consolidated income  
for the financial year and total consolidated equity at the end of the financial year (see page 162). 
Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in relation to their compliance with relevant United Kingdom and Australian 
requirements. Rio Tinto Limited must also prepare a Directors’ report which satisfies the content requirements of the Corporations Act 
(applied on the basis that the consolidated entity for those purposes is the Group), except that the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to 
prepare a separate Remuneration report that is merely cross-referenced in the Directors’ report, instead of including in the Directors’ 
report the Remuneration report otherwise required by the Corporations Act. The separate Remuneration report (see pages 128 to 155) 
must include all the information required to be included in a Remuneration report under the Corporations Act.  
Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act 
(including timing requirements) in relation to those consolidated financial statements (including any concise financial statements), the 
Auditor’s report and the Directors’ report. The separate Remuneration report is also required to be lodged with the Australian Securities 
and Investments Commission at the same time as the consolidated financial statements, and Rio Tinto Limited must not distribute or 
make available the Remuneration report without the consolidated financial statements and Directors’ report. At the Company’s AGM,  
it is required to allow shareholders to vote on a non binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration report, on the same basis as would 
otherwise be required for a Remuneration report under the Corporations Act. 
Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities. Rio Tinto 
Limited is also no longer required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial 
year consistent with recent changes made to the Corporations Act.  
However, consistent with those changes, Rio Tinto Limited must in accordance with the Corporations Act include in the consolidated 
financial statements for the Group, as a note, various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited (including in relation to 
assets, liabilities, shareholder’s equity, profit and loss, income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual commitments) prepared in 
accordance with AAS (see page 246).  
‘ www.riotinto.com 255
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Directors’ declaration 
 
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to the Group financial statements, Rio Tinto plc financial statements 
and Rio Tinto Limited financial statements. 
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
UK and Australian company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under these laws the 
directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union and the Rio Tinto plc financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). The directors are also required to prepare certain  
Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AASs). In preparing the Group 
financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB). Under UK and Australian company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the companies and of the profit or loss of the companies and Group for that 
period (as applicable).  
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 
   select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;  
   make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
   state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, applicable UK Accounting Standards and applicable AAS have been followed,  
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively;  
   prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the companies will 
continue in business. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the 
companies and the Group and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the companies and the Group  
and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006, the Corporations Act 2001 as 
amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, 
the Rio Tinto plc financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006, the Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures comply 
with the Corporations Act as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 and the 
Remuneration report complies with the Companies Act 2006 and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities 
and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010.  
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the companies and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website. Legislation governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ between jurisdictions in which the Group reports. 
Each of the current directors, whose names and function are listed on pages 102 to 105 in the Governance section confirm that, to the 
best of their knowledge and in their opinion: 
   the Rio Tinto Group financial statements and notes have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Corporations Act 
2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 (including, to the extent 
required, in accordance with AASs and the Corporations Regulations 2001), Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group and Rio Tinto Limited as at 31 December 2010, and of 
the profit and performance of the Group and Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended as at that date; 
   the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and notes, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice and the Companies Act 2006 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company;  
   the Overview and Performance sections of the Annual report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces; and  
   there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of the Rio Tinto Group, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited will be able to pay its debts as 
and when they become due and payable. 
The directors have been given the declarations by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer required by section 295A of the 
Corporations Act 2001 (as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010).   256 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Disclosure of information to auditors 
The directors in office at the date of this report have each confirmed that: 
   so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group’s auditors are unaware; and 
   he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Group’s auditors are aware of that information.  
This declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the board.  
 
   
Jan du Plessis Chairman 
4 March 2011 
Tom Albanese Chief executive 
4 March 2011 
Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 
4 March 2011 
 
 
Auditors’ independence declaration 
 
As lead auditor for the audit of Rio Tinto Limited for the year ended 31 December 2010, I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, 
there have been: 
a)  no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and 
b)  no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. 
This declaration is in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and the entities it controlled during the period. 
 
Robert Hubbard  
Partner 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Brisbane 
4 March 2011 
 
Directors’ declaration continued  www.riotinto.com 257
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the members of  
Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers to the members of Rio Tinto Limited 
 
 
For the purpose of this report, the terms ‘we’ and ‘our’ denote PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory 
responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto plc and PricewaterhouseCoopers in relation to Australian legal, 
professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Rio Tinto Limited. 
We have audited the financial statements of Rio Tinto (the ‘Group financial statements’) for the year ended 31 December 2010 which comprise 
the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of financial 
position, the Group statement of changes in equity and notes 1 to 51, the outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial 
statements and the Rio Tinto financial information by business unit. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has audited the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 which 
comprise the Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet and the related notes. PricewaterhouseCoopers has audited the Reconciliation with 
Australian Accounting Standards.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law in the United 
Kingdom and applicable law in Australia as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 
2010 (the “ASIC Order” described in the Australian Corporations Act – Summary of ASIC relief) and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements is applicable law 
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).  
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors  
As explained more fully in the Directors’ declaration set out on page 255, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to 
enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law, International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland) and Australian Auditing Standards. Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors and the Independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.  
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 (in respect of Rio Tinto plc) and Section 308 of the Australian Corporations 
Act 2001 (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited) and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance 
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Group, of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements.  
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s 
preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but 
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control.  
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.  
In conducting its audit, PricewaterhouseCoopers has complied with the independence requirements of the Australian Corporations’ Act 2001. 
  258 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Independent auditors’ report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc  
and PricewaterhouseCoopers to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued 
 
 
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on the financial 
statements to the members of Rio Tinto plc 
In our opinion:  
   the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of Rio Tinto plc’s affairs as at 31 December 2010 and of 
the Group’s profit and cash flows for the year then ended;  
   the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;  
   the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and 
   the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.  
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB  
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in 
addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). In our opinion the 
Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006  
In our opinion:  
   the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
   the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set 
out on pages 114 to 127 in the Annual report with respect to 
internal control and risk management systems and about share 
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements; and 
   the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements.  
Matters on which we are required to report by exception  
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:  
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:  
   adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, 
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or 
   the Rio Tinto plc company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
   certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or 
   we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or 
   a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by  
Rio Tinto plc.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
   the Directors’ report, set out on page 113, in relation to  
going concern;  
   part of the Corporate governance section of the Annual report 
relating to the Rio Tinto plc’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review; and 
   certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.  
 
Ross Hunter  
Senior Statutory Auditor 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
4 March 2011 
Opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers on the financial 
statements to the members of Rio Tinto Limited 
In our opinion: 
   the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s affairs and of the Group’s profit and cash flows for the year 
then ended; 
   the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and 
   the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with the ASIC Order. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group 
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the 
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB). In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Opinion on other matters  
In our opinion: 
   the Remuneration report included in the accompanying Annual 
report complies with the requirements of the Section 300A as 
amended by the ASIC Order; and 
   the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements. 
 
Robert Hubbard 
Partner 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Brisbane 
4 March 2011 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional 
Standards Legislation  www.riotinto.com 259
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Financial summary 2001 – 2010 
 
 
US$m 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 
(r)
 2008 2009 2010
Gross sales revenue 
(d)
 10,438 11,119 12,119 14,530 20,742 25,440 33,518    58,065 44,036  60,323 
Share of equity accounted units’ sales 
revenue 
(e)
 (2,286) (2,404) (2,551) (1,576) (1,709) (2,975) (3,818)   (3,801) (2,211) (3,747)
Consolidated sales revenue 8,152 8,715 9,568 12,954 19,033 22,465 29,700   54,264 41,825  56,576 
Underlying/Adjusted PBIT 
(f)
 3,102 2,696 2,266 3,224 7,301 9,912 10,517    17,683 9,843  21,128 
Finance costs 
(g)
 (404) (291) (298) (207) (207) (193) (570)   (1,706) (1,058) (909)
Exchange differences and derivatives 
(h)
 224 (191) 83 253   (322) 528  529 
Other exclusions from Underlying/Adjusted 
earnings 
(f)
 (715)(1,094) 126 622 409 438 (364)   (6,477)(1,453) (171)
Profit before tax (‘PBT’) 1,983 1,311 2,094 3,863 7,312 10,240 9,836   9,178 7,860  20,577 
Tax on Exclusions  132 42  – 57 33 (357) 60   988 (91) 42 
Tax on Underlying/Adjusted PBT (850) (750) (567) (676) (1,847) (2,016) (2,150)   (4,730) (1,985) (5,338)
Loss after tax from discontinued operations  –  –  –  –  –  –  –   (827) (449) (97)
Attributable to outside shareholders (186) 48 (19) 53 (283) (429) (434)   (933) (463) (860)
Net earnings 1,079 651 1,508 3,297 5,215 7,438 7,312   3,676 4,872  14,324 
Underlying/Adjusted earnings 
(f)
 1,662 1,530 1,382 2,272 4,955 7,338 7,443   10,303 6,298  13,987 
Earnings per share (basic) – continuing 
operations 
(s)
 64.1c 38.7c 89.4c 195.4c 312.6c 456.2c 464.9c   286.8c 301.7c 735.4c
Underlying/Adjusted earnings per share 
(basic) – continuing operations 
(s)
 98.8c 90.9c 82.0c 134.6c 297.0c 450.1c 473.2c   656.2c 357.1c 713.3c
Dividends per share: declared for year 
(i)
  
Rio Tinto shareholders (US cents) 48.24c 49.06c 52.33c 62.95c 65.46c 85.07c 111.23c   111.22c 45.00c 108.00c
Rio Tinto plc (pence)  34.08p 30.64p 30.36p 33.91p 36.91p 44.22p 56.20p   67.49p 28.84p 67.35p
Rio Tinto Limited (Aus. cents) 94.24c 86.61c 73.34c 84.88c 86.26c 110.69c 125.72c   146.22c 51.56c 111.21c
Net assets  
Fixed assets 
(j)
 14,879 16,136 19,418 20,131 20,848 25,803 75,888    67,651 72,706  83,750 
Other assets less liabilities 1,896 1,463 1,804 2,356 2,587 3,026 11,609   8,469 10,078  5,462 
Provisions (including deferred tax) (3,194) (3,612) (4,536) (6,087) (6,383) (7,007) (16,013)   (14,987) (17,998) (19,654)
Net debt (5,711) (5,747) (5,646) (3,809) (1,313) (2,437) (45,191)   (38,672) (18,861) (4,284)
Non-controlling interests (827) (778) (1,003) (714) (791) (1,153) (1,521)   (1,823) (2,094) (6,941)
Rio Tinto shareholders’ funds 7,043 7,462 10,037 11,877 14,948 18,232 24,772   20,638 43,831  58,333 
   
Capital expenditure 
(k)
 (1,407) (1,417) (1,611) (2,218) (2,554) (3,988) (4,968)   (8,488) (5,356) (4,553)
Acquisitions (958) (106) – (3) (2) (303) (37,539)   (9) (396) (907)
Disposals 299 233 405 1,510 323 24 13   2,572 2,424  604 
Cash flows from operations 
(l)
 3,285 3,619 3,359 4,265 8,031 10,923 12,569    20,668 13,834  23,530 
Cash flows before financing activities 
(m)
 213 977 1,024 2,799 4,460 3,714 (34,251)  8,702 5,855  16,566 
Ratios  
Operating margin 
(n)
 30% 24% 19% 24% 37% 42% 34%    32% 24% 37%
Net debt to total capital 
(o)
 42%41%34%23%8%11%63%   63%29% 6%
Underlying/Adjusted earnings: shareholders’ 
funds 
(p)
 23% 21% 16% 22% 37% 44% 35%   45% 20% 27%
Interest cover 
(q)
 11 13 11 20 59 89 20    10 9  27 260 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial summary 2001 – 2010 continued 
 
(a) Information for the years 2001 to 2003 is stated under UK GAAP and has not been restated except where indicated below.  
(b) Shareholders’ funds for 2001 and prior years were restated following the implementation of FRS 19 in 2002. 
(c) Information for the years 2004 to 2009 is stated under EU IFRS. The Group implemented IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 without restatement of comparatives. 
(d) Adjustments have been made for 2002 and subsequent years to include in sales revenue, certain amounts charged to customers for freight and handling costs, which previously were deducted from 
operating costs. 
(e) Certain units that were equity accounted under UK GAAP are proportionally consolidated under EU IFRS and vice-versa. Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units in 
addition to Consolidated sales revenue (after adjusting for intra-subsidiary/equity accounted units sales). Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiaries sales to equity accounted units which are not 
included in gross sales revenue. 
(f) Underlying earnings is an additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its EU IFRS results to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations. 
It is defined in note 2 to the financial statements. Underlying earnings is similar but not identical to the Adjusted earnings measure that Rio Tinto reported with its UK GAAP results. Adjusted earnings was 
defined as excluding exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion was necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfilled their purpose of reflecting the underlying performance of the Group. 
Underlying profit before interest and tax (PBIT) and Adjusted PBIT are similar to Underlying earnings and Adjusted earnings except that they are stated before tax and interest. 
(g) Finance costs include net interest and amortisation of discount. 
(h) Under EU IFRS, certain gains and losses on exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Group’s Net earnings. Under UK GAAP, these did not have an impact on the income statement. 
These items are excluded from Underlying earnings. 
(i) Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financial year. These usually include an Interim dividend paid in the year, and a Final dividend paid after the end of the year. The Special 
dividend of 90 US cents per share paid in 2006 is not included in the table. 2001 to 2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of 
the July 2009 rights issues (“the bonus factor”). 
(j) Fixed assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill, and investments in and long term loans to equity accounted units. 
(k) Capital expenditure comprises purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets plus direct funding provided 
to equity accounted units for Rio Tinto’s share of their capital expenditure. The figures include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ capital expenditure, but exclude that of equity accounted units except where 
directly funded by Rio Tinto. 
(l) Total cash flow from operations comprises Cash flow from consolidated operations together with Dividends from equity accounted units. Exploration and evaluation costs charged against income were 
previously included in Cash used in investing activities but are now included within Cash flow from operating activities. As a result, exploration and evaluation costs expensed have been reclassified in 
the comparative periods within the cash flow statement.  
(m) Cash flow before financing activities is stated before deducting dividends payable to Rio Tinto shareholders, which involved restatement of 2003 and prior years. 
(n) Operating margin is the percentage of Underlying/Adjusted PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to Gross sales revenue. 
(o) Total capital comprises year end shareholders’ funds plus net debt and outside shareholders’ interests. 
(p) Underlying/Adjusted earnings: shareholders’ funds represent Underlying or Adjusted earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders. 
(q) Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivable (excluding the amortisation of discount but including capitalised interest) is covered by Underlying operating profit, less 
amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units. Underlying operating profit is similar to Underlying earnings but is stated before tax, interest and share of profit after tax of equity 
accounted units. 
(r) The 31 December 2007 statement of financial position was restated for the revisions to Alcan’s fair value accounting which was finalised in 2008.  
(s) 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations and Underlying earnings per share have been calculated using a number of shares which reflects the discounted price of the July rights issues  
(‘the bonus factor’). 2001 to 2008 comparatives have been restated accordingly.  www.riotinto.com 261
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Summary financial data in Australian dollars,  
Sterling and US dollars 
 
2010  
A$m 
2009   
A$m  
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m    
2010
US$m
2009
US$m
65,568  55,742   38,918  28,048   Gross sales revenue  60,323 44,036 
61,496  52,943   36,501  26,640   Consolidated sales revenue 56,576 41,825 
22,366  9,949   13,275  5,006   Profit before tax from continuing operations 20,577 7,860 
16,610  7,322   9,859  3,684   Profit for the year from continuing operations 15,281 5,784 
(105) (568)  (63) (286)  Loss for the year from discontinued operations (97) (449)
15,570  6,167   9,241  3,103   Net earnings attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 14,324 4,872 
15,203  7,972   9,024  4,011   Underlying earnings 
(a)
 13,987 6,298 
799.3c 381.9c  474.4p 192.2p  Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 
(c)
 735.4c 301.7c
775.3c 452.0c  460.2p 227.5p  Basic Underlying earnings per ordinary share 
(a)(c)
 713.3c 357.1c
     Dividends per share to owners of Rio Tinto  
100.83c 82.97c  57.05p 37.85p  – paid  90.0c 55.6c
61.94c 51.56c  39.14p 28.84p  – proposed final dividend 63.0c 45.0c
18,007  7,411   10,688  3,729   Cash flow before financing activities 16,566 5,855 
(4,200) (21,192)  (2,764) (11,715)  Net debt  (4,284) (18,861)
57,189  49,248   37,634  27,224   Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto  58,333 43,831 
(a) “Underlying earnings” is an alternative measure of earnings which is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations. Further details on 
Underlying earnings are provided in note 2. 
(b) The financial data above have been extracted from the financial statements. The Australian dollar and Sterling amounts are based on the US dollar amounts, retranslated at average or closing rates as 
appropriate, except for the dividends which are the actual amounts payable. For further information on these exchange rates, see note 45. 
(c) Basic earnings per ordinary share and basic Underlying earnings per ordinary share do not recognise the dilution resulting from share options in issue. 2009 earnings per share from continuing operations 
reflect the bonus element of the rights issues completed in July 2009.   262 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information  
The Rio Tinto Group combines Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in 
England and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed  
on the London Stock Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is 
registered in Australia under ABN 96 004 458 404, and is listed on 
the Australian Securities Exchange. Rio Tinto is headquartered in 
London and has executive offices in Melbourne. 
Rio Tinto plc adopted new Articles of Association by special 
resolution passed on 20 April 2009 which were amended further  
by special resolution on 20 April 2009 effective 1 October 2009.  
Rio Tinto Limited adopted a new Constitution by special resolution 
passed on 24 May 2000 and amended by special resolution on  
18 April 2002, 29 April 2005, 27 April 2007, 24 April 2008 and  
20 April 2009 (effective 20 April 2009 and 1 October 2009). Further 
information on the Group’s constitutional documents is set out in 
pages 271 to 272. 
Operational structure 
The Group consists of a number of wholly and partly owned 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Rio Tinto’s 
management structure is designed to facilitate a clear focus on 
business performance and is structured into five product groups  
and four global business support groups: 
   Aluminium 
   Copper  
   Diamonds & Minerals 
   Energy 
   Iron Ore 
   Business Support & Operations which includes Exploration 
   Technology & Innovation 
   People & Organisation 
   Legal & External Affairs 
The chief executive of each product group and the global head of 
each business support group are members of the Executive 
committee and report to the chief executive of Rio Tinto. 
Nomenclature and financial data 
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate as one business 
organisation, referred to in this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto 
Group or, more simply, the Group. These collective expressions are 
used for convenience only, since both Companies, and the individual 
companies in which they directly or indirectly own investments, are 
separate and distinct legal entities.  
“Limited”, “plc”, “Pty”, “Inc”, “Limitada”, “L.L.C.”, “A.S.” or “SA” have 
generally been omitted from Group company names, except to 
distinguish between Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited. Financial 
data in US dollars (US$) is derived from, and should be read in 
conjunction with, the 2010 financial statements. In general, financial 
data in pounds sterling (£) and Australian dollars (A$) have been 
translated from the consolidated financial statements and have been 
provided solely for convenience; exceptions arise where data can be 
extracted directly from source records. Certain key information has 
been provided in all three currencies in the 2010 financial statements. 
Rio Tinto Group sales revenue, profit before finance items and tax, net 
earnings and operating assets for 2009 and 2010 attributable to the 
product groups and geographical areas are shown in notes 31 and 32 
to the 2010 financial statements. In the Performance section, operating 
assets and sales revenue for 2008 and 2009 are consistent with the 
financial information by business unit in the 2010 financial statements. 
The tables on pages 78 to 93 show production for 2008, 2009 and  
2010 and include estimates of proven and probable ore reserves. Words 
and phrases, often technical, have been used which have particular  
meanings; definitions of these terms are in the Definitions section on 
pages 276 to 277. The weights and measures used are mainly metric 
units; conversions into other units are shown on page 274. 
History 
Rio Tinto’s predecessor companies were formed in 1873 and 1905. 
The Rio Tinto Company was formed by investors in 1873 to mine 
ancient copper workings at Rio Tinto, near Seville in southern Spain. 
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation was incorporated in 1905 to treat 
zinc bearing mine waste at Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia. 
The RTZ Corporation (formerly The Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation) was 
formed in 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto Company and The 
Consolidated Zinc Corporation. 
CRA Limited (formerly Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited) was 
formed at the same time by a merger of the Australian interests of  
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation and The Rio Tinto Company. 
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important 
mineral deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew 
through acquisition.  
RTZ and CRA were unified in 1995 through a dual listed companies 
structure. This means that each Company has an identical board of 
directors and the shareholders of both Companies are in substantially 
the same position in terms of votes, dividends and capital returns  
as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all the assets  
of both Companies.  
In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited 
became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group. 
Over the past decade, the Group has continued to invest in 
developments and acquisitions in keeping with its strategy. 
In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian 
aluminium producer Alcan Inc. in a US$38 billion transaction that 
transformed the Group’s aluminium product group into a global 
leader in aluminium. With copper and iron ore, this gave the Group  
a major role in the production of the three key metals associated with 
the growth and urbanisation of China and other developing countries. 
Dividends 
Both Companies have paid dividends on their shares every year since 
incorporation in 1962. The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive 
dividends are explained under the description of the Dual Listed 
Companies’ Structure on page 269. 
Dividend policy 
The aim of Rio Tinto’s progressive dividend policy is to increase the  
US dollar value of ordinary dividends over time. The rate of the total 
annual dividend, in US dollars, is determined taking into account the 
results for the past year and the outlook. Under Rio Tinto’s dividend 
policy, the interim dividend is set at one half of the total ordinary dividend 
for the previous year and the final ordinary dividend is expected to be at 
least equal to the previous interim dividend.  
Dividend determination 
The majority of the Group’s sales are transacted in US dollars,  
making this the most reliable measure for the Group’s global  
business performance. It is Rio Tinto’s main reporting currency  
and consequently the natural currency for dividend determination. 
Dividends determined in US dollars are translated at exchange rates 
prevailing two days prior to the announcement and are then declared 
payable in sterling by Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars by  
Rio Tinto Limited. On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can  
elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars and shareholders  
of Rio Tinto Limited can elect to receive dividends in sterling.   www.riotinto.com 263
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
These dividend amounts are calculated by converting the declared 
dividend using currency exchange rates applicable five business days 
prior to the dividend payment date.  
Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other 
currencies should contact the Companies’ share registrars, who  
also offer payment services in other currencies, subject to a fee. 
2010 dividends 
The 2010 interim and final dividends were determined at 45 US cents 
and at 63 US cents per share respectively and the applicable translation 
rates for the interim and final dividend were US$1.59525 and  
US$1.60960 to the pound sterling and US$0.9133 and US$1.01715 to 
the Australian dollar respectively. For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders 
who elected to receive their interim dividend in Australian dollars the 
applicable conversion rate was A$1.69060 and for Rio Tinto Limited 
shareholders who elected to receive their dividend in Sterling the 
applicable conversion rate was £0.59151.  
Final dividends of 39.14 pence or 61.94 Australian cents per share 
and 63 US cents per Rio Tinto plc ADR (each representing one share) 
will be paid on 31 March 2011. For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders 
requesting the 2010 final dividend be paid in Australian dollars  
and those Rio Tinto Limited shareholders requesting the 2010 final 
dividend be paid in pounds sterling, the applicable conversion rates 
will be set on 24 March 2011. 
On 12 April 2010, Rio Tinto announced a ratio change for the  
Rio Tinto plc American Depository Receipt (ADR) programme. From  
22 April 2010, the ADR record date, the ratio changed from one ADR 
representing four ordinary shares to one ADR representing one 
ordinary share. To effect this change, ADR holders received three 
additional ADRs for every one ADR they held at the record date. 
The charts below set out the amounts of interim, final and special 
cash dividends paid or payable on each share or ADR in respect of 
each financial year, but before deduction of any withholding tax. 
These have been restated for the impact of the 2009 rights issues  
and the ADR ratio change. 
 2010 2009 
2008  
restated 
2007 
restated
2006 
restated
Rio Tinto Group – US cents per share 
Interim 45.00 – 55.61 42.53 32.73
Final 63.00 45.00 55.61 68.70 52.34
Special – – – – –
Total 108.00 45.00 111.22 111.23 85.07
Rio Tinto plc – UK pence per share 
Interim 28.21 – 29.64 20.93 17.53
Final 39.14 28.84 37.85 35.27 26.69
Special – – – – –
Total 67.35 28.84 67.49 56.20 44.22
Rio Tinto Limited – Australian cents per share 
Interim 49.27 – 63.25 49.64 42.94
Final 61.94 51.56 82.97 76.08 67.75
Special – – – – –
Total 111.21 51.56 146.22 125.72 110.69
Rio Tinto plc – US cents per ADR 
Interim 45.00 – 55.61 42.53 32.73
Final 63.00 45.00 55.61 68.7 52.34
Special – – – – –
Total 108.00 45.00 111.22 111.23 85.07
 
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) 
Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the 
opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the 
market free of commission. Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be 
extended to shareholders in the US, Canada and certain other countries. 
Market listings and share prices 
The prices of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto 
plc ADRs are available during the day on the Rio Tinto and other websites. 
Rio Tinto plc 
The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock 
Exchange (LSE), the shares trade through the Stock Exchange 
Electronic Trading Service (SETS) system. 
Central to the SETS system is the electronic order book on which  
an LSE member firm can post buy and sell orders, either on its own 
behalf or for its clients. Buy and sell orders are executed against each 
other automatically in strict price, then size, priority. The order book 
operates from 8:00 am to 4:30 pm daily. From 7:50 am to 8:00 am 
orders may be added to, or deleted from the book, but execution does 
not occur. At 8:00 am the market opens by means of an uncrossing 
algorithm which calculates the greatest volume of trades on the book 
which can be executed, then matches the orders, leaving unexecuted 
orders on the book at the start of trading. 
All orders placed on the order book are firm and are for standard three 
day settlement. While the order book is vital to all market participants, 
orders are anonymous, with the counterparties being revealed to each 
other only after execution of the trade. 
Transactions in Rio Tinto plc shares are subject to the post-trade 
transparency rules and requirements imposed by the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID), as implemented by the UK 
Financial Services Authority. All transactions in equities that are 
admitted to trading on a regulated market (irrespective of whether 
such transactions are concluded on a regulated market), a multilateral 
trading facility (an MTF), or by an investment firm trading outside a 
regulated market or an MTF must be disclosed as close to real time as 
possible but no later than three minutes from completion, unless the 
transaction qualifies for deferred publication. 
Rio Tinto plc shares are also listed on Euronext. 
Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase 
Bank NA (JPMorgan) under a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988,  
as amended on 11 June 1990, as further amended and restated on 
15 February 1999, 18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became Rio Tinto 
plc’s depository and on 29 April 2010. The ADRs evidence Rio Tinto 
plc American Depositary Shares (ADS), each representing one 
ordinary share following a ratio change on 30 April 2010. The 
shares are registered with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC), are listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
(NYSE) and are traded under the symbol RIO. Rio Tinto plc changed 
its NYSE ticker symbol on 12 October 2010 to align with the 
Companies’ ticker symbols on the London Stock Exchange and the 
Australian Securities Exchange. 264 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
Fees and charges payable by a holder of ADSs 
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, JPMorgan may charge holders of Rio Tinto ADSs, either directly or indirectly, fees or 
charges up to the amounts described below.  
Category  Depositary actions Associated fee 
Depositing or substituting the  
underlying shares 
 
Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including deposits and issuance in 
respect of: 
   Share distributions, stock split, rights, merger 
   Exchange of securities or other transactions   
   Other events or distributions affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities
  
US$5.00 per 100 ADSs (or portion thereof) 
evidenced by the new ADSs delivered 
Selling or exercising rights 
 
Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal to the fee for the 
execution and delivery of ADSs which would have been charged as a result of the 
deposit of such securities 
US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs  
(or portion thereof) 
Withdrawing an underlying share 
 
Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs (or portion 
thereof) evidenced by the ADSs surrendered
Transferring, splitting or grouping receipts 
 
Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts US$2.50 per ADS 
General depositary services, particularly 
those charged on an annual basis 
 
Other services performed by the depositary in administering the ADRs Provide information about the depositary’s 
right, if any, to collect fees and charges by 
offsetting them against dividends received 
on deposited securities US$0.02 per ADS  
(or portion thereof) not more than once 
each calendar year and payable at the  
sole discretion of the depositary by billing 
holders or deducting such charge from  
one or more cash dividends or other  
cash distributions 
Expenses of the depositary 
 
Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: 
   Compliance with foreign exchange control regulations or any law or regulation 
relating to foreign investment 
   The depositary’s or its custodian’s compliance with applicable law, rule or 
regulation 
   Stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges 
   Cable, telex, facsimile and electronic transmission/delivery 
   Expenses of the depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign 
currency into US dollars (which are paid out of such foreign currency) 
   Any other charge payable by depositary or its agents 
Expenses payable at the sole discretion of 
the depository by billing holders or by 
deducting charges from one or more cash 
dividends or other cash distributions 
 
Fees and payments made by the depositary to the issuer 
JPMorgan has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related  
to the Rio Tinto plc ADR programme and incurred by the Group in 
connection with the programme. For the year ended 31 December 2010, 
JPMorgan reimbursed US$2,050,000 in respect of expenses incurred by 
the Group in connection with the ADR programme. JPMorgan did not 
pay any amount on the Group’s behalf to third parties. JPMorgan also 
waived certain of its standard fees and expenses associated with the 
administration of the programme relating to routine programme 
maintenance, reporting, distribution of cash dividends, annual  
meeting services and report mailing services. 
In the year ended 31 December 2009, JPMorgan did not reimburse  
Rio Tinto with any fees or expenses nor did JPMorgan pay any 
amount on the Group’s behalf to third parties. 
Under certain circumstances, including removal of JPMorgan as 
depositary or termination of the ADR programme by the Company, the 
Company is required to repay JPMorgan any amounts of administrative 
fees and expenses waived during the 12 month period prior to notice 
of removal or termination. 
 
 
As at 21 February 2011, there were 47,587 holders of record of  
Rio Tinto plc’s shares. Of these holders, 331 had registered addresses in 
the US and held a total of 326,262 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing 
0.02 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and 
outstanding as at such date. In addition, 95,340,352 Rio Tinto plc 
shares were registered in the name of a custodian account in London 
which represented 6.24 per cent of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and 
outstanding. These shares were represented by 94,996,313 Rio Tinto plc 
ADRs held of record by 387 ADR holders. In addition, certain accounts 
of record with registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, in 
whole or in part, beneficially for US persons. 
ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to how the shares represented 
by their ADRs should be voted. 
ADR holders can receive the Annual report free of charge on request. 
  www.riotinto.com 265
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
Rio Tinto is subject to the SEC reporting requirements for foreign 
companies. A Form 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K in US 
public companies, will be filed with the SEC. Rio Tinto’s Form 20-F and 
other filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website as well as the SEC 
website at www.sec.gov. ADR holders may also read without charge  
and copy at prescribed rates any document filed at the public reference 
facilities of the SEC’s principal office at 100 F Street NE, Washington, 
DC 20549, US. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further 
information on the operation of the public reference facilities. 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities 
Exchange (ASX). The ASX is the principal trading market for  
Rio Tinto Limited shares. The ASX is a national stock exchange  
with an automated trading system. 
As at 21 February 2011, there were 192,956 holders of record of  
Rio Tinto Limited shares. Of these holders, 325 had registered 
addresses in the US, representing approximately 0.039 per cent  
of the total number of Rio Tinto Limited shares issued and outstanding 
as of such date. In addition, nominee accounts of record with registered 
addresses other than in the US may hold Rio Tinto Limited shares, in 
whole or in part, beneficially for US persons. 
Investment warning 
The following table shows share prices for the period indicated, the 
reported high and low middle market quotations, which represent an 
average of bid and asked prices, for Rio Tinto plc’s shares on the LSE 
based on the LSE Daily Official List, the highest and lowest sale prices 
of the Rio Tinto plc ADRs as reported on the NYSE composite tape and 
the high and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based 
upon information provided by the ASX. There is no established 
trading market in the US for Rio Tinto Limited’s shares. 
Past performance of shares is not necessarily a guide to future 
performance. The value of shares and investments and the income 
derived from them can go down as well as up, and investors may not 
get back the amount they invested. 
 
 
 Pence per Rio Tinto plc share US$ per Rio Tinto plc ADS
(a)
 A$ per Rio Tinto Limited share
 High Low High Low High Low
2006 3,3222,352 53.52 37.21 87.97 65.38
2007 5,7842,505 102.30 40.74 146.90 69.50
2008 7,0781,049 118.03 12.50 156.10 32.00
2009 3,4201,140 55.93 16.58 74.89 29.38
2010  
Aug 2010 3,455 3,105 55.78 47.10 74.00 69.30
Sep 2010 3,762 3,447 60..28 52.32 77.26 72.24
Oct 2010 4,208 3,697 66.86 58.36 84.1 77.00
Nov 2010 4,454 4,043 72.35 62.73 87.4 82.21
Dec 2010 4,584 4,207 72.65 65.74 87.94 83.1
Jan 2011 4,543 4,237 73 67.65 87.62 84.05
2009  
First quarter 2,047 1,140 30.27 16.58 45.11 29.38
Second quarter 2,608 1,784 45.73 26.55 60.89 41.65
Third quarter 2,740 1,885 45.84 30.00 62.88 46.63
Fourth quarter 3,420 2,505 55.93 39.33 74.89 56.85
2010  
First quarter 3,910 3,036 60.11 46.39 80.00 66.60
Second quarter 4,062 2,812 62.24 39.30 80.86 61.70
Third quarter 3,762 2,880 60.28 43.27 77.26 65.03
Fourth quarter 4,584 3,697 72.65 58.36 87.94 77
(a) On 12 April 2010, Rio Tinto announced a ratio change for the Rio Tinto plc ADR programme. With effect from 30 April 2010, one ADR represents one ordinary share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc. Prior to this 
date one ADR represented four ordinary shares. To effect this change ADR holders received three additional ADRs for every one ADR held as of 22 April 2010, the ADR record date. Prior year comparatives 
have been restated for the impact of the ratio change. 
(b) None of these prices have been restated to take account of the rights issues undertaken in 2009. 
  266 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
Taxation 
UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc 
Taxation of dividends 
— Final dividend 2009 (payment date – 1 April 2010)  
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the dividend. 
Individuals who are liable to income tax at the basic rate will  
have no further tax to pay. Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax  
on UK dividends at 32.5 per cent, which after taking account of the 
tax credit, produces an effective tax liability of 25 per cent of the 
dividend received. 
— Interim Dividend 2010 (payment date – 9 September 2010) 
The position for basic rate tax payers and higher rate tax payers is  
as described above. However, as of 6 April 2010, additional rate tax 
payers are liable to tax on UK dividends at 42.5 per cent, which after 
taking account of the tax credit, produces an effective tax liability of 
26.1 per cent of the dividend received. 
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) 
The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on 
individual circumstances. Shareholders will generally be liable to  
tax on dividends reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they 
had received the cash and arranged the investment. The dividend 
should, therefore, be included in the annual tax return. 
The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date  
and at the net cost shown on the share purchase advice. The actual 
cost of the shares for Rio Tinto plc shareholders including the stamp 
duty/stamp duty reserve tax, will form the base cost for capital gains 
tax purposes. 
Capital gains tax 
Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are 
advised to consult their financial adviser. 
Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values 
for Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available from the 
company secretary. 
Australian resident individuals shareholdings in  
Rio Tinto Limited 
Taxation of dividends 
The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when 
Australian resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto 
Limited, they may be entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by 
the Group in respect of that income, depending on the tax status of 
the shareholder.  
The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by  
the Group being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits 
attaching to the dividends they receive. Such dividends are known  
as franked dividends. A dividend may be partly or fully franked. The 
current Rio Tinto Limited dividend is fully franked and the franking 
credits attached to the dividend are shown in the distribution 
statement provided to shareholders. 
The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on  
the credit balance in its franking account. Credits to this account  
can arise in a number of ways, including when a company pays 
company tax or receives a franked dividend from another company. 
The dividend is required to be included in a resident individual 
shareholder’s assessable income. In addition, an amount equal to the 
franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included in 
the assessable income of the resident individual, who may then be 
entitled to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit amount 
included in their income. Should the franking credits exceed  
the tax due, the excess is refunded to the resident individual. 
The effect of the dividend imputation system on non resident 
shareholders is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked,  
no Australian tax will be payable and there is an exemption from 
dividend withholding tax.  
A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when 
unfranked dividends are paid to residents of countries with which 
Australia has a taxation treaty. Most Western countries have a 
taxation treaty with Australia. A rate of 30 per cent applies to 
countries where there is no taxation treaty. 
Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been  
fully franked. It is the Group’s policy to pay fully franked dividends 
whenever possible. The boards expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able  
to pay fully franked dividends for the foreseeable future. 
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRP) 
Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested 
in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and 
arranged the investment. The dividend should therefore be included 
in the annual tax return as assessable income. 
The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the date  
of acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of 
the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any 
incidental costs associated with the acquisition will form part of the cost 
base or reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes. 
Capital gains tax 
The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex. If shareholders 
have acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to 
capital gains tax on the disposal of those shares. 
Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise 
to a capital gain or loss. A capital gain arises when the proceeds on 
disposal are greater than the cost base of shares. A capital loss arises 
when the proceeds on sale are less than the cost base or reduced  
cost base. Where a capital gain arises on shares held for at least 12 
months, individual, trust and superannuation fund shareholders may 
be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.  
Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent 
taxation consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure. 
US residents 
The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian  
tax and US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership  
of Rio Tinto plc ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited 
shares, “the Group’s DSs and shares” by a US holder as defined below. 
It is not intended to be a comprehensive description of all the tax 
considerations that are relevant to all classes of taxpayer. Future 
changes in legislation may affect the tax consequences of the 
ownership of the Group’s ADSs and shares.  
It is based in part on representations by the Group’s depositary bank 
as depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that 
each obligation in the deposit agreements will be performed in 
accordance with its terms. 
You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Group’s ADSs 
and shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the US, a domestic 
corporation, an estate whose income is subject to US federal income  
tax regardless of its source, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary  www.riotinto.com 267
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
supervision over the trust’s administration and one or more US persons 
are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust. 
This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held  
as capital assets for tax purposes. This section does not apply to 
shareholders who are members of a special class of holders subject  
to special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities 
who elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for 
securities holdings, a tax exempt organisation, a life insurance 
company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person that 
actually or constructively owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tinto’s 
voting stock, a person that holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle 
or a hedging or conversion transaction, or a person whose functional 
currency is not the US dollar. 
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, 
published rulings and court decisions, and on the convention 
between the US and UK, and the convention between the US and 
Australia which may affect the tax consequences of the ownership  
of the Group’s ADSs and shares. These laws and conventions are 
subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. 
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the US Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), US holders of ADSs are treated 
as the owners of the underlying shares. 
The summary describes the treatment applicable under the 
conventions in force at the date of this report. 
UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc 
Taxation of dividends 
US holders are not liable to UK withholding tax on dividends paid by 
Rio Tinto plc. Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one ninth of the 
net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit. 
The tax credit is not repayable to US holders. 
Capital gains 
A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains 
realised on the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the 
holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a 
permanent establishment in the UK and the ADSs or shares have been 
used for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation or are acquired, 
held or used for the purposes of such a permanent establishment. 
Inheritance tax 
Under the UK Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US 
and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax 
upon the holder’s death or on a transfer during the holder’s lifetime 
unless the ADSs and shares form part of the business property of a 
permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated 
in the UK used in the performance of independent personal services.  
In the exceptional case where ADSs or shares are subject both to UK 
inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the UK Estate  
Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in 
accordance with the priority rules set out in the Treaty. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 
Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty 
provided that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all 
times remains outside, the UK. 
Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject either to stamp duty at a 
rate of 50 pence per £100 or to stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) at a rate 
of 0.5 per cent. Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into Rio Tinto plc 
ADSs will be subject to additional SDRT at a rate of 1.5 per cent on  
all transfers to the depositary or its nominee. 
Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited 
Taxation of dividends 
US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax  
on dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are 
normally fully franked under the Australian dividend imputation 
system, meaning that they are paid out of income that has borne 
Australian income tax. Any unfranked dividends would suffer 
Australian withholding tax which under the Australian income  
tax convention is limited to 15 per cent of the gross dividend. 
Capital gains 
US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the 
disposal of Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been 
used in carrying on a trade or business wholly or partly through a 
permanent establishment in Australia, or the gain is in the nature  
of income sourced in Australia. 
Gift, estate and inheritance tax 
Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes  
in relation to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder. 
Stamp duty 
An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require  
the payment of Australian stamp duty. 
US federal income tax 
In general, taking into account the earlier assumptions that each 
obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement  
will be performed according to its terms, for US federal income tax 
purposes, if you hold ADRs evidencing ADSs, you will be treated as 
the owner of the shares represented by those ADRs. Exchanges of 
shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject  
to US federal income tax. 
Taxation of dividends 
Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign 
investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, if you are a US 
holder, the gross amount of any dividend the Group pays out of its 
current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for US 
federal income tax purposes) is subject to US federal income taxation.  
If you are a non corporate US holder, dividends paid to you in taxable 
years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend 
income will be taxable to you at a maximum tax rate of 15 per cent 
provided that, in the case of shares or ADSs, you hold the shares or ADSs 
for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days 
before the ex-dividend date. Dividends we pay with respect to the 
shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income. 
You must include any Australian tax withheld from the dividend 
payment in this gross amount even though you do not in fact receive 
it. The dividend is taxable to you when you, in the case of shares, or 
the depositary, in the case of ADSs, receive the dividend, actually or 
constructively. The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-
received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect  
of dividends received from other US corporations. The amount of the 
dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a  
US holder will be the US dollar value of the non US dollar payments 
made, determined at the spot UK pound/US dollar rate (in the case  
of Rio Tinto plc) or the spot Australian dollar/US dollar (in the case of  
Rio Tinto Limited) on the date the dividend distribution is includible 
in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact   268 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
converted into US dollars. Generally, any gain or loss resulting from 
currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date you 
include the dividend payment in income to the date you convert the 
payment into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and 
will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified 
dividend income. The gain or loss generally will be income or loss 
from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. 
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and 
profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be 
treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of your basis 
in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.  
Subject to certain limitations, any Australian tax withheld in 
accordance with the Australia-United States Tax Treaty and paid  
over to Australia will be creditable or deductible against your US 
federal income tax liability. Special rules apply in determining  
the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that  
are subject to the maximum 15 per cent tax rate. 
For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends will generally be  
income from sources outside the US and will, depending on your 
circumstances, generally be either “passive” or “general” income 
which, in either case, is treated separately from other types of income 
for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to you. 
Taxation of capital gains 
Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, if you are a US holder and 
you sell or otherwise dispose of the Group’s ADSs or shares, you will 
recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes 
equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount 
that you realise and your tax basis, determined in US dollars, in your 
shares or ADSs. Capital gain of a non corporate US holder is generally 
taxed at preferential rates where the holder has a holding period 
greater than one year. The gain or loss will generally be income or loss 
from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes. 
Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) Rules  
We believe that the Group’s shares or ADSs should not be treated as 
stock of PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion 
is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be 
subject to change. If we were to be treated as a PFIC, unless the shares 
or ADSs are “marketable stock” and a US holder elects to be taxed 
annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or 
ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of the shares or 
ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain. Instead, if you 
are a US holder, you would be treated as if you had realised such gain 
and certain “excess distributions” rateably over your holding period 
for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in 
effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together 
with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each  
such year. In addition, dividends that you receive from us will not  
be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend 
income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution 
or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates 
applicable to ordinary income. 
Exchange controls and foreign investment 
Rio Tinto plc 
There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other restrictions on the 
import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non 
resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that affect the conduct of 
Rio Tinto plc’s operations. The Bank of England, however, administers 
financial sanctions against specified targets related to certain 
regimes. There are no restrictions under Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of 
Association or under UK law that limit the right of non resident 
owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.  
Rio Tinto Limited 
Under current Australian legislation, the Reserve Bank of Australia 
does not restrict the import and export of funds and no permission  
is required for the movement of funds into or out of Australia, except 
that restrictions apply to certain financial transactions relating to 
specified individuals and entities associated with certain regimes.  
The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has responsibility for 
the administration of restrictions relating to terrorists and their 
sponsors, and the former Iraqi regime. 
Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from 
foreign remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, 
and from payments of interest. There are no restrictions under the 
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited that limit the right of non residents 
to hold or vote Rio Tinto Limited shares. 
However acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or  
certain other equity instruments in Australian companies by foreign 
interests are subject to review and approval by the Treasurer of the 
Commonwealth of Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and 
Takeovers Act 1975 (the Takeovers Act). The Takeovers Act applies  
to any acquisition of 15 per cent or more of the outstanding shares  
of, or voting power in, an Australian company or to any transaction 
that results in one non resident, or a group of associated non 
residents, controlling 15 per cent or more of the shares of or voting 
power in, an Australian company. The Takeovers Act also applies  
to any transaction which results in a group of non associated non 
residents controlling 40 per cent or more of the shares of, or voting 
power in, an Australian company. Persons who are proposing such 
acquisitions or transactions are required to notify the Treasurer of 
their intention. The Treasurer has the power to order divestment in 
cases where such acquisitions or transactions have already occurred. 
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners whose 
interests are held in compliance with the legislation. 
Material contracts  
Dual listed companies structure 
In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed 
companies merger (the DLC merger) which was designed to place the 
shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position  
as if they held shares in a single enterprise owning all of the assets  
of both Companies. As a condition of its approval of the DLC merger, 
the Australian Government required Rio Tinto plc to reduce its 
shareholding in Rio Tinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of 2005. 
Consistent with the commitments made to the Australian 
Government in 1995, the Rio Tinto plc shareholding in Rio Tinto 
Limited has been reduced over time. Following the completion in 
September 2010 of the buy-back of shares held by Tinto Holdings 
Australia Pty Limited, Rio Tinto plc’s interest in the ordinary shares  
of Rio Tinto Limited has reduced to nil. 
Following the approval of the DLC merger, both Companies entered 
into a DLC Merger Sharing Agreement (the Sharing Agreement) through 
which each Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio 
Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are managed on a unified basis, to 
ensure that the boards of directors of each Company are the same, 
and to give effect to certain arrangements designed to provide 
shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest  
in the combined enterprise.  www.riotinto.com 269
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement 
provided for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution 
rights attached to each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto 
Limited share to be fixed in an Equalisation Ratio which has 
remained unchanged at 1:1. The Sharing Agreement has provided for 
this ratio to be revised in special circumstances where, for example, 
certain modifications are made to the share capital of one Company, 
such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share 
consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other. Outside these 
specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered 
with the approval of shareholders under the Class Rights Action 
approval procedure described under Voting rights. In addition, any 
adjustments are required to be confirmed by the auditors. 
One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject  
to a wide range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple 
jurisdictions. Where these rules differ Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims  
to comply with the strictest applicable level. 
Consistent with the creation of a single combined enterprise under 
the DLC merger, directors of each Company act in the best interests  
of Rio Tinto as a whole. The Class Rights Action approval procedure  
is intended to deal with instances where there may be a conflict of 
interest between the shareholders of each Company. 
To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, 
resolutions to appoint or remove directors must be put to 
shareholders of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as 
described under Voting rights, and it is a requirement that a person 
can only be a director of one Company if that person is also a director 
of the other Company. So, for example, if a person was removed as a 
director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be a director of 
Rio Tinto Limited. 
Dividend rights 
The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc 
and Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that 
is without taking into account any associated tax credits. Dividends 
are determined in US dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, 
translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars. The Companies 
are also required to announce and pay their dividends and other 
distributions as close in time to each other as possible. 
In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient 
distributable reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised 
capital distribution, it would be entitled to receive a top up payment from 
the other Company. The top up payment could be made as a dividend on 
the DLC Dividend Share, or by way of a contractual payment. 
If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law 
applicable to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the 
Equalisation Ratio. However, should such a departure occur, then the 
relevant Company will put aside reserves to be held for payment on 
the relevant shares at a later date. 
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend 
equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement. 
The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with 
flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be 
paid between the two parts of the Group. Such dividend payments are 
of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as 
they will have no effect on the Group’s overall resources. 
Voting rights 
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the public 
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint 
electorate on all matters which affect shareholders of both Companies 
in similar ways. These are referred to as Joint Decisions. Such Joint 
Decisions include the creation of new classes of share capital, the 
appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the receiving  
of annual financial statements. Joint Decisions are voted on a poll. 
The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of the public 
shareholders of each Company by treating the shares issued by each 
Company as if they were separate classes of shares issued by a single 
company. So decisions that do not affect the shareholders of both 
Companies equally require the separate approval of the shareholders 
of both Companies. Matters requiring this approval procedure are 
referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a poll. 
Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each Company are 
protected against decisions which affect them and the shareholders 
in the other Company differently, by requiring their separate 
approval. For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger 
cannot be changed unless approved by shareholders under the Class 
Rights Action approval procedure. 
Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where 
legislation requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate 
majority of shareholders in one Company and where approval of the 
matter by shareholders of the other Company is not required. 
Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint 
Decision or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power 
to change that categorisation. If a matter falls within both categories, 
it is treated as a Class Rights Action. In addition, the directors can 
determine that matters not expressly listed in either category should 
be put to shareholders for their approval under either procedure. 
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements each Company has 
entered into shareholder voting agreements. Each Company has 
issued a Special Voting Share to a special purpose company held  
in trust by a common Trustee. 
Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share (RTP Special Voting 
Share) to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its 
Special Voting Share (RTL Special Voting Share) to RTP Shareholder 
SVC. The total number of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the public 
shareholders of one Company are voted at the parallel meeting of the 
other Company. The role of these special purpose companies in 
achieving this is described below. 
In exceptional circumstances, certain public shareholders of the 
Companies can be excluded from voting at the respective Company’s 
general meetings because they have acquired shares in one Company 
in excess of a given threshold without making an offer for all the 
shares in the other Company. If this should occur, the votes cast by 
these excluded shareholders will be disregarded. 
Following the Companies’ general meetings the overall results of  
the voting on Joint Decisions and the results of voting on Class Rights 
Actions and on separate decisions will be announced to the stock 
exchanges, published on the Rio Tinto website and announced to the 
media in the UK and Australia.  270 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders’ meeting at which a Joint Decision  
will be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and 
the holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote 
cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited. The holder of the 
Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in accordance 
with the votes cast by public shareholders for and against the equivalent 
resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders’ meeting. 
The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually  
hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding  
in Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements 
relating to the Special Voting Share. 
At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders’ meeting at which a Joint 
Decision will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry 
one vote and the holder of its Special Voting Share will carry one vote 
for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their 
parallel meeting. The holder of the Special Voting Share is required  
to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes cast for and 
against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc 
shareholders’ meeting. 
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold  
any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in  
Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating  
to the Special Voting Share. 
Capital distribution rights 
If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing 
Agreement provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets 
of both Companies. If the surplus assets available for distribution by 
one Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders 
exceed the surplus assets available for distribution by the other 
Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders,  
then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall  
be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the 
amount available for distribution on each share held by public 
shareholders of each Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio. 
The objective is to ensure that the public shareholders of both 
Companies have equivalent rights to the assets of the combined 
Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio. 
The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to  
the shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company. 
Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations 
The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions 
and obligations on persons who control interests in public quoted 
companies in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain 
circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all  
of the outstanding issued shares of the relevant company. The 
threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations  
is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian law and 
regulations is 20 per cent (on a stand alone basis or, taking into 
account only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis). 
As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc 
and the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the 
intention of extending these laws and regulations to the combined 
enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that a person cannot exercise 
control over one Company without having made offers to the public 
shareholders of both Companies. It is consistent with the creation of 
the single economic enterprise, and the equal treatment of the two  
sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations should operate 
in this way. The Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the 
constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on any person 
who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent or more of the votes 
on a Joint Decision. If, however, such a person only has an interest in 
either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions will 
only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more  
of the votes at that Company’s general meetings. 
If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to 
certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, 
such persons may not attend or vote at general meetings of the 
relevant Company, may not receive dividends or other distributions 
from the relevant Company, and may be divested of their interest  
by the directors of the relevant Company. These restrictions will 
continue to apply until such persons have either made a public offer 
for all of the publicly held shares of the other Company, or have 
reduced their controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or 
have acquired through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the 
publicly held shares of each Company. 
These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held 
shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the restrictions 
set out above, even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only 
held in one of the Companies. The directors do not have the discretion 
to exempt a person from the operation of these rules. 
Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to cooperate  
to enforce the restrictions contained in their Articles of Association 
and Constitution. 
Guarantees 
In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour  
of creditors of the other Company. Pursuant to the Deed Poll 
Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations  
of the other Company and the obligations of other persons which  
are guaranteed by the other Company, subject to certain limited 
exceptions. Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make 
demands upon the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse 
to the Company or persons whose obligations are being guaranteed. 
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee 
expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other 
limited circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after 
such termination and, in the case of other limited circumstances,  
the publication and expiry of due notice. The shareholders of the 
Companies cannot enforce the provision of the Deed Poll Guarantees. 
Facility agreement 
Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered  
into a facility agreement on 12 November 2010 as borrowers with  
a syndicate of banks. The facility is guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and 
Rio Tinto Limited. The facility comprises a US$6 billion multi-currency 
five year revolving credit facility (including a US$ denominated same 
day access swingline facility). The funds made available under the 
Facility Agreement may be used for the general corporate purposes  
of the Group. 
Advances under the revolving facility bear an interest rate per annum 
equal to the margin (which is dependent on the Group’s long term 
credit rating as determined by Moody’s and Standard & Poors and the 
level of drawdown) plus LIBOR or EURIBOR (in relation to any euro 
loan) plus any mandatory cost.  www.riotinto.com 271
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
The Facility Agreement contains no financial covenants.  
At 31 December 2010, the facility was undrawn. Further details  
of the Group’s credit facilities are set out in note 22 of the 2010 
financial statements. 
Articles of Association and Constitution 
As explained on pages 268 to 269  under the terms of the DLC merger 
the shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered 
into certain contractual arrangements which are designed to place 
the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position 
as if they held shares in a single enterprise which owned all of the 
assets of both Companies. Generally and as far as is permitted by  
the UK Companies Act and the Australian Corporations Act and ASX 
Listing Rules this principle is reflected in the Articles of Association  
of Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited. Unless 
stated otherwise the Articles of Association and Constitution are 
identical. The summaries below include descriptions of material 
rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.  
No holder of shares, which may be held in either certificated or 
uncertificated form, will be required to make any additional 
contributions of capital. 
Objects 
The objects of Rio Tinto plc were previously set out in the fourth 
clause of its Memorandum of Association and the objects of Rio Tinto 
Limited were set out in the second clause of its Memorandum of 
Association. Included in these objects was the right for each Company 
to enter into, with one another, operate and carry into effect an 
Agreement known as the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement (the 
Sharing Agreement) and a Deed Poll Guarantee (see page 268).  
At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc 
and Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional 
documents whereby the objects clauses were removed to allow the 
Companies to have the widest possible scope of activities, save that 
the relevant parts of Clause 4(A) of the Rio Tinto plc Memorandum, 
which relate to the powers to operate and carry into effect the Dual 
Listed Company Structure, be preserved by their inclusion in article 
105 (Powers and obligations in relation to the Sharing Agreement). 
Similarly and for consistency with Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association, 
Rio Tinto Limited’s Memorandum of Association was also deleted from 
the Rio Tinto Limited Constitution save for clauses 2(1), 5 and 6, which 
relate to the powers to operate and carry into effect the Dual Listed 
Company Structure, and preserve the integrity of the Dual Listed 
Company voting arrangements. These provisions were incorporated 
into rules 7 and 111 of the Rio Tinto Limited Constitution. 
Directors 
Under Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association a director may not vote  
in respect of any proposal in which he or any other person connected 
with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests 
in shares or debentures or other securities of or otherwise in or through 
the Company, except where resolutions: 
   indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by 
the director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in 
respect of obligations of the Company, for which the director has 
assumed responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee; 
   relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a 
holder of securities or as an underwriter; 
   concern another body corporate in which the director is 
beneficially interested in less than one per cent of the issued  
shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate; 
   relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share 
equally with other employees; and 
   relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to 
purchase for the benefit of directors of the Company in respect  
of actions undertaken as directors (or officers) of the Company. 
Under Rio Tinto Limited’s Constitution, except where a director is 
constrained by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of 
the board while a matter in which the director has a material personal 
interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that matter. 
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the 
Companies to borrow money, to charge any property or business  
of the Companies or all or any of their uncalled capital and to issue 
debentures or give any other security for a debt, liability or obligation 
of the Companies or of any other person. The directors shall restrict 
the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the aggregate 
amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries 
shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the 
Company’s share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned  
by an ordinary resolution of the Company. 
Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by  
way of qualification, but a director is nevertheless entitled to attend  
and speak at shareholders’ meetings. Nevertheless, as disclosed in the 
Remuneration report on pages 128 to 155 the Remuneration committee 
has informed the executive directors that they would be expected to 
build up a shareholding equal in value to two times salary over five 
years. As set out on page 141 of the Remuneration report, non executive 
directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years 
of their appointment equal in value to one year of the base fee. 
The directors may appoint additional members to join the boards 
during the year. Directors appointed in this way will hold office until 
the first annual general meeting after their appointment and are 
eligible for election at that meeting. In subsequent years, and in 
accordance with the principle introduced by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, directors offer themselves for re-election every  
year. Non executive directors are normally expected to serve at least  
six years and, except in special circumstances, would not normally 
serve more than nine years. 
Rights attaching to shares 
Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of 
profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles and by the relevant law. 
Shareholders are entitled to receive such dividends as may be 
declared by the directors. The directors may also pay shareholders 
such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified by the 
financial position of the Group.  
Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date  
the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be 
forfeited and returned to the Company. Any Rio Tinto Limited 
dividend unclaimed may be invested or otherwise made use of by  
the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or otherwise 
disposed of according to Australian law.  272 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
Voting rights 
Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on 
which the holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall 
be decided by a poll, and any other resolution shall be decided by a 
show of hands unless a poll has been duly demanded. On a show of 
hands, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or 
other duly authorised representative at a general meeting and 
entitled to vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held. 
The holder of the Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a 
show of hands. On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person 
or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and entitled to 
vote has one vote for every ordinary share for which he or she is the 
holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of the Special 
Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public 
shareholders at the parallel meeting of shareholders. A poll  
may be demanded by any of the following: 
   the chairman of the meeting; 
   at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution; 
   any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate  
not less than one tenth (Rio Tinto plc) or one twentieth (Rio Tinto 
Limited) of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to  
vote on the resolution;  
   any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right 
to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in 
the aggregate equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum  
paid up on all the shares conferring that right (Rio Tinto plc); or 
   the holder of the Special Voting Share. 
A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to 
demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one. 
The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three 
members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised 
representative and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two 
members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised 
representative. 
Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and 
passing of resolutions: 
   an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the election 
of directors, the receiving of financial statements, the cumulative 
annual payment of dividends, the appointment of auditors, the 
increase of authorised share capital or the grant of authority to 
allot shares; 
   a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending  
the Company’s Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc or the 
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited, disapplying statutory  
pre-emption rights or changing the Company’s name or the 
modification of the rights of any class of the Group’s shares at a 
meeting of the holders of such class of shares or relating to certain 
matters concerning the winding up of either Company. 
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority  
of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a 
quorum. Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less 
than three fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is 
a quorum. In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of 
hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is not entitled to cast 
the deciding vote in addition to any other vote he may have and the 
resolution is not deemed to be passed. 
The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further classifies these three 
kinds of resolutions into “Joint Decisions” and “Class Rights Actions” 
as explained under voting rights on pages 269 to 270. 
Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days’ advance 
written notice for Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days for Rio Tinto Limited. 
Other meetings of Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days, 
advance written notice for the passing of a special resolution and  
with 14 days’ for any other resolution, depending on the nature of the 
business to be transacted. Other meetings of Rio Tinto Limited require 
28 days’ notice. The days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date 
of the meeting are not included. The notice must specify the nature  
of the business to be transacted. The board of directors may, if they 
choose, make arrangements for shareholders who are unable to attend 
the place of the meeting to participate at other places. 
Variation of rights 
If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of 
shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the 
provisions of the relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of 
holders of three fourths in value of the shares of that class or upon the 
adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting 
of the holders of the shares of that class. At every such separate 
meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association and 
Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, 
except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more 
persons who hold or represent by proxy not less than one third in 
nominal value of the issued shares of the class. 
Rights in a winding-up 
Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree,  
upon a winding up, the balance of assets available for distribution: 
   after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential 
creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal 
creditors; and 
   subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares; 
is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to 
the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them. This distribution is 
generally to be made in cash. A liquidator may, however, upon the 
adoption of an extraordinary resolution of the shareholders, divide 
among the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets in kind.  
The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of 
ordinary shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 270. 
Limitations on voting and shareholding 
Except for the provisions of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers 
Act 1975 which impose certain conditions on the foreign ownership 
of Australian companies, there are no limitations imposed by  
law, Rio Tinto plc’s Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limited’s 
Constitution, on the rights of non residents or foreign persons to  
hold or vote the Group’s ordinary shares or ADSs that would not  
apply generally to all shareholders. 
Supplementary information 
General shareholder enquiries 
Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor 
Services Pty Limited are the share registrars for Rio Tinto plc and  
Rio Tinto Limited, respectively. All enquiries and correspondence 
concerning shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, 
should be directed to the respective registrar. Their addresses and   www.riotinto.com 273
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
telephone numbers are given under Useful information and contacts 
on the back page. Shareholders should notify Computershare promptly 
of any change of address. 
Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc ADRs should be directed to 
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA whose address and telephone number  
are also given under Useful information and contacts. 
Warning to shareholders  
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have 
received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning 
investment matters. These are typically from overseas based “brokers” 
who target shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to 
be worthless or high risk shares. The “brokers” can be very persistent 
and extremely persuasive, and the UK Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) has reported that the average amount lost by investors is  
around £20,000. 
Shareholders are also warned to carefully consider any unsolicited 
offers they receive to buy their Rio Tinto shares. Some companies 
make offers to shareholders for their shareholdings at prices 
significantly below what they could expect on the market. Although  
it is not against the law to make an unsolicited offer to buy someone’s 
shares, it is illegal to mislead or deceive shareholders into accepting 
an offer. The offer must also comply with strict legal requirements, 
including prominent details of the current market value of the  
shares if they were to be sold on the market. 
Shareholders are urged to seek independent professional advice to 
protect themselves against a poor deal. 
Investor Centre 
Investor Centre is a free, secure, self service website, where shareholders 
can manage their holdings online. The website enables shareholders to: 
   View share balances 
   Change address details 
   View payment and tax information  
   Update payment instructions 
In addition, shareholders who register their email address on Investor 
Centre, can be notified electronically of events such as annual general 
meetings, and can receive shareholder communications such as the 
Annual report or notice of meeting electronically online. 
Rio Tinto plc shareholders 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/riotinto 
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders 
www.investorcentre.com 
Consolidation of share certificates 
If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several 
individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated 
certificate. There is no charge for this service. Share certificates should 
be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction. 
Share warrants to bearer 
All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been 
converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a Scheme 
of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001. Holders of any 
outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the company 
secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order to obtain 
their rights to registered ordinary shares. 
Former Alcan Inc. shareholders 
Former Alcan Inc. shareholders who have not tendered their Alcan 
shares to the Rio Tinto offer of US$101.00 per common share are 
entitled to claim their funds by sending a letter of transmittal together 
with their stock certificate to Computershare Investor Services Inc., 
whose details are given under Useful information and contacts.  
Corporate nominee service 
Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, operate a corporate 
nominee service for private individuals. Further information can be 
obtained from Computershare.  274 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Shareholder information continued 
 
Rio Tinto on the web 
Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its 
website, including this and previous annual reports, many other 
publications and links to Group company websites. 
It is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that processes are  
in place to maintain information and preserve the integrity of the  
Rio Tinto website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. 
Publications 
The following publications are on the website but hard copies can be 
obtained free of charge on request from the company secretaries: 
2010 Annual report 
2010 Annual review 
The way we work — Rio Tinto’s code of business conduct 
Substantial shareholders 
Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian 
Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights 
of three per cent or more or any person with voting power of five per 
cent or more in Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Companies 
with notice. The shareholders who have provided such, or an 
equivalent, notice are: 
Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
The Capital Group  
Companies, Inc 13 Jun 2006 41,031,494 3.90
Capital Research and Management 
Company 16 July 2009 75,461,183 4.95
AXA S.A. 29 Jan 2008 48,493,873 4.86
Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd 2 Feb 2008 119,705,134 12.00
BlackRock Inc. 1 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38
Legal & General plc 1 Oct 2010 60,698,133 3.97
Rio Tinto Limited  
Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd
(a)
 4 Feb 2008 ––
BlackRock Investment 
Management (Australia) Limited  8 Nov 2010 25,357,003 5.81
(a) Shining Prospect Pte. Ltd, a Singapore based entity owned by Chinalco (Aluminum Corporation 
of China) acquired 119,705,134 Rio Tinto plc shares on 1 February 2008. Through the operation 
of Corporations Act as modified, this gives these entities and their associates voting power of 
9.32 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a joint decision matter, making them substantial 
shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited as well as of Rio Tinto plc. 
As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly 
or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any 
government or natural person. Rio Tinto is not aware of any 
arrangement which may result in a change in control.  
As of 21 February 2011, the total amount of the Group’s voting 
securities owned by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 411,355 
ordinary shares of 10p each and in Rio Tinto Limited was 53,202 
ordinary shares, in aggregate representing less than one per cent  
of the Group’s total number of shares in issue. 
Except as provided under the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement,  
as explained on page 269, the Group’s major shareholders have the 
same voting and other rights as other shareholders. 
Conversion of weights and measures 
1 troy ounce = 31.1 grams  
1 kilogram = 32.15 troy ounces  
1 kilogram = 2.2046 pounds 
1 metric tonne = 2,204.6 pounds  
1 metric tonne = 1.1023 short tons  
1 metric tonne = 1,000 kilograms 
1 short ton = 2,000 pounds 
1 long ton = 2,240 pounds 
1 gram per metric tonne = 0.02917 troy ounces per short ton 
1 gram per metric tonne = 0.03215 troy ounces per metric tonne 
1 kilometre = 0.6214 miles 
Exchange rates 
The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated,  
certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound 
sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for 
pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 
£1.00 and per A$1.00. 
Pounds sterling 
Year ended 31 December* Period end Average rate High Low
2010 1.56 1.55 1.64 1.43
2009 1.62 1.57 1.70 1.35
2008 1.44 1.86 2.03 1.44
2007 1.99 2.00 2.11 1.92
2006 1.96 1.84 1.98 1.72
 
Australian dollars 
Year ended 31 December* Period end Average rate High Low
2010 1.02 0.92 1.02 0.81
2009 0.890 0.790 0.940 0.620
2008 0.698 0.852 0.983 0.607
2007 0.878 0.839 0.937 0.772
2006 0.788 0.753 0.791 0.706
* The Noon Buying Rate on such dates differed slightly from the rates used in the preparation of 
Rio Tinto’s financial statements as of such date. No representation is made that pound sterling 
and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at 
the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.  
  www.riotinto.com 275
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
Analysis of ordinary shareholders 
 Rio Tinto plc  Rio Tinto Limited
As at 21 February 2011 No of accounts % Shares % No of accounts % Shares %
1 to 1,000 shares 34,596 72.70 11,977,286 0.78 160,643 83.25 47,536,022 10.91
1,001 to 5,000 shares 10,256 21.55 20,535,127 1.34 28,858 14.96 57,167,901 13.12
5,001 to 10,000 shares 925 1.94 6,371,231 0.41 2,277 1.18 15,741,400 3.61
10,001 to 25,000 shares 529 1.11 8,320,292 0.55 864 0.45 12,720,963 2.92
25,001 to 125,000 shares 613 1.29 37,081,824 2.43 230 0.12 10,608,459 2.43
125,001 to 250,000 shares 209 0.44 37,379,248 2.44 35 0.02 6,204,948 1.42
250,001 to 1,250,000 shares 302 0.64 172,115,678 11.32 34 0.02 17,220,446 3.95
1,250,001 to 2,500,000 shares 67 0.14 118,955,495 7.79 5 0.00 9,049,891 2.08
2,500,001 shares and over 88 0.19 1,016,857,880 66.50 10 0.01 259,508,690 59.55
ADRs 10.0095,340,3526.24 – – – –
Publicly held shares 47,586 100.00 1,524,934,413 99.80 192,956 100 435,758,720 100
Shares held in treasury 1 4,069,458 0.20  
 1,529,003,871 100 100 435,758,720 100
Number of holdings less than  
marketable parcel of A$500 2,533  
 
Twenty largest registered shareholders 
In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the twenty largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the 
number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds: 
Rio Tinto Limited Number of shares
Percentage of 
issued share capital
1. HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 88,809,632 20.38
2. JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 60,609,606 13.91
3. National Nominees Limited 58,701,943 13.47
4. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 19,127,129 4.39
5. Cogent Nominees Pty Limited 11,019,596 2.53
6. JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 7,317,079 1.68
7. UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 3,701,986 0.85
8. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 3,585,707 0.82
9.  Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,573,706 0.82
10. AMP Life Limited 3,062,306 0.70
11. Argo Investments Limited 2,393,539 0.55
12. Perpetual Trustee Company Limited 2,085,788 0.48
13. Queensland Investment Corporation 1,778,101 0.41
14. Australian Reward Investment Alliance 1,481,201 0.34
15. Tasman Asset Management Ltd 1,311,262 0.30
16. UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 1,244,345 0.29
17. RBC Dexia Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited 1,136,633 0.26
18. Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 1,017,557 0.23
19. Cogent Nominees Pty Limited 870,383 0.20
20. Australian United Investment Company Limited 762,500 0.17
 273,589,999 62.78
Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.  276 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Definitions  
 
Non mining definitions  
Throughout this document, the collective expressions Rio Tinto, Rio Tinto Group and Group are used for convenience only. Depending on the 
context in which they are used, they mean Rio Tinto plc and/or Rio Tinto Limited and/or one or more of the individual companies in which  
Rio Tinto plc and/or Rio Tinto Limited directly or indirectly own investments, all of which are separate and distinct legal entities. 
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: 
ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing American Depositary Shares (ADS). 
Australian dollars Australian currency. Abbreviates to A$. 
AIFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in Australia. 
Billion One thousand million. 
Canadian dollars Canadian currency. Abbreviates to C$. 
Company/Companies Rio Tinto plc and/or Rio Tinto Limited, as the context so requires. 
DLC merger Dual listed companies merger (1995). 
EU IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. 
IASB International Accounting Standards Board. 
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards. 
LBMA London Bullion Market Association. 
LME London Metal Exchange. 
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
Pounds sterling UK currency. Abbreviates to £, pence or p. 
Public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto Limited Group and the holders  
of Rio Tinto Limited shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto plc Group. 
Rand South African currency. Abbreviates to R. 
Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited, and, where the context permits, its subsidiaries and associated companies. 
Rio Tinto Limited Group Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries and associated companies. 
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares. 
Rio Tinto Limited share The shares in Rio Tinto Limited. 
Rio Tinto Limited/RTL  
DLC Dividend Share 
The DLC Dividend Share in Rio Tinto Limited. 
Rio Tinto Limited/RTL  
Special Voting Share 
The Special Voting Share in Rio Tinto Limited. 
Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies. 
Rio Tinto plc ADS An American Depositary Share representing the right to receive one Rio Tinto plc ordinary share. 
Rio Tinto plc Group Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies. 
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares The shares of 10p each in Rio Tinto plc. 
Rio Tinto plc shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares. 
Rio Tinto plc shares Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares. 
Rio Tinto plc/RTP  
DLC Dividend Share 
The DLC Dividend Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc. 
Rio Tinto plc/RTP  
Special Voting Share 
The Special Voting Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc 
Share/shares Rio Tinto Limited shares or Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares, as the context requires. 
Sharing Agreement The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, as amended between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc relating to the regulation  
of the relationship between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc following the DLC merger. 
US dollars United States currency. Abbreviates to dollars, $ or US$ and US cents or USc. 
  www.riotinto.com 277
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
 
  
Mining and technical definitions 
Alumina Aluminium oxide. It is extracted from bauxite in a chemical refining process and is subsequently the principal raw material in  
the electrochemical process by which aluminium is produced. 
Anode and cathode copper At the final stage of the smelting of copper concentrates, the copper is cast into specially shaped slabs called anodes for  
subsequent refining to produce refined cathode copper. 
Bauxite Mainly hydrated aluminium oxides (Al
2
O
3
 .2H
2
O). Principal ore of alumina, the raw material from which aluminium is made. 
Bioleaching The deliberate use of bacteria to speed the chemical release of metals from ores. 
Block caving An underground bulk mining method. It involves undercutting the orebody to induce ore fracture and collapse by gravity.  
The broken ore is recovered through draw points below. 
Borates A generic term for mineral compounds which contain boron and oxygen. 
Cathode copper Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper or by electrowinning. 
Classification Separating crushed and ground ore into portions of different size particles. 
Coking coal By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.  
Also known as metallurgical coal. 
Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such as flotation or gravity concentration, which involves separating ore 
minerals from unwanted waste rock. Concentrates require subsequent processing (such as smelting or leaching) to break  
down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals. 
Cutoff grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process. It is used in the calculation of the quantity of ore  
present in a given deposit. 
Flotation A method of separating finely ground minerals using a froth created in water by specific reagents. In the flotation process certain 
mineral particles are induced to float by becoming attached to bubbles of froth whereas others, usually unwanted, sink. 
Grade The proportion of metal or mineral present in ore, or any other host material, expressed in this document as per cent,  
grams per tonne or ounces per ton. 
Head grade The average grade of ore delivered to the mill. 
Ilmenite Mineral composed of iron, titanium and oxygen. 
Metallurgical coal By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process. Also 
known as coking coal. 
Mineral resource A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earth’s crust in such form, quality and quantity 
that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and 
continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Mineral 
Resources are subdivided in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories. 
Ore A rock from which a metal(s) or mineral(s) can be economically and legally extracted. 
Ore milled The quantity of ore processed. 
Ore reserve The economically mineable part of a Measured and/or Indicated Mineral Resource. It includes diluting materials and allowances 
for losses which may occur when the materials are mined. Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include 
consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, 
social and governmental factors. These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be 
justified. Ore Reserves are subdivided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves. 
Rock mined The quantity of ore and waste rock excavated from the mine. In this document, the term is only applied to surface mining operations. 
Rutile A mineral composed of titanium and oxygen (TiO
2
). 
Stripping ratio The tonnes of waste material which must be removed to allow the mining of one tonne of ore. 
Solvent extraction and electrowinning 
(SX-EW) 
Processes for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal. First the metal is leached into solution; the resulting  
solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process; the solution is then treated in an electrochemical process 
(electrowinning) to recover cathode copper. 
Tailing The rock wastes which are rejected from a concentrating process after the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted. 
Titanium dioxide feedstock A feedstock rich in titanium dioxide, produced, in Rio Tinto’s case, by smelting ores containing titanium minerals. 
Zircon Zirconium mineral (ZrSiO
4
). 
  278 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
Financial calendar 
 
 
 
2011 
 
18 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review 
10 February Announcement of results for 2010 
2 March Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2010 final dividend 
4 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 
8 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 
9 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 
and dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto Limited shareholders electing to receive pounds sterling) 
10 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and 
dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc shareholders electing to receive Australian dollars) 
24 March Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited 
holders electing to receive pounds sterling) 
31 March Payment date for 2010 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 
13 April First quarter 2011 operations review 
14 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 
5 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 
14 July Second quarter 2011 operations review 
4 August Announcement of half year results for 2011 
10 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2011 interim dividend 
12 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 
16 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 
17 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2011 interim dividend 
1 September Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited 
holders electing to receive pounds sterling) 
8 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares   
9 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs 
13 October Third quarter 2011 operations review 
2012 
 
January Fourth quarter 2011 operations review 
February Announcement of results for 2011 
 
  www.riotinto.com 279
Overview Performance
Production, reserves 
and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information
Registered offices 
Rio Tinto plc 
2 Eastbourne Terrace 
London 
W2 6LG 
Registered in England No. 719885 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7781 2000 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7781 1800 
Website: www.riotinto.com 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Level 33 
120 Collins Street 
Melbourne 
Victoria 3000 
ACN 96 004 458 404 
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9283 3333 
Facsimile: +61 (0) 3 9283 3707 
Website: www.riotinto.com 
Rio Tinto’s agent in the US is Shannon Crompton,  
who may be contacted at  
Rio Tinto Services Inc.  
80 State Street 
Albany 
New York, 12207-2543  Shareholders 
Please contact the respective registrar if you have any  
queries about your shareholding. 
Rio Tinto plc 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZY 
Telephone: +44 (0) 870 703 6364 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 870 703 6119 
UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre 
To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/riotinto 
Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) 
Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries  
about your ADRs. 
ADR administrator 
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 
Telephone: +1 (651) 453 2128 
US residents only, toll free general: 
(800) 990 1135 
US residents only, toll free Global invest direct: 
(800) 428 4237 
Website: www.adr.com/shareholder 
Email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 
GPO Box 2975 
Melbourne 
Victoria 3001 
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9415 4030 
Facsimile: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500 
Australian residents only, toll free: 
1800 813 292 
New Zealand residents only, toll free: 
0800 450 740 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre  
To find out more about Investor Centre go  
to www.investorcentre.com 
Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders 
Computershare Investor Services Inc. 
9th Floor 
100 University Avenue 
Toronto 
Ontario 
M5J 2Y1 
Canada 
Telephone: +1 514 982 7555 
North American residents only, toll free  
+1 (866) 624 1341 
Website: www.computershare.com  280 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing 
50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from 
well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests. The pulp used in 
this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) 
process. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste 
associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed by Park Communications. Park is an EMAS certified 
CarbonNeutral® Company and its Environmental Management System 
is certified to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.blacksunplc.com Go online for more 
information
 www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
What you can find online
Find out more about our business and  
performance online
 2010 Annual report
 Webcast of our 2010 results
 Full sustainable development reporting
 Register for e-communications Striving for global 
sector leadership
2010 Annual review
The full Annual report is available online
Visit www.riotinto.com/annualreport201 0 Contents
Performance highlights 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1
Group overview
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
2
Chairman’s message 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
4
Chief executive’s message 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
6
Chief financial officer’s message 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
8
The way we work 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
9
Group strategy 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
10
Delivering our strategy 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
12
Sustainable development
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
14
Aluminium 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
18
Copper 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
19
Diamonds & Minerals 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
20
Energy 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
21
Iron Ore 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
22
Exploration
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
23
Technology & Innovation 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
23
Board of directors and Executive committee 
 –––––––––––––––
24
Summary corporate governance 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
26
Summary remuneration report 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
28
Summary financial statements 
 ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
31
Financial information by business unit
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
34
Auditors’ report
  ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
35
Financial calendar 
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
36
Useful information and contacts 
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
37
Striving for global sector
Rio Tinto is a leading global business 
delivering value at each stage of mineral 
and metal production. 
Opportunities for 
long term growth
Our assets are ideally positioned 
to serve our customers worldwide. 
While our operating heartland is in 
OECD countries, much of our sales 
are to emerging economies.
Read our Group overview 
Our global code 
of conduct
Underpinned by our 
values, our approach to 
sustainable development, 
and by effective 
corporate governance.
Read about 
The way we work
Our strategy
Maximising shareholder return 
by sustainably finding, mining, 
developing and processing 
natural resources.
Read about our  
Group strategy
Adding value across  
the cycle
We create and preserve value through 
investing in and operating large scale, long 
term, cost competitive mines and businesses.
Read about how we deliver  
our strategy
2
10
9
12
www.riotinto.com
The “Shareholders” section at www.riotinto.com 
provides the following information on Rio Tinto: 
financial information; corporate information;  
Rio Tinto share price charts and data; the Rio Tinto 
event calendar and dividend information; and the 
latest presentations by management for investors  
and financial analysts. www.riotinto.com 1
leadership
Our commitment to the health, safety and prosperity 
of our people is at the heart of our operations. So is our 
determination to maintain the environmental integrity of 
what we do. Our well established strategy, our single set of 
standards and values and our diverse portfolio of quality 
assets position us for growth on a global scale.
2010 performance highlights
Strong financial performance
 Record underlying earnings of US$14.0 billion, 
122 per cent above 2009
 Record cash flows from operations of  
US$23.5 billion, up 70 per cent on 2009
 Record underlying EBITDA of US$26.0 billion,  
up 82 per cent on 2009
Exceptional operational delivery
 18 per cent decrease in all injury frequency  
rate from 2009
 Production at, or above, capacity at  
many operations
 Record annual production of iron ore
Growth potential across the business
 US$11 billion of major capital approvals  
in 2010, with US$13 billion of capital  
expenditure expected in 2011
Continuing progress on sustainable 
development
 Reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
intensity by 3.7 per cent from 2008
 Community contributions of US$166 million,  
up 40 per cent on 2009
Underlying earnings
US$
 1 4.0
bn 
Cash flows
US$
 
23.5
bn
Net debt reduced to
US$
 
4.3
bn
GHG emissions intensity reduced 
from 2008
 
3.7
% Group overview
2 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Opportunities for long 
term growth
Our assets are ideally positioned to serve our customers worldwide. The majority of our 
operations are in Australia and North America, but we also have businesses in South 
America, Europe, southern Africa and Asia. While our operating heartland is in OECD 
(Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries, much of our sales 
are to emerging economies – which are driving the anticipated growth in metals and 
minerals demand. To meet rising demand, we will continue to pursue value-adding organic 
growth, plus targeted small to medium sized acquisitions.
 Read more on page 18 Read more on page 19 Read more on page 20
Aluminium
We are a global leader in the aluminium 
industry. Our closely integrated facilities 
include high quality bauxite mines and 
alumina refineries, as well as some of the 
world’s lowest cost primary aluminium 
smelters. 
Copper
With diverse assets and leading technology, our 
Copper group is uniquely positioned to supply 
growing global demand. In 2010, we produced 
678 thousand tonnes of copper, making us the 
world’s fifth largest supplier. We also produced 
772 thousand ounces of gold and 13 thousand 
tonnes of molybdenum as by-products of our 
copper operations. 
Diamonds & Minerals
The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises 
mining, refining and marketing operations 
across three sectors. Rio Tinto Diamonds is one 
of the world’s leading diamond producers, active 
in mining and sales and marketing. Rio Tinto 
Minerals is a world leader in borates and talc, 
with mines, processing plants, commercial and 
research facilities. Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is an 
industry leader in high grade titanium dioxide.
Products
Bauxite, alumina, aluminium
Products
Copper, gold, molybdenum, silver, nickel
Products
Diamonds, borates, titanium dioxide feedstocks, 
talc, high purity iron, metal powders, zircon, rutile
Underlying earnings 
(a)
% of Group total
6
%
Underlying earnings
 (a)
% of Group total
18
%
Underlying earnings 
(a)
% of Group total
2
%
(a) Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 107 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other items and Net interest. Group overview
18
18
www.riotinto.com 3
 Read more on page 21 Read more on page 22
Energy
We are a leading supplier of thermal and coking 
coal to the Asian seaborne market and are one 
of the world’s largest uranium producers, serving 
electric power utilities worldwide. Our Energy 
portfolio includes: Rio Tinto Coal Australia; a 
coal mine at Colowyo in Colorado, US; Energy 
Resources of Australia, which produces uranium 
oxide from its Ranger operation; and Rössing, a 
Namibian uranium oxide producer.
Iron Ore
We are the second largest producer supplying the 
global seaborne iron ore trade. After a decade 
of dramatic expansion in Australia, and more 
recent growth in both Australia and Canada, we 
believe we are well positioned to benefit from 
the continuing demand surge in China and 
other Asian markets. We are driving performance 
through effective project management and 
enhanced operational efficiency.
Exploration
Exploration is one of the Group’s core activities 
– largely paying for itself through the sale of 
non core discoveries.
Potential Tier 1 discoveries are retained for 
development and operation. These have 
included two of the largest copper opportunities 
in the world at Resolution in Arizona, US and 
La Granja in Peru. Exploration has also 
delivered one of the world’s largest known 
undeveloped high grade iron ore deposits, at 
Simandou in Guinea, as well as the 
Caliwingina channel iron deposits in the 
Pilbara, Australia.
 Read more on page 23
Technology & Innovation
Our centralised team of specialists focuses on 
improving current technologies and operations, 
with emphasis on project development, 
execution and evaluation. The Group’s 
Innovation Centre concentrates on step changes 
that will give us competitive advantages in 
developing the orebodies of the future. A special 
Energy & Climate Strategy Centre is dedicated to 
improving the Group’s use of energy, reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and understanding 
the effects of climate change on our operations  
and prospects. 
 Read more on page 23
Products
Thermal coal, coking coal, uranium
Products
Iron ore, salt
  Countries with operations and/or projects
Underlying earnings
 (a)
% of Group total
8
%
Underlying earnings
 (a)
% of Group total
73
%
 
 
21
%
of sales by destination 
to North and  
South America 
19
%
of sales by destination 
to Europe, Middle East 
and Africa
28
%
of sales by destination 
to China
32
%
of sales by destination 
to elsewhere in Asia 
and Australia 4 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Chairman’s message
A year of record results
Our commitment to operational excellence has  
seen us capitalise on improved conditions in the  
external environment.
2010 was an outstanding year for Rio Tinto. 
Having stabilised and strengthened the 
Group in the wake of the global financial 
crisis, we can now concentrate on delivering 
operational excellence.
This is central to Rio Tinto accomplishing 
its vision of global sector leadership. By 
continuing to aspire to this vision, we are 
now well placed to take advantage of the 
opportunities created by the improved 
business environment.
Rio Tinto’s people have been key to our 
success in 2010. For example, by working our 
assets at, or above, normal capacity, they set  
a new record in the annual production of  
iron ore. At the same time they improved  
our safety performance.
Efficient capital management
We believe that long term creation of 
shareholder value requires a balanced 
approach to investing in growth and  
returning excess capital to shareholders,  
while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Our confidence, both in our own portfolio 
and in future demand for our products, has 
allowed us to increase our annual dividend 
by 20 per cent compared with our previous 
commitment. We are also proceeding with a 
US$5 billion share buy-back, which we intend 
to complete by the end of 2012, subject to 
market conditions.
Improved global economy
Fiscal and monetary stimulus by governments 
has gradually stabilised major economies and 
revived trade from the low point of the global 
crisis. In particular, China’s annual growth 
rebounded from an annual rate of nearly six 
per cent in 2009 to over ten per cent in 2010.
While we anticipate continuing volatility 
in our markets, we have the strength and 
ability to grow through changeable times. 
Our stronger balance sheet has positioned us 
to take advantage of this recovery. We  have 
sharpened our focus on organic growth, and 
for 2011, capital expenditure is set to increase 
to US$13 billion.
Improving markets create new challenges: 
we face increased competition for skilled and 
talented people, not only from new players 
attracted to our sector, but also from other 
expanding sectors such as oil and gas.  
We also need to address the growing 
technical demands imposed on us in finding 
and developing increasingly remote and 
complex orebodies.
Sustainable development
Our access to the right people, as well as 
to capital and resources, is determined by 
our values and our reputation. Maintaining 
our leadership in sustainable development 
and building our reputation allows us to 
constantly renew our licence to operate. Being 
a responsible employer, neighbour, partner 
and citizen is integral to what we do today, 
contributes to our legacy and helps build all of 
our futures.
For more than a decade we have been at the 
forefront of promoting and participating in 
sustainable development. This is recognised 
by our continued listing on FTSE4Good, the 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and the  
Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
Our record and reputation allow us to 
align with organisations that lead the way 
in sustainable development. In 2010, we 
formed a three year partnership with the 
International Union for Conservation of 
Nature. We will share knowledge and best 
practice with our partners to develop and 
deliver sustainable benefits to the people  
and places where we work.
Dividends
108.00
(2009: 45.00)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
85.07
111.23 111.22
45.00
108.00
US cents www.riotinto.com 5
Governance and risk
Rio Tinto’s board oversees the Group’s 
management in maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance. 
These standards are underpinned by the 
ethical guidance in Rio Tinto’s global code 
of conduct, The way we work, through the 
application of best practice and by continually 
striving for excellence so as to create value for 
our shareholders. 
Management also has the board’s support in 
delivering sustained operational excellence. 
The Group actively encourages the pursuit  
of opportunities whether they are likely to 
arise through organic growth or prudent 
corporate activity.
The board recognises that risk is an integral 
and unavoidable part of doing business. 
While risk carries threats, it also offers 
opportunities. Our risk management 
processes are embedded in our Group,  
as they are vital for maintaining our 
competitive advantage.
Board succession planning is an essential 
component of effective corporate governance. 
In 2010, we strengthened our board through 
the appointment of two new non executive 
directors, Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown. 
We also saw two retirements from the board. 
Sir David Clementi, who was chairman of the 
Audit committee, stepped down in May, as did 
David Mayhew. In accordance with a provision 
of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, 
all of the directors will stand for re-election 
by shareholders annually with effect from the 
2011 annual general meetings. As previously 
indicated, Yves Fortier, formerly chairman 
of the board of Alcan Inc., and also Sir Rod 
Eddington will not be standing for re-election 
by shareholders in 2011. Each have made 
significant contributions to the board during 
their tenure with Rio Tinto and I would like 
to express my personal appreciation of the 
tremendous support they have given to me 
over the years.
Meanwhile, Andrew Gould, Senior Independent 
Director and chairman of the Remuneration 
committee, has announced that he will be 
leaving the board at the conclusion of the 2012 
annual general meetings.
On behalf of the board, I continue to lead 
the succession and routine refreshment of 
directors to ensure the most appropriate 
balance of skills and experience, and to drive 
effective decision making.
Outlook
Urbanisation and industrialisation in 
populous parts of the world will continue 
to drive increasing demand for metals and 
minerals. Although long term fundamentals 
for growth are strong, there are downside risks 
in the short term, and potential for medium 
term volatility due to persistent economic 
imbalances. Financial systems remain fragile, 
particularly in OECD countries. The increase 
in sovereign debt and government action to 
tackle fiscal imbalances are likely to temper  
short term growth.
We will continue to factor the potential for 
these conditions into the Group’s plans and  
to enhance our capabilities to predict demand 
and understand our markets.
Our people’s commitment
It is inspiring to see the way our global team 
of people works together and strives for 
ways to improve our collective performance. 
Throughout the year, their commitment, 
talent and integrity have led to the delivery  
of remarkable results.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank 
all of our people for their hard work during 
the past year. Our thanks also go to our 
shareholders, whose continued support of  
Rio Tinto has helped us achieve record levels 
of performance in 2010.
Jan du Plessis, chairman
“ The long term creation of shareholder 
value requires a balanced approach to 
investing and returning excess capital.”
Share buy-back by the end of 2012
US$
5
bn
Jan du Plessis 6 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Chief executive’s message
Strong momentum and 
value adding growth
From a position of increased strength and with growth firmly  
on our agenda, we are making significant progress towards  
our vision of global sector leadership.
Our achievements in 2010 owe much to 
the consistency with which we pursue our 
strategy – investing in and operating large,  
long term, cost competitive mines and assets 
driven not by choice of commodity, but by  
the quality of each opportunity.
The Group’s performance is a testament to  
our focus on creating shareholder value in  
the long term.
2010 objectives
To support this strategy, in 2010 we focused 
the business on five short term priorities: 
operational delivery, prudent balance sheet 
management, growth, strengthening of our 
relationship with China and completing 
the proposed Western Australian iron ore 
production joint venture.
Credit for significant progress being made in 
almost all of these areas is due to the 77,000 
employees who work for Rio Tinto across the 
world. I would like to thank them for their 
ongoing commitment.
Over the course of the year our financial 
strength has improved, our flexibility has 
increased and our options have expanded.  
This has been achieved through the 
combination of progress of our divestment 
programme, the efficiencies arising from 
business transformation and record annual 
production of iron ore at a time of improved 
market conditions. During 2010, these 
conditions enabled us to approve US$11 billion 
of investment in major capital projects. Growth 
is firmly on our agenda.
In 2010, our focus on operational efficiency 
and risk management increased. We 
placed particular emphasis on continuous 
improvement and compliance. In this regard 
achieving safe, reliable and injury and illness 
free operations is our number one priority.  
We are proud to have improved our safety 
record with an 18 per cent decrease in the  
all injury frequency rate. 
However, I must record with sorrow the 
deaths of three people in our managed 
facilities in the course of the year. As a result 
of these tragedies we have increased our focus 
on process and contractor safety. We remain 
wholly committed to safety in the workplace. 
Our goal is zero harm in all our operations.
In 2010, we made significant progress in 
developing stronger ties with China. We signed 
a joint venture agreement with Chalco, for 
development and operation of the Simandou 
iron ore project in Guinea and continue to have 
discussions with the Government of Guinea. At 
the end of the year, we signed a memorandum 
of understanding with Chinalco to establish a 
landmark exploration joint venture in China. 
We also agreed to extend our Channar Mining 
joint venture in the Pilbara with our partner 
Sinosteel Corporation.
In the course of the year we terminated 
the employment of four Shanghai based 
employees who were convicted of receiving 
bribes and obtaining commercial secrets, in 
violation of the Group’s strong ethical culture 
and Chinese law. An independent review 
concluded their activities were conducted 
entirely outside the Group’s systems. 
We were disappointed that we were unable 
to reach mutually acceptable terms with the 
regulators to form the proposed Western 
Australian iron ore production joint 
venture with BHP Billiton, but we respect 
their decisions. We remain focused on the 
expansion of our iron ore business in the 
Pilbara by over 50 per cent. 
Strong sustainable development 
framework
Whatever we do, wherever we operate, 
sustainable development underpins our vision.
Our sector has become an increasing focus 
for governments and other stakeholders. 
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
0.66
(2009: 0.81)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
0.95
1.21
 Including former Alcan www.riotinto.com 7
Tom Albanese
“ Confidence in the Group’s  
existing business and the outlook  
for our markets allowed us to  
grow organically.”
Major capital approvals in 2010
US$
11
bn
But the Group’s commitment to sustainable 
development means proactive leadership 
and effective management can create new 
opportunities and strong relationships with 
all our stakeholders.
We can turn this area of challenge and 
complexity into a source of competitive 
advantage. Our approach to sustainable 
development gives governments confidence 
that we will develop resources in ways that 
will benefit their economies and communities 
and will protect their environments, so 
preserving options for future generations.
Sustainable development means engaging 
with communities around our activities and 
providing clear economic benefits to them. 
This is crucial in maintaining and extending 
our ability to do business – securing our 
licence to operate. It allows us to plan, 
implement and deliver contributions to social 
wellbeing, environmental stewardship and 
economic prosperity all within our strong 
governance systems.
We continue to care for the safety and 
health of our people as well as engage 
with surrounding communities and show 
leadership in global issues vital to the future 
of the world’s environment such as carbon, 
water use and biodiversity.
Well placed to meet rising demand
Our short term outlook for global growth 
justifies caution. Whilst we are positive about 
the long term prospects, we cannot rule out 
periods of volatility as the world addresses 
persistent economic imbalances.
Governments’ fiscal and monetary stimulus 
initiatives helped the recovery of prices and 
a resumption of normal trade. However, fading 
benefits of the stimuli can be expected to  
slow momentum.
In the longer term we believe fundamentals 
are strong. Globally, we expect GDP growth 
in 2011 to continue at broadly healthy levels 
of around 4.5 per cent. Our strategy means 
we are well placed to meet the rising demand 
from China and other emerging economies.
Achieving our vision
Confidence in the Group’s existing business 
and the outlook for our markets allowed us to 
grow organically. Success is borne out by the 
announcement of new investments of US$11 
billion in 2010. This significantly enhances 
our global presence in key operational areas.
Several projects stand out: our iron ore 
expansion plans in the Pilbara; our increased 
stake in the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project; 
and progress towards modernising and 
expanding our Canadian aluminium portfolio. 
At the end of the year we announced a 
recommended offer for Riversdale Mining 
Limited, which, if successful, would provide 
us with a substantial Tier 1 coking coal 
development pipeline in Mozambique. It is 
an example of the small to medium sized 
acquisitions that we are also focused on.
The people who make it all happen
Rio Tinto wishes to add to the diversity of its 
workforce, which increasingly mirrors our 
customer base and our geographic footprint. 
We face competitive labour markets, but 
our aim to make Rio Tinto the employer 
of choice is underwritten by offering 
employees opportunities for personal and 
professional development.
I wish to thank our shareholders, my 
leadership team and our employees. It has 
been a year of exceptional performance and 
momentum, which was truly a team effort.  
I am looking forward to building on this 
success in 2011.
In a world of growing commodity demand 
and increasing sustainable development 
challenges I believe Rio Tinto will set itself 
apart through its leadership in operational 
delivery, exploration, technology and 
innovation and sustainable development  
to become the preferred industry partner  
and developer.
Tom Albanese, chief executive 8 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
In 2010, our record earnings and cash flows 
allowed us to further strengthen our balance 
sheet. This has paved the way for investment 
in high quality growth and an increased 
dividend at the same time as returning  
US$5 billion to shareholders.
Record financial performance
Robust commodity prices and strong 
operational performance allowed us to 
deliver record underlying earnings in 2010. 
At US$14.0 billion underlying earnings 
were 122 per cent higher than 2009. Record 
cash flows from operations of US$23.5 
billion demonstrated the exceptional cash 
generation capabilities of our high quality, cost 
competitive, long term, large scale Tier 1 assets.
Global economic recovery meant that we 
began to face cost pressures. However, we 
are addressing these with productivity 
improvements, effective procurement and 
operating efficiencies.
Balance sheet strength
Since the beginning of 2008 we have realised 
over US$11 billion from the sale of non core 
assets. Coupled with strong cash flows from 
operations we have reduced our net debt to 
US$4.3 billion at the end of 2010. 
This prudent approach to managing the balance 
sheet is in line with our strategy to achieve a 
single A credit rating.
Investing in organic growth
A strong balance sheet will allow Rio Tinto 
to invest in our first class growth projects 
and to take advantage of value-creating 
opportunities. In 2010, we began to  
reinvigorate our exploration and evaluation 
programmes to develop the next generation  
of Tier 1 assets supporting Rio Tinto’s  
pipeline of high quality organic projects.
While these will allow for sustainable, long 
term growth, we will continue to look for 
innovative joint ventures and investments  
to gain entry to Tier 1 assets.
Capital expenditure in 2010 was US$4.6 
billion. We approved US$11 billion of new 
major projects during 2010, including the 
expansion of our iron ore operations in 
Australia and Canada, and the modernisation 
and expansion of our aluminium smelting 
capacity. We expect capital expenditure to 
reach approximately US$13 billion in 2011.
The business environment
Our outlook is for strong underlying 
growth for our products in urbanising and 
industrialising markets like India and China. 
Our strong balance sheet positions us to 
withstand volatility that may arise from 
imbalances in the global economy.
Australia’s proposed Mineral Resource Rent 
Tax highlighted that resource nationalism 
is now on the political agenda in many 
countries. Rio Tinto is committed to working 
constructively with host governments to 
ensure that tax policy does not create  
a hostile environment for investment.
The return of capital to shareholders
We were pleased to announce a final dividend 
of 63 US cents per share. The total dividend 
in respect of 2010 was 108 US cents per 
share, 20 per cent higher than the dividend 
commitment we made to shareholders at the 
time of the rights issues in June 2009.
This will form the basis of a progressive 
dividend policy, so that the US dollar value  
of ordinary dividends will increase over time. 
We recognise that during times of high 
cash generation a progressive dividend 
policy alone will not return excess cash to 
shareholders. Therefore, we are undertaking  
a US$5 billion share buy-back programme 
over 2011 and 2012, subject to market 
conditions. This commitment will still leave 
us with the flexibility to make significant 
investments in our business and remain 
committed to a single A credit rating.
Rio Tinto’s established strategy, financial 
discipline and leadership in project execution 
all mean that we are well positioned to 
continue creating sustainable growth in 
shareholder value over the coming decades.
 
Guy Elliott, chief financial officer
Guy Elliott
Chief financial officer’s message
Creating shareholder value
“ A strong balance sheet will 
allow us to take advantage of 
value-creating opportunities.” 
Record underlying earnings 
in 2010
US$
14
bn www.riotinto.com 9 www.riotinto.com 9
The way we work
  Read our report on corporate governance online www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Our global code 
of conduct
Governance
Innovative thinking combined with business experience 
Rio Tinto’s board of directors is responsible for the Group’s success 
and is accountable to shareholders for our performance. Its 
members contribute a balance of innovative thinking with business 
knowledge and experience. 
The board operates four principal committees, each playing a vital 
role in underpinning how we work. To ensure their relevance and 
continuing adherence to best practice, the committees 
annually review their terms of reference. 
Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of 
its business, and that it is characterised by both threat and 
opportunity. Through skilled application of high quality, integrated 
risk analysis and management, we enhance opportunities and 
reduce threats, and so achieve and maintain competitive advantage.
Our Risk standard guides the process by providing an overall methodology 
and structure for the handling of risk within the organisation. The Group 
seeks to provide the board and senior management with a consistent, 
Group wide perspective of the key risks.
Values
The essence of who we are 
Our reputation stems from our 
four core values, which define 
the essence of who we are and 
who we will be: accountability, 
respect, teamwork and integrity.
Accountability is about taking 
ownership of our performance 
and decisions, and the impact they 
have on the business. We demonstrate 
respect through our approach to sustainable 
development, and by recognising our people’s 
contribution to the business. By working as a team, we 
can focus our collective efforts on where they deliver the best 
outcome for the Group. Finally, we work with integrity, treating 
all our stakeholders with fairness, honesty and openness.
Sustainable development
Key to our licence  
to operate 
Sustainable development  
is good business as well  
as good sense. 
Our continuing financial  
success depends on our ability 
to gain access to the land, people 
and capital we need. To do that, we 
put our economic, social, environmental 
and technical expertise to work to harness 
these resources. Our strong governance systems 
ensure that we manage our business with openness 
and accountability. This process creates prosperity that is shared 
among shareholders, employees, communities, governments and 
business partners. 
e work. To ensure their relevance and 
t practice, the committees
of reference.
Group wide perspective of the key r
Va
Th
Ou
fou
the
who
resp
Accou
ownersh
and decisio
have on the b
respect through o
development, and by 
contribution to the business. 
flliff
nt
ty 
ople 
hat, we 
vironmental
ork to harness 
governance systems 
business with openness 
hh d
Governance
Sustainable development
Values
“ The way we work – our global code of conduct 
– defines how we manage the economic, 
social and environmental challenges of our 
operations. It is underpinned by our values, 
our approach to sustainable development, 
and by effective corporate governance.”
– Jan du Plessis  Group strategy
10 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Striving for global sector 
leadership
Vision Strategy
To become the sector leading global 
mining and metals company .
To invest in and operate large, long term, cost competitive 
mines and businesses, driven not by choice of commodity 
but rather by the quality of each opportunity .
Enabling growth
Rio Tinto’s major iron ore expansion 
project in the Pilbara, Western 
Australia will more than double the 
capacity of the Cape Lambert port. www.riotinto.com 11
As we work to achieve our vision, we will maximise shareholder return by sustainably 
finding, developing, mining and processing natural resources. We will do this through 
a strategy of investing in and operating large, long term, cost competitive mines and 
businesses, driven not by choice of commodity but by the quality of each opportunity .
Strategic drivers Key performance indicators
Five strategic drivers are helping 
us deliver our strategy and achieve 
our vision.
Achievement of our strategy and goals is measured by a mixture of 
financial and non financial performance indicators, some of which 
are linked to executive remuneration.
Financial and operational excellence
 Operating large, long term, cost 
competitive, scaleable assets
 Achieving further productivity, efficiency 
and cost improvements
 Maintaining a strong balance sheet
 Preserving and creating options
 Causing zero harm
Licence to operate
 Being the partner of choice for 
governments, communities and  
other stakeholders
 Making sustainable development integral  
to everything we do
 Maintaining integrity and high standards of 
corporate governance
Growth
 Obtain and grow Tier 1 assets
 Investing for organic growth
 Being constantly aware of customers’ 
changing requirements
 Leadership in project development  
and implementation
Globalising the business
 Achieving global sector leadership
 Maintaining reputation to access people, 
capital and resources
 Embracing diversit y
 Turning challenges and complexity into 
competitive advantage
Technology and innovation
 Achieving productivity gains through 
innovative technologies
 Applying technology to sustainable 
development
 Finding new ways to do old things better, 
cheaper and safer
 Expanding access to technology
All injury frequency rate
Per 200,000 hours worked
 Including former Alcan
 Including former Alcan
US$ millions
  Dividends from equity 
accounted units 
Cash flows from consolidated 
operations
Underlying earnings 
Operating cash flows 
US$ millions
 
US$ millions
Net debt
US$ millions
Capital expenditure 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
1.09
0.81
0.66
0.95
1.21
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Total shareholder return
%
GHG emissions intensity
Indexed relative 
to 2008
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
7,338 7,443
6,298
13,987
10,303
9,196
10,923
10,805
12,569
13,224
13,834
22,126
23,530
19,195
20,668
2,437
45,191
18,861
4,284
38,672
3,988
4,968
5,356
4,553
8,488
7.4
92.8
172.8
32.6
(71.5)
110.9
92.5
96.3
100.0
110.2
111.3 Delivering our strategy
12 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Adding value across  
the cycle
Bunder project, diamonds, India
The Bunder project, in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, is  
Rio Tinto’s most advanced diamond project. Rio Tinto discovered 
a cluster of eight diamondiferous pipes in 2004 as part of 
a regional exploration reconnaissance programme which 
commenced in 2002. The Bunder deposit is the most important 
diamond discovery in India for many decades and one of only 
four new diamond mines likely to become functional globally in 
the next ten years. An Order of Magnitude study was completed 
in 2009 and a sample processing plant constructed the same  
year to further evaluate the nature of production. In 2010 a  
pre-feasibility study began, and the Government of Madhya 
Pradesh signed a State Support Agreement with us as further 
endorsement of the project. 
Oyu Tolgoi, copper-gold, Mongolia
When Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolia’s South Gobi Desert, reaches full 
production in 2018, it will be a top ten copper producer and 
one of the world’s biggest gold producers. Rio Tinto signed an 
agreement with Ivanhoe Mines in December 2010, under which 
we have assumed direct management of the project. In February 
2011, Rio Tinto also increased its ownership of Ivanhoe Mines 
to 42.1 per cent. The transition of management of Oyu Tolgoi to 
Rio Tinto has officially started, with a vision to safely deliver on 
schedule and on budget, and to be firmly aligned with Rio Tinto’s 
strategy, values and standards for excellence. In addition, we will 
fully deliver on the commitment to employ approximately 90 
per cent of the project’s workforce from Mongolia – representing 
around 3,000 to 4,000 direct jobs, including contractors. There 
are currently 6,000 people working at Oyu Tolgoi during its 
construction phase.
Explore and evaluate
The orebodies for which we explore are increasingly remote 
and complex. We seek large, long term, cost competitive assets 
that we select not by choice of commodity, but by the quality 
of each opportunity.  In this way we can maximise their value 
to shareholders and other stakeholders as well as contribute 
to sustainable development in the wider community. We also 
consider growth through other business combinations, for example 
acquisitions and joint ventures.
Develop
Rio Tinto develops and manages its assets to the highest industry 
standards: we support investment in health, education, jobs and 
other important economic benefits for the communities in which 
they are located. We also provide the essential resources that the 
global economy needs to grow and prosper.
Investing www.riotinto.com 13
We create and preserve value through investing in and operating 
large scale, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses. The 
nature of our business means that an orebody may last for many 
decades. Throughout the life of an orebody, from initial exploration to 
final closure and restoration, we commit to the highest standards of 
sustainable development.
The Pilbara, iron ore, Australia
Rio Tinto’s operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia 
make us the leading iron ore supplier close to the world’s 
largest, fastest growing markets. We have made a series of major 
announcements relating to the expansion of the Pilbara rail and 
port infrastructure to 283 million tonnes per year. Feasibility 
studies into further expansion to 333 million tonnes a year are 
well under way, as the Group intends to expand capacity here 
by more than 50 per cent over the next five years in what we 
believe is the lowest risk, highest return major iron ore project 
in Australia. The expansion will more than double capacity at 
the Cape Lambert port facility. During 2010, Rio Tinto announced 
US$5.6 billion of investment in the Pilbara expansion programme 
(100 per cent basis). 
Barneys Canyon, gold, US
Rio Tinto mined gold at Barneys Canyon until 2001. The waste 
rock dumps in Utah’s Oquirrh Mountains have since been 
successfully rehabilitated into prime habitat for elk and deer, 
thickly covered with grasses, wildflowers and shrubs. Waste rock 
dumps spanning nearly 230 hectares have been recontoured into 
natural landforms and revegetated. Secure repositories with thick 
vegetated covers were also created on 16 hectares of restored land 
to contain the five per cent of waste rock that could have posed a 
risk to vegetation or water quality because of its sulphide content. 
As a result soils, water and vegetation in the area all meet 
applicable standards required to support healthy vegetation and 
wildlife. In 2004, Barneys Canyon received the Earth Day award 
from the State of Utah for excellence in mine rehabilitation.
Operate
The first principle for Rio Tinto is “zero harm” – maintaining 
operational excellence in order to keep the workplace safe. 
Operational excellence is also at the heart of our vision to achieve 
global leadership in our sector – investing for growth, optimising 
productivity, maintaining integrity and high standards of corporate 
governance so we constantly maintain our licence to operate.
Close down and restore
At the end of the life of a resource Rio Tinto has an imperative to 
carefully wind down operations, remove our infrastructure, close 
our mines and processes and to monitor sites. Being a responsible 
employer, neighbour, partner and citizen is integral to what we do 
today, contributes to our legacy and helps build our future.
Operating 14 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Sustainable development
Central to the  
way we work
Our approach to sustainable development creates competitive 
advantage. It helps us deliver better returns for our shareholders, 
manage risk effectively, reduce environmental impacts, cut 
operating costs, attract high calibre employees and provide  
more business opportunities. www.riotinto.com 15
 www.riotinto.com/ourapproach
Every year, we report on our sustainable development performance through 
a number of channels. In addition to the summary of our performance and 
sustainable development highlights in our Annual report, we publish sustainable 
development programme information, progress against our goals and targets and 
performance data online. We also report under other voluntary commitments such 
as the Global Reporting Initiative and the Carbon Disclosure Project. 
Integral to how we operate
In 1998, we took a leadership role in the 
creation of the Global Mining Initiative, an 
industry programme that, ahead of most sectors, 
identified how mining can make a positive 
contribution to sustainable development.
Since then our commitment to contributing to 
sustainable development has become integral 
to delivering our business strategy; it is the 
standard on which Rio Tinto is judged – by 
governments, employees and communities.
Over the years, the backdrop against which 
we work has changed. The industry has been 
transformed by strong demand for metals 
and minerals from China, India and others. 
Expanding to meet that public demand 
has drawn the spotlight: on our role, our 
contribution and our impact. 
The minerals and metals produced at our 
operations contribute to society’s needs, 
delivering financial dividends for our 
shareholders, paying wages and salaries for 
our employees, and creating wealth to support 
community infrastructure, health care, 
employment and education. Our activities also 
provide the means and opportunity to develop 
new approaches to the environmental and 
human development challenges confronting 
society, such as climate change and poverty.
We also recognise that, if not managed 
appropriately, some aspects of our activities 
have the ability to detract from sustainable 
development, such as options for the future 
use of water and land, impacts on local 
communities, and greenhouse gas emissions 
from our operations and the use of our products.
The extended timeframes associated with the 
life of our operations from exploration, through 
development and operation to closure provide 
us with opportunities to plan, implement and 
deliver sustainable contributions to social 
wellbeing, environmental stewardship and  
economic prosperity, within our strong 
governance systems.
Our continued licence to operate is subject to 
the ever increasing expectations of society. 
We therefore developed and implemented 
a structured framework to ensure that we 
meet our goal of contributing to the global 
transition to sustainable development. This 
framework contains the “must have” building 
blocks, which must all work together to  
achieve leading performance and effectively  
manage risk.
Sound governance and high standards of 
conduct are sources of competitive advantage 
for us. Our global code of business conduct, 
The way we work, reinforces our commitment 
to integrate sustainable development thinking 
in the way we make decisions about finding, 
acquiring, developing, and operating assets 
around the world. 
This approach begins with our corporate 
policies, which are supported by strategies 
and standards that lay down the minimum 
acceptable requirements for behaviour or 
operating conditions, wherever we operate. 
Our policies are also supported by a range 
of leadership tools and accountabilities to 
ensure appropriate implementation across 
the Group. We monitor and report against our 
performance using established indicators and 
metrics with a suite of Group wide goals and 
targets. Increasingly we are also using leading 
performance indicators such as significant 
potential incidents to focus our programmes 
on mitigating the potential impacts of our 
activities. These metrics also form part of 
our remuneration.
By communicating and raising awareness  
of our approach to our internal and external 
stakeholders, we are embedding a sustainable 
development culture that touches every part  
of our organisation.
In 2010, we initiated a review of our 
sustainable development strategy which 
will allow us to reassess the effects of these 
changes and refresh our approach to ensure it 
remains focused on the social, environmental, 
economic and governance factors most 
relevant to creating shareholder value and 
meeting stakeholder needs.
The steps we have taken in the course of the 
year not only reconfirm our commitment to 
sustainable development. They are part of the 
continuing process to renew and maintain the 
leadership that Rio Tinto sees as integral in 
moving the Group towards its vision of global 
sector leadership.
Targets
Achieve 
leading 
performance
Effectively 
manage risks
Indicators & metrics
Monitoring & reporting
Management systems
Leadership & accountability
Strategies & standards
Policies
The way we work
Sustainable development framework 16 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Sustainable development continued
Goals and targets Trend Progress to date
Our safety goal is zero injuries and zero fatalities. 
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency rate (AIFR) 
per 200,000 hours worked.
18 per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate compared 
with 2009.  
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational 
illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013.
56 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational 
illness compared with 2008.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 10,000 
employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 
decibels between 2008 and 2013.
0.3 per cent increase in the rate of employees potentially exposed 
to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels compared 
with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 
between 2008 and 2013. We are also targeting a further four per cent 
reduction by 2015, to deliver an overall ten per cent reduction.
3.7 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions 
intensity compared with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne of product 
between 2008 and 2013.
2.3 per cent increase in our freshwater use per tonne of product 
compared with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements 
that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting:
 Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management  
by 2015.
 Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from 
regions where we are developing new businesses.
 
 Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management  
in 2010.
 Women represented 27 per cent of our 2010 graduate intake. 
 Eight per cent of our 2010 graduate intake were nationals from 
regions where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly reported 
social performance indicators that demonstrate a positive 
contribution to the economic development of the communities 
and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium 
Development Goals, by 2013.
We collected data for the first time in 2010.
20 per cent of our operations had locally appropriate, publicly 
reported social performance indicators in place in 2010.
 Improving performance Declining performance New target
Key priorities 
 Refresh our approach to sustainable development 
to ensure it remains focused on the social, 
environmental, economic and governance risks 
most relevant to delivering our business strategy .
 Continue to reduce incident and injury rates 
toward our goal of zero.
 Identify and prioritise management of emerging 
health risks. 
 Improve the diversity of our workforce.
 Maintain our energy use and greenhouse gas 
emission reduction programmes.
 Realise the potential for carbon, water and 
biodiversity offsets on our non operational 
landholdings.
Key achievements 
 Our all injury frequency rate continued to 
improve, with an 18 per cent reduction achieved 
in 2010.
 Sixty seven per cent of the electricity we used 
in 2010 was from low carbon sources, mainly 
hydroelectricity.
 We remained the largest private sector employer 
of indigenous Australians.
 We entered into formal partnerships with the 
International Union for Conservation of Nature 
and the Danish Institute of Human Rights.
 We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and Carbon 
Disclosure Leadership Index.  www.riotinto.com 17
Life after death in Death Valley
How preserving our history has benefited generations of visitors to a spectacular wilderness
Rio Tinto’s borate business first started 
mining in California’s Death Valley in the 
1880s. When activity ceased in 1927 – after 
the present mine in Boron was discovered 
– the area’s future could have looked as 
bleak as the surrounding desert. But in the 
intervening years, company leaders had set 
about preserving that wilderness. In 1916, 
they helped write the language that was 
adopted by Congress to establish the National 
Park Service. Their successors donated 
land holdings to the Federal Government 
and lobbied to have the area protected as 
a National Monument in 1933, and as a 
National Park in 1994. The company not 
only protected the land, it also played a part 
in broadening awareness of this singular 
ecosystem by transforming old mining  
camps into hotels and developing radio and 
television shows based on true stories of the 
region. Rio Tinto is now giving additional 
acreage to the Park along with its associated 
mineral rights, providing the nearly one 
million people who visit the largest Park  
in the US every year even more to explore.
Zero harm culture
In its determination to achieve zero harm, Rio Tinto is encouraging individual sites to  
adopt an innovative way to promote a culture of safety .
The Site Safety Acceleration Process (SSAP), 
introduced in 2010, aims to speed up the pursuit 
of zero harm by helping sites understand and 
address barriers to its achievement.
Sites volunteering to implement SSAP are 
supported in their motivation by global 
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities 
(HSEC). They design, develop and implement 
safety improvements and, crucially, align the 
leadership team to commit to “doing what it 
takes” to achieve zero harm.
In embracing SSAP, site leaders shortlist 
challenges that, if addressed, will underpin 
safety improvements. By identifying strategic 
safety themes, SSAP supports development of 
plans to accelerate the journey to zero harm.
Applied at five pilot sites in the course 
of the year, SSAP is already promoting 
understanding of the leadership, behavioural 
and cultural aspects of safety performance 
and thus becoming part of employees’  
day-to-day thinking about zero harm.
  Visit www.riotinto.com/ourapproach for more case studies 18 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Aluminium
Transformation, modernisation and expansion
Our high quality bauxite mines and alumina 
refineries, state of the art technologies, clean  
and renewable energy assets and low cost  
aluminium smelters make us a global leader  
in the aluminium industry .
Jacynthe Côté, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 15,206 12,038
Operating cash flow 1,334 549
Underlying earnings 773 (560)
Capital expenditure 1,328 1,690
Net operating assets 38,326 36,340
Strategy
 The second phase of transformation will target incremental EBITDA 
improvement of US$1 billion by 2014.
 Leverage the group’s robust growth pipeline with a priority on 
modernising and expanding existing Tier 1 assets; lower costs  
of existing facilities; and progress the development of greenfield 
options at a pace aligned with market demand.
 Be long in bauxite and alumina, providing strong growth potential, 
particularly in the Asian region.
Key achievements
 Increase of US$1,333 million in underlying earnings from 2009.
 Value added aluminium product sales volumes increased to  
65 per cent of total sales.
 Bauxite production up by nine per cent over 2009 mainly in response 
to increased production at Weipa in Australia to meet the demands  
of the growing Chinese market.
 Alumina production up by three per cent on 2009 due to improved 
production at Yarwun in Australia, ramp up at Alumar in Brazil, and 
restarting idled capacity at Vaudreuil in Canada.
 Construction at the Yarwun expansion project has been accelerated 
and the completed co-generation plant and ship unloader handed over 
to operations.
 ISAL aluminium smelter won Rio Tinto’s top safety award with 4.7 
million work hours without a lost time injury as at December 2010.
Key priorities
 Proceed with cost efficiencies, capacity creep and step change 
improvement through strategic capital investment; includes phase one 
of the AP60 plant in Canada and the ISAL expansion in Iceland.
 Continue steps towards optimising the group’s asset portfolio; progress 
with Kitimat aluminium smelter modernisation in Canada and 
Yarwun refinery expansion.
 Capitalise on our value added product capabilities and optimise our 
casting portfolio to serve customers in all key regions.
 Prioritise power sources with the lowest carbon footprint and 
improving energy efficiency.
 Create value from AP Technology™ via increased technology sales, 
faster operational improvements and lower full economic costs on 
new projects.
Outlook
 Favourable position to leverage strong demand from emerging 
economies and seize opportunities across the aluminium value chain 
as the industry continues its recovery.
 Alumina pricing mechanisms are developing and as liquidity builds, 
the group’s strategy of remaining long in bauxite and alumina will 
allow it to use various pricing alternatives.
 As aluminium markets continue to recover, the group is expected to 
benefit from stable energy sources, less linked to LME pricing than 
those of other large producers.
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
6%
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
1,281
(2,243)
773
155
(77)
160
(83)
1,178
(560)
60
387
(41)
(4) www.riotinto.com 19
Copper
Resource, optimise, grow
We believe Rio Tinto’s Copper group is 
uniquely positioned to supply growing global 
demand for copper, with a diverse, balanced 
asset base and industry leading technology 
and innovation that allows the Copper group 
to optimise its resources and grow.
Andrew Harding, chief executive, Copper
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 7,782 6,206
Operating cash flow 4,048 2,223
Underlying earnings 2,534 1,878
Capital expenditure 958 553
Net operating assets 6,663 5,187
Strategy
 Deliver shareholder value with a material increase in production in  
the medium term.
 Optimise our operating assets by delivering meaningful improvements 
in safety and productivity, championing various technologies and 
remaining a leader in sustainable development.
 Partner with local governments and communities to contribute  
to sustainable development.
 Develop strong leadership and diverse, high quality talent needed  
to deliver growth.
Key achievements
 Completed Northparkes E48 block cave project.
 Began process of updating environmental permits at Kennecott Utah 
Copper’s Bingham Canyon copper mine and extending its life to 2028 
while maintaining additional long term options.
 Launched construction of US$340 million Molybdenum Autoclave 
Process at Kennecott Utah Copper. 
 Progressed a number of underground projects at Grasberg, namely the 
Grasberg Block Cave and DMLZ (Deep Mill Level Zone) projects.
 Continued to develop Oyu Tolgoi, one of the most promising 
undeveloped copper-gold deposits in the world.
 Became the development and operating manager of Oyu Tolgoi  
and established a clear pathway to 49 per cent ownership in Ivanhoe 
Mines Limited. 
 Began construction of the Eagle nickel-copper project, which is 
expected to begin production in late 2013.
 Obtained tenure over Sulawesi nickel resources.
 Secured land contracts to advance drilling at the La Granja project. 
Key priorities
 Continue to improve safety performance with an emphasis on process 
safety and underground safety.
 Leverage industry leading technology and innovation to drive  
value-generating growth in every operation and shorten development 
for greenfield projects.
 Proactively advance application of key technologies that will drive 
value in Rio Tinto’s copper assets.
 Manage and provide support to the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project, 
with a focus on safety, resourcing and sustainable development.
 Keep the growth pipeline full of potential projects and opportunities.
 Ensure high quality resources are in place to deliver growth.
Outlook
 Solid fundamentals in the near to medium term.
 Growth in emerging economies, led by China and India, will drive 
increasing demand.
 Potential for supply side challenges linked to increased sovereign 
risk, higher operating costs, increasing depths, decreasing grades and 
project disruption.
 The Copper group’s asset base is resilient to volatile prices and has 
opportunities for development, while its growth pipeline is world class.
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
17%
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
1,615
(487)
2,534
(45)
(363)
(256)
(24)
1,344
1,878
(70)
304
556
(40) 20 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Diamonds & Minerals
Differentiation in the marketplace
The Diamonds & Minerals group is well 
positioned to benefit from late cycle demand 
growth in mature and emerging markets. 
Our businesses occupy strong positions in 
their respective sectors, combining high 
quality assets with technical expertise and 
a robust understanding of our markets and 
customers.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 3,035 2,618
Operating cash flow 510 528
Underlying earnings 328 800
Capital expenditure 300 519
Net operating assets 4,580 4,612
Strategy
 To maximise shareholder value by contributing material earnings to 
Rio Tinto and delivering better than comparable industry returns.
 To benefit from increasing demand for Diamonds & Minerals’ products 
by improving the efficiency of the group’s existing assets, building the 
growth projects in its pipeline and growing through value accretive 
acquisitions in existing and new sectors.
 To share best practices in safety and community engagement in order 
to maintain employer and developer of choice status across the six 
continents that constitute our operations base.
Key achievements
 Lowest all injury frequency rate among Rio Tinto product groups.
 Commenced underground ore production at the Diavik diamond mine.
 Gained approval and funding to complete the Argyle diamond mine 
underground project in Australia.
 Launched a pre-feasibility study for the Bunder diamond project, India. 
 Delivered flexibility and efficiency improvements through a new labour 
agreement at Rio Tinto Minerals’ Boron Operations in California.
 Received a binding offer in early 2011 from Imerys to acquire Rio Tinto’s 
talc business for an enterprise value of US$340 million. 
 Expanded deposit boundaries and identified additional sodium borate 
mineralisation at Jadar, a lithium and borates development project  
in Serbia.
 Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium increased titanium dioxide production by 21 
per cent compared to 2009 in response to improved market conditions.
 Achieved the first full year of production of ilmenite ore at QIT 
Madagascar Minerals (QMM).
 Progressed construction of the tailings treatment plant at  
Richards Bay Minerals ahead of start up in early 2011.
Key priorities
 Continue to strive for zero harm to people across all operations.
 Deliver material earnings and cash flow to Rio Tinto, and generate 
better than comparable industry returns.
 Differentiate Rio Tinto from other suppliers in Diamonds & Minerals’ 
markets by providing a reliable supply of high quality products, 
technical expertise and marketing support programmes.
 Ramp up to full production at QMM.
 Progress development projects to plan.
 Achieve incremental expansions at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane  
and Boron through efficiency and technology improvements.
 Identify and execute opportunities for inorganic growth.
Outlook
 Following recovery in 2010, the outlook for the product group’s 
markets is favourable, driven primarily by increased demand from 
emerging markets. 
 The medium to long term fundamentals for the diamond industry  
are positive.
 Demand growth offers opportunities across titanium dioxide and 
borates.
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
2%
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010 
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other 
(a)
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other 
(a)
2010
US$ million
474
(298)
328
(706)
(42)
138
(31)
169
800
805
88
(245)
(24)
(a) Includes US$797 million gain on the sale of potash assets in 2009. www.riotinto.com 21
Energy
Portfolio positioned to meet growing demand
Rio Tinto’s Energy group will meet strong 
future demand for energy and steel, and 
maximise shareholder return, through 
operating and growing its global coal and 
uranium portfolio.
Doug Ritchie, chief executive, Energy
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 5,652 4,869
Operating cash flow 2,463 2,069
Underlying earnings 1,187 1,167
Capital expenditure 685 510
Net operating assets 3,694 2,809
Strategy
 The Energy group is focused on safely supplying the world’s growing 
energy needs through the responsible and sustainable development 
and operation of large scale, long life, cost competitive assets.
 The group aims to be a sector leader in the development and operation 
of the world’s coal and uranium resources.
 The group seeks to build strong customer relationships and provide 
superior customer outcomes while earning significant premiums  
to the market. 
 The group is pursuing opportunities for growth to meet expanding 
global energy demand, while continuing to focus on operational 
excellence, community engagement and environmental performance 
to ensure it is the developer of first choice.
Key achievements
 Commissioning of the new Clermont mine in Queensland, an  
open cut thermal coal mine due to reach annual peak production  
of 12.2 million tonnes in 2013.
 Feasibility study started into the open cut thermal coal Mount  
Pleasant project. 
 Australian hard coking coal production increased by 20 per cent in 
2010 and set a new record of 2.4 million tonnes in the third quarter.
 A successful heap leach processing trial at Rössing, and finalising work 
on a proposed exploration decline at Energy Resources of Australia’s 
Ranger mine.
 Completion of a detailed study of global energy demand to support 
strategic decision making and growth planning. 
 Announced a recommended cash offer for Riversdale Mining 
Limited. If successful, this acquisition would provide Rio Tinto with a 
coking coal development pipeline in the emerging Moatize Basin in 
Mozambique, in line with our established strategy.
 Divestment of Rio Tinto’s remaining 48 per cent equity holding in 
Cloud Peak Energy Inc. (gross proceeds of US$573 million).
Key priorities
 Continued focus on operational excellence; in particular safety 
performance to achieve the group’s goal of zero harm. 
 Expanding and developing existing assets to meet the strong demand.
 Focusing on exploration and strategic acquisition and/or joint  
venture arrangements.
Outlook
 The world’s demand for energy and steel production is expected to 
grow strongly in coming decades, driven by increasing populations 
and industrialisation in large developing countries.
 The forecast growth in demand for coal over coming decades  
for both energy and steel production presents a significant opportunity 
to target expanding export markets, particularly  
in the Asia Pacific region.
 Global demand for uranium is expected to remain strong due to a 
desire for base load electricity generation with reduced greenhouse 
gases, as well as the need for energy security, diversity of supply and 
strong growth plans in China.
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
10%
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010
 
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
2,432
(729)
1,187
241
(177)
58
(28)
(74)
1,167
(528)
43
(20)
(31) 22 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Iron Ore
Performance, efficiency and robust outlook
Following a decade of dramatic expansion, 
we are well positioned to supply rising 
global iron ore demand through further 
capacity increases. We will continue to drive 
performance through leadership in project 
delivery and operational excellence.
Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia
Operating highlights
2010  
US$ million
2009  
US$ million
Revenue 24,024 12,598
Operating cash flow 15,915 7,389
Underlying earnings 10,189 4,126
Capital expenditure 1,716 2,148
Net operating assets 11,628 11,263
Strategy
 Continue to build the Pilbara operations as the leading iron ore 
supplier close to the world’s largest, fastest growing markets. 
 Focus on implementing a major expansion programme while 
maintaining maximum production. 
 Continue to develop and benefit from technology innovation to  
deliver supply chain efficiencies, maximising margins per tonne.
Key achievements
 Record global iron ore production of 239 million tonnes  
(Rio Tinto share 184.6 million tonnes), a ten per cent increase  
on 2009 global production. 
 Full ramp up of the Operations Centre in Perth, including transition  
of ports and new mines. 
 Opening of Brockman 4, Mesa A and Western Turner Syncline mines. 
Subsequent decision to expand Brockman 4 to 40 Mt/a capacity  
and Western Turner Syncline to 15 Mt/a. 
 Approval to develop the US$1.6 billion Hope Downs 4 mine  
and linking rail spur (Rio Tinto share US$1.2 billion).
 Improving on an already sector leading safety record, in the context  
of high production levels and the complexities of expansion.
 The employment of more than 900 Aboriginal people in Western 
Australia through targeted recruitment and retention strategies. 
 Resuming expansion programme at Iron Ore Company of Canada. 
 Opening the US$503 million Yurralyi Maya power station (Rio Tinto 
share US$397 million), providing more environmentally efficient 
power to support Pilbara operations and communities.
Key priorities
 Maintaining production and sales at nameplate capacity. 
 Advancing technological integration into the group’s operations 
through Mine of the Future™ initiatives. 
 Further improving the product group’s safety record towards  
zero harm. 
 Emphasis on operational efficiency, removal of bottlenecks  
and cost control measures.
 Progress studies of total system capacity to 333 million tonnes  
per year in 2015. 
 Continued emphasis on brownfield developments, to leverage  
an unrivalled network of assets close to existing infrastructure. 
 Advance new project development options outside of the Pilbara.
Outlook
 Market to remain tight for the short to medium term, with delays  
to new supply and strong demand driving prices.
 The Iron Ore group’s strategy and performance will continue to be 
driven by the rapid urbanisation and industrialisation in China, and  
the steady recovery in other major Asian markets.
 India is expected to continue emerging as a major market as it follows 
China’s lead in urbanisation. The group also remains confident in the 
longer term potential for other markets of South East Asia, Central 
Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Contribution to Group operating cash flow
68%
Underlying earnings contribution 2008 – 2010
2008
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
0
Tax and other
2009
Prices and exchange
Inflation
Volume
Costs
Tax and other
2010
US$ million
6,017
(2,920)
10,189
135
(262)
658
(79)
5,611
4,126
5
352
694
(22) www.riotinto.com 23
Exploration
Investing for the future
Technology & Innovation
Strategic commitment driving competitive advantage
 View expanded content online at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
Technology & Innovation (T&I) consists of a central team of technology 
professionals, the Innovation group, and a number of technology centres 
that develop leading practice and promote improvements in mining, 
processing, asset management, strategic production planning, energy use, 
and project development, execution and evaluation. 
T&I’s strategy is to:
 Maintain and promote a safe working environment.
 Continue to embed operational excellence in business units.
 Maximise the contribution of technology to the Group’s vision 
of industry leadership.
 Deploy technology solutions that increase earnings.
 Design and build valuable new investment projects.
 Position the Group to unlock orebodies that require innovative 
mining solutions.
 Lead the Group’s response to climate change.
T&I milestones in 2010 included the first flight of the VK1 airborne 
gravity instrument; improved copper recovery with the trial of 
an innovative flotation control system; and higher than planned 
productivity from the Autonomous Haul System fleet. T&I also 
helped to deliver more than US$1 billion pre-tax cash flow through 
collaborative efforts with operations in the Improving Performance 
Together initiative.
In 2011 T&I will continue to maintain a culture that places a high 
priority on safety and safety improvement. It will work with Group 
businesses to deliver measurable increases in earnings and to assist 
from a technology viewpoint in the selection of the most attractive 
investment opportunities. It will continue to focus on the safe and 
efficient implementation of projects and will build systems to support 
management of projects across the Group. The pursuit of the Mine of 
the Future™ programme and the development of innovative alliances 
and relationships that will create competitive advantage for the 
Group remain a significant focus. T&I will also focus on delivering 
improvements in the Group’s energy efficiency, long term business 
decarbonisation options, compliance processes and performance, and 
carbon markets participation. T&I will look to significantly increase 
staff levels as the business environment continues to improve.
Rio Tinto considers exploration to be one of its core competencies.  
Mature Group operations, such as Weipa, the Pilbara and Rössing,  
were Tier 1 greenfield discoveries by Rio Tinto. The value of these 
discoveries is still being realised after more than 40 years. 
The purpose of Exploration is to add value to the Group by 
discovering or acquiring resources that can increase future cash  
flows. A fundamental element of the Group’s business strategy is 
a clear focus on finding and mining only the largest, lowest cost 
resources that are profitable at all parts of the natural price cycle  
and that deliver sustainable competitive advantage. These are 
described as Tier 1 resources.
Greenfield exploration, which aims to establish completely new 
operating business units, involves geographic or commodity 
diversification away from existing Group operations. Brownfield 
exploration is directed at sustaining or growing existing Group 
businesses. Greenfield exploration programmes are prioritised on 
a global basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are 
pursued. Investment decisions are driven not by location or choice  
of commodity but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
Exploration teams frequently present the first face of Rio Tinto 
in a community and lay the groundwork for what could become 
a multi-decade relationship. We place a high priority on effective 
community engagement and consider our commitment to sustainable 
development as fundamental to securing our social licence to operate.
At the end of 2010, the Exploration group was actively exploring  
in 16 countries, and assessing opportunities in a further seven, for 
a broad range of commodities including bauxite, copper, coking 
coal, iron ore, diamonds, nickel, uranium and potash. The group will 
explore for a range of commodities across at least 17 countries in 
2011 and plans to deliver the Amargosa bauxite Order of Magnitude 
project to the Rio Tinto Alcan product group at the end of the year. 
The next crop of potential discoveries also includes the Sanxai 
bauxite deposit in Laos. Reinvigorating early stage target generation 
will continue to be a priority to drive sustained exploration success. 
Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue where real value can 
be realised, with a target of 50 per cent of the annual greenfield 
exploration budget returned to the Group.  24 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
The board comprises the chairman, three executive directors  
and ten independent non executive directors.
1. Jan du Plessis
5. Sir Rod Eddington
9. Ann Godbehere
13. Hon. Paul Tellier
2. Tom Albanese
6. Guy Elliott
10. Richard Goodmanson 
14. Sam Walsh
3. Robert Brown 
7. Michael Fitzpatrick
11. Andrew Gould
4. Vivienne Cox
8. Yves Fortier
12. Lord Kerr of Kinlochard
Board of directors and Executive committee
Leading Rio Tinto into the future
Notes
(a) Audit committee
(b) Remuneration committee
(c) Nominations committee
(d)  Committee on social and environmental accountability
(e) Chairman’s committee
(f) Independent
  View more about our board of directors and Executive committee  
at www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010 www.riotinto.com 25
The Executive committee is responsible, under the leadership of  
the chief executive, for the management of the business,  
setting performance targets and implementation of the Group’s strategy .
15. Hugo Bague 16. Preston Chiaro 17. Bret Clayton 18. Jacynthe Côté
19. Andrew Harding 20. Harry Kenyon-Slaney 21. Doug Ritchie 22. Debra Valentine
Board of directors
1.  Jan du Plessis (c and e) Chairman, BCom, 
LLB, CA(SA), age 57
2.  Tom Albanese (e) Chief executive, 
BS (Mineral Economics), MS (Mining 
Engineering), age 53
3.  Robert Brown (c, d, and f) Non executive 
director, BSc, age 66
4.  Vivienne Cox (a, c, d and f) Non executive 
director, MA (Oxon), MBA (INSEAD), 
Honorary PhD (Hull), age 51
5.  Sir Rod Eddington (c, d and f) Non executive 
director, BEng, MEng, DPhil (Oxon), age 61
6. Guy Elliott (e) Chief financial officer,  
 MA (Oxon), MBA (INSEAD), age 55
7.  Michael Fitzpatrick (a, b, c and f)  
Non executive director, BEng,  
BA (Oxon), age 58
8.  Yves Fortier (c, d and f) Non executive 
director, CC, OQ, QC, LLD, Av Em, age 75
9.  Ann Godbehere (a, c and f) Non executive 
director, FCGA, age 55
10.  Richard Goodmanson (b, c, d and f) Non 
executive director, MBA, BEc and BCom, 
BEng (Civil), age 63
11.  Andrew Gould (b, c and f) Non executive 
director, BA, FCA, age 64
12.  Lord Kerr of Kinlochard (a, c, d and f) Non 
executive director, GCMG, MA, age 69
13.  Hon. Paul Tellier (a, b, c and f) Non executive 
director, LL.L, BLitt (Oxon), LLD, CC. age 71
14.  Sam Walsh Executive director, AO, BCom 
(Melbourne), age 61
Executive committee
15. Hugo Bague Group executive, People &  
 Organisation, MA (Linguistics), age 50
16.  Preston Chiaro Group executive, Technology 
& Innovation, BSc (Hons) (Environmental 
Engineering), MEng (Environmental 
Engineering), age 57
17.  Bret Clayton Group executive, Business 
Support & Operations, BA (Accounting),  
age 49
18.  Jacynthe Côté Chief executive, Rio Tinto 
Alcan, BChem, age 53
19.  Andrew Harding Chief executive, Copper, 
BEng (Mining Engineering), MBA, age 44
20.  Harry Kenyon-Slaney Chief executive, 
Diamonds & Minerals, BSc (Hons) (Geology), 
age 50
21.  Doug Ritchie Chief executive, Energy, LLB, 
F AusIMM, F AIM, F AICD, age 54
22.  Debra Valentine Group executive, Legal & 
External Affairs, BA (History), JD, age 57 26 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Board performance
Key activities during 2010
 Monitoring economic developments in order to meet the 
challenges of the financial volatility of OECD countries and the 
opportunities presented by the growing levels of urbanisation 
and industrialisation in populous parts of the world.
 Promoting the growth of the business, evidenced in particular 
by: the signature of a joint venture agreement with Chalco for 
the development and operation of the Simandou iron ore project 
in Guinea; the approval of further funding for expansion of 
Pilbara iron ore capacity to 283 million tonnes per annum; and 
other corporate activity relating to Oyu Tolgoi and Riversdale.
 Positioning Rio Tinto to meet fiscal and monetary challenges, 
including engagement with the Australian Government in 
relation to its proposed Resources Super Profits Tax and its 
subsequent replacement with a Minerals Resource Rent Tax.
 Overseeing the management of the risks facing Rio Tinto, 
seeking to influence government and other external 
stakeholders within the mining and natural resource 
sector relating to resource nationalism and socio-economic 
development.
 Reviewing each of the product group strategies.
 Considering and eventually withdrawing from plans to create 
the Western Australian iron ore production joint venture with 
BHP Billiton.
 Driving completion of the divestment programme.
Board objectives
 Prioritise value adding growth.
 Support the vision of global sector leadership.
 Regular review and oversight of Group strategy.
 Review financial and non-financial performance metrics.
 Oversee succession planning for the board and senior 
executives.
 Strive for excellence in the Group’s governance processes and 
policies, including risk governance.
 Review and implement actions from board and board committee 
performance evaluations.
 Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
 Maintain a strong balance sheet.
Board balance
Rio Tinto has a diverse board comprising directors drawn from a wide 
range of professional backgrounds and geographic areas. The board 
supports the principle of diversity and its implementation throughout 
Rio Tinto and believes that a board and employee community reflective of 
the Group’s global activities is critical to the success of the organisation. 
Board effectiveness 
The board considers that the executive and non executive directors 
together have the range of skills, knowledge and experience necessary 
to enable them to effectively govern the business.
New non executive directors undertake formal induction programmes 
on appointment, and are subsequently provided with training and 
development opportunities to continue building their knowledge 
and experience of the Group. They are also encouraged to make 
site visits to the Group’s operations around the world and to meet 
local employees. In 2010, these opportunities included a briefing on 
reserves and mineral resource reporting, and directors were also able 
to visit the Group’s coal operations in Australia. 
The board has regular discussions with the executives during the 
year on the Group’s strategy. The board also holds an annual two day 
strategy-setting meeting with the Executive committee which includes 
a detailed review of the Group’s strategic direction. The outputs from 
this annual event help underpin the board’s financial planning and 
provide direction and focus to the executive team and to the rest of  
Rio Tinto’s people through effective allocation of the Group’s resources.
The board met regularly in 2010 in order to conduct its business. 
There were 11 board meetings, of which three were convened at short 
notice. The number of meetings is a reflection of the considerable 
corporate activity considered by the board during the year. 
Mining/engineering 33%
Consumer goods/services 21%
Business/finance 14%
General industry 14%
Government affairs 14%
Law 4%
Industry/background experience
Strategy 43%
Site visits & familiarisation 25%
Operational & financial 
performance 22%
Governance 8%
Board evaluation 2%
How the board members spent their time in 2010*
*Excludes board committee responsibilities 
  and delegated authorities by the board
Rio Tinto’s board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Group 
and upholds the high standards of corporate governance that will enable 
us to achieve our vision of global sector leadership.
Summary corporate governance
A unified approach www.riotinto.com 27
Board performance evaluation
Each non executive director’s performance is appraised personally 
by the chairman each year. The process is managed by the company 
secretary, but overseen by an independent third party in order to 
promote further transparency and objectivity and to facilitate a 
challenging and rigorous self-assessment process.
A similar process is followed for the board committees, again with the 
assistance of the external facilitator, agreed with the committee chairman 
and undertaken by each committee member and regular attendees.
The senior independent director leads a discussion of all the non 
executive directors without the chairman in attendance to assess 
the chairman’s performance, taking into consideration the views of 
executive colleagues. 
Based upon the results of these evaluations, it was concluded that the 
board and its committees are operating effectively and that the individual 
directors’ performance continues to be effective and demonstrates the 
level of commitment expected by Rio Tinto.
Risk management
Rio Tinto’s overriding objective is to maximise the overall long term 
return to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long 
term cost competitive mines and businesses. The directors recognise that 
creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk. 
The board has delegated the oversight of risk management to the 
Risk management committee and the Executive committee, and 
reviews and considers the risk profile for the whole business annually. 
In addition, the Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all 
decision making, and is committed to managing all risk in a proactive 
and effective manner through competent risk management. To 
support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the 
management decisions taken at all levels within the organisation. 
The possible risks faced by the Group and the risk management policies 
and approach are identified in detail on our website in the Principal 
risks and uncertainties section of the Annual report and in the Risk 
policy and standard in the corporate governance section of the website.
Diversity
We believe that diversity improves business outcomes. We are a global 
company, and wherever we operate, and across every part of our 
business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference 
is recognised and valued. By bringing together men and women 
from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to 
contribute their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we 
are best able to develop innovative solutions to challenges and deliver 
sustainable value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders. To understand 
what diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto, how we are building 
an inclusive environment, and what our current focus is, please see the 
corporate governance section of the Annual report on our website.
Governance structure
Audit 
committee
Nominations  
committee
Committee on 
social and 
environmental 
accountability
Remuneration  
committee
Chairman’s  
committee
Disclosure and 
procedures  
committee
Board of directors Board of directors
Board 
committees
Management 
committees
Chief executive Chief financial  
officer
Continuous 
disclosure  
committee 
(a)
Investment  
committee
Executive 
committee
Strategy and 
finance  
committee
Risk 
management 
committee
Ore reserves 
steering  
committee
Closure  
committee
(a) The Continuous disclosure committee is an independent management committee. 28 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Summary remuneration report
Executive remuneration policy
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a 
limited pool of talented executives. To support its strategic drivers, the 
Group needs high quality, committed people. The executive remuneration 
strategy, and underlying policy, provides this support by enabling the 
Group to attract and retain talent that will maximise shareholder value.
The Remuneration committee has recently conducted a review of 
the comparator groups which should be used for remuneration 
benchmarking comparisons. It has concluded that, for the purposes of 
assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the FTSE 
30, (excluding financial services companies, and with due regard for 
size and complexity) will be an initial comparator group. Additional 
references will be made to a supplementary comparator group, 
composed of a cross section of international industrial organisations 
(broadly comparable to Rio Tinto in terms of global reach, revenue, 
market capitalisation and complexity) for which the Company competes 
for talent. Specific comparisons will also be made against other 
international mining companies where appropriate.
Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of these 
comparator groups, with total remuneration positioned across the  
full market range according to performance.
A summary of the current remuneration arrangements is set out below:
Objective of component Remuneration arrangements
Base Salary  
(fixed)
 Provides the fixed element of the remuneration package
 Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of 
the identified comparator groups, with total remuneration 
positioned across the full market range according 
to performance
 Salary adjustments effective 1 March 2011
 Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group 
performance and global economic conditions
Short Term Incentive Plan (“STIP”)  
(at risk)
 Focuses participants on achieving annual performance  
goals, which are based on the Group’s KPIs to create 
sustainable shareholder value 
 50 per cent of the bonus delivered in cash and 50 per cent 
delivered in deferred shares under the Rio Tinto Bonus 
Deferral Plan (BDP), vests in the December of the third 
year after the end of performance year to which they relate 
(generally subject to continued employment) to ensure 
ongoing alignment between the executives and shareholders
 Target STIP opportunity 100 per cent for PGCEOs and Group 
executives to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors
 Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 per cent of base salary 
 Performance targets include earnings, cash flow, safety and 
individual performance objectives
Performance Options – Share  
Option Plan (“SOP”)  
(at risk)
 Rewards participants for increasing the share price 
and delivering superior TSR performance against other 
companies over a long term horizon
 Three year performance period to provide long term 
alignment with shareholders
 “How” performance is generated is as important as “what level” 
of performance is delivered. Therefore, before awards vest, the 
Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an 
appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the 
business and can adjust vesting accordingly
 Market value Performance Options vest based on the TSR 
performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index 
 Target (and maximum) face value of 300 per cent of base salary 
Performance Shares – Performance 
Share Plan (“PSP”) (formerly the 
Mining Companies Comparative Plan)  
(at risk)
 Rewards participants for increasing the share price 
and delivering superior TSR performance against other 
companies over a long term horizon
 Four year performance period to provide long term 
alignment with shareholders
 As with Performance Options, before vesting the 
Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is 
an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of 
the business and can adjust vesting accordingly
 Conditional share awards vest based on TSR performance relative 
to 50 per cent – HSBC Global Mining Index; 50 per cent – the 
Morgan Stanley Capital World Index (MSCI)
 Target award equal to face value of 200 per cent of base salary
 1.5 times target award vesting for outperformance of the  
relevant index 
 Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 annual general 
meeting, from 2011 executives allowed to express a preference 
regarding the “mix” of the long term incentive opportunity 
between:
 Keeping the current mix of Performance Shares and  
Performance Options
 Receiving their full opportunity in Performance Shares
 Overall the expected value of the total compensation opportunity 
will remain the same. In order to facilitate this choice it is proposed 
that the individual grant limits under the PSP be increased
Management Share Plan (“MSP”) 
(usually time based)
 Enhance the Group’s ability to attract and retain key staff 
in an increasingly tight and competitive labour market
 Conditional share awards generally vest based on continued 
service with the company until the date of vesting
 Members of the Executive committee are not eligible to participate 
in awards under this plan 
 Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no 
new shares are issued to satisfy awards
Post employment benefits  
(fixed)
 Provides locally competitive post employment benefits  
for participants in a cost efficient manner
 Post employment benefit arrangements offered www.riotinto.com 29
Looking ahead – Key developments in 2011
Proposed changes to the Performance Share Plan from 2011 
The Committee is recommending to shareholders for approval at the 2011 
annual general meetings certain technical changes to the PSP rules. 
Those changes ensure that participants are not adversely impacted by the 
recent change in the tax treatment of options in Australia. The Committee 
currently grants Performance Shares under the PSP with a face value of up 
to 200 per cent of base salary and Performance Options with a face value  
of up to 300 per cent of base salary . 
The Committee believes that Performance Options continue to be 
an appropriate incentive tool for senior executives as they create an 
alignment with shareholders. However, following the tax changes in 
Australia, the Committee intends that, for long term incentive plan 
(LTIP) awards granted from 2011 onwards, executives will be given an 
opportunity to indicate their preference regarding the “mix” of their 
LTIPs. The alternative approaches will be to:
 retain the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance 
Options, which is determined annually by the Remuneration 
committee; or 
 receive their full long term incentive opportunity in Performance Shares.
To allow Rio Tinto the flexibility to grant participants their full LTIP 
award in the form of Performance Shares (where they choose to do so), the 
individual limits under the rules of the PSP will need to be increased to a 
face value award of up to 300 per cent of base salary. Participants would 
have the opportunity to earn up to one and half times this amount based 
on the extent to which the performance condition is met. This amount has 
been calibrated to be broadly equivalent in expected value terms to the 
value of the LTIP awards under the current mix of shares and options. 
Therefore, the increase in face value terms of Performance Shares is not 
on a one-for-one basis to Performance Options. 
The Company will seek shareholder approval at the 2011 annual 
general meetings to increase the individual PSP limits so that annual 
maximum face value of Performance Shares that may be awarded is 
increased from 200 per cent to 300 per cent of base salary.
Base salary in 2011
The Committee has completed a comprehensive review of the 
remuneration levels of the chief executive, executive directors, 
Product group chief executives (PGCEOs) and Group executives 
(together executives). 
This review took into account: 
 Rio Tinto’s strong performance in 2010 and the Group’s growth 
ambitions for the future; 
 an assessment of individual performance;
 the motivation of people with critical skills, at a time of a highly 
competitive market for talent in the industry;
 the retention of individuals within the Group’s succession planning 
processes who are vital to the creation of long term shareholder 
value; and 
 that salaries have remained at March 2008 levels for the chief 
executive and members of the Executive committee. 
These factors were viewed in light of the results of a full, 
independent review of base salary and total compensation, which 
was commissioned by the Committee to enable it to make fully 
informed decisions around pay. This made reference to the Company’s 
benchmarking comparator groups, namely the FTSE 30, excluding 
financial services, and additional references to global industrial 
companies that the company competes with for talent. The conclusion 
from this review was that it was considered in the best interests of our 
shareholders to restore pay to a more competitive market position. The 
Committee therefore approved adjustments in base salaries, which take 
effect on 1 March 2011, as shown in the table below.
The Committee was aware, when making this decision, that these 
adjustments were outside the range of a typical annual salary review in 
its major markets. However, it is equally aware that this still leaves the 
remuneration of the majority of executives below market rate within  
a highly competitive global market for talent.
 
Name
2011 
Base salary
2010 
Base salary
2009 
Base salary
Executive directors
Tom Albanese £1,030,000 £907,500 £907,500
Guy Elliott £720,000 £675,500 £675,500
Sam Walsh A$1,590,000 A$1,475,000 A$1,475,000
Other members of executive committee
Hugo Bague £415,000 £360,000 £360,000
Preston Chiaro US$770,000 US$725,000 US$725,000
Bret Clayton US$745,000 US$700,000 US$700,000
Jacynthe Côté US$885,000 US$825,000 US$825,000
Andrew Harding
 (a)
£420,000 US$650,000 US$650,000
Harry Kenyon-Slaney £420,000 £360,000 £360,000
Doug Ritchie A$930,000 A$850,000 A$850,000
Debra Valentine US$630,000 US$570,000 US$570,000
(a) Andrew Harding was paid in USD until his relocation to the UK
Executives’ service contracts
The executives have service contracts that can be terminated by either 
party with 12 months’ notice in writing, or immediately by paying the 
base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice. Debra Valentine’s 
service contract can be terminated by either party with six months’ 
notice in writing. 
If the termination is a result of a redundancy, the terms of the relevant 
policy would apply in the same way as for other local employees.  
In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate 
employment without notice and without payment of any salary or 
compensation in lieu of notice. The annual bonus and outstanding 
awards under the LTIP are forfeited. STIP and LTIP rules cover any 
entitlements that participants may have upon termination. 
Contractual entitlements to severance are not triggered by a change  
of control. All of the Company’s share plans contain provisions 
relating to a change of control. Outstanding deferred shares would 
normally vest in full and outstanding performance shares and 
performance options would normally vest and become exercisable  
on a change of control on a pro rata basis, subject to the satisfaction  
of any performance conditions at that time. 30 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Summary remuneration tables
Summary of remuneration received based on theoretical accounting values, most notably L TIP arrangements, and converted to USD (please refer to the full 
Remuneration report for details on the actual remuneration received).
Executives’ remuneration
Short term benefits
Long term 
benefits Post employment benefits
 (f)
Total 
remuneration
Gain on 
exercise of 
share options
Value of  
vested LTIP Stated in US$’000
 (a)
Base salary Cash bonus
 (b)
Other
benefits
 (c) (b)
Value of share
based awards
 (e)
Pension and 
superannuation
Other post 
employment 
benefits
Executive directors
Tom Albanese 2010 1,403 1,248 321 3,683 1,708 – 8,363 10,852 1,232
Guy Elliott 2010 1,044 989 267 2,486 512 – 5,298 1,307 1,045
Sam Walsh 2010 1,354 1,391 92 2,911 346 – 6,094 5,106 1,051
Other key management personnel
Hugo Bague 2010 557 396 299 1,098 41 – 2,391
–
349
Preston Chiaro 2010 725 563 888 1,738 210 – 4,124 6,302 852
Bret Clayton 2010 700 476 1,106 1,591 163 1 4,037 1,289 377
Jacynthe Côté 2010 907 2,214 40 2,393 409 4 5,967
–
869
Andrew Harding 2010 603 469 581 1,118 58 – 2,829 913 597
Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2010 557 466 137 922 131 – 2,213 – 649
Doug Ritchie 2010 780 593 124 1,550 207 – 3,254 13 897
Debra Valentine 2010 570 433 906 1,332 187 7 3,435 – 443
(a)  The total remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of £1 = US$1.5459, A$1 = US$0.9178, €1 = US$1.3262 and C$1 = US$0.9704. The annual 
cash bonus payable under the STIP has been converted using the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates of £1 = US$1.5660, A$1 = US$0.9825 and C$1 = US$0.9886.
(b)  ‘Cash bonus‘ relates to the cash portion of the STIP. For Jacynthe Côté, it also includes a special one-off bonus.
(c)  ‘Other cash based benefits‘ include cash in lieu of a car and fuel. For Hugo Bague, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Andrew Harding, it includes a cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which their ‘Contributory 
Salary’ exceeds the ‘Earning Cap’ as defined in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund. For Andrew Harding, it also includes a Long Service Leave payment for his service in Australia. 
(d)  ‘Non monetary benefits‘ for executives include healthcare, the provision of a car, professional advice and secondment costs comprising housing, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on behalf of 
executives living outside their home country. 
(e)  The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 “Share - based Payment” . The fair value of awards granted under the SOP, the 
Management Share Plan (MSP), the BDP and the Share Savings Plan (SSP) have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent lattice based option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane 
Clark and Peacock LLP. Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tinto’s share price at 31 December 
2010. With effect from 2010, the Group’s policy for settling awards granted under the Performance Share Plan (the PSP) changed. For settlement of all future awards under this plan, participants will be assigned shares 
and offered a third party facility to realise these shares for cash and/or to meet any tax liabilities. Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date 
treated as equity-settled awards. This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR performance at 30 June 2010. The fair value of awards 
granted after July 2010 is measured at date of grant. Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 49 (Share Based Payments) in the 2010 Full financial statements. 
The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market. The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
(f)  The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19. The cost for defined contribution plan is 
the amount contributed in the year by the Company. For Andrew Harding, the 2009 cost has been restated to remove US$2,374 which were his own contributions. For Tom Albanese, the 2009 cost has been restated as an 
incorrect methodology was used in 2008 and 2009 to value future salary increases to retirement. The restated figure for 2008 is US$1,702,000. The figure previously disclosed in 2008 was US$1,443,000.
Summary remuneration report continued
Non executive directors’ remuneration
Short term benefits
Total 
remuneration
 (d)
Stated in US$’000
 (a)
Fees
Other cash 
based
benefits
 (b)
Non  
monetary
benefits
 (c)
Chairman
Jan du Plessis 2010 1,082 – 243 1,325
Non executive directors
Robert Brown 2010 98 44 – 142
Sir David Clementi 2010 74 – 5 79
Vivienne Cox 2010 144 12 – 156
Sir Rod Eddington 2010 120 33 – 153
Micheal Fitzpatrick 2010 145 22 – 167
Yves Fortier 2010 131 41 – 172
Ann Godbehere 2010 144 23 – 167
Richard Goodmanson 2010 166 66 – 232
Andrew Gould 2010 197 – – 197
Lord Kerr 2010 178 23 – 201
David Mayhew 2010 58 – 6 64
Paul Tellier 2010 158 59 – 217
(a)  The total remuneration is reported in US dollars. The amounts have been converted using the relevant 
2010 average exchange rates of £1 = US$1.5459 and A$1 = US$0.9178.
(b)  The ‘Other cash based benefits’ for non executive directors comprise overseas of meeting 
allowances.
(c)  ‘Non monetary benefits’ include for Jan du Plessis the value of company provided transport and 
medical insurance premiums. For Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew, it includes the value 
of a retirement gift. Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors; the total 
premium paid in 2010 was US$5,092. 
(d)  Represents short term benefits total required under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total 
remuneration under Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
Performance graph
TSR performance of the Group against the HSBC Global Mining Index 
and the MSCI over the past five years
Total return basis index 2005 = 100 
Rio Tinto DLC  
HSBC Index
MSCI World Index   
TSR (US$) – Rio Tinto Group vs the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices
100
200
300
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 www.riotinto.com 31
Summary financial statements
 
These Summary financial statements have been extracted from the Full financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and which 
will be filed with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. The auditors’ report of the 
Full financial statements is unqualified and does not contain a statement under either S498(2) or S498(3) of the UK Companies Act 2006. The Summary 
financial statements do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent 
companies as is provided in the Full financial statements. Copies of the 2010 Annual report and Full financial statements may be obtained from the 
addresses shown on the outside back cover. 
Summary income statement 
Years ended 31 December  
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Gross sales revenue (including share of equity accounted units) 60,323 44,036 
 
Continuing operations   
Consolidated sales revenue 56,576 41,825 
Net operating costs (excluding items shown separately) (36,667) (33,818)
Impairment charges less reversals (982) (1,573)
Gain on consolidation and on disposal of interests in businesses 839 692 
Exploration and evaluation costs (594) (514)
Profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 522 894 
Operating profit 19,694 7,506 
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 1,101 786 
Profit before finance items and taxation 20,795 8,292 
Finance items  (218) (432) 
Profit before taxation 20,577 7,860 
Taxation (5,296) (2,076)
Profit from continuing operations 15,281 5,784 
Loss after tax from discontinued operations (97) (449)
Profit for the year 15,184 5,335 
– attributable to non-controlling interests 860 463 
– attributable to owners of Rio Tinto (Net earnings) 14,324 4,872 
   
Basic earnings/(loss) per share   
Profit from continuing operations 735.4c 301.7c
Loss from discontinued operations (4.9c) (25.5c)
Profit for the year 730.5c 276.2c
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share   
Profit from continuing operations 731.1c 300.7c
Loss from discontinued operations (4.9c) (25.4c)
Profit for the year 726.2c 275.3c
   
Dividends paid during the year (US$m) 1,754 876 
Dividends per share: paid during the year 90.0c 55.6c 
Dividends per share: declared in respect of the year 108.0c 45.0c 32 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Summary financial statements continued 
Summary statement of comprehensive income 
Years ended 31 December 
 
   2010  2009
 
Attributable 
to owners of 
Rio Tinto 
US$m
Non-controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Attributable  
to owners of  
Rio Tinto  
US$m 
Non-controlling 
interests 
US$m
Total 
US$m
Profit after tax for the year 14,324 860 15,184 4,872 463 5,335
Other comprehensive income  
Currency translation adjustments 1,236 274 1,510 3,719 429 4,148
Cash flow hedge fair value (losses)/gains (25) 27 2 (194) (74) (268)
Gains on available for sale securities 203 2 205 354 1 355
Actuarial losses on post retirement  
benefit plans (765) (17) (782) (847) 3 (844)
Share of other comprehensive income  
of equity accounted units, net of tax 206 – 206 368 – 368
Tax relating to components of other  
comprehensive income 257 (4) 253 297 24 321
Other comprehensive income for the year,  
net of tax 1,112 282 1,394 3,697 383 4,080
Total comprehensive income for the year 15,436 1,142 16,578 8,569 846 9,415
 
 
Summary cash flow statement 
Years ended 31 December 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Cash flow from consolidated operations 22,126 13,224 
Dividends from equity accounted units 1,404 610 
Cash flows from operations 23,530 13,834 
Net interest paid (696) (1,136)
Dividends paid to holders of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (457) (410)
Tax paid (4,100) (3,076)
Net cash generated from operating activities 18,277 9,212 
 
Acquisitions of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates (907) (396)
Disposals of subsidiaries, joint ventures & associates, and assets held for sale 3,800 2,424 
Purchase of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (4,591) (5,388)
Other investing activities (13) 3 
Cash used in investing activities (1,711) (3,357)
 
Cash flow before financing activities 16,566 5,855 
 
Equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto  (1,754) (876)
Other financing activities (8,856) (1,587)
Cash used in financing activities (10,610) (2,463)
 
Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (139) (284)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 5,817 3,108 
Opening cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 4,142 1,034 
Closing cash and cash equivalents less overdrafts 9,959 4,142 www.riotinto.com 33
 
Summary statement of financial position 
At 31 December 
 
 
2010 
US$m
2009 
US$m
Non-current assets   
Goodwill 15,296 14,268 
Intangible assets 5,700 5,730 
Property, plant and equipment 56,024 45,803 
Investments in equity accounted units 6,503 6,735 
Loans to equity accounted units 227 170 
Inventories 375 284 
Trade and other receivables 1,826 1,375 
Deferred tax assets 1,863 2,231 
Tax recoverable 89 85 
Other financial assets 1,334 841 
 89,237 77,522 
Current assets   
Inventories 4,756 4,889 
Trade and other receivables 5,582 4,447 
Loans to equity accounted units 110 168 
Tax recoverable 542 501 
Other financial assets 521 694 
Cash and cash equivalents 9,948 4,233 
 21,459 14,932 
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 1,706 4,782 
Total assets 112,402 97,236 
Current liabilities   
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand (7) (91)
Borrowings (1,057) (756)
Trade and other payables (6,576) (5,759)
Other financial liabilities (265) (412)
Tax payable (2,773) (1,329)
Provisions (1,117) (1,182)
 (11,795) (9,529)
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings (13,277) (22,155)
Trade and other payables (879) (591)
Other financial liabilities (416) (601)
Tax payable (417) (299)
Deferred tax liabilities (5,175) (4,304)
Provision for post retirement benefits (4,339) (4,993)
Other provisions (9,023) (7,519)
 (33,526) (40,462)
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale (1,807) (1,320)
Total liabilities (47,128) (51,311)
Net assets 65,274 45,925 
Capital and reserves   
Share capital 5,847 5,170
Reserves 52,486 38,661
Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 58,333 43,831 
Attributable to non-controlling interest 6,941 2,094 
Total equity 65,274 45,925 34 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
Summary financial information by business unit 
At 31 December 
 
This summary financial information by business unit section has been extracted from the full financial statements contained within the 2010 Annual report. 
 Gross sales revenue 
(a)
 EBITDA 
(b)
 Net earnings
(c)
  
 2010 
US$m 
2009  
US$m  
2010 
US$m 
2009  
US$m  
2010 
US$m 
2009 
US$m 
Iron Ore  24,024  12,598   16,605  7,112   10,189  4,126  
Aluminium  15,206  12,038   2,418  594   773  (560) 
Copper  7,782  6,206   4,503  3,474   2,534  1,878  
Energy  5,652  4,869   2,299  2,225   1,187  1,167  
Diamonds & Minerals 3,035  2,618   606  1,209   328  800  
Other 4,624  5,707   (453) (302)   (1,024) (1,113) 
Underlying earnings   25,978  14,312   13,987  6,298  
Items excluded from Underlying earnings   661  159   337  (1,426) 
Total 60,323  44,036   26,639  14,471   14,324  4,872  
 
 Capital expenditure 
(d)
 Depreciation & amortisation Operating assets 
(e)
 
 2010 
US$m 
2009  
US$m  
2010 
US$m 
2009  
US$m  
2010 
US$m 
2009 
US$m 
Iron Ore  1,716  2,148   993  763   11,628  11,263  
Aluminium  1,328  1,690   1,563  1,551   38,326  36,340  
Copper  958  553   565  541   6,663  5,187  
Energy  685  510   367  296   3,694  2,809  
Diamonds & Minerals 300  519   268  290   4,580  4,612  
Other (434) (64)   (319) (14)   (2,274) 2,481  
Total 4,553  5,356   3,437  3,427   62,617  62,692  
Less: Net debt     (4,284) (18,861) 
Total Rio Tinto shareholders’ equity     58,333  43,831  
Business units have been classified according to the Group’s management structure. Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on 
their primary product. The Energy group includes both coal and uranium businesses. The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with 
products such as borates, talc and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamonds operations. The Copper group includes certain gold operations in 
addition to copper. The Aluminium group excludes Alcan Engineered Products which is included in “Other Operations” and Alcan Packaging which is 
included in “Net assets held for sale”.  
(a) Gross sales revenue includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ sales revenue and the Group’s share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units (after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries). 
(b) EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Group’s share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation. Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items 
that are excluded from Underlying earnings. 
(c) Net earnings represent profit after tax for the year attributable to the owners of the Rio Tinto Group. Earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of 
discount related to provisions. Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings. 
(d) Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets. The details 
provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries’ capital expenditure and Rio Tinto’s share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units. Amounts relating to equity accounted units not specifically funded by  
Rio Tinto are deducted before arriving at total capital expenditure for the Group. 
(e) Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before deducting net debt. Operating assets are less non-controlling interests, which are 
calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies (ie net of such companies’ debt). 
  www.riotinto.com 35
Independent auditors’ statement to the members of Rio Tinto plc  
and Rio Tinto Limited
 
We have examined the Summary financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group which comprise the Summary income statement, Summary statement of 
comprehensive income, Summary cash flow statement, Summary statement of financial position, Summary financial information by business unit and 
the Executives’ remuneration information on pages 28 to 30, within the accompanying 2010 Annual review (the Summary financial information). 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors are responsible for preparing the 2010 Annual review in accordance with applicable law.  
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial information within the 2010 Annual review  
with the 2010 Annual report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006  
and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated  
22 December 2010, and the regulations made thereunder.  
We also read the other information contained in the 2010 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware  
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial information. The other information comprises the items  
on pages 1 to 27. 
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 428 of  
the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 (in respect of Rio Tinto plc) and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the 
Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010 (in respect of Rio Tinto Limited) and for no other purpose. We  
do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or  
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. 
Basis of opinion 
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008/3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom. Our report on the  
Rio Tinto Group’s 2010 Annual report describes the basis of our audit opinions on those financial statements, the Directors’ report and the Remuneration 
report. 
Opinion 
In our opinion the Summary financial information is consistent with the 2010 Annual report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 
and comply with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations 
Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 22 December 2010, and the regulations made thereunder. 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 
London 
4 March 2011  
In respect of the members of  
Rio Tinto plc 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Chartered Accountants 
Robert Hubbard 
Partner 
Brisbane 
4 March 2011  
In respect of the members of 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Liability limited by a scheme approved under 
Professional Standards Legislation 
 
 
 
   36 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual review
 
Financial calendar 
 
 
 
2011 
 
18 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review 
10 February Announcement of results for 2010 
2 March Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2010 final dividend 
4 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 
8 March Record date for 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 
9 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares  
and dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto Limited shareholders electing to receive pounds sterling) 
10 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and  
dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc shareholders electing to receive Australian dollars) 
24 March Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders 
electing to receive pounds sterling) 
31 March Payment date for 2010 final dividend to holders of ordinary shares and ADRs 
13 April First quarter 2011 operations review 
14 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 
5 May Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 
14 July Second quarter 2011 operations review 
4 August Announcement of half year results for 2011 
10 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted “ex-dividend” for 2011 interim dividend 
12 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 
16 August Record date for 2011 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 
17 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2011 interim dividend 
1 September Dividend currency conversion date (Rio Tinto plc holders electing to receive Australian dollars and Rio Tinto Limited holders 
electing to receive pounds sterling) 
8 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of ordinary shares  
9 September Payment date for 2011 interim dividend to holders of Rio Tinto plc ADRs 
13 October Third quarter 2011 operations review 
2012 
 
January Fourth quarter 2011 operations review 
February Announcement of results for 2011 
 
 
Cautionary statement about forward looking statements 
This document contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Rio Tinto Group. The words “intend”, “aim”, “project”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, 
“plan”, “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “should”, “will”, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward looking statements. 
Examples of forward looking statements in this Annual review include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of assets or similar factors. Forward 
looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Group’s control. For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on market 
prices that may vary significantly from current levels. These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments. Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, demand for our 
products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty. 
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be materially different from projected future results expressed or implied by these forward looking statements which speak only as to the date of  
this report. Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future 
events. The Group cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.   
Useful information and contacts 
 
Registered offices 
Rio Tinto plc 
2 Eastbourne Terrace 
London 
W2 6LG 
Registered in England No. 719885 
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7781 2000 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7781 1800 
Website: www.riotinto.com 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Level 33 
120 Collins Street 
Melbourne 
Victoria 3000 
ACN 96 004 458 404 
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9283 3333 
Facsimile: +61 (0) 3 9283 3707 
Website: www.riotinto.com 
Rio Tinto’s agent in the US is Shannon Crompton,  
who may be contacted at  
Rio Tinto Services Inc.  
80 State Street 
Albany 
New York, 12207-2543  Shareholders 
Please contact the respective registrar if you have any queries about  
your shareholding. 
Rio Tinto plc 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZY 
Telephone: +44 (0) 870 703 6364 
Facsimile: +44 (0) 870 703 6119 
UK residents only, Freephone: 0800 435021 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre 
To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/riotinto 
Holders of Rio Tinto American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) 
Please contact the ADR administrator if you have any queries about  
your ADRs. 
ADR administrator 
JPMorgan Chase & Co 
PO Box 64504 
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 
Telephone: +1 (651) 453 2128 
US residents only toll free general: 
(800) 990 1135 
US residents only toll free Global invest direct: 
(800) 428 4237 
Website: www.adr.com/shareholder 
email: jpmorgan.adr@wellsfargo.com 
Rio Tinto Limited 
Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 
GPO Box 2975 
Melbourne 
Victoria 3001 
Telephone: +61 (0) 3 9415 4030 
Facsimile: +61 (0) 3 9473 2500 
Australian residents only, toll free: 
1800 813 292 
New Zealand residents only, toll free: 
0800 450 740 
Website: www.computershare.com 
Investor Centre  
To find out more about Investor Centre go to www.investorcentre.com 
Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders 
Computershare Investor Services Inc. 
9th Floor 
100 University Avenue 
Toronto 
Ontario 
M5J 2Y1 
Canada 
Telephone: +1 514 982 7555 
North American residents only, toll free  
+1 (866) 624 1341 
Website: www.computershare.com 
www.riotinto.com 37
This document is printed on Amadeus Offset 50, a paper containing 
50% post consumer recycled fibre and 50% virgin fibre sourced from 
well managed, sustainable, FSC certified forests. The pulp used in 
this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) 
process. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any 
waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed by Park Communications. Park is an EMAS certified 
CarbonNeutral® Company and its Environmental Management 
System is certified to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.blacksunplc.com Go online for more 
information
 www.riotinto.com/annualreport2010
What you can find online
Find out more about our business and  
performance online
 2010 Annual report
 Webcast of our 2010 results
 Full sustainable development reporting
 Register for e-communications
