 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ROBERT WALTERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 Strategic Report
01 2013 Highlights
02 Robert Walters at a Glance
04 Our Business
06 Our Strategy
08 Our People and Culture
10 Innovation and Awards
12 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Statement
18 Financial Review
22 Corporate Responsibility Statement
25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report
27 Directors’ Report
29 Directors and Advisors
30 Corporate Governance Statement
35 Report of the Audit Committee
37 Report of the Remuneration Committee
52 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
53  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of Robert Walters plc
Financials
56 Consolidated Income Statement
56  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
57 Consolidated Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
59 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Statement of Accounting Policies
63 Notes to the Group Accounts
76 Company Balance Sheet
77 Notes to the Company Accounts
79 Our Offices STRATEGIC REPORT
ROBERT WALTERS
OUR CORE DISCIPLINES
• Accounting & Finance
• Banking & Financial Services
• Engineering
• Human Resources
• Information Technology
• Legal
• Sales & Marketing
• Secretarial & Support
• Supply Chain & Procurement
• Recruitment Process Outsourcing
Over the last 28 years Robert Walters has 
grown and so have our ambitions. We now 
have 53 offices in 24 countries.
Businesses worldwide rely on us to find the 
very best specialist professionals to drive their 
business forward. Why? Because those same 
professionals trust us to manage their 
long‑term careers.
2013 HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue
(2012: £567.8m)
£597.7m
Net fee income
(2012: £188.4m)
£199.2m
Operating profit
(2012: £8.5m)
£10.8m
Profit before taxation
(2012: £7.7m)
£10.1m
Basic earnings per share
(2012: 6.8p)
8.4p
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 01
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ROBERT WALTERS AT A GLANCE
OTHER INTERNATIONAL
In 1994 our New York office 
established our presence in 
the US. Johannesburg opened 
in 1998 and São Paulo opened 
in 2010. Our newest offices in 
the region, San Francisco and 
Dubai, opened in 2012 and 
2013 respectively.
Offices:
Dubai
Johannesburg
New York
Rio de Janeiro 
São Paulo
San Francisco
UK
The very first Robert Walters 
office opened in Central 
London in 1985. Today, the 
Group has a network of five 
offices across the country. 
Offices:
Birmingham 
Guildford 
London 
Milton Keynes  
Manchester
2,307
Employees (2012: 2,223)
24
Countries
53
Offices
02 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 PERMANENT/CONTRACT NET FEE INCOME
Permanent
(2012: 69%)
Contract
(2012: 31%)
31
%
69
%
GEOGRAPHIC NET FEE INCOME
4
Other Int’l
(2012: 3%)
Europe
(2012: 21%)
Asia Pacic
(2012: 50%)
UK
(2012: 26%)
%
21
%
46
%
29
%
EUROPE
In 1988 we opened our first 
European office in Belgium. 
Two years later Amsterdam 
followed. The Group now has 
19 offices across Europe.
Offices:
Amsterdam
Brussels (x3)
Dublin
Düsseldorf
Eindhoven
Frankfurt
Ghent
Luxembourg
Lyon
Madrid
Paris (x3)
Rotterdam
Strasbourg
Zaventem
Zürich
ASIA PACIFIC
The Group opened its first office 
in Asia Pacific in 1996 in Sydney 
and has grown a market-leading 
presence across 11 countries.
Offices:
Adelaide
Auckland
Bangkok
Beijing
Brisbane
Chatswood
Ho Chi Minh City
Hong Kong
Jakarta
Kuala Lumpur
Melbourne
Nanjing
Osaka
Parramatta 
Perth
Seoul
Shanghai
Singapore
Suzhou
Sydney
Taipei
Tokyo
Wellington
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 03
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 OUR BUSINESS
Our Mission
Our mission is to be the world’s leading specialist 
professional recruitment consultancy with a clear 
differentiation based on the quality of service  
delivered to our clients and our candidates.
Our Business
In what is an increasingly 
complex and ever‑ changing 
global recruitment market, 
the Group provides clients, 
from the largest corporates 
through to SMEs and start 
ups, with an end‑ to‑ end 
recruitment offering on 
a global basis. 
The Group provides specialist professional 
recruitment solutions covering the 
permanent, contract and interim recruitment 
markets. The Group’s market-leading 
Resource Solutions brand provides 
recruitment process outsourcing services.
The Group’s international network of 53 
offices in 24 countries enables us to meet 
the demands of clients and candidates 
whose needs extend beyond local 
markets, whilst our strong local 
foundations provide us with the 
ability to deliver unique local industry 
knowledge, experience and insight.
Our business is all about the development 
of long-term and high-quality relationships 
with our clients and candidates. Our 
industry is unique in that we have two 
very distinct but over-lapping stakeholders 
– our candidates are our clients of the future 
and our clients are our potential candidates. 
Quality (in terms of relationships and service 
levels), integrity and professionalism are 
the Group’s watch-words and we believe 
provide a clear point of differentiation for 
the Robert Walters Group.
OUR BRANDS
Specialist professional recruitment.
Permanent, contract and interim recruitment across the core disciplines of: 
Accounting & finance; Banking & financial services; Engineering; HR; IT ; Legal; 
Sales & marketing; Secretarial & support; and Supply chain & procurement.
Recruitment process outsourcing. 
Resource Solutions is a market leader in recruitment process outsourcing 
and managed services provision solutions. Resource Solutions designs 
and deploys tailored outsourcing solutions for clients across the globe.
04 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 TRUSTED 
RELATIONSHIPS
Our business is all about the 
development of long-term and 
high-quality relationships with 
our clients and candidates. OUR STRATEGY
The Group’s strategy for growth is centred on 
global expansion and discipline diversification:
2. Discipline diversification
    Driving growth through 
the building of scale 
in existing disciplines 
and the launch of 
new disciplines.
1. Global expansion
    Driving growth through 
expansion into new 
geographic locations. 
Growth is largely 
organic with the Group 
having made only  
three market‑ entry 
acquisitions in its  
28 year history. 
The Group’s strategy ensures that the 
business has a well-balanced international 
footprint covering both mature and 
developing recruitment markets, 
underpinned by a blend of revenue 
streams that together provide resilience 
when economic conditions are tough but 
present an opportunity for rapid growth 
through operational gearing when 
economic conditions improve.
There is no shortage of opportunities 
to enter new markets and develop new 
disciplines, it’s always a question of timing 
and management. A new market or new 
discipline must represent a long-term 
growth opportunity for the Group and 
secondly, the right management must be  
in place to ensure we effectively maintain 
and propagate our Robert Walters  
Group culture.
The Group invests in new offices, markets 
and disciplines on a long-term basis based 
on a clear business plan to ensure profits 
are generated quickly. This long-term 
approach also means that we aim to 
maintain our presence in markets, through 
close cost control, when times are tough. 
The Group has successfully followed this 
strategic approach through the most recent 
global financial crisis and has been able to 
immediately benefit from even a marginal 
improvement in market conditions.
Brussels
1988
1990 
Amsterdam
1985 
London
New York
1994
1996 
Sydney
Melbourne
1
Hong Kong
Auckland
1997
1998
Johannesburg
Singapore
Dublin
Paris
Tokyo
1999
2001
Adelaide
2
Brisbane
2
 
Luxembourg
Manchester
Perth
2
Guildford
2003
06 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 Local senior management have the 
responsibility for identifying new market 
and new discipline opportunities and are 
required to present a clear business case 
to the Board for approval. The Group has 
benefitted greatly over the years from early 
entry to new and developing recruitment 
markets, where first mover advantage can 
be key – we feel we have the right blend 
of a structured due diligence process 
and speed and agility to maximise 
opportunities as and when they arise.
2005 
Birmingham
Rotterdam
Paris
4
Eindhoven
Kuala Lumpur
Lyon
Wellington
Brussels
4
2006
2007 
Madrid
Osaka
Bangkok
Paris
4
Shanghai
3
Strasbourg
Suzhou
3
2008
2009 
Brussels
4
Zurich
Zaventem
4
Düsseldorf
São Paulo
Seoul
Beijing 
2010
2011 
Chatswood
Ho Chi Minh
Nanjing
Jakarta
Frankfurt
Taipei
San Francisco
Rio de Janeiro
Milton Keynes
Parramatta
2012
2013
Dubai
Ghent
4
1 Acquisition – Tristar
2 Acquisition – Dunhill
3 Acquisition – Talent Spotter
4
 
Walters People
17
Offices opened 
in last four years
27
Offices with record net  
fee income during the year
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 07
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 OUR PEOPLE AND CULTURE
Our people are the lifeblood 
of our business and are 
critical to the successful 
delivery of the Group’s 
strategy for growth.
Organic growth, home‑ grown 
management and long‑ term careers
The long-term development and retention 
of home-grown management is critical  
to the success of the Group. We are 
extremely proud that many of our senior 
management team have been with us 
since joining as consultants and now lead 
some of our largest businesses across  
the globe.
We offer structured sales and management 
training and development programmes 
for staff along with an internal mobility 
programme which encourages successful 
staff to move around the world. We believe 
this is a key selling point of the Group and 
is critical to attracting and retaining the 
highest calibre staff both locally and 
internationally. To aid key senior staff 
retention we encourage senior 
management to participate in equity 
incentive programmes, more details 
of which can be found on page 39.
A non‑ commission and scalable  
team‑ profit share model
At the very core of the Group’s culture 
is our team-based profit-share model 
which means that unlike the majority of 
our competition we do not pay individual 
commission. This team-based profit-share 
approach ensures the needs of our clients 
and candidates come first and that our 
candidates are effectively marketed to 
a broad range of organisations.
Our culture is meritocratic with clear 
opportunities for progression and 
promotion based on performance. 
Our team-based model is scalable and 
means we are able to rapidly increase 
headcount to benefit from positive market 
conditions or conversely scale back in 
more challenging periods. In the case 
of challenging market conditions, whilst 
recognising that cost control is essential 
to protect short-term profitability, we 
do take a longer-term view and it is the 
Group’s policy to maintain headcount 
wherever possible so as to ensure we are 
well positioned to benefit from a recovery. 
Productivity 
The Group is always focused on the 
maximisation of the productivity of our 
consultants across the globe. It is essential 
that new consultants, disciplines and offices 
become productive and profitable as 
quickly as possible through the provision 
of training, desk-side management support, 
efficient and effective systems and 
best-in-class marketing.
12 yrs
Average tenure of 
senior management
59
Staff transferred internationally 
in the last three years
08 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 NON-COMMISSION
At the very core of our culture 
is our team-based profit-share 
model. We do not pay 
individual commission. 
We place the needs of our 
clients and candidates first. INNOVATION AND AWARDS
We pride ourselves on 
being at the forefront of 
industry innovation and 
creativity. It means doing 
things differently: it’s at 
the heart of who we are. 
We’re proud of what we’ve 
achieved so far but we 
don’t look back – we are 
always innovating. 
Resource Solutions
We were the first recruitment consultancy to 
launch a recruitment outsourcing business 
in 1997. Today, Resource Solutions is 
a global business using its proprietary 
technology TalentSource to shape our 
clients’ hiring strategy worldwide.
Global Salary Survey 
When it comes to thought leadership, 
many profess to lead the way but we were 
the first to launch a Global Salary Survey: 
a comprehensive 500-page guide to 
salaries and contract rates around the 
world. The first edition was released in 
2000 and the book is now in its fifteenth 
year – recognised by our clients and 
candidates as the de facto barometer of 
salary trends. 
Recruitment Intelligence
Throughout the year we produce regular 
recruitment market reports and research 
on key recruitment topics, recent papers 
include “Social Media in the Recruitment 
Process” and “Managing Your Brand  
When Hiring”. Our annual compensation 
and bonus surveys also serve as crucial 
decision-making tools for clients. Our  
Jobs Indices in Asia and Europe track 
advertising volumes to provide clients  
and candidates with key insights into  
the job market.
The British & Irish Lions
Our landmark sponsorship of The British 
& Irish Lions Tour to Hong Kong and 
Australia in 2013 was an industry first. 
Our partnership with one of the world’s 
most iconic brands matched our own 
values of professionalism, integrity and 
teamwork. Articulating our values in this 
way has been part of our strategy to grow 
our brand presence and differentiating 
the Group from our competitors.
Mobile
The Salary Checker 
Today, we’re leading the industry with a 
series of digital innovations. We launched 
the first Salary Checker app for iPhone, 
but it’s not just about being first or 
innovating for innovation sake – it’s 
about capitalising on that advantage 
to differentiate our brand amongst 
our clients and candidates. 
The Salary Checker, now available on 
iTunes and Google Play has received a 
total of 200,000 downloads, an average  
of 66,000 a year. The app has regularly 
been in the top 10 business apps and  
the number one business app in  
multiple countries.
10 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 The Manga Interview Guide
Originally designed for Japanese 
candidates the app’s quirky innovation 
has become popular across a number 
of countries. The guide has been featured 
in a number of national polls, including: the 
Daily Telegraph’s top 100 must have apps 
and the Guardian’s top 500 apps. 
The Job Search app
Our Job Search app was the first to  
allow candidates to apply for jobs without 
leaving the app – using their LinkedIn 
profile. It’s the only global job search app 
allowing candidates to search for jobs  
in 12 languages across 24 countries. 
 
 
 
Mobile Websites
We’re staying ahead of job seeker trends 
through our proactive digital strategy.
Three years ago less than 5% of our web 
traffic came from people using mobile 
devices, now it’s almost 40%. Our mobile 
sites are specifically designed for job 
seekers on the move and everything 
can be done in the mobile environment. 
Unlike competitors’ mobile experience 
where candidates need to pre-register 
from a desktop, our mobile site allows 
candidates to apply for jobs immediately 
using their LinkedIn profile. The site also 
contains a salary checker, giving access  
to over 30,000 roles types and salaries  
in 24 countries.
Japanese Mobile Site
Mobile Salary Checker
AWARDS
The Group’s commitment to quality of 
service and innovation is reflected in the 
range of awards we’ve received across 
the globe. Below are just a selection 
of our recent wins.
Recruitment International Awards: 
Best International Recruitment Firm
We earned praise from a panel of 
independent judges for our diversification 
strategy and international career 
management programme.
Recruitment Industry Awards:  
Best Agency Online Services 
Commended for our mobile app 
strategy, including our Manga Interview 
Guide and Salary Checker app. 
Federgon Quality Label for 
Interim Management
Our Belgian business was awarded  
this objective certification for the 
consistent quality of our interim 
management recruitment service, 
audited by Federgon and Lloyds 
Register Quality Assurance.
Human Resources’ Vendors 
of the Year 2013 
Over 1000 HR professionals voted 
Robert Walters’ Singapore business 
‘HR Vendor of the Year’, the top award 
in the recruitment category. The 
business was also voted number one 
Preferred Recruitment Firm across all 
salary levels in excess of $60,000  
per annum.
JOB TITLE:
Hong Kong 
Unit A, 7/F 
Wah Kit Commercial Centre 
302 Des Voeux Road Central
Sheung Wan, Hong Kong.
T: + 852-2861-1882 
F: + 852-2861-1336
Kuala Lumpur 
Suite 11.7 11th Floor 
Bangunan Yee Seng 
15 Jalan Raja Chulan 
50200 
Kuala Lumpur 
T: + 60 3 2072 0355 
F: + 60 3 2072 0395
Singapore 
100C Pasir Panjang Rd 
#05-01 See Hoy Chan Hub 
Singapore 118519
T: + 65-6423-0329 
F: + 65-6423-0117
HUMAN RESOURCES
Vendor of the Year 2012 / branding development
BLACK 70%
CMYK; 100,100,100 ,100
CMYK; 0,70,100 ,0
The brand logo proposal for Human Resources 
Vendor of the Year 2012 looks to represent itself as 
being stylish, unique, trendy and yet elegant in its 
visual image. The development of the logo itself 
aims to represent the brand image as something 
bold and relevant targeting those in the human 
resource and talent management industry.
The style of typography in the use of tits brand 
logo development is very much focused on how 
the proposed brand logo can be best represented 
in a variety of media usage both as a magazine 
cover as well as a an event branding. It has both 
bold and thin usage of fonts in its branding that 
aims to highlight the uniqueness of the logo that 
shows strength and a degree of elegance. 
The intials “VOTY” symbolises the unique qualities 
of the Vendor award winner; bold, innovative and 
transparent. The emphasis of the V in red re-em-
phasize those values as it stands out among others 
in the industry. 
The italic nature of the “VOTY” gives out a brand 
message of “leaning forward”, encompassing the 
very value of the branding qualities of the event 
and publication recognisable among its readers 
and participants.
The use of red and black highlights the contrast in 
its brand image to fully highlight the signiﬁcance 
of the brand logo as being bold and strength. It 
shows the seriousness of the brand logo in both in 
content and the mood of the event. As such this 
proposal with a mixed of slants and upright design 
in its logotype aims to appeal to its target audience 
alike with its aim in driving up sales, demand and 
brand awareness within the industry.
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 11
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am very pleased to report 
that the Group delivered 
a strong performance 
in 2013, increasing profit 
before taxation by 30% 
(41%*) against a backdrop 
of mixed global market 
conditions.
Revenue was up 5% (7%*) to £597.7m 
(2012: £567.8m) and gross profit (net fee 
income) increased by 6% (8%*) to £199.2m 
(2012: £188.4m). Operating profit was up 
28% (39%*) to £10.8m (2012: £8.5m) and 
earnings per share increased by 24% to 
8.4p per share (2012: 6.8p per share). The 
Group has further strengthened its balance 
sheet and had a net cash position of 
£18.6m as at 31 December 2013 
(31 December 2012: £11.5m). 
Group headcount currently stands at 2,307 
(2012: 2,233). Our strategy of maintaining 
our office network whilst selectively 
investing in new markets, discipline 
diversification and Resource Solutions 
has ensured we are already benefitting 
from operational gearing as some of the 
Group’s markets have begun to recover. 
The Group now has 53 offices in 
24 countries, having opened 17 offices 
over the last four years. During the year 
we have focused on maximising the return 
from this investment and as a result, the 
Group achieved an increase in recruitment 
productivity of 9% which we expect to 
continue to improve in the current year.
In line with our progressive dividend policy, 
the Board will be recommending a 5% 
increase in the final dividend to 3.86p per 
share which combined with the interim 
dividend of 1.54p per share will result in  
a total dividend of 5.4p per share  
(2012: 5.15p). 
I would like to thank Martin Griffiths, who 
retired from the Board earlier this year, for 
his seven years of service and extend a 
warm welcome to Brian McArthur-Muscroft 
who joined the Board in May. 
Finally, I would like to thank all our 
staff across the globe for their efforts 
this year. Your hard work has once again 
underpinned the success of the business 
and also resulted in us being named 
International Recruitment Firm of the 
Year by Recruitment International.
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
28 February 2014
* Constant currency is calculated by applying prior 
year exchange rates to local currency results for the 
current and prior years.
12 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ASIA PACIFIC
Offices:
Adelaide
Auckland
Bangkok
Beijing
Brisbane
Chatswood
Ho Chi Minh City
Hong Kong
Jakarta
Kuala Lumpur
Melbourne
Nanjing
Osaka
Parramatta 
Perth
Seoul
Shanghai
Singapore
Suzhou
Sydney
Taipei
Tokyo
Wellington
23 Offices
46
%
 Net fee income CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Overall conditions 
for the period were 
mixed with some of 
the Group’s markets 
showing clear signs of 
recovery, whilst others 
remained challenging. 
The last five years have been extremely 
tough for the recruitment industry but as 
demonstrated by this set of results, the 
Group continues to increase market share 
and has emerged from this period stronger 
than ever. 
The Group benefits from a diverse 
geographical, discipline and sector 
business model and a well-respected 
international brand. We have built a 
well-balanced blend of permanent and 
contract recruitment income streams  
and have successfully expanded our 
sector coverage beyond our traditional 
strength in financial services. In Resource 
Solutions, we have also created a market-
leading and growing recruitment process 
outsourcing business. 
We continue to be at the forefront of 
technology. Through our digital assets 
including our multiple market-leading 
mobile apps and our new multi-lingual 
mobile website we continue to innovate  
to deliver value to our clients and 
candidates. In addition, internally we  
have successfully completed the global  
roll out of a streamlined front office 
recruitment database. 
Review of Operations
Asia Pacific (46% of net fee income)
Revenue was £260.1m (2012: £280.6m) 
and net fee income decreased 1% 
(4% increase*) to £92.1m (£97.4m*) 
(2012: £93.4m) delivering an operating 
profit increase of 1% (11%*) to £7.2m 
(£8.0m*) (2012: £7.2m).
Our market-leading business in Japan 
delivered a record performance with the 
internationalisation of business driving 
strong demand for bilingual professionals. 
Our operation in Malaysia goes from 
strength to strength and is a market leader 
in what is a rapidly developing recruitment 
market, where we have a clear first mover 
advantage. Market conditions in 
Singapore, Hong Kong and China remain 
positive. It’s also pleasing to report strong 
net fee income growth in our newer and 
smaller businesses in Taiwan, Thailand, 
South Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam.
Market conditions in Australia, the region’s 
largest market, remain challenging with 
the resources sector affecting confidence 
levels across the wider economy. Our 
Brisbane and Perth offices were hardest 
hit; however, our offices in New South 
Wales, Victoria and South Australia were 
impacted to a lesser degree. We have 
already taken steps to realign the business 
accordingly reducing headcount by 18%.
Our investment in setting up Resource 
Solutions in Asia continues to deliver net 
fee income growth, with a number of new 
client wins during the period. 
continued on page 16
+30
%
Increase in profit before taxation
* Constant currency is calculated by applying prior 
year exchange rates to local currency results for the 
current and prior years.
14 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 UK
Offices:
Birmingham 
Guildford 
London 
Milton Keynes  
Manchester
5 Offices
29
%
 Net fee income UK (29% of net fee income)
Revenue was £235.7m (2012: £193.2m) 
and net fee income increased by 15% to 
£57.2m (2012: £49.7m) producing a six-fold 
increase in operating profit to £2.5m  
(2012: £0.4m).
In London, financial services hiring 
activity remained generally muted; however, 
we continue to successfully diversify and 
develop our offering in areas such as legal, 
IT and most recently supply chain and 
procurement. Our regional recruitment 
businesses – Manchester, Birmingham, 
Milton Keynes and Guildford – produced 
a particularly strong performance across 
all recruitment disciplines. 
Resource Solutions in the UK had an 
excellent year both winning new clients 
and retaining existing business across 
both commerce and financial services. 
Europe (21% of net fee income)
Revenue was £93.9m (2012: £87.8m) 
and net fee income increased 6% (2%*) 
to £42.0m (£40.2m*) (2012: £39.6m) 
producing an increase in operating 
profit to £1.3m (£1.2m*) (2012: £1.2m).
France, the region’s largest business, 
produced a robust performance, growing 
market share in a country where market 
conditions have arguably been toughest. 
Net fee income growth rates were 
strongest across the Group’s Benelux 
operations, with Walters People, our junior 
clerical recruitment business, in particular 
the stand-out performer. In Germany, we 
continue to grow net fee income strongly 
and we are seeing encouraging signs 
from our business in Spain.
Other International (4% of net fee income)
Revenue was £8.0m (2012: £6.1m) and 
net fee income increased by 38% (44%*) to 
£7.9m (£8.3m*) (2012: £5.7m) producing an 
operating loss of £0.2m (operating loss of 
£0.3m*) (2012: operating loss of £0.4m).
Other International comprises South Africa, 
the US, Brazil and the Middle East. Our 
business in South Africa had an excellent 
year growing net fee income strongly. 
Improving confidence in the US has helped 
boost activity levels in our New York office 
and the technology boom in San Francisco 
shows no signs of abating. In Brazil, 
market conditions remain difficult but our 
São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro operations 
have delivered solid net fee income growth. 
The Group opened a new office in Dubai, 
our first in the Middle East region. 
Current trading outlook
Trading for the first two months of 2014 
has been encouraging. Whilst we are seeing 
definite signs of recovery in some of our 
markets, others including major markets 
such as Australia and France remain 
challenging. The Group is well positioned 
to continue to deliver enhanced profitability 
in line with current market expectations.
Robert Walters
Chief Executive
28 February 2014
* Constant currency is calculated by applying prior 
year exchange rates to local currency results for the 
current and prior years.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
16 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 EUROPE
Offices:
Amsterdam
Brussels (x3)
Dublin
Düsseldorf
Eindhoven
Frankfurt
Ghent
Luxembourg
Lyon
Madrid
Paris (x3)
Rotterdam
Strasbourg
Zaventem
Zürich
19 Offices
21
 %
Net fee income FINANCIAL REVIEW
Revenue
Revenue increased 5% to £597.7m (2012: 
£567.8m) with 51.7% (2012: 51.6%) of the 
annual total being generated in the second 
half of the year. The Group continues to 
focus on consultant productivity, reducing 
headcount in areas of weak demand and 
hiring selectively in the areas of the 
business where recruitment activity 
levels are increasing.
Gross profit (net fee income)
Net fee income is the total placement 
fees of permanent candidates, the margin 
earned on the placement of contract 
candidates and the margin from 
advertising. It also includes the 
outsourcing, consultancy and payrolling 
margin earned by Resource Solutions.
Net fee income for the year increased by 
6% to £199.2m (2012: £188.4m). Net fee 
income was £101.4m in the second half 
compared to £97.8m in the first half (2012: 
1H £92.4m, 2H £96.0m). The increase in 
net fee income was due to growth in both 
the permanent Robert Walters divisions 
and the Resource Solutions business. 
Operating profit
Operating profit increased by 28% to 
£10.8m (2012: £8.5m) and administrative 
expenses were £188.4m (2012: £179.9m). 
The principal reason for the 5% increase 
in costs was due to an increase of 4% in 
the Group’s average headcount to 2,273 
in 2013, up from 2,193 during 2012.
Interest and financing costs
The Group incurred a net interest charge 
for the year of £0.7m (2012: £0.7m). The 
Group has a £35.0m three-year committed 
financing facility until November 2016. 
At 31 December 2013, £11.0m was drawn 
down under this facility. The Group also 
has an outstanding loan of £0.5m which 
was used to finance the growth in working 
capital of our business in China. This 
Renminbi-denominated loan is secured  
by cash deposits in Hong Kong and is 
repayable in instalments over four years. 
More details are provided in note 13 
to the accounts.
Revenue for the Group is 
the total income from the 
placement of permanent 
and contract staff, and 
therefore includes the 
remuneration costs of 
contract candidates and 
the total cost of advertising 
recharged to clients. It 
also includes outsourcing 
fees, consultancy fees 
and the margin derived 
from payrolling contracts 
charged by Resource 
Solutions to its clients.
+6
%
Net fee income
continued on page 20
18 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 OTHER INTERNATIONAL
Offices:
Dubai
Johannesburg
New York
Rio de Janeiro  
São Paulo  
San Francisco
6Offices
4
 %
Net fee income FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Interest and financing costs continued
A foreign exchange loss of £0.1m arose 
during the year on translation of the 
Group’s intercompany trading accounts 
and external borrowings (2012: loss  
of £0.1m).
Taxation
The tax charge in 2013 was £3.9m (2012: 
£2.8m) which gives an effective rate of 38.9% 
(2012: 36.7%). The tax rate is higher than 
the standard UK rate of 23.25% due to the 
impact of adjustments to accounting profit in 
the tax calculation, primarily higher rates of 
overseas taxation in Japan, Australia and 
France and disallowable entertainment.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 8.4p 
(2012: 6.8p) and the weighted average 
number of shares for the year was 73.0m  
(2012: 71.2m).
Dividend and dividend policy
A final dividend of 3.86p (2012: 3.68p) per 
ordinary share is being proposed by the 
Board. Together with the interim dividend 
of 1.54p (2012: 1.47p) per ordinary share 
paid in October 2013, the total dividend 
per share would amount to 5.4p (2012: 
5.15p). The final dividend, if approved, 
which amounts to £2.8m, will be paid 
on 13 June 2014 to those shareholders 
on the register as at 23 May 2014.
Balance sheet
The Group had net assets of £73.9m at 
31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: 
£71.5m) including goodwill of £8.0m (2012: 
£7.9m). The increase in the Group net 
assets of £2.4m comprises profit for the 
year of £6.2m, credits relating to share 
schemes of £3.9m, offset by dividends 
paid of £3.8m and currency movements 
of £5.2m.
Cash flow and net cash position
At 31 December 2013, the Group had net 
cash balances of £18.6m (31 December 
2012: £11.5m). Cash inflow from operating 
activities was £19.2m (2012: £11.3m).
The significant payments made from 
operational cash flow were £1.4m of fixed 
asset expenditure, £2.8m of corporation 
tax payments, £3.8m of dividends and 
£1.1m on computer software. The Group 
had positive cash flows from operations 
and is currently well placed to meet future 
working capital cash requirements. 
Surplus cash balances are invested  
with financial institutions with favourable 
credit ratings that offer competitive rates  
of return.
Subsidiary undertakings
The subsidiary undertakings principally 
affecting the profits or net assets of the 
Group in the year are listed in note 10 
to the accounts.
Going concern
Details on the Directors continuing to 
adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the accounts can be found on page 28.
20 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 Key performance indicators
KPI 2013 2012 Definition Analysis
Net fee income £199.2m £188.4m Net fee income is the total placement 
fees of permanent candidates, the 
margin earned on the placement of 
contract candidates and the margin 
from advertising. It also includes the 
outsourcing, consulting and payrolling 
margin earned by Resource Solutions.
Net fee income grew by 6% with a further 
two offices opened during the year, in line 
with the Group’s strategy for growth across 
both existing and new markets.
Productivity £161.4k £148.3k Productivity represents the total net fee 
income generated per fee earner.
In 2013, productivity improved by 9% as 
the Group capitalised on improving market 
conditions across many of our markets and 
especially in the UK.
Earnings per 
share
8.4p 6.8p Earnings per share is defined as profit for 
the year attributable to the Group’s equity 
shareholders, divided by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during 
the year.
The increase reflects the increase in 
profitability of the Group during the year.
Total 
shareholder 
return (TSR)
9.8% 16.0% TSR is share price growth plus dividends 
attributable to shareholders over a 
three-year period.
The increase reflects the upturn in share 
price growth over the three-year period 
ended 31 December 2013, albeit lower than 
the corresponding three-year period ended 
31 December 2012.
International mix 71% 74% International mix represents the percentage 
of net fee income generated outside 
UK operations.
There has been a 3% reduction in the 
international mix, primarily due to the  
pace of the recovery of the UK business 
during 2013.
Debtor days 26 34 Debtor days represents the length of 
time it takes the Company to receive 
payments from its debtors. It is 
calculated by reference to the number 
of days’ billings it takes to cover the 
debtor balance.
Tight control over debtor collection 
assists in reducing the overall risk profile 
of the business. This has decreased and 
the overall position on recoverability is 
considered best in class.
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 21
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, 
environmental and ethical (SEE) matters. The Board monitors 
all significant risks to the Group, including SEE risks, which may 
impact the Group’s short and long-term value. During 2013, 
no significant SEE risks were identified.
(i) Our people 
Growing leaders for tomorrow
Our people are the lifeblood of our business and our philosophy is 
one of providing continuous professional development and learning 
opportunities to all staff with the aim of growing our future leaders from 
within. We are extremely proud that many of our senior management 
team across the globe started their careers with us as consultants 
and now manage businesses in different parts of the world. 
Training
Employees participate in structured training programmes, covering 
formal skills training through to ongoing mentoring from senior 
members of staff. Activities include:
 – Induction training: including Group values, diversity, 
the provision of high-quality service levels to clients and 
candidates, marketing, HR and legal policies and procedures.
 – Consultant sales training: modular core skills training 
programmes for consultants. Two to three-day courses spread 
over the first two years of a consultant’s tenure with the Group.
 – Management training for both fee-earning and support staff.
 – Leadership training and development courses for Directors.
International mobility
Our international mobility programme is an important factor that 
underpins our strategy of international growth and diversification 
and enables us to replicate the Group’s core values across our 
office network. The programme offers successful fee-earning 
and back office staff the opportunity to transfer to the Group’s 
businesses overseas, providing valuable international business 
exposure and opportunities to replicate best practice.
(ii) FTSE4Good index
The Group has held FTSE4Good status since 
2008. FTSE4Good index inclusion criteria covers 
a number of corporate responsibility themes, such 
as environmental management, climate change, 
countering bribery and supply chain labour 
standards. Our continued inclusion in the index recognises that 
our policies and management systems enable us to address 
and mitigate key corporate responsibility risks.
(iii) Diversity
We are an equal opportunities employer and fully embrace the 
principles of diversity and equality. We aim to provide a working 
environment and culture that recognises and values difference 
and believe that having a diverse workforce not only allows us to 
benefit from a variety of perspectives but also ensures we fully 
realise the Group’s potential right across the globe.
Our diversity policy forms a critical part of our staff induction 
programme and all employees participate in our diversity workshops.
Diversity is as critical an issue for our candidate population and 
clients as it is for our own staff. All candidates are encouraged to 
complete an equal opportunities form on registration, the data from 
which is important to both the Group and our clients to ensure we 
are introducing candidates from the widest possible talent pool 
and helping clients fulfil their own diversity programmes.
During the year, we were a member of the Employers Forum on 
Disability, the world’s leading employers’ organisation focused on 
disability as it affects business, with the intention of ensuring the 
Group is at the forefront of developments in diversity best practice.
The Group is also in the process of a Clear Assured assessment. 
Clear Assured is a development programme designed to identify 
and remove barriers in policies, processes and practices in 
recruitment which potentially exclude disabled people. The Clear 
Assured process is an online self assessment undertaken by 
organisations, with the objective of attaining full accreditation.
In accordance with The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 the Group has provided 
the following table on gender diversity:
2013 2012
Male Female Total Male Female Total
Board Directors 6 1 7 6 1 7
Senior Managers
1
103 39 142 94 34 128
Other employees 812 1,312 2,124 815 1,234 2,049
Total 921 1,352 2,273 915 1,269 2,184
1 A senior manager is a person who has responsibility for planning, directing or 
controlling significant activities within the Group, or who is strategically important 
to part of the Group. This will include any operating country or regional Directors 
and functional heads of department.
The Board has a policy to encourage diversity, including gender 
and this was a focus of the Nominations Committee during the 
current year. From 1 January 2014, the Board has a policy to 
ensure that there will be an equal gender quota for any future 
long list for a Board appointment.
(iv) Employee communication and involvement
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued its best practice of keeping them 
informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the 
various factors affecting the performance of the Group:
 – Biannual videocasts to all staff by the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Operating Officer.
 – Quarterly global newsletters and regular local business updates.
 – Top performers events: international events for high-performing 
consultants and managers.
The Directors consider that the ability of employees to participate 
in the share ownership of the Company is vital for the success 
of the Group. The Group currently operates a number of share 
incentive schemes and details of the Executive Share Option 
Schemes are included in note 18 to the accounts.
(v) Human rights and ethical behaviour
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business 
the Group regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair 
treatment and respect for privacy to be the most relevant and to 
have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups 
of clients, candidates, employees and suppliers.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group 
upholds and promotes respect for human rights. The Group seeks 
to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential negative human 
22 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts through its 
policies and procedures and, in particular, through its policies 
regarding employment, equality and diversity.
Group policies seek both to ensure that employees comply with all 
applicable legislation and regulation and to promote good practice. 
The Group’s policies are formulated and kept up to date by the 
relevant business areas, authorised by the Board and 
communicated to all employees.
The Group has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and 
corruption. The Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy (with specific reference 
to the Bribery Act) is issued to all employees.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of the implementation 
of all of its policies and has not been made aware of significant 
breaches of policies or any incident in which the organisation’s 
activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
(vi) Charity and supporting local communities
Commitment to our local communities continued during the year 
with a range of activities taking place across the world. In total 
the Group made charitable donations of £32,000 (2012: £51,000).
Staff in every country participated in our second annual Global 
Charity on Friday 11 October 2013, raising £40,000 through a 
winning display of initiative and creativity. A ‘stroke for stroke’ 
row-athon in the UK raised much needed funds for the Stroke 
Association, the San Francisco team gave their time to Larkin 
Street Youth Volunteering and 28 members of the Paris business 
completed the ‘20 Kilomètres de Paris’.
Running for good causes was a theme across many countries. 
Staff in Düsseldorf and Frankfurt raced to support African Angels, 
a charity promoting entrepreneurialism in Africa, and they also 
supported Ambulanter Kinderhospizdienst, an organisation helping 
children with serious illnesses. The Swiss team also took part in 
Run4Kids, donating money to support local schools, especially 
in low income areas.
Elsewhere in Europe, the Amsterdam business continued 
supporting Stichting Doe een Wens (Make a Wish Foundation).  
The Irish business took part in Ireland’s Largest Coffee Morning – 
in aid of the Irish Hospice Foundation. The Dublin team also raised 
money for their chosen charity partner, Spinal Injuries Ireland.
Since 2005, our Australian business has been a major supporter 
of the North Bondi Surf Life Saving Club – the oldest life saving 
institution in Australia. Our contributions enabled the club to 
purchase state-of-the-art life saving equipment, to help continue 
to protect all those who enjoy the beach. Sydney also supported 
both the Tour de Cure and the Melanoma Institute. Brisbane 
raised funds for multiple sclerosis research and in Perth, two team 
members embarked on 50km bike ride from Fremantle to Hillarie’s 
boat Harbour in aid of Multiple Sclerosis. New Zealand continued 
to support Plunket – an organisation working with families and 
communities to give the best start for every child.
Japan supported the Run for the Cure Foundation, whose mission 
is to eradicate breast cancer in Japan through education, timely 
screening and treatment. The team also supported FIT for Charity. 
The Financial Industry in Tokyo (FIT) makes a difference by raising 
money for local community organisations which serve important 
but not necessarily well recognised or understood needs.
Across China, staff raised funds to support those affected by 
the Sichuan Ya’an earthquake. The Shanghai office raised funds 
for three organisations: Bo’ai Children’s Healing Centre, Jin Feng 
Nursery House, and Jin Hu Kindergarten. In Singapore, staff 
volunteered at the Willing Hearts Foundation, providing meals 
for those in need.
In New York the team conducted mock interviews to support Per 
Scholas students. Per Scholas work to break the cycle of poverty 
by providing technology education, access, training and job 
placement services for people in low-income communities 
across the state.
(vii) Environment 
While it is recognised that the Group does not operate in a 
business sector that can cause significant pollution, the Board 
ensures that all the environmental aspects of the Group’s activities 
are evaluated. As a result, the Group’s environmental policy seeks 
to reduce its environmental impacts by encouraging waste 
segregation and the reduction of energy consumption.
The Group is active in working towards the achievement of 
local Environmental Management Standards. In 2013, 26.8% 
of the Group’s employees worldwide were operating in locations 
which were certified to ISO14001, the International Standard for 
Environmental Management. The Standard provides a framework 
for achieving the balance between maintaining profitability while 
setting targets for improving the organisation’s environmental 
performance. The Group’s compliance with ISO14001 and its 
drive for continuous environmental performance improvement 
is independently assessed by British Standards Institution (BSI).
It is the Group’s intention that best practice from our accredited 
environmental management system established in these countries 
be deployed across the Group worldwide. Environmental initiatives 
that are in place across the Group include: 
Carbon emissions
See disclosure on greenhouse gas reporting overleaf. 
Recycling
Policies and procedures continue to be enhanced for the shredding, 
segregation and recycling of waste across the majority of our 
offices globally. 
Suppliers 
The Group continues to evaluate the environmental credentials 
of key suppliers, where necessary by following a physical audit 
trail, including those that dispose of waste, and ensures that 
they are aware of the Group’s Environmental Code of Practice. 
Electricity 
Where possible, the Group’s offices have adopted a policy of 
obtaining electricity from renewable sources or from suppliers 
that have adopted green energy purchase procedures. 
Energy conservation 
Across the office network, the Group promotes the acquisition of 
low energy office equipment and the installation of lighting systems 
that are controlled by motion sensors. PCs automatically shutdown 
at 11pm every night. 
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 23
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 Throughout 2013 the Group has continued with its policy that new 
or redeveloped properties occupied for recruitment operations 
have a BREEAM
1
 efficiency rating of ‘very good’ or higher.
1 Building Research Establishment (BREEAM) is the world’s foremost environmental 
assessment method and rating system for buildings. ‘Very Good’ has become the 
standard for all new government and public buildings.
(viii) Greenhouse gas reporting
Greenhouse gas regulations
From September 2013, the Mandatory Carbon Reporting 
requirements prescribed by the Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
(Directors’ Regulations Report) came into effect. This section 
includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions 
pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations).
Reporting year
The greenhouse gas emissions report has been prepared based 
on a reporting year of 1 January to 31 December 2013, which is 
the same as the Group’s financial reporting period.
Organisational boundary
The Group has chosen to report based on an operational 
boundary and all entities and offices which are either owned or 
under operational control have been included. 
Methodology and scope
The methodology used to calculate the Group’s emissions is 
based on the “Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including 
mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance” 
(June 2013) issued by the Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs (DEFRA). The Group has also utilised DEFRA’s 2013 
conversion factors within the reporting methodology.
The greenhouse gas emissions data has been prepared 
with reference to GHG protocol, which categorises greenhouse 
gas emissions into three scopes. Reporting on emissions from 
Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect GHG 
emissions) activities are mandatory. The reporting of Scope 3 
(other indirect emissions from sources not owned or controlled 
by the company) emissions are voluntary and therefore the 
Group report on all those Scope 3 activities which it feels have 
a significant impact on its greenhouse gas emissions. All other 
Scope 3 activities have been considered but the Group feels that 
the impact of these was so limited in respect of potential impact  
so as to be negligible and has decided not to disclose these 
activities within this report. This decision will be reviewed on 
an annual basis or sooner if changes are made to regulatory  
reporting requirements.
Emissions data has been reported for all of the offices we operate 
in globally. The only Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data that we 
have omitted relates to electricity usage from seven offices relating 
to 3% of the Group’s headcount that cannot be separated from 
the overall service charge on that property. The Group, however, 
is putting procedures in place to enable the Group to report on 
these omitted emissions in the next reporting year. 
Intensity metric
The Group has recorded the total global emissions, in tonnes 
of CO
2
e, and has decided to use an intensity metric of tonnes 
of CO
2
e per head, which the Group believes is the most relevant 
indication of our growth and provides the best comparative 
measure over time.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data
The table below shows the total global emissions, in tonnes 
of CO
2
e and tonnes of CO
2
e per head for the Group:
Greenhouse Gas Emission Source
2013  
tCO
2
e
2013 
tCO
2
e  
per head
Scope 1
Vehicle fleet 106 0.05
Total Scope 1 Emissions 106 0.05
Scope 2
Purchased electricity and heat 1,881 0.97
Total Scope 2 Emissions 1,881 0.97
Scope 3
Business travel – Air 542 0.28
Business travel – Land
1
210 0.11
Transmission and distribution 146 0.08
Total Scope 3 Emissions 898 0.47
Total Group Emissions 2,885 1.49
1 Land travel includes all forms of land transport, such as rail and taxi, but excludes 
travel in the Group’s vehicle fleet. The appropriate conversion factor for the 
method of transportation is applied to the distance travelled.
Baseline data
As this is the first year of reporting there is no requirement for the 
Group to provide prior year comparatives. The current year data 
forms the baseline data for subsequent periods.
Reducing carbon
The Group is targeting to reduce CO
2
e per head emissions by 20% 
across the Group by 2023, from a FY 2013 baseline.
The Group continues to actively reduce the carbon footprint of the 
business through: 
 – Consulting closely with the Carbon Trust and considering 
its recommendations as environmental objectives;
 – Establishing objectives for minimising travel to that which 
is totally necessary; and 
 – Offsetting travel-related carbon emissions through an 
accredited re-forestation scheme covering the UK, Europe and 
Asia Pacific. 
(ix) Health and safety
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the implementation 
of the Group’s health and safety policy, with specific operational 
responsibility delegated to managers at each location. Every effort 
is made to ensure that all national safety requirements are met 
at all times and there were no notable injuries or identified health 
and safety issues identified during the year.
(x) Political donations
The Group made no political donations during the year (2012: £nil).
To read more about the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
activities, please visit www.robertwalters.com
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT CONTINUED
24 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Risk Actions to mitigate risk
Economic environment – Job availability 
and the level of candidate confidence in 
the employment market are important 
factors in determining the total number 
of recruitment transactions in a given 
year. Candidates are less inclined to move 
jobs when the number of jobs available 
is stagnant or in decline, which could 
lead to a deterioration in the Group’s 
financial performance.
The Group is geographically diversified with offices in 24 countries which reduces the 
reliance on the success of any particular market. The Group also continues to develop its 
contract and Resource Solutions businesses, both of which provide more resilient revenue 
streams in the event of an economic downturn.
The Board’s strategy when facing a slowdown in a market is to balance the cost base,  
such that the impact on profit is mitigated, against the perceived future benefit from the 
retention of key staff. Historically, the Group has benefitted substantially from increased 
operational gearing as a result of its policy of deliberately retaining key staff through 
economic downturns.
People management – The Group relies 
heavily on recruiting and retaining talented 
individuals with the right skill-sets to grow 
the business. In addition, as the Group 
expands its operations in emerging 
markets the supply of people with the 
required skills in specific geographic 
regions may be limited. The failure to 
attract and retain key employees with 
the required sales, management and 
leadership skills may adversely affect 
the Group’s financial results.
The Group’s policy of linking bonuses to profitability in discrete operating units has a high 
correlation to the retention of efficient and effective members of staff.
The long-term incentive schemes that are detailed in note 18 to the accounts also form 
a key part of a wider strategy to improve levels of staff retention, particularly of the Group’s 
senior employees.
Other elements of the strategy to improve staff retention and maximise career opportunities 
include significant investment of time and financial resources in employee training and 
development including regular appraisals, aimed at core consultant competencies and 
focused on enhancing management potential. A comprehensive approach to succession 
planning is also in place across the Group.
The Group offers international career opportunities and actively encourages the 
redeployment of existing talent to grow new businesses and establish new offices.
Brand and reputation – There is an 
inherent risk that the brand and reputation 
of the Group could be impacted by a 
failure to maintain high-quality service 
levels to both candidates and clients.
Quality control standards are maintained and reviewed for each stage of the recruitment 
cycle with all new employees receiving appropriate levels of training applicable to their role.
Candidate and client satisfaction surveys are carried out on a regular basis, with Directors 
addressing any negative feedback directly with the client or candidate.
A ‘Contact us’ email address is available on the Group’s website so any negative feedback 
or improper conduct can be acted upon swiftly by the Group Marketing Director and local 
senior management.
Risk management process
The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively 
monitoring the full range of financial and non-financial risks 
facing the business, at both a local and Group level. By regularly 
reviewing the risk profile of the business, the Board ensures that 
the risk exposure remains appropriate at any point in the cycle. The 
effectiveness of the risk management process is monitored by the 
Audit Committee. The process involves identifying and prioritising 
the key risks within the Group, and developing and implementing 
appropriate mitigation strategies to address those risks.
We review our risks in terms of likelihood of occurrence and 
potential impact on the business and the Audit Committee 
reviews and considers the extent to which management has 
addressed the key risks through appropriate controls and actions 
to mitigate those risks. Each local management team continues to 
consider key risk areas at least annually and review their system 
of internal controls to ensure that each risk area is addressed 
within the business. The Internal Audit function reviews and tests 
the effectiveness of these controls to ensure that risk is being 
managed properly.
A summary of the key risks that we believe could potentially impact 
the Group’s operating and financial performance, together with 
associated key actions, is shown below:
 ROBERT WALTERS PLC 25
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 The Strategic Report, outlined on pages 1 to 26, incorporates the 2013 Highlights, Robert Walters at a Glance, Our Business, Our Strategy, 
Our People and Culture, Innovation and Awards, the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive’s Statement, the Financial Review, 
Corporate Responsibility Statement and Principal Risks and Uncertainties. 
By order of the Board,
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
28 February 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL
Risk Actions to mitigate risk
Laws and regulations – The Group 
operates in a number of diverse 
jurisdictions and has to comply with 
numerous domestic and international 
laws and regulations, any change to which 
could have a detrimental effect on the 
Group’s financial performance.
To ensure compliance, our legal department works with leading external advisors as required 
to monitor potential changes in employment legislation across the markets in which we operate.
Contractual terms and conditions are thoroughly reviewed before signing to ensure contract 
provisions are fully understood and risks are fairly allocated between parties.
An escalation process exists such that contracts with non-standard terms are reviewed and 
approved by the Group Counsel and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate.
Technology – The Group is reliant on its 
technological infrastructure to maintain 
client and candidate data. A critical 
infrastructure or system disruption could 
have a material impact on the Group’s 
financial results, whilst a loss of confidential 
and competitive information can have 
an adverse impact on operations. Local 
disasters can also impact the day-to-day 
operations of the business.
The Group maintains a comprehensive IT security policy, which is reviewed on a regular 
basis, covering all areas of IT security from user access through to server access.
All sensitive candidate and customer information is held securely with restricted access.
The Group continues to review and improve its Business Continuity Plan to mitigate against 
any critical infrastructure disruptions.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED
26 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 27
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Overview
The Directors present their Annual Report on the activities of the 
Group, together with the financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2013.
The Strategic Report provides information relating to the 
Group’s activities, its business and strategy, the principal risks 
and uncertainties faced by the business and environmental and 
employee matters. These sections, together with the Corporate 
Governance and the Directors’ Remuneration reports provide an 
overview of the Group and give an indication of future developments 
in the Group’s business, so providing a balanced assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects in accordance with the latest 
narrative reporting requirements.
Results and dividends
The Group’s audited financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2013 are set out on pages 56 to 75 and the 
Company’s audited financial statements are set out on pages  
76 to 78. The Group’s profit after taxation for the year ended 
31 December 2013 was £6,156,000 (2012: £4,887,000).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.86p per ordinary 
share (2012: 3.68p) to be paid on 13 June 2014, to shareholders 
on the register on 23 May 2014, which together with the interim 
dividend of 1.54p paid on 18 October 2013 makes a total of 5.4p 
per share for the year (2012: 5.15p).
Directors
The Directors who served during the year and at the date of this 
report are shown as follows:
Leslie Van de Walle
1
 
Robert C Walters
Giles P Daubeney
Alan R Bannatyne
Martin A Griffiths
1
 (resigned 1 August 2013)
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
1
 (appointed 1 May 2013)
Andrew D Kemp
1
Carol Hui
1
1 Non-executive Directors.
Details of the Directors’ service contracts are shown in the Report 
of the Remuneration Committee on page 51. 
Details of share options granted to Directors and the interests 
of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown 
on pages 40 to 42.
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions 
for the benefit of its Directors, which were made during the year and 
remain in force at the date of this report.
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year, are shown in note 17 . Each share carries the right 
to one vote at general meetings of the Company. Further information 
on the voting and other rights of shareholders, including deadlines 
for exercising voting rights, are set out in the Company’s Articles of 
Association and in the explanatory notes that accompany the Notice 
of the Annual General Meeting which are available on the Company’s 
website at www.robertwalters.com.
Restrictions on securities
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or on voting rights. Awards of shares under 
the Company’s incentive arrangements, the Performance Share 
Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme, are subject to 
restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
Certain share awards under the Company’s incentive arrangements 
are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries. The Trustee of the 
Robert Walters Employee Benefit Trust does not seek to exercise 
the voting rights on these shares.
Substantial shareholdings
On 28 February 2014 the Company has been notified, in accordance 
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the 
following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company:
Name of shareholder 
Number  
of shares %
Blackrock 12,528,712 16.28
Schroder Investment Management 11,830,854 15.37
Aberforth Partners 6,599,088 8.57
Kames Capital 5,558,825 7.22
JPMorgan Asset Management 4,132,399 5.37
Standard Life Investments 3,322,599 4.32
Robert Walters PLC EBT 3,305,159 4.29
Scottish Widows 2,756,309 3.58
Aberdeen Asset Management 2,600,000 3.38
Robert C Walters 2,450,805 3.18 28 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Appointment and retirement of Directors
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more 
Directors. The Board may appoint any person to be a Director  
(so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the  
limit prescribed in the Articles of Association). The UK Corporate 
Governance Code recommends that all Directors be subject  
to annual re-election by shareholders. Therefore, all Directors  
will offer themselves for re-election at the 2014 Annual  
General Meeting.
Power of Company’s Directors and acquisition of 
Company’s own shares
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, 
who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to legislation, 
the provisions of the Articles of Association and any directions given 
by special resolution.
The Directors were authorised at the Company’s last Annual 
General Meeting, held on 24 May 2013, to make market purchases 
of ordinary shares representing up to 10% of its share capital at 
that time and to allot shares within certain limits permitted by 
shareholders and the Companies Act. The Directors intend to 
renew this authority annually and will continue to exercise this 
power only when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at 
the time, they believe that the effect of such purchases will be to 
increase earnings per share and will likely promote the success 
of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole. 
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company did not 
purchase any ordinary shares of the Company. 
Provisions on change of control 
The Company’s revolving credit facility agreement for £35.0m 
includes a provision for a lending counterparty to amend, alter or 
cancel the relevant commitment to the Group following a change 
of control of the Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director 
or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office 
or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions 
of the Company’s share plans may cause options and awards 
to vest on a takeover.
Articles of Association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended 
by a special resolution of the members.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely 
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out on pages 18 to 21. The Group’s principal risks and 
uncertainties are also set out on pages 25 and 26.
The Group had £18.6m of net cash at 31 December 2013 and 
further details of the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, 
liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described within the 
Financial Review. In addition, note 16 to the accounts includes 
the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing 
its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of 
its financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure 
to credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Despite the volatile and uncertain global economic conditions, 
the Group remains confident of its long-term growth prospects. 
The Group has a strong balance sheet and considerable financial 
resources, together with a diverse range of clients and suppliers 
across different geographic locations and sectors. As a 
consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, 
at the time of approving the accounts, that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, 
the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the accounts.
Auditor and disclosure of information to the Auditor
As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each 
of the Directors as at 28 February 2014 confirms that:
 – So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and
 – The Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Group’s Auditor 
is aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office 
as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 May 2014 and the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, including an explanation of 
the special business of the meeting, will be sent out in due course.
By order of the Board,
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
28 February 2014
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 29
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Leslie Van de Walle (57)
Chairman
Leslie is Non-executive Chairman of SIG plc and he is also a 
Director of Cape plc. He was formerly Chief Executive Officer of 
Rexam plc, Executive Vice President of Global Retail, a division of 
Royal Dutch Shell plc and a Non-executive Director of Aegis Group 
plc and Aviva plc. He also previously held a number of senior 
management positions with Cadbury Schweppes plc and United 
Biscuits Limited. Leslie was appointed as Non-executive Chairman 
of Robert Walters plc with effect from 1 October 2012.
Robert Walters (59)
Chief Executive
After three years at Touche Ross, Robert joined Michael Page 
as one of its very first employees. After an eight-year period which 
included setting up the New York office, he returned to London 
and established, in 1985, Robert Walters, specialising in junior to 
middle management professional positions. Robert Walters plc 
now has 53 offices in 24 countries.
Giles Daubeney (52)
Chief Operating Officer
After working in recruitment for Accountancy Selection Limited 
and Badenoch & Clark Limited, Giles joined the Group in 1988. 
From 1990 to 1994, he was based in Amsterdam and responsible 
for the Group’s Dutch and Belgian operations. Giles was appointed 
to the role of Chief Operating Officer in 1999, and was appointed 
to the Board of Robert Walters plc in July 2000.
Alan Bannatyne (44)
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte & Touche, 
Alan was Commercial Manager of Primecom and then Financial 
Director of Foresight, both subsidiaries of Primedia, a listed South 
African Media Group. Alan joined Robert Walters plc as Group 
Financial Controller in September 2002 and was appointed to  
the Board of Robert Walters plc as Chief Financial Officer in  
March 2007.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft (49)
Non-executive Director
Brian qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
PricewaterhouseCoopers in London and in 2012 was chosen as 
the ICAEW’s FTSE 250 Finance Director of the Year. Brian has held 
the positions of Group Finance Director at TelecityGroup, Viatel and 
Eckoh Technologies plc and also CFO of Cable & Wireless HKT 
Multimedia. He holds a Law degree, is a member of the Corporate 
Development Board for the NSPCC and the Responsible Officer for 
Hockerill Anglo European College, a leading secondary school in 
Hertfordshire. Brian is also a trustee of Touraid, a children’s charity 
which brings disadvantaged children and young adults to the UK 
through the creation of long-term links with UK schools and clubs. 
Brian was appointed to the Board of Robert Walters plc in May 2013.
Andrew Kemp (63)
Non-executive Director
Andrew is the Group HR Director at De La Rue plc. He previously 
held Group HR Director appointments at Bovis, Transport 
Development Group plc, News International, Aegis and Rentokil 
Initial plc. Prior to Bovis, Andrew held a number of HR appointments 
at the rank of Captain and Major in the British Army. Andrew was 
appointed to the Board of Robert Walters plc in November 2007.
Carol Hui (57)
Non-executive Director
Carol is a qualified lawyer and a senior executive with extensive 
legal and commercial experience. She is the General Counsel and 
Group Company Secretary of BAA and a member of its Executive 
Committee. Previously, she has held the positions of Board 
Director and General Counsel of Amey plc, Group Legal Director 
and Company Secretary of TDG plc and Deputy General Counsel 
of BG plc. She was also a solicitor with Slaughter and May. Carol 
was awarded European General Counsel of the Year by the 
International Law Office and Association of Corporate Counsel. 
She also served as a member of the Review Body on Doctors’ 
and Dentists’ Remuneration. She is a Non-executive Director and 
trustee of the national charity Action for Blind People. Carol was 
appointed to the Board of Robert Walters plc in January 2012.
DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS
Registered office
11 Slingsby Place
St Martin’s Courtyard
London WC2E 9AB
Registered number
3956083
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
Solicitors
Dechert
160 Queen Victoria Street
London EC4V 4QQ
Stockbrokers
Investec
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Principal bankers
Barclays
Level 28
1 Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HP
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU 30 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report that your Company has again complied in full throughout the year with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a Board, we are pleased with the progress that the Group has made to ensure high standards of corporate governance are 
maintained. We monitor developments and trends in corporate governance both in the UK and internationally, adopting any emerging 
practice we feel would improve our governance whether or not it becomes mandatory. 
One of our core values that is continually communicated within the Group is a belief that the highest standards of integrity are essential 
in business. As a Group, we have an expressed aim of respecting the needs of shareholders, employees, clients, candidates, contractors 
and suppliers. 
The Board has a wide range of responsibilities and it is my duty to ensure it has the right mix of skills and talent and to ensure that it 
works effectively as a team towards shared goals. The Board has a policy to encourage diversity, including gender, and this was a focus 
of the Nominations Committee during the current year. From 1 January 2014, the Board has a policy to ensure diversity and specifically, 
that there will be an equal gender quota for any future long list for a Board appointment. In our relatively small Board we already have 
one female Director. The Board has been refreshed recently, but we will aim at increasing female representation on our Board when 
replacements will be sought in a few years’ time.
The Board Committees have had an active year. The Nominations Committee led the appointment process with the assistance of 
an external advisor for our new Audit Committee Chairman, Brian McArthur-Muscroft, who was appointed on 1 May 2013. I would like 
to use this opportunity to thank Martin Griffiths who resigned as Non-executive Director on 1 August 2013 for his many years of valuable 
contribution to the Group. The Audit Committee continued to see significant improvements in all areas of risk management, as the 
Internal Audit function established in January 2012 built upon the areas covered in the previous year, with a specific focus on the Group’s 
risk register and greater inclusion of local management in developing and managing the risk profile of the Group. The Remuneration 
Committee has continued to engage with our shareholders, performed a detailed review of Executive Directors’ pay and an assessment 
of the regulatory changes to be effected for the period ending 31 December 2013.
A key aspect for ensuring your Board’s effectiveness is our annual Board and Committee evaluation process, which had a positive 
outcome. We will continue to look to enhance the positioning of the business and continue to adapt and improve the Group’s risk 
culture and framework. 
On the following pages we describe our corporate governance framework in more detail. In the current year, we have amended the 
format of our report to ensure that it is fully in line with the Financial Reporting Council’s balanced and fair guidelines as well as a more 
detailed Remuneration Report that embraces the BIS recommendations. We have re-organised our report so that its structure reflects  
the sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code to make it easier for shareholders to assess our performance against the  
main principles. 
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
28 February 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 31
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code
The Company has complied fully throughout the year ended  
31 December 2013 with the Code provisions set out in the  
2010 UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). 
The Board of Directors is committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance and has applied the principles set out in 
the Code, including the Main Principles, the Supporting Principles 
and the Provisions by complying with the Code as reported above. 
Further explanation of how we integrate the Main Principles of the 
five sections of the UK Corporate Governance Code into our 
business, these being: Leadership; Board Effectiveness; Relations 
with Shareholders; Accountability; and Remuneration, is set out 
below. Our principles and policy in relation to remuneration are 
covered separately in our Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 51.
Leadership
The Board and its role
The Board is responsible to the Group’s shareholders for the 
conduct and performance of the Group’s business. Having strong 
governance processes and oversight helps drive the culture of the 
business so that it can better deliver on its responsibility to all of 
our stakeholders. 
The Board has developed a Board governance framework which 
sets out the governance structure of the Board and its Committees. 
The Board considers that it has shown its commitment to leading 
and controlling the Group by:
 – Having a Board constitution which details the Board’s 
responsibility to the Group’s shareholders for the management 
of the Group’s affairs. It exercises direction and supervision of 
the Group’s operations throughout the world and defines the 
line of responsibility from the Board to the Chief Executive and 
the Executive Directors in whom responsibility for the executive 
management of the business is vested;
 – The Board retaining specific responsibility for agreeing the 
strategic direction of the Group, the approval of accounts, 
business plan, budget and capital expenditure, the review of 
operating results, the effectiveness of governance practice 
and risk management, and also the appointment of senior 
executives and succession planning;
 – A high level of attendance by the Directors at the six Board 
meetings held during the year. There were no apologies;
 – The provision of appropriate training to all new Directors at the 
time of appointment to the Board, and by ensuring that existing 
Directors receive such training as to be equipped with the skills 
required to fulfil their roles; and
 – Delegating responsibilities to sub-Committees: Audit Committee; 
Remuneration Committee; and Nominations Committee.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee’s primary focus is to assist the Board 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities. During the year the 
Committee met three times and reviewed the following:
 – Half-year results and the annual financial statements;
 – The effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls 
and risk management; 
 – The performance of the external auditors, their terms of 
engagement, the scope of the audit and audit findings including 
findings on key judgements and estimates in the financial 
statements; and
 – The opinions of management and the Auditor in relation to the 
appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted, significant 
estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were 
balanced and fair.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year 
can be found on pages 35 and 36.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee met three times during the year and 
its activities included:
 – Engaging the assistance of an external advisor and 
subsequently recommending Brian McArthur-Muscroft as 
Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman;
 – Monitoring the Board’s structure, size, composition and 
diversity to achieve a balanced and effective Board in terms 
of skills, knowledge and experience;
 – Reviewing the leadership needs and succession planning 
of the Group including identifying and developing talent;
 – Recommending any changes in the membership of the  
Board Committees;
 – Assessing potential conflicts of interest of all Directors; and
 – An annual review of progress achieved, including the diversity 
objectives of the Group to increase the level of female 
representation on the Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year and 
its activities included:
 – Engaging with our largest shareholders to ensure a strong level 
of communication and dialogue;
 – Designing and recommending a new framework for Executive 
remuneration, incorporating current guidance on best practice;
 – Determining the individual remuneration packages for  
Executive Directors;
 – Approving the targets and performance assessments for 
performance-related incentive schemes; and 
 – Overseeing the operation of all incentive schemes and awards 
and determining whether the performance criteria had been met.
Further information on the work of the Committee during the year 
can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 51. 32 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED
Attendance at meetings
The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year are set  
out below.
Board 
(6 meetings)
Audit 
Committee  
(3 meetings)
Nominations 
Committee  
(3 meetings)
Remuneration 
Committee  
(4 meetings)
Leslie Van de Walle 6 – 3 –
Robert Walters 6 1 of 1 – –
Giles Daubeney 6 2 of 2 – –
Alan Bannatyne 6 3 – –
Martin Griffiths (resigned 1 August 2013) 4 of 4 2 of 2 3 of 3 3 of 3
Andrew Kemp 6 3 3 4
Carol Hui 6 2 3 4
Brian McArthur-Muscroft (appointed 1 May 2013) 4 of 4 2 of 2 2 of 2 2 of 2
Division of responsibilities between Chairman and Chief Executive
The Board has shown its commitment to dividing responsibilities for 
the Board and running the Company’s business by keeping the roles 
of Chairman and Chief Executive separate. The key responsibilities 
of the Chairman and Chief Executive are summarised below:
 – During the year, as Chairman, Leslie Van de Walle was 
responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and its 
integrity. The Chairman sets the tone for the Company, and 
ensures the links between the Board and shareholders are 
strong. As Chief Executive, Robert Walters is responsible for 
the day-to-day management of the Group’s operations and 
reporting to the Board. 
Board balance and independence
The Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors 
and three independent Non-executive Directors. The Group’s 
commitment to achieving a balance of Executive and 
Non-executive Directors is shown by:
 – The Non-executive Directors comprising more than half of the 
Board of Directors;
 – The Non-executive Directors being considered to act 
independently of management and free from any business 
relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement; and
 – Leslie Van de Walle, Brian McArthur-Muscroft, Carol Hui and 
Andrew Kemp being considered to be free from any other 
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 
of their independent judgement.
Senior Independent Director
The Board has appointed Andrew Kemp as the Senior 
Independent Director. Andrew Kemp is available to shareholders 
when they may have issues or concerns where contact through 
the normal channels of either the Chairman or the Executive 
Directors has either failed to resolve concerns, or contact 
is deemed inappropriate. 
Board effectiveness
Transparency of Board appointments
The Nominations Committee is responsible for nominating 
candidates to fill Board vacancies, considers the ongoing 
succession of the Board and its Committees and makes 
recommendations on Board composition and balance. The 
members of the Committee are the Non-executive Directors and 
Robert Walters. During the year, the Nominations Committee met to 
consider and approve the appointment of Brian McArthur-Muscroft 
as a Non-executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. The Committee also approved the re-election of the 
remaining Directors at the May 2013 Annual General Meeting. 
The Board has a policy to encourage diversity, including gender, and 
this was a focus of the Nominations Committee during the current 
year. From 1 January 2014, the Board has a policy to ensure that 
there will be an equal gender quota for any future long list for a 
Board appointment.
The Nominations Committee has written terms of reference which are 
available on request. The procedure for appointments to the Board 
includes the requirement to specify the nature of the position in writing 
and to ensure that appointees have sufficient time available to meet 
the demands of the position. The terms of the contracts for the 
Non-executive Directors are available upon request.
Understanding the business
The Board has sought to ensure that Directors are properly briefed 
on issues arising at Board meetings by establishing procedures for:
 – Distributing Board papers in advance of meetings in the 
appropriate form including detailed reports and presentations 
to enable it to discharge its duties; 
 – Adjourning meetings or deferring decisions when Directors 
have concerns about the information available to them; and
 – Making the Company Secretary responsible to the Board for 
the timeliness and quality of information.  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 33
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Professional development
On appointment, the Directors receive relevant information about 
the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its 
decision-making, the terms of reference and membership of the 
principal Board Committees and the powers delegated to those 
Committees, the Group’s corporate governance policies and 
procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly 
updated on the Group’s business and the environment in which 
it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior 
executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board 
meetings from time to time. They are also updated on any changes 
to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and those 
which affect them as Directors and are able to obtain training, 
at the Group’s expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on 
relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
Performance evaluation 
A formal and rigorous performance appraisal of the Board, 
its Committees, the Directors and the Chairman is conducted 
annually as we recognise that our effectiveness is critical to 
the Group’s continued success.
A detailed review was completed by each Director and individual 
discussions took place between the Chairman and each of the 
Directors and, in the case of the Chairman’s performance and 
leadership, this was reviewed by the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director. Subsequently, there was a full Board 
discussion of the matters that were raised and a process to ensure 
that the decisions taken were appropriately implemented. Overall, 
the outcome of the evaluation process was very positive, with 
good progress noted on the areas of focus raised in previous 
evaluations. This process did not identify any material issues 
that needed to be addressed.
Regular re-election of Directors
In line with the recommendations of the Code, the Board has 
agreed to submit all Directors for annual election. As a result of 
their annual performance evaluation, the Board considers that 
their individual performances continue to be effective, with each 
Director demonstrating commitment to their role. The Board is 
therefore pleased to support their re-election at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting.
Succession planning 
A clear focus on career progression for employees is core to the 
Group’s growth and helps attract and retain talented individuals. 
The Group remains committed to maximising career opportunities 
through significant investment in training and professional 
development. A clear succession plan is in place for all Board 
members and their direct reports.
Relations with shareholders
Dialogue with institutional shareholders
The Directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives 
between the Company and its institutional shareholders by:
 – Making annual and interim presentations to institutional investors;
 – Meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and obtain 
their views;
 – Providing direct access to the Chairman for regular meetings 
with shareholders;
 – Communicating regularly throughout the year; and
 – Regular meetings of the Board being used as the forum to 
ensure that Non-executive Directors are updated on the views 
of major shareholders that have been communicated to the 
Executive Directors.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting
The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting as an 
opportunity for all shareholders to question the Board and the 
Chairmen of the Board Committees on matters put to the meeting 
including the Annual Report. The Board seeks to encourage 
shareholder participation by:
 – Inviting shareholders to submit questions in advance; and 
 – Providing a balanced and understandable assessment of the 
Group’s position and prospects.
The results of voting at general meetings are published on 
the Company’s website, www.robertwalters.com, as required 
by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability
Internal control
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal control. A review has been completed by the 
Board for the year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with the 
recommendations of the Turnbull Report. The Board’s monitoring 
covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance 
controls, and risk management. It is based primarily on reviewing 
reports from management to consider whether significant risks are 
identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any 
significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need 
for more extensive monitoring. The Audit Committee assists the 
Board in discharging its review responsibilities. During the course 
of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not 
identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which 
it has determined to be significant. Therefore a confirmation in 
respect of necessary actions has been considered appropriate. 34 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
The Group’s system of internal control is designed to safeguard 
the Group’s assets and to ensure the reliability of information used 
within the business and for publication. Such a system is designed 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The full Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters 
which are required to be brought to it or its duly authorised 
Committees for decision, aimed at maintaining full and effective 
control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and 
compliance issues on an ongoing basis. 
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly 
defined responsibilities and delegation of authority. The Board 
constitution clearly sets out those matters for which the Board 
is required to give its approval.
The Board seeks to improve the robustness of internal checks and 
balances within the Group on an ongoing basis and to implement 
controls and processes to address areas of potential improvement 
that come to the attention of the Board. As part of the drive to 
improve risk management and internal control across the business, 
the Audit Committee, with the approval of the Board, created a 
dedicated Internal Audit function that has been fully operational with 
effect from 1 January 2012. The proposed Internal Audit annual plan 
is submitted for approval by the Audit Committee and the reviews 
and tests of key business processes and control activities are 
reported on throughout the year, including following up in respect 
of the implementation of management action plans to address any 
identified control weaknesses or potential improvements. It was 
pleasing to note that once again there were no findings that 
indicated the existence of key control weaknesses and that for 
areas capable of improvement identified in 2012, improvements 
had been made during 2013. In conclusion there were no areas 
that were deemed to be unfit for purpose. 
Audit Committee and Auditor
A separate Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 35 
and 36 and provides details of the role and activities of the 
Committee and its relationship with the external auditor.
Leslie Van de Walle
Chairman
28 February 2014
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 35
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholder
I would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of 
the Audit Committee and report on our work over the past year. 
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the 
Non-executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee’s 
terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code. The terms of reference are 
considered annually by the Audit Committee and are available 
upon request.
The current members of the Audit Committee are myself – 
Brian McArthur-Muscroft (Chairman), Carol Hui and Andrew Kemp, 
all of whom are Non-executive Directors. The Committee met 
three times during the year and there was one apology from 
Carol Hui. Martin Griffiths, the previous Chairman, who resigned 
on 1 August 2013, was present at the first two of those meetings 
during the year. Following my appointment on 1 May 2013, I was 
present at the last two meetings. The three-month handover 
between myself and Martin ensured that there was a seamless 
transition of the Chairmanship during the year. 
The Audit Committee is required to include one financially qualified 
member, with this requirement currently fulfilled by myself. All Audit 
Committee members are considered to be financially literate. The 
composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year, and 
the Board and Committee are satisfied that it has the expertise 
and resource to fulfil its responsibilities effectively including those 
relating to risk and control.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I invited the Chairman of the 
Board and the Executive Directors to each meeting. In addition 
the Group Financial Controller, Internal Auditor and representatives 
from the Group’s external auditors, Deloitte LLP, were present 
at each meeting. 
Role of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to 
review the interim and annual financial statements, the accounting 
policies of the Group, its internal financial control procedures 
and compliance with accounting standards, business risk, legal 
requirements and the requirements of all other matters indicated 
by the terms of reference. 
A process has been in existence throughout the period that this 
report relates to in order to assess the risks within the business 
and to report and monitor such risks. The Audit Committee 
regularly receives reports identifying the key internal controls 
in existence and also risk reports from the business. The Audit 
Committee then evaluates the effectiveness of those controls 
and the management of key risks within the Group.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates
The Committee reviewed the Group’s draft full year and half-yearly 
results statements prior to Board approval and reviewed the external 
auditor’s detailed reports thereon. In particular the Committee 
reviewed the opinions of management and the Auditor in relation to 
the appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted, significant 
estimates and judgements and whether disclosures were balanced 
and fair. The main areas of focus in 2013 and matters where the 
Committee specifically considered the judgements that had been 
made are set out opposite:
Revenue recognition
Revenue in respect of permanent placements is deemed to 
be earned when a candidate accepts a position and a start date 
is determined. Management considered the detailed criteria for 
the recognition of revenue from permanent placements who had 
accepted a position and agreed a start date, but had not started 
employment. A provision is made by management, based on 
historical evidence, for the proportion of those placements 
where the candidate is expected to reverse their acceptance prior 
to the start date. The Committee received reports on the revenue 
recognition testing performed on earned but not invoiced revenue 
and were satisfied by the judgements made by management. 
The Committee also reviewed the back-out provision applied to this 
revenue, whereby a percentage of candidates may in reality reverse 
their acceptance prior to their start date and the level of provision 
is considered to be appropriate based on historical evidence. 
Bad debt provisioning
At each balance sheet date each subsidiary evaluates the 
collectability of trade receivables and records a provision based 
on anticipated recoverable cash flows, nature of counterparty, 
past due date, geographical locations, the costs of recovery and 
the fair value of any guarantee received. The Committee reviewed 
the ageing profile of trade receivables and considered this be 
consistent with previous periods. They also considered that the 
level of the bad debt provision is appropriate given the risk profile 
of the Group’s trade receivables.
Deferred tax
The judgement to recognise a deferred tax asset is dependent 
upon the Group’s expectations regarding the future profitability 
of certain businesses, which contain a degree of inherent 
uncertainty. The Committee reviewed the judgements made in 
respect of tax, including deferred tax assets, their recoverability 
and the nature of the requirements under International Financial 
Reporting Standards to satisfy recognition on the balance sheet. 
The Committee concluded that based on management’s 
assumptions and current forecasts, the level of recognition 
appears reasonable.
Other significant matters considered by the Committee
The Committee considered other significant matters as set 
out below:
 – In order to support the going concern assumption, the 
Committee was presented with detailed forecasts showing  
the current Group financing position and future cash flows. 
The Group’s financing arrangements consist of:
• Net funds totalling £18.6m (this is net of the facility drawn 
down to the extent of £11.0m at 31 December 2013);
• A further £0.5m Renminbi denominated loan;
• Net current assets of £47.2m;
• A guaranteed borrowing facility of £35.0m expiring 
November 2016.
 Based on the current financing position and projected cash 
flows, the Committee concluded that the going concern 
assumption was appropriate;
 – In reviewing the results for 2013, the Committee reviewed the 
assessments made for goodwill impairment. This included 
measuring the carrying value of goodwill against the discounted 
cashflows of each cash generating unit (CGU). Each local office 
is considered to be a CGU. There are a number of judgements  36 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
made by management, including the forecast of future 
performance, discount rates used and the growth rates 
applied. The Committee confirmed, based on management’s 
expectations of future performance of certain business units, 
that no goodwill impairment charges were required in 2013;
 – A final draft of the Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit 
Committee prior to consideration by the Board and the 
Committee considered whether the 2013 Annual Report was 
fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the 
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. They were satisfied 
that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provided the necessary information for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; and
 – The Committee received an update on future accounting 
standards changes and the potential impact that these may 
have on the Group’s financial statements. Some of these new 
accounting standards will apply for the financial year 2014  
and the Committee will continue to assess the impact on the 
Group’s financial statements.
Internal Audit and risk
During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence and 
objectivity of the Internal Audit function and approved the Internal 
Audit Plan for 2014, having previously approved the Internal Audit 
plan for 2013. The Internal Audit function has also delivered both 
significant geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based 
assurance in a wider remit including operational activities and across 
support departments such as human resources. 
Internal Audit reports on key business processes and control 
activities, including following up the implementation of 
management action plans to address any identified control 
weaknesses. At each meeting, the Committee received 
a summary of new audit findings and a progress update 
on previously raised audit recommendations. 
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit 
process by obtaining feedback from all parties involved in the 
process, including management and the external auditor. As part 
of a formal review process, audit effectiveness questionnaires are 
completed by members of the Audit Committee and senior finance 
employees from across the Group. A summary report of these 
responses, including recommendations for future improvement, 
was presented to the Committee for their consideration. It was 
concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively.
The Committee held private discussions with Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) 
at both of the Audit Committee meetings which considered the 
financial statements to provide an opportunity for open dialogue and 
feedback without management being present. Matters discussed 
included the preparedness and efficiency of management with 
respect to the audit, the strengths and any perceived weaknesses 
of the financial management team, confirmation that no restriction 
on scope had been placed on them by management and how 
they had exercised professional judgement.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibility in respect 
of the annual financial statements by: reviewing the terms of 
the scope of the external audit in advance of the audit; and, 
subsequently evaluating the findings of the external audit as 
presented to the Audit Committee by the auditors prior to 
the approval of the annual financial statements.
Based on this formal feedback and its own ongoing assessment, 
the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the audit.
Reappointment of Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its 
external auditors. Deloitte has been the Group’s auditor since 
2002. The Audit Committee, following a review during the year, 
remains satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of 
Deloitte. Nevertheless, in line with recommended best practice 
in this area, it is the intention that the Group audit will be put out 
for tender at some point in the future. In line with our Auditor 
Independence Policy, the Group Audit Partner is required to rotate 
after a maximum of five years. The Audit Committee discusses 
engagement partner rotation on a regular basis and a succession 
plan is in place for Edward Hanson who is to be replaced in 2014 
at his normal rotation date after five years in the role. The Audit 
Committee will give further consideration during the incoming 
engagement partner’s term to the application of the audit 
tendering provision of the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. There are no contractual obligations restricting 
our choice of external auditors and no auditor liability agreement 
has been entered into.
Independence of our external auditor
The Audit Committee recognises the importance of ensuring the 
independence and objectivity of the Group’s auditors and reviews 
the service provided by the auditors and the level of their fees. Any 
non-audit fees greater than £25,000 (individually or in aggregate) 
require the approval of the Audit Committee each financial year. 
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy with respect to the 
provision of non-audit services provided to the Group by the 
external auditors that complies with the requirements of the Code.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee 
for making recommendations on the appointment, evaluation 
and dismissal of external auditors. 
After due and careful consideration, taking account of the 
processes above, the Committee has recommended to the 
Board that Deloitte be reappointed as the Company’s Auditor.
Raising concerns in confidence
The Audit Committee also reviews the Group’s whistleblowing 
procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place 
for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety 
in confidence, with suitable follow-up action. The Audit Committee 
considers that the nomination of Brian McArthur-Muscroft, as a 
point of contact, for raising any such matter is an appropriate 
measure and the procedure for raising such concerns is detailed 
on the Group’s intranet.
Approved
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on  
28 February 2014 and is signed on its behalf by:
Brian McArthur-Muscroft
Audit Committee Chairman
28 February 2014
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 37
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to introduce the report of the Board covering the 
Group’s remuneration policy and practice in respect of Executive 
and Non-executive Directors.
This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with 
the new remuneration disclosure regulations and is split into two 
parts comprising:
 – The Annual Report on Remuneration detailing payments made 
to Directors displaying the link between Group performance 
and remuneration for the 2013 financial year and the intended 
approach to be applied to the 2014 financial year;
 – The Directors’ Remuneration Policy setting out the Group’s 
intended remuneration policy for Directors, which will apply from 
the start of the 2015 financial year, subject to the approval by 
shareholders in a binding vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee’s activities in 2013
In prior years, we committed to continue to engage with our 
largest shareholders. We will ensure that we continue to do so 
and listen carefully to the feedback received. 
We conducted a thorough consultation exercise at the end of 2013 
to solicit institutional shareholder feedback on the proposed new 
remuneration policy which is set out in detail on pages 46 to 51. 
In addition to the engagement process, the key areas of focus 
during the period have been:
 – A review of the basic pay, benefits, bonus and equity incentives 
for the Executive Directors;
 – An assessment of the link between reward for individual and 
Company performance to align the interests of the Executive 
Directors with those of shareholders; and
 – Consideration of Executive Directors’ remuneration in relation to 
the reward structures in place for other employees in the Group.
2013 business performance and reward
Across global recruitment markets, confidence at the beginning 
of the year was weak but there were modest signs of improvement 
in certain markets during the second half of the year. 
Against this challenging background, the Group delivered a 5% 
increase in revenue to £597.7m and net fee income was up 6% 
to £199.2m – a strong performance. The Group invested in two 
new offices in Dubai and Ghent at the beginning of the year and 
thereafter sought to drive performance improvement from its well 
positioned global network, maintaining its geographical footprint 
and focus on the retention of more experienced, talented 
employees. This ensures the business is well positioned to 
maximise future growth opportunities. This approach delivered 
an increase in profit before taxation to £10.1m, an increase of 30% 
and an increase of £100m in shareholder value during the year.
Overall, Robert Walters continues to be seen as one of the few 
truly diverse global professional recruitment consultancies, with 
71% of net fee income derived from outside the UK and 86% of 
recruitment net fee income outside the financial services sector.
Based on the Group’s positive trading result and the strong 
performance against the stretching financial and non-financial 
targets set at the beginning of 2013 for the year, the Committee 
has determined that annual bonuses of 100% have been earned.
That said, and despite the Group’s strong performance during 
the year, the long term incentives awarded in 2011 failed to vest 
as the stretching performance targets were not achieved over the 
three-year performance period. Although the share price increased 
over 61% in 2013, total shareholder return (TSR) over the three-year 
period from 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2013 was 10% 
compared to a relative result for the FTSE Small Cap Index of 52%. 
In addition, the stretching earnings per share targets set over the 
three-year period were not achieved and the awards did not vest.
The structure of remuneration
In reviewing basic pay, the Committee has considered the overall 
employment market and also the average base pay increases for 
employees in both the UK and the overall Group, together with 
current trading conditions. As a result, the Committee has decided 
to increase salaries by 2.5% with effect from 1 January 2014, the 
first increase since 1 January 2012 and lower than the average 
employee salary increase for 2014. 
As discussed, the Committee has conducted a comprehensive 
review of total remuneration during the course of the year for 
consideration at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The new 
structure, proposed to be implemented in the 2015 financial year, 
will ensure pay is closely linked to the longer-term performance 
of the Group, reducing maximum pay potential whilst still providing 
a strong retention tool for senior management. The proposed 
changes will also simplify the remuneration structure, which was 
the most consistent point of feedback received from shareholders. 
The proposed changes are as follows:
 – A simplified remuneration structure;
 – Reduction of separate equity incentives arrangements into 
one single plan and the elimination of share options;
 – Overall reduction in maximum pay potential;
 – More demanding performance targets and a lower level of 
payout for threshold performance under the new Performance 
Share Plan;
 – Maximum bonus and share awards under the Performance Share 
Plan increased to replace, in part, the value of share options; 
 – Introduction of a deferral requirement over a two-year period; and
 – Introduction of share ownership guidelines and clawback provisions.
We see 2014 as a transitional year during which, subject to 
shareholder approval of the proposed remuneration structure 
and Performance Share Plan rules at the May 2014 Annual 
General Meeting, we shall move towards a new reward framework. 
As shareholders will not be asked to approve the arrangements 
until May, almost halfway into the financial year, the existing 
remuneration structure will apply for the 2014 financial year. 
The new proposed remuneration policy will then take full effect 
during 2015 subject to binding approval at the 2014 AGM. 
Full details of the new policy are set out on pages 46 to 51.
This means that 2014 is the last year in which the Group will 
make grants of options to the Executive Directors and the policy 
levels under the Performance Share Plan and co-investment 
arrangements will be the same as we had in place in 2013.
I hope our shareholders will support the Directors’  
Remuneration Report.
Andrew Kemp
Remuneration Committee Chairman
28 February 2014 38 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This section of the report provides details of the payments made to Directors in respect of the 2013 financial year.
Single total figure (audited)
Executive Directors 
The total remuneration for 2013 and comparative prior year figures for each Executive Director is set out in the table below.
2013
Base  
salary  
£’000
Other
1
 benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total
fixed
pay
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIPs
2
 
£’000
Total 
variable
 pay 
£’000
Total 
£’000
R C Walters 537 60 107 704 537 – 537 1,241
G P Daubeney 448 48 89 585 448 – 448 1,033
A R Bannatyne 328 27 66 421 328 – 328 749
1,313 135 262 1,710 1,313 – 1,313 3,023
2012
Base 
salary 
£’000
Other
1
 
benefits 
£’000
Pension 
£’000
Total 
fixed 
pay 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
LTIPs
3
 
£’000
Total 
variable 
pay 
£’000
Total 
£’000
R C Walters 537 60 107 704 – 464 464 1,168
G P Daubeney 448 48 89 585 – 311 311 896
A R Bannatyne 328 27 66 421 – 273 273 694
1,313 135 262 1,710 – 1,048 1,048 2,758
1 Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to a range of benefits, comprising permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, car allowance and mortgage subsidy.  
All benefits are subject to annual review. 
2 The performance conditions, targets and actual performance for both the Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme are detailed on pages 39 and 40. 
3 FY 2012 LTIPs comprise share options and performance share awards granted in March 2010, vesting in March 2013, based on performance assessed over the three-year 
period ending on 31 December 2012.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors (audited)
The total remuneration for 2013 and 2012 for the Chairman and each Non-executive Director is set out in the table below.
2013 2012
Base 
salary  
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
Base
Salary 
£’000
Total
1
 
fixed pay 
£’000
L Van de Walle 100 100 25 25
P S Aiken – – 64 64
M A Griffiths 36 36 62 62
B McArthur-Muscroft 42 42 – –
C Hui 51 51 51 51
A D Kemp 62 62 62 62
R P Tenzer – – 20 20
291 291 284 284
1 No other taxable benefits payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors. 
Additional details in respect of the single total figure
Annual bonus 
For 2013, the Committee determined the annual bonus payment for the Executive Directors by reference to specific performance targets 
set at the beginning of the year. The performance measures were:
 – Profit before taxation for the Group (60% weighting) with full payment of this component requiring an increase in profit before taxation 
set at a challenging level at the beginning of the year. The Committee has determined that, at this time, the performance targets 
under the annual bonus represent commercially sensitive information. Although shareholders may prefer the public disclosure of 
these targets the Board believes that this would be damaging to the Company and useful to our competitors. In short, public 
disclosure is not in shareholders’ longer-term interests. If the Board decides that targets are no longer commercially sensitive, 
they will be disclosed; and
 – Personal KPIs (40% weighting) which include strategic performance objectives such as the successful execution of the Group’s 
investment strategy, opening of new offices, staff retention and development, client and candidate satisfaction, innovation and 
improvements to IT infrastructure.
The business exceeded the stretch target set for profit before taxation at the beginning of the year and all Executive Directors performed 
well against their personal objectives. Consequently, bonuses of 100% of salary were awarded to all Executive Directors. Over the last 
five years, the average total bonus pay-out has been 52% of salary.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 39
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Long-term incentive plans
(a) Share options 
Share options granted in March 2011 are due to vest in March 2014 subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions 
determined at the beginning of 2011, over the three-year period ending on 31 December 2013. Details of the performance levels achieved 
over this three-year period are set out below:
Performance measure Weighting
Performance required for  
minimum vesting  
(i.e. 33% of award)
Performance required for 
maximum vesting  
(i.e. 100% of award)
Actual  
performance
Actual  
% of vesting  
achieved
Compound annual increase in 
EPS compared to the increase 
in RPI over three years.
100% The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate must 
exceed the UK retail 
price index by at least 
an annual compound 
growth of 8%  
(RPI + 8%).
The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate must 
exceed the UK retail 
price index by at least 
an annual compound 
growth of 14%  
(RPI + 14%).
The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth was below 
the minimum threshold 
vesting level.
0%
Total to vest in March 2014 0%
As the minimum threshold performance required was not achieved, no share options will vest in March 2014. Over the last five years, 
the average actual percentage vesting of the options has been 20% of the initial award. This is illustrative of the stretching nature of the 
EPS targets over that period.
The performance conditions for all outstanding share options can be found on page 40.
(b) Performance Share Plan (PSP)
PSP awards granted in March 2011 are scheduled to vest in March 2014 subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions 
over the three-year period ending on 31 December 2013. Details of the performance levels achieved over this three-year period are set 
out below:
Performance measure Weighting
Performance required for  
minimum vesting  
(i.e. 33% of award)
Performance required for  
maximum vesting  
(i.e. 100% of award)
Actual  
performance
Actual 
% of vesting  
achieved
Compound annual increase in 
EPS compared to the increase 
in RPI over three years.
50% The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate to 
exceed the UK retail 
price index by at least 
an annual compound 
growth of 8%.
The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth rate to 
exceed the UK retail 
price index by at least 
an annual compound 
growth of 14%.
The Group’s annualised 
EPS growth was below 
the minimum threshold 
vesting level.
0%
Relative TSR measured against 
the FTSE Small Cap Index over 
three years.
50% Relative TSR of the 
Group matches the 
median relative TSR 
performance of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index.
Relative TSR of the 
Group exceeds the 
median relative TSR 
performance of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index 
by at least an annual 
compound growth of 
12.5%.
TSR over the three-
year period ended 31 
December 2013 was 
10% compared to a 
median TSR of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index 
of 52%.
0%
Total to vest in March 2014 0%
As the minimum threshold performance required was not achieved for either the EPS or TSR performance conditions, no awards will vest 
in March 2014.
The Executive Directors also participated in the co-investment opportunity in March 2011, with each of them investing in shares at the 
maximum level of 25% of salary. An award of co-investment shares was then made over the number of shares which could have been 
acquired had the amount of salary invested been on a pre-tax basis. The performance conditions are the same as the PSP awards 
above and, as a consequence, no co-investment awards will vest in March 2014 either.
The Committee has limited powers to exercise discretion in relation to the vesting of the PSP or co-investment awards, subject 
to a genuine improvement in the underlying performance of the business and there was no discretion exercised in the current year. 
The performance conditions for all outstanding PSP awards can be found on page 40. 40 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Pensions
Each of the Executive Directors is entitled to an annual defined contribution pension of 20% of salary into an approved money purchase 
scheme (or cash in lieu of pension). The Chief Executive takes his pension contribution as a cash allowance. Both the Chief Financial 
Officer and the Chief Operating Officer opted to take that element of their contribution, over and above the limit set by HMRC, in cash. 
The normal retirement age of each Director is in line with government legislation and no additional benefit would become receivable 
by a Director in the event that the Director retires early.
Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 (audited)
Share options
In March 2013, the Executive Directors were granted market value options as follows: 
Options  
granted
Grant price 
(p)
3
Strike price 
or ‘face value’ 
(£)
1
Fair value
 (£)
2
% award vesting at 
minimum threshold 
performance
Maximum 
% of face 
value that 
could vest
R C Walters 300,000 211 633,000 182,747 33% 100%
G P Daubeney 250,000 211 527,500 152,289 33% 100%
A R Bannatyne 200,000 211 422,000 121,831 33% 100%
1 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met multiplied by the share price at date  
of grant. 
2 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number 
of options granted.
3 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
The performance period is the three-year period ending 31 December 2015. Target ranges are set at the beginning of the period and assessed 
against information available at that point in time. The vesting of share options granted is subject to the achievement of earnings per share 
growth which exceeds the percentage increase in the UK retail price index by at least an annual compound growth of 8% per annum, over a 
period of three financial years of the Group. On satisfaction of this performance target, one third of the options vest. The options vest in full only 
where earnings per share growth matches the UK retail price index plus an annual compound growth of 14%. Vesting between these points 
is linear. To the extent that the performance targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, options will lapse. The share options are 
only exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
In April 2013, the Executive Directors were granted PSP and co-investment awards to the value of approximately 150% of salary as follows: 
Share  
awards
Co-investment 
awards
Grant price 
(p)
3
Face value 
(£)
1
 
Fair value 
(£)
2
% award vesting at 
minimum threshold 
performance
Maximum 
% of face 
value that 
could vest
R C Walters 269,901 112,534 217 829,884 576,810 33% 100%
G P Daubeney 224,251 93,823 217 690,221 479,738 33% 100%
A R Bannatyne 161,789 68,709 217 500,181 347,650 33% 100%
1 Face value has been calculated as the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures and targets are met multiplied by the share price at date of grant. 
2 Fair value has been calculated as the fair value of one share as provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street’s stochastic option pricing model, multiplied by the number of  
options granted.
3 Grant price is the market value at the time of grant.
The performance period is the three-year period ending 31 December 2015. The performance criteria for PSP awards comprise two 
separate components. Half the shares awarded will vest subject to meeting earnings per share growth targets. In the event that Group 
performance exceeds the UK retail price index by at least an annual compound growth of 8% per annum, over a period of three financial 
years, one third of the shares will vest. There is then a straight-line increase in vesting with 100% vesting where earnings per share growth 
matches the UK retail index plus annual compound growth of 14%. Vesting of the remaining half of the shares is determined by reference 
to relative TSR over a three-year period. No vesting occurs of such shares unless performance at least matches the performance of the 
FTSE Small Cap Index and full vesting occurs when TSR exceeds the FTSE Small Cap Index by annual compound growth of 12.5%. 
This level of performance is deemed to be broadly equivalent to upper quartile performance. To the extent that the performance targets 
are not met at the end of the three-year period, the shares will lapse. 
The PSP also permits the award of co-investment shares. To participate in the co-investment opportunity, each participant must 
invest in shares using personal funds, up to a maximum of 25% of salary and on the condition that these shares are held until the date 
of vesting. An award of co-investment shares will then be made over that number of shares which could have been acquired had the 
amount of salary invested been on a pre-tax basis.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 41
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Statement of Directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited)
Share options
Details of the options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors under the Company’s Executive 
Share Option Scheme or SAYE Option Scheme are as follows:
Options at 
1 January  
2013
Options 
granted 
during the 
year
Options 
exercised 
during the 
year
Options 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Options at 
31 December  
2013
Price 
granted
1
 
(p)
Share price 
on exercise 
(p)
Exercise  
dates
R C Walters
Executive Options 300,000 – – – 300,000 208 – Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
SAYE Options 3,740 – – – 3,740 243 – May 2014 – Nov 2014
Executive Options 300,000 – – – 300,000 329 – Mar 2014 – Mar 2021
Executive Options 300,000 – – – 300,000 227 – Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Executive Options – 300,000 – – 300,000 211 – Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
 903,740 300,000 – – 1,203,740
G P Daubeney
Executive Options 250,000 – – – 250,000 208 – Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
SAYE Options 3,740 – – – 3,740 243 – May 2014 – Nov 2014
Executive Options 250,000 – – – 250,000 329 – Mar 2014 – Mar 2021
Executive Options 250,000 – – – 250,000 227 – Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Executive Options – 250,000 – – 250,000 211 – Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
753,740 250,000 – – 1,003,740
A R Bannatyne
Executive Options 200,000 – – – 200,000 208 – Mar 2013 – Mar 2020
SAYE Options 3,740 – – – 3,740 243 – May 2014 – Nov 2014
Executive Options 200,000 – – – 200,000 329 – Mar 2014 – Mar 2021
Executive Options 200,000 – – – 200,000 227 – Mar 2015 – Mar 2022
Executive Options – 200,000 – – 200,000 211 – Mar 2016 – Mar 2023
603,740 200,000 – – 803,740
2,261,220 750,000 – – 3,011,220
1 Market price when awarded, except for SAYE Options which were granted at a 20% discount to the market price.
The performance criteria of the options are detailed in note 18.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2013 was 312p per share (2012: 193p per share) and the range during the year 
was 193p to 336p per share. 42 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Performance Share Plan (PSP) (audited)
There are currently 59 senior executives who participate in the PSP. The maximum number of shares receivable by Executive Directors 
is as follows:
Date of  
grant
 Share 
awards
Co-
investment 
awards
 Vested 
during year
 Lapsed 
during year
At 31 
December 
2013
 Exercise 
date
R C Walters
March 2010 275,602 137,055 (206,329) (206,328) – March 2013
March 2011 163,496 100,104 – – 263,600 March 2014
March 2012 243,909 117,719 – – 361,628 March 2015
March 2013 269,901 112,534 – – 382,435 March 2016
952,908 467,412 (206,329) (206,328) 1,007,663
G P Daubeney
March 2010 227,324 49,057 (138,191) (138,190) – March 2013
March 2011 136,304 84,406 – – 220,710 March 2014
March 2012 203,356 98,146 – – 301,502 March 2015
March 2013 224,251 93,823 – – 318,074 March 2016
791,235 325,432 (138,191) (138,190) 840,286
A R Bannatyne
March 2010 162,032 80,578 (121,305) (121,305) – March 2013
March 2011 99,824 56,380 – – 156,204 March 2014
March 2012 148,922 71,875 – – 220,797 March 2015
March 2013 161,789 68,709 – – 230,498 March 2016
572,567 277,542 (121,305) (121,305) 607,499
In accordance with the guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers and consistent with the rules of the Company’s share 
schemes, the maximum number of new shares that may be issued in respect of all share schemes is limited to 10% of the issued share 
capital. At 1 January 2014 the Company had outstanding options representing 7.5% of issued share capital. 
The Company also has an Employee Benefit Trust that may acquire shares in order to meet contingent obligations under share-based 
incentive schemes. 
In the event of a change of control, the rules specify that all awards would vest subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions.  
The awards would normally then be pro rated to reflect the period of time between the date of grant and the date of change of control. 
Further information relating to all equity awards currently available to Executive Directors is detailed on pages 41 and 42 and in note 18 
to the accounts.
Directors’ interests in shares
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2013 had the following interests in the ordinary shares of the Company:
31 December  
2013  
Number
31 December 
2012  
Number
R C Walters 2,450,805 2,399,899
G P Daubeney 1,798,019 1,772,331
A R Bannatyne 250,799 244,098
B McArthur-Muscroft 7,140 –
A D Kemp 10,000 10,000
L Van de Walle 15,311 15,000
C Hui 10,000 –
In 2013 there was no guideline for the Director’s to own shares in the Group. However, the proposed new remuneration structure would 
have a recommended minimum holding of 200% of salary.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 43
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
The percentage and value of the shareholdings of the Executive 
Directors, based on the share price at 31 December 2013 and 
expressed as a percentage of salary are as follows:
Shares held
% of 
issued  
share 
capital
% of  
salary
R C Walters 3.18% 1,422%
G P Daubeney 2.34% 1,250%
A R Bannatyne 0.33% 238%
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s performance 
compared with the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index, 
selected because Robert Walters plc is a constituent, 
measured by TSR. 
TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH (since 1 Jan 2009)
400
350
300
250
2009 2012 2013 2011 2010
200
150
100
50
0
Robert Walters FTSE Small Cap
TSR is calculated by Datastream as the growth or fall in value of a 
shareholding from the date of initial investment over time, with the 
assumption that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional 
shares in the Company. 
CEO information
The Group believes strongly that remuneration should be linked 
to performance. The following graph and table give a perspective 
of the Chief Executive’s pay over a period of ten years. 
300
250
2003 2004 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2005 2006
200
150
100
50
0
CEO FTSE Small Cap
CEO BASE PAY AND TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH
This graph shows how the Chief Executive’s base salary 
has increased since 2003 against the Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) of the FTSE Small Cap Index over the same period. During 
the 12 months ended 31 December 2013, the share price has 
increased from £1.93 per share to £3.12 per share, the equivalent 
to an increase in shareholder value of £100m.
The following table shows the Chief Executive’s pay over the last ten years.
R C Walters
Total 
remuneration 
£’000
1
% of 
total bonus paid 
against maximum 
opportunity
2
 
% of 
LTIPs vesting
 against maximum 
opportunity
3
Period over  
which the LTIPs  
performance targets  
are based on 
2013 1,241 100% 0% 2010–2013
2012 1,168 0% 71% 2009–2012
2011 1,699 40% 35% 2008–2011
2010 2,112 120% 32% 2007–2010
2009 630 0% 0% 2006–2009
2008 1,017 40% 8% 2005–2008
2007 1,329 100% 58% 2004–2007
2006 3,732 100% 100% 2003–2006
2005 3,740 100% 100% 2002–2005
2004 831 100% 44% 2001–2004
Total Average 70% 45%
1 Total remuneration is calculated as the total of fixed and variable pay based on the same calculation method used in the single total figure table on page 38. 
2 % of total bonus paid against maximum opportunity is calculated as the annual bonus pay out in each respective year based on the same calculation method used 
in the single total figure table as a % of the maximum opportunity. 
3 % of LTIPs vesting against maximum opportunity is calculated as the number of share options and PSP awards that have vested in the year in which the performance 
conditions ends as a % of the maximum vesting opportunity. 44 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Chief Executive’s pay compared to employees
The table below shows the year-on-year percentage movement of base pay, other benefits and annual bonus in 2013 for the Chief Executive, 
compared with the average percentage change for Group employees:
The Chief Executive’s remuneration disclosed in the table below uses the same information for base salary, other benefits and bonus 
as the single total figure on page 38. The Group employee pay is calculated using the movement of the average remuneration (per head) 
for all Group employees. 
Base  
salary 
%
Other 
benefits 
including 
pension 
£’000
Bonus 
£’000
R C Walters 0% 0% N/A
1
All employees 2.3% 2.1% 24.7%
1 The Chief Executive received no bonus in 2012, therefore no formulaic calculation of the movement can be provided.
Relative importance of the spend on pay
The Group spent the following amounts on remuneration of employees, dividends and corporation tax for the years ended 31 December 
2012 and 2013:
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Total remuneration 139,812 128,722
Dividend paid 3,826 3,684
Taxation charge 3,915 2,838
1 Total remuneration of employees includes wages and salaries, social security costs, pensions costs and share-based payments for all employees including Directors. 
Further details of the total remuneration of the Group are given in note 4.
2 The total dividend paid during the year ended 31 December 2013 was £3.8m based on a final dividend of £2.7m, paid on 14 June 2013, and an interim dividend of £1.1m paid 
on 18 October 2013. Further details on dividends are given in note 6.
3 Taxation charge during the year represents the corporation taxation charge for the Group during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014
The Group’s policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration and implementation for the year ended 31 December 2014 will be as follows:
(i) Base salary
For 2014, the average salary increases for employees other than Executive Directors will be approximately 3.4%. The Committee has 
decided to give the Executive Directors salary increases lower than the average salary increase. Robert Walters, Giles Daubeney 
and Alan Bannatyne will each receive a base salary increase of 2.5%.
The graph below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors over the last three years and the salaries for 2014. 
600,000
£
2011
524,000
537,000
537,000
550,000
437,000
448,000
448,000
459,000
320,000
328,000
328,000
336,000
2012
Chief Executive Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014
500,000
400,000
300,000
100,000
200,000
0
BASE SALARIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
(ii) Other benefits
After reviewing the value of the benefits, the Committee has decided that benefits will not be increased in 2014.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 45
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
(iii) Annual bonus 
For 2014, the Committee has determined that the annual 
bonus payment for the Executive Directors will be by reference 
to specific performance targets set at the beginning of the year. 
The performance measures are:
 – Profit before taxation for the Group (60% weighting); and
 – Personal KPIs (40% weighting) which include strategic 
performance objectives such as the successful execution of 
the Group’s investment strategy, opening of new offices, staff 
retention and development, client and candidate satisfaction, 
innovation, such as the roll out of the Group’s social media 
strategy and cost effective improvements to IT infrastructure, 
including the commencement of an upgrade to the front  
office software.
For 2014, the on-target and maximum bonus for each of the 
Executive Directors remain set at 100% of salary.
(iv) Long-term incentive plans
(a) Share options 
The table below shows the proposed share options that will be 
granted in 2014 for each Executive Director:
2014  
share  
options 
Robert Walters 300,000
Giles Daubeney 250,000
Alan Bannatyne 200,000
There is no change to the proposed level of share options to be 
awarded compared to 2013.
The performance period is the three-year period ending 31 December 
2016. The performance conditions for these share options was 
reviewed in early 2014 in the light of all available information at that 
time. The threshold levels were increased to greater percentages 
than previously and the vesting minimum and maximum ranges 
set at 11.5p and 14p respectively. More details of these can be 
found on page 40.
The Robert Walters Save As You Earn (SAYE) option scheme 
is an HMRC-approved scheme open to all permanent UK 
employees, allowing an individual to acquire options over ordinary 
shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market 
price up to a maximum value of £9,000 (£18,000 from 2014). 
Options granted under the scheme can normally be exercised 
during a period of six months starting on the third anniversary 
of the start of the relevant SAYE contract. Each of the Executive 
Directors are expected to enrol in full on the next scheme which 
will commence in 2014.
(b) Performance Share Plan (PSP)
For 2014, it is proposed that each Executive Director will receive 
PSP awards to the value of 100% of ‘pay’ which is defined in the 
scheme rules as basic salary plus cash-denominated benefits 
in kind. These grants will be awarded on the same basis as the 
2013 grants. As in prior years, this equates to 120% of base salary. 
Additionally, as part of the co-investment opportunity, each 
Executive Director is able to invest their personal funds up to 25% 
of salary. 
The performance period is the three-year period ending 31 December 
2016. The performance conditions for these PSP awards are the 
same as 2013, and details of these can be found on page 40.
(v) Pensions
There are no proposed changes in the level of pension 
contributions as a percentage of base salary for each Executive 
Director in 2014.
The Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Andrew Kemp 
(Chairman), Brian McArthur-Muscroft and Carol Hui, all of whom 
are independent Non-executive Directors and it is the intention 
of the Chairman of the Board, Leslie Van de Walle, to be in 
attendance for all meetings. Brian McArthur-Muscroft was 
appointed to the Committee on 1 May 2013 with Martin Griffiths 
resigning on 1 August 2013.
The purpose of the Committee is to consider all aspects of 
Executive Directors’ remuneration and to determine the specific 
remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, including 
bonus schemes, pension contributions and other benefits. The 
Committee also determines the remuneration of the Chairman. 
The Committee ensures that the remuneration packages are 
competitive within the recruitment industry, and reflect both Group 
and personal performance during the year, whilst also having 
regard to the broader levels of remuneration within the Group itself 
and environmental, social and governance issues. The Committee 
meets when required to consider all aspects of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration and received independent external advice 
from Towers Watson and Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants 
LLP during the year. The Committee has satisfied itself that the 
advice provided is independent and objective. Towers Watson and 
Hewitt New Bridge Street have been formally appointed by the 
Committee. Neither firm provides other services to the Committee 
and both are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group 
and the Committee is satisfied that no conflicts of interest have 
arisen. The fees paid to these firms during the year were £40,000 
to Towers Watson and £11,000 to Hewitt New Bridge Street.  
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are 
available upon request.
Voting at General Meeting
At the Group’s AGM in May 2013, the resolution to approve the 
Remuneration Report was passed with 52,371,508 (91.1%) of the 
votes cast in favour, 5,114,554 (8.9%) of the votes cast against, 
which represented less than 1% of the total number of unique 
shareholders at the time. 5,126,411 votes were withheld. 46 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This section details the Group’s remuneration policy for Executive Directors, which is expected to be applicable for the 2015 to 2017 
financial years, subject to shareholder approval and a binding vote during the 2014 Annual General Meeting. The 2014 policy, which is 
not subject to a shareholder binding vote, has been detailed in the annual report on remuneration. 2014 will be a transition year before 
the new policy (detailed in this section) will take effect on 1 January 2015. This transitional year will be necessary as the Group moves 
to an entirely new pay policy including the introduction of new share plans (as outlined below).
How the Committee sets remuneration
The Committee reviews the Group’s remuneration philosophy and structure each year to ensure the remuneration framework remains 
effective in supporting the Group’s business objectives. The review ensures the policy is in line with best practice and fairly rewards 
individuals for the contribution to the business having regard for the size and complexity of the Group’s operations and the need 
to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
The total remuneration package links corporate and individual performance with an appropriate balance between long and short-term 
elements, and fixed and variable components. The policy is designed to incentivise Executive Directors to meet the Company’s key 
objectives, and therefore, a significant portion of total remuneration is performance related. 
2015 Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The table below sets out the detailed workings of each component of total remuneration which will be provided to Executive Directors, 
from 2015 onwards. This policy is intended to apply from 1 January 2015. 
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Base salary The base salary of each 
Executive Director takes into 
account the performance 
of each individual and is 
set at an appropriate level 
to secure and retain the 
talent needed to deliver the 
Group’s strategic objectives.
Salaries are reviewed 
annually on 1 January and 
are influenced by:
–  Information from relevant 
comparator groups;
–  The performance of 
each individual Executive 
Director; and
–  Average increases for 
employees across the 
Group as a whole.
Annual increases will not 
exceed 7.5% + RPI, or 
the average increase of 
employees across the Group 
in any given year, whichever 
is higher.
The level of increase may 
deviate from this maximum 
in the case of special 
circumstances (for example, 
increases in responsibilities 
or promotion). In these 
cases, any exceptional 
increase will not exceed 
20% a year.
Base salary increases 
are set in line with market 
movement and also consider 
the average salary increase 
for other employees across 
the Group. 
Pensions To provide a competitive 
employment benefit and 
long-term security.
Robert Walters operates 
a money purchase pension 
scheme. Executive Directors 
participating in the pension 
plan benefit from annual 
Group contributions worth 
20% of base salary.
Executive Directors are 
entitled to take all or part of 
their pension contributions 
as a cash allowance.
20% of salary. N/A
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 47
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Other 
benefits
3,4
To provide competitive 
employment benefits.
Benefits currently include 
car allowance, mortgage 
subsidy, permanent health 
insurance and private 
medical insurance, and may 
also include other benefits in 
future. Relocation assistance 
may also be provided – see 
notes for further clarity.
All benefits are subject 
to annual review to ensure 
they remain in line with 
market practice.
The Company will continue 
to operate the Save As You 
Earn (SAYE) option scheme 
– see notes for further detail.
Maximum benefit costs 
will not exceed a value of 
£70,000 a year, indexed 
to inflation.
Maximum benefit costs will 
be in line with the market 
related cost of providing 
these benefits.
Annual bonus
1
The annual bonus is 
designed to drive the 
achievement of the Group’s 
financial and strategic 
business targets on an 
annual basis. 
The on-target bonus 
opportunity is 97.5% of 
salary and is dependent 
upon the achievement 
of specific annual 
performance conditions.
One third of any earned 
bonus will be deferred 
for two years into shares, 
payable in equal tranches 
at the end of years 1 and 2.
A clawback provision will 
operate in respect of any 
deferred shares in the event 
of material restatement 
of previously published 
financial statements.
The maximum bonus 
opportunity is 150% of 
salary for the achievement 
of stretch performance in 
any given year (i.e. 110% 
of budget or higher).
Threshold performance 
(i.e. 90% of budget) equates 
to 52.5% of salary based 
on achieving threshold profit 
before taxation. Zero 
payment will be made 
for performance below 
threshold performance.
Performance is measured 
over one financial year, 
based on the following 
measures:
–  Financial targets as set 
out in the budget at the 
start of the year; and
–  Individual KPIs set against 
pre-determined strategic 
performance objectives.
The intended weighting of 
these measures is not less 
than 70% financial and no 
more than 30% individual. 
The Committee will reserve 
the right to determine which 
performance measures and 
targets are to be used at the 
beginning of each financial 
year in order to align to the 
Group’s strategic objectives.
The Committee will not 
change the mix of measures 
or targets mid-year but does 
retain the right to apply its 
judgement when assessing 
formulaic outcomes in 
the case of a material 
misstatement of financial 
results or similar situation. 
The Committee will not 
exercise discretion to reward 
failure and will report on 
any exercise of discretion 
that changes the amount 
of remuneration paid in 
any year. 48 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP) award
2
The PSP is designed to 
promote staff retention, 
motivate employees across 
the Group and promote  
the unification of efforts 
towards Group-wide 
strategic objectives.
The longer-term nature  
of these equity awards  
also aligns leadership with 
the longer-term returns  
of the business and 
shareholder interests.
PSP awards are granted 
annually and vest after  
three years, dependent 
on the achievement of 
performance conditions  
over a three-year period. 
The normal level of award 
is 180% of salary, and the 
intention is that this will be 
the initial level applied  
in 2015.
The Group will apply a 
clawback provision in the 
event of material restatement 
of previously published 
financial statements within 
18 months of the financial 
year end of the year in  
which the PSP shares  
were awarded.
The maximum award 
of performance shares 
that may be made to an 
Executive Director in any 
financial year is limited to 
shares with an aggregate 
market value of 200% of 
base salary. 
Threshold performance 
will result in the vesting of 
30% of the shares under 
award while maximum 
performance will result in 
full vesting. There will be 
no vesting for performance 
below threshold.
Performance will be 
measured over a  
three-year period  
subject to the following 
performance conditions:
–  50% of the award will 
vest based on total 
shareholder return (TSR) 
relative to the FTSE Small 
Cap Index; and 
–  50% of the award will vest 
based on earnings per 
share (EPS) growth over 
the period. 
The TSR and EPS 
components will operate 
independently. Vesting levels 
between threshold and 
maximum performance will 
be calculated on a straight-
line basis.
Notes to the policy table:
1 In relation to the annual bonus:
 a.  The financial performance target will be set by the Board at the beginning of each year and will include measures such as profit before taxation. In order to achieve 
maximum pay-out the financial target will be significantly ahead of budgets and market consensus.
 b.  Personal KPIs are linked to the delivery of key projects designed to enhance the Group’s operational strength and competitiveness in line with future strategy. At the 
end of the financial year, the Committee meets to assess the performance of each Executive Director against the financial performance targets and personal KPIs and 
determine the bonus pay-out. Examples of KPIs include successful execution of the Group’s investment strategy, opening of new offices, staff retention and 
development, client and candidate satisfaction, innovation and cost effective improvements to IT infrastructure. There is no formulaic threshold vesting for personal KPIs 
and it is for the Remuneration Committee to judge performance against individual KPIs.
 c.  The financial targets of the awards (e.g. profit before taxation) are not currently disclosed as these are deemed to be commercially sensitive. The Committee proposes 
to disclose these targets in future at such a time when they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive.
2 In relation to the PSP, the vesting criteria are split into the following two components: 
 a.  In determining the three-year EPS targets, the first year will be set using a specific growth target, which represents the most reasonable current expectation for year 
one performance of the Committee, taking into account all available data. Years two and three targets are then based on a fixed rate of growth in earnings per share of 
UK RPI + 8%. The overall threshold target will be the compound result of years one, two and three. At threshold, 30% of the awards will vest. There is then a straight-line 
increase in vesting with 100% vesting occurring where EPS growth matches the annual compound growth rate of UK RPI + 14% in respect of years two and three, likely 
to be in excess of 65% compound growth in EPS in a reasonably favourable economic environment. 
 b.  In relation to the TSR performance condition, no vesting will occur unless performance at least matches the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index and full vesting 
occurs when TSR exceeds the FTSE Small Cap Index by annual compound growth of 12.5%. This level of performance is deemed to be broadly equivalent to upper 
quartile performance.
 c.  The two criteria above have been selected on the basis that they are considered to be stretching and that they align the interests of management with shareholders. 
The existence of a market-related component ensures that performance is also benchmarked against relative performance and not just absolute performance.
  In addition, any vesting will be subject to satisfactory financial performance over the period, as determined by the Committee. The Committee will retain the right to change 
the performance measures, targets and weightings (within the framework of policy) as appropriate at the beginning of each plan cycle to reflect the Company’s current 
operations. Performance measures, targets and weightings will be set at the beginning of each three year period and will not be adjusted mid cycle although the Committee 
does retain the right to alter formulaic vesting of awards in the case of material misstatement of financial results or similar situation. The Committee will not exercise discretion 
to reward failure and will report on any exercise of discretion that changes the amount of remuneration paid in any year.
3 In addition, the Group is proposing to continue to operate the Robert Walters Save As You Earn (SAYE) option scheme, which is an HMRC-approved scheme open to 
all permanent UK employees. Each individual is allowed to acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price up to a 
maximum value of £18,000. Options granted under the scheme can normally be exercised during a period of six months starting on the third anniversary of the start of the 
relevant SAYE contract. The current scheme ends in 2014 and it is management’s proposal to start a new scheme in 2014, which will vest in 2017. All Executive Directors 
are expected to enrol in this new scheme. 
4 In respect of other benefits, the maximum benefit costs of £70,000 a year exclude potential costs in respect of any relocation.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 49
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Chairman and Non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the fees payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors:
Element 
Link to  
strategic objectives Operation
Maximum  
potential
Performance conditions  
and assessment
Chairman The Group seeks to pay 
fees which reflect the level 
of responsibility expected 
of the Chairman which 
remain competitive with peer 
company fee levels.
In order to ensure no 
potential impairment to the 
required impartiality and 
objectivity of the Chairman, 
there is intentionally no link 
to performance.
The remuneration of the 
Chairman is determined 
annually by the 
Remuneration Committee.
The fee levels are set based 
on outside independent 
advice, along with a review 
of current practices in other 
companies.
Employment Contracts are 
terminable by either party 
giving not less than three 
months’ written notice at  
any time. 
The Chairman does not 
participate in any of the 
Company’s share schemes, 
pension schemes or bonus 
arrangements. 
The fees for the Chairman 
are determined by reference 
to benchmark market data.
Reasonable travel expenses 
are reimbursed.
Increases in fee value in any 
given year will be in line with 
market movement and will 
not exceed a maximum of 
10% + RPI in any given year.
The Chairman is subject  
to an annual Board 
evaluation but no element  
of pay is specifically  
linked to performance  
conditions or the outcome  
of this assessment.
Non-
executive 
Directors
The Group seeks to pay 
fees which reflect the level 
of responsibility expected 
of Non-executive Directors 
which remain competitive 
with peer company  
fee levels.
In order to ensure no 
potential impairment to the 
required impartiality and 
objectivity of the Non-
executive Directors, there  
is intentionally no link  
to performance. 
The remuneration of the 
Non-executive Directors is 
determined annually by the 
Board as a whole.
The fee levels are set based 
on outside independent 
advice, along with a review 
of current practices in  
other companies. 
Employment Contracts are 
terminable by either party 
giving not less than three 
months’ written notice at  
any time.
Non-executive Directors  
do not participate in any 
of the Company’s share 
schemes, pension schemes 
or bonus arrangements.
The fees for Non-executive 
Directors are determined 
by reference to benchmark 
market data.
A Board Committee 
Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director 
may receive an additional 
fee commensurate to the 
additional responsibility 
and time commitment.
In addition to the above, 
reasonable travel expenses 
are reimbursed.
Increases in fee value in any 
given year will be in line with 
market movement and will 
not exceed a maximum of 
10% + RPI in any given year.
Non-executive Directors are 
subject to an annual Board 
evaluation but no element  
of pay is specifically linked  
to performance conditions 
or the outcome of  
this assessment. 50 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Illustration of total future remuneration from 2015 remuneration packages
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the 
remuneration opportunity per the 2015 policy. 
2,500
Minimum
100% 46.4% 28.5%
34.5% 32.5%
19.1%
39.0%
100% 46.3% 28.3%
34.6% 32.6%
19.1%
39.1%
100% 45.9% 28.0%
34.8% 32.7%
19.3%
39.3%
Chief Executive Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
VALUE OF PACKAGE (£000)
 Fixed pay  Annual bonus  Long-term incentives
Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below:
Element Description
Fixed pay The last confirmed total amount of salary, pension and benefits. 
Annual bonus The annual bonus % set out in the future policy table and based on the last confirmed salary.
Long-term incentives Shares awarded under the PSP as set out in the future policy table and based on the last confirmed salary.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are outlined below:
All scenarios:
 – Base salary, other benefits and pensions remain consistent across all scenarios.
 – The amounts shown under the PSPs are based on an expected value basis.
Minimum:
 – None of the annual bonus and PSP awards would be payable.
On-target:
 – On-target annual bonus of 97.5% of salary would be payable.
 – The on-target figure for the PSP aligns with the level of vesting at threshold, which is 30%, resulting in a notional payout of 54% 
of salary (of a notional 180% award of base salary).
Maximum:
 – The annual bonus payable at the maximum percentage is 150% of base salary.
 – The PSP awards would be assumed to have vested in full and would represent a notional 180% award of base salary.
Recruitment and appointment policy
Any remuneration arrangements for a new Director will be in line with the remuneration policy for existing Directors. Incentive awards 
will be in line with the current awards given to Directors and will be subject to the same maximum award levels and vesting criteria. 
Where the appointee has variable remuneration arrangements with a previous employer that will be forfeited on the termination of 
that employment, the Committee reserves the right to offer a share-based buyout for value foregone. This is meant to facilitate the 
recruitment of key individuals in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority. Any such award would only be made in exceptional 
circumstances, would not exceed the expected value being forfeited and would include performance and timing conditions appropriate 
to the Group. 
Relocation costs which are reasonable and appropriate may also be paid should the recruitment require.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 51
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Policy on payment for loss of office
In the event of early termination of a Director’s service contract, 
the Group has an absolute requirement to pay compensation 
reflecting the salary and benefits to which the Director would have 
become entitled to under the contract during the notice period. 
Alternatively the Group may, under the contracts of employment 
in place and the rules of the plans, at its discretion make the 
following payments in the event of a ‘good leaver’ scenario:
 – Notice period of 12 months’ base salary, pension and 
contractual benefits or payments in lieu of notice;
 – Bonus payable for the period worked, subject to the 
achievement of the relevant personal and financial performance 
conditions; and
 – Vesting of PSPs and existing share options granted under the 
Executive Share Option Scheme are governed by the rules of 
the relevant incentive plans. These rules provide the Committee 
with discretion to allow partial vesting depending on the extent 
to which performance conditions have been met at the date of 
cessation and the length of time the awards or options have 
been held.
The Committee may settle any other amounts reasonably  
due to the Executive Director, for example to reimburse the  
leaver for a reasonable level of legal fees in connection with  
a settlement agreement.
Service contracts
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are 
subject to review annually. These service contracts are terminable 
by either party giving up to 12 months’ written notice at any time 
and there are no specific provisions relating to any payments for 
early termination of office, or in the event of a change of control.
None of the Executive Directors currently hold significant  
Non-executive Director positions and it is expected that the 
Executive Directors would seek approval from the Board prior  
to the acceptance of any such positions in companies outside  
the Group.
Contracts of service Date of contract
Executive Directors
R C Walters 19 June 2000
G P Daubeney 19 June 2000
A R Bannatyne 1 March 2007
Non-executive Directors
M A Griffiths (resigned 1 August 2013) 1 July 2006
A D Kemp 7 November 2007
C Hui 1 January 2012
L Van de Walle 1 October 2012
B McArthur-Muscroft  
(appointed 1 May 2013) 1 May 2013
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors 
stand for election at the Annual General Meeting every year.
Legacy awards and any other contractual obligations
All contractual commitments or awards made which are 
consistent with the remuneration policy in force at the time that 
the commitment or award was made will be honoured even if they 
would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when 
the commitment is fulfilled or awards vest. For example, this will 
include payment for the vesting of option awards made prior to the 
introduction of this policy. Any contractual commitments entered 
into before the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 came into 
force or before a person became a Director will also be honoured. 
The tables on pages 41 and 42 show the details of the share 
options and PSP awards that are currently held by each 
Director and when they will vest.
Statement of employment conditions elsewhere in 
the Group
Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors, the Remuneration Committee is presented with a report 
detailing remuneration practice across the Group, including an 
overview by country of how employee pay compares to the 
market, and material changes during the year. This report includes 
detailed comparative analysis of basic pay and variable pay 
changes within the UK where all of the Executive Directors are 
based. The Group does not directly consult with employees 
as part of the process of reviewing executive pay. 
Consideration of shareholders views
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders 
and holds annual meetings with the Company’s largest investors 
to discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and 
governance matters. In particular, the Committee discusses any 
significant changes to the policy or the measures used to assess 
performance. The Group took part in an extensive consultation in 
late 2013 on the introduction of its new 2015 policy and specifically 
the suggested changes to annual bonus and share scheme  
design and levels. These consultations were favourably received 
and provided helpful feedback in finalising the proposed policy 
included in this report.
Approval
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 
2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Andrew Kemp
Remuneration Committee Chairman
28 February 2014 52 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation, and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under 
company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for 
that period. In preparing these financial statements, International 
Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 – Properly select and apply accounting policies;
 – Present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 – Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
 – Make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider 
that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model 
and strategy. When arriving at this position the Board was assisted 
by a number of processes, including the following:
 – The Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior 
management with overall co-ordination by the Group Marketing 
Director and Group Financial Controller to ensure consistency 
across sections;
 – An extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure 
factual accuracy;
 – Comprehensive reviews of drafts of the report are  
undertaken by members of the Executive Board and  
senior management team;
 – An advanced draft is considered and reviewed by two regional 
Managing Directors and the Legal General Counsel; and
 – The final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to 
consideration by the Board.
Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 – The financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 – The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board,
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
28 February 2014  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 53
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Opinion on financial statements of Robert Walters plc
In our opinion:
 – The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 
2013 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 – The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) 
as adopted by the European Union;
 – The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
 – The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, 
and the related notes 1 to 33. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ statement on page 28 that the Group is a going concern.  
We confirm that:
 – We have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is 
appropriate; and
 – We have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation 
of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Revenue Recognition
For permanent placements, which accounted for 69% of the 
Group’s Net Fee Income in 2013, the Group’s policy (as detailed 
in note 1) is to record revenue when specific recognition criteria 
have been met, namely where a candidate accepts a position in 
writing and a start date is agreed. Accordingly revenue is accrued 
in respect of permanent placements meeting the above criteria but 
which remain unbilled. 
A provision is made for placements expected to be cancelled prior 
to the start date “back-outs” on the basis of past experience.
The application of the Group’s revenue recognition policy involves 
a significant degree of management judgement.
Our audit scope involved agreeing a sample of permanent 
placement fees earned but not invoiced to written evidence 
of candidate acceptance, including confirmation of start date.
We compared the level of provision held at the year-end with the 
average level of back-outs experienced on a monthly basis during 
the year. We also reviewed the back-outs following the year end. 
Recoverability of trade receivables and bad 
debt provisioning
Gross trade receivables at 31 December 2013 were £118.8m. 
Whilst historically the Group has not suffered from a significant 
level of write-offs, given the relatively small balances due from a 
large number of customers, significant management judgement 
is required in estimating the appropriate level of provision against 
trade receivables.
The Group’s policy is to record a provision based on anticipated 
recoverable cash, any specific circumstances specific to individual 
customers, the ageing of the receivables and the fair value of any 
guarantee received as detailed in note 1. 
To gain assurance over the validity and recoverability of the year-
end receivables, we agreed a sample of balances to supporting 
invoices and subsequent cash receipts. As well as selecting a 
random sample from across the ledger, our testing also focused 
on high-risk and aged balances as part of our audit sample. We 
observed the make-up of the year provision for bad debts and 
assessed it against the bad debt cost experienced in the year.
Additionally, we evaluated post year-end developments to 
determine whether any provisions required reversal.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ROBERT WALTERS PLC 54 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED
TO THE MEMBERS OF ROBERT WALTERS PLC
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Recoverability of deferred tax assets
As at 31 December 2013 the Group carried deferred tax 
assets of £9.0m of which £4.0m arose in the UK in respect of tax 
losses, unexercised share options and other timing differences. 
The remaining deferred tax balance relates to a number of 
international jurisdictions.
Management is required to exercise judgement in respect of 
assessing the probability that sufficient future taxable profits will 
be generated against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is supported by profit forecasts 
in each relevant jurisdiction. With the assistance of our tax 
specialists, we have evaluated these profit forecasts in respect 
of the operations in terms of past performance and on the basis 
of market reports, our knowledge of the recruitment industry and 
the macro-economic factors in these locations. We have assessed 
the mechanical accuracy of the forecasts, management’s historical 
forecasting accuracy and the consistency of the projections with 
other forecasts made by management.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these risks is set out on page 35.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not 
to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any 
of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work 
and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £1.1m, being 10% of the three year average pre-tax profit for 2011, 2012, and 2013 and 
represents 0.6% of the net fee income for the year and 1.5% of net assets. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £50,000, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily 
on the audit work at eight significant components, which were all subject to a full audit. These eight significant components, being the 
United Kingdom, Australia, France, Japan, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, China, and Singapore, represent the principal business units 
and account for 78% of the Group’s net assets and 82% of the Group’s net fee income. They were also selected to provide an 
appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at the eight 
significant components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that 
there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject 
to full scope audits.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor 
or a senior member of the Group audit team visits, on an annual basis, at least three of the significant components where the Group 
audit scope was focused. Annually, for each of the eight significant components we include the component audit team in our team 
briefing, discuss and agree their risk assessment and audit approach before their work commences and attend the audit close 
meetings either via telephone, teleconference or in person, and review a selection of working papers on scoped significant audit risks.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
 – The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 55
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 – We have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 – Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 – The parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in 
our opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not 
been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of 
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), 
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information 
in the annual report is:
 – Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
 – Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
 – Otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the Directors’ statement that they consider 
the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and 
whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters 
that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider 
should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not 
identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of 
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion 
on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit 
methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control 
procedures are effective, understood and applied. Our quality 
controls and systems include our dedicated professional 
standards review team (PSR) and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Edward Hanson (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London
28 February 2014 56 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Note
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Revenue 1 597,719 567,771
Cost of sales (398,525) (379,380)
Gross profit 199,194 188,391
Administrative expenses (188,360) (179,922)
Operating profit 10,834 8,469
Finance income 121 134
Finance costs 2 (797) (788)
Loss on foreign exchange (87) (90)
Profit before taxation 3 10,071 7,725
Taxation 5 (3,915) (2,838)
Profit for the year 6,156 4,887
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 6,156 4,860
Non-controlling interest – 27
6,156 4,887
Earnings per share (pence): 7
Basic 8.4 6.8
Diluted 7.7 6.2
The amounts above relate to continuing operations. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit for the year 6,156 4,887
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations (5,164) (2,497)
Total comprehensive income and expense for the year 992 2,390
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 992 2,363
Non-controlling interest – 27
992 2,390  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 57
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013
Note
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 8 9,517 9,477
Property, plant and equipment 9 9,300 11,896
Deferred tax assets 14 8,998 8,033
27,815 29,406
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 11 153,700 125,703
Corporation tax receivables 1,949 2,161
Cash and cash equivalents 16 30,071 26,022
185,720 153,886
Total assets 213,535 183,292
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 12 (124,149) (94,991)
Corporation tax liabilities (2,314) (947)
Bank overdrafts and loans 13 (11,496) (14,550)
Provisions 15 (606) (464)
(138,565) (110,952)
Net current assets 47,155 42,934
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (39) (39)
Provisions 15 (1,049) (783)
(1,088) (822)
Total liabilities (139,653) (111,774)
Net assets 73,882 71,518
Equity
Share capital 17 17,177 17,114
Share premium 21,753 21,249
Other reserves 19 (73,410) (73,410)
Own shares held 19 (5,876) (9,121)
Treasury shares held 19 (19,860) (19,860)
Foreign exchange reserves 3,985 9,149
Retained earnings 130,113 126,397
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 73,882 71,518
The accounts on pages 56 to 75 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2014 and signed 
on its behalf by:
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer 58 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Note
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Cash generated from operating activities 20 19,240 11,330
Income taxes paid (2,798) (6,352)
Net cash from operating activities 16,442 4,978
Investing activities
Interest received 121 134
Purchases of computer software (1,096) (1,060)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (1,351) (3,931)
Purchase of non-controlling interest (715) (712)
Net cash used in investing activities (3,041) (5,569)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid (3,826) (3,684)
Proceeds from issue of equity 567 3
Interest paid (797) (788)
Proceeds from bank loans and overdrafts – 3,885
Repayment of bank loans (3,061) (1,184)
Net cash used in financing activities (7,117) (1,768)
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6,284 (2,359)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 26,022 28,965
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2,235) (584)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 30,071 26,022  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 59
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Group
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Other
reserves
£’000
Own
shares
held
£’000
Treasury
shares
held
£’000
Foreign
exchange
reserves
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Non-
controlling
interest
£’000
Total
equity
£’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 17,113 21,247 (73,410) (12,028) (19,860) 11,646 125,534 70,242 505 70,747
Profit for the year – – – – – – 4,860 4,860 27 4,887
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – (2,497) – (2,497) – (2,497)
Total comprehensive income and 
expense for the year – – – – – (2,497) 4,860 2,363 27 2,390
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,684) (3,684) – (3,684)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – – – – (1,809) (1,809) (532) (2,341)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments – – – – – – 4,455 4,455 – 4,455
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – – (52) (52) – (52)
Transfer to own shares held on 
exercise of equity incentives – – – 2,907 – – (2,907) – – –
New shares issued 1 2 – – – – – 3 – 3
Balance at 31 December 2012 17,114 21,249 (73,410) (9,121) (19,860) 9,149 126,397 71,518 – 71,518
Profit for the year – – – – – – 6,156 6,156 – 6,156
Foreign currency translation 
differences – – – – – (5,164) – (5,164) – (5,164)
Total comprehensive income and 
expense for the year – – – – – (5,164) 6,156 992 – 992
Dividends paid – – – – – – (3,826) (3,826) – (3,826)
Credit to equity for equity-settled 
share-based payments – – – – – – 3,855 3,855 – 3,855
Deferred tax on share-based payment 
transactions – – – – – – 776 776 – 776
Transfer to own shares held on 
exercise of equity incentives – – – 3,245 – – (3,245) – – –
New shares issued 63 504 – – – – – 567 – 567
Balance at 31 December 2013 17,177 21,753 (73,410) (5,876) (19,860) 3,985 130,113 73,882 – 73,882 60 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
Robert Walters plc is a Company incorporated in the UK under the 
Companies Act.
The financial report for the year ended 31 December 2013 has 
been prepared in accordance with the historic cost convention 
and with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), 
including International Accounting Standards and Interpretations 
as adopted for use by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern 
basis. This is discussed in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 20.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are summarised 
below and have been applied consistently in all aspects 
throughout the current year and preceding year.
(a) Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial 
statements of Robert Walters plc and its subsidiary undertakings 
drawn up to 31 December each year. Subsidiaries are entities 
controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company  
has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from  
its activities.
(b) Business combinations
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the 
purchase method. The cost of the acquisition is measured at 
the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets 
given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. 
All costs directly attributable to the business combination are 
accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are 
incurred and the services received. The only exception to this is 
in respect of the costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, 
which should be recognised in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 
39. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 
are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for 
non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held 
for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and 
measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially 
measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business 
combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised. 
If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the net fair value of 
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is 
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are initially 
measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair 
value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
(c) Goodwill
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, 
representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given 
over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, 
is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
Any impairment is recognised in the Consolidated Income 
Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition 
to IFRSs has been retained at the net 1 January 2004 Pounds 
Sterling UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment 
at that date. On disposal the attributable amount of goodwill is 
included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
(d) Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, 
is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) 
using the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted 
or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability 
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for 
all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are 
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which deductible temporary differences 
can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement 
except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
(e) Employee share schemes
The cost of awards made under the Group’s employee share 
schemes after 7 November 2002 is based on the fair value of the 
shares at the time of grant and is charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a stochastic model. The expected 
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s 
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
A liability equal to the portion of the services received is 
recognised at the current fair value determined at each  
balance sheet date for cash-settled share based payments.  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 61
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
(f) Revenue
Revenue comprises the value of services, net of VAT and other 
sales-related taxes, provided in the normal course of business. 
Any bad debt provision that may be deemed necessary is treated 
as an administrative expense.
Revenue from the placement of permanent staff is recognised 
when a candidate accepts a position and a start date is determined. 
A provision is made for the cancellation of placements prior to or 
shortly after the commencement of employment based on past 
experience of this occurring.
Revenue from temporary placements represents the amounts 
billed for the services of temporary staff including the salary costs 
of those staff. This is recognised as the service is provided, to the 
extent that the Group is acting as a principal. Where the Group 
is not considered to act as a principal, the salary costs of the 
temporary staff are excluded from revenue and only the net margin 
is recognised as revenue. Revenue in respect of outsourcing and 
consultancy is recognised as the service is provided.
(g) Gross profit (net fee income)
Gross profit is the total placement fees of permanent candidates, 
the margin earned on the placement of contract candidates and 
advertising margin. It also includes the outsourcing and consultancy 
margin earned by Resource Solutions.
(h) Operating profit
Operating profit is the total revenue less the total associated 
costs incurred in the production of revenue. The only items that 
are excluded from operating profit are finance costs (including 
foreign exchange), investment income and expenditure, taxation, 
and, if deemed appropriate, amounts that are identified as 
non-recurring material items.
(i) Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of 
exchange at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, 
with any gain or loss that may arise as a result being included 
in net profit or loss for the period.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average 
rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at 
the rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences 
arising on translation of the opening net assets and the results of 
overseas operations are dealt with through other comprehensive 
income and reserves, and recognised as income or as expenses 
in the period in which an operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of 
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
entity and translated at the closing rate. The Group has elected 
to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions 
before the date of transition to IFRSs as Pounds Sterling 
denominated assets and liabilities.
(j) Property, plant and equipment and computer software
Property, plant and equipment and computer software is stated at 
cost, net of depreciation. Depreciation is provided on all property, 
plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis 
over its expected useful life, as follows:
 – Leasehold improvements and finance leases: the shorter 
of estimated useful life and the period of the lease;
 – Motor vehicles: 17.5%;
 – Fixtures, fittings and office equipment: 10% to 20%; and
 – Computer equipment and computer software: 33.3%.
(k) Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line  
basis over the lease term even if the payments are not made 
on such a basis.
(l) Investments
Investments are shown at cost, less provision for impairment 
where appropriate.
(m) Receivables
Trade and other receivables are recorded at cost, less any 
provision for impairment.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand 
deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are 
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject 
to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
(o) Other financial liabilities
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are measured at fair 
value, net of transaction costs.
(p) Pensions
The Group currently contributes to the money purchase pension 
plans of certain individual Directors and employees. Contributions 
payable in respect of the year are charged to the Consolidated 
Income Statement.
(q) Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal 
or contractive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation and when the amount can be reliably estimated. If the 
effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects the 
current market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the liability. 62 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
(r) Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual 
rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the 
financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to 
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained 
interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may 
have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised 
borrowing for the proceeds received. 
(s) Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, 
the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled, or they expire. 
Developments in accounting standards/IFRSs
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have 
been adopted by the Group in the current year. Their adoption has 
not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these 
financial statements:
 – IAS 1 (amended): Presentation of Financial Statements;
 – IFRS 7 (amended): Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets 
and Financial Liabilities; and
 – IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been 
applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet 
effective (and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU):
 – IFRS 9: Financial Instruments;
 – IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements;
 – IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements;
 – IAS 27 (revised): Investment Entities;
 – IAS 28 (revised): Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; 
 – IAS 32 (revised): Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities;
 – IAS 36 (revised): Recoverable Amount Disclosures for 
Non-Financial Assets;
 – IAS 39 (revised): Novation of Derivatives and Continuation 
of Hedge Accounting; and
 – IFRIC Interpretation 21: Levies.
The Group does not consider that these Standards or 
Interpretations will have a significant impact on the financial 
statements of the Group when they come into effect.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of  
estimation uncertainty
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are 
based on historical experience and other factors, including 
expectation of future events that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances. Due to inherent uncertainty involved in 
making estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ 
from those assumptions and estimates. The critical judgements 
that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the 
Group’s financial statements and the key sources of estimation 
uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material 
adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities have  
been identified by management as revenue recognition and  
bad debt expense.
 – Revenue recognition – in making this judgement, management 
considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue 
from permanent placements who had accepted a position and 
agreed a start date, but had not started employment. A provision 
is made by management, based on historical evidence, for the 
proportion of those placements where the candidate is expected 
to reverse their acceptance prior to the start date.
 – Bad debt provisioning – at each balance sheet date each 
subsidiary evaluates the collectability of trade receivables and 
records a provision based on anticipated recoverable cash 
flows, nature of counterparty, past due date, geographical 
location, the costs of recovery and the fair value of any 
guarantee received.
 – Deferred tax – management judgement is used when assessing 
the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised 
with consideration given to the timing and level of future taxable 
income. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent 
that they are considered recoverable based on forecasts of 
available taxable profits against which they can be utilised. 
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 63
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
1. Segmental information 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
i) Revenue: 
Asia Pacific 260,145  280,628 
UK 235,734  193,247 
Europe 93,855  87,787 
Other International 7,985  6,109 
597,719 567,771
ii) Gross profit: 
Asia Pacific 92,069 93,353
UK 57,161 49,737
Europe 42,036 39,557
Other International 7,928 5,744
199,194 188,391
iii) Profit before taxation: 
Asia Pacific 7,242 7,178
UK 2,540 444
Europe 1,258 1,213
Other International (206) (366)
Operating profit 10,834 8,469
Net finance costs (763) (744)
Profit before taxation 10,071 7,725
iv) Net assets: 
Asia Pacific 26,929 30,258
UK 11,309 13,007
Europe 8,099 6,894
Other International 376 679
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities
1
27,169 20,680
73,882 71,518
1 For the purposes of segmental information, unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include cash, bank loans, corporation and deferred tax balances. 
The analysis of revenue by destination is not materially different to the analysis by origin and the analysis of finance income and costs are 
not significant. 
The Group is divided into geographical areas for management purposes, and it is on this basis that the segmental information has  
been prepared. 
P, P&E and 
software 
additions
£’000
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£’000
Non-current 
assets
£’000
Assets
£’000
Liabilities
£’000
v) Other information – 2013:
Asia Pacific 623 1,821 11,766 49,077 (22,148)
UK 1,470 1,733 5,171 96,075 (84,766)
Europe 268 408 1,680 23,883 (15,784)
Other International 86 62 200 3,482 (3,106)
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities
1
– – 8,998 41,018 (13,849)
2,447 4,024 27,815 213,535 (139,653)
1 For the purposes of segmental information, unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include cash, bank loans, corporation and deferred tax balances.  64 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
1. Segmental information continued
P, P&E and 
software 
additions
£’000
Depreciation 
and 
amortisation
£’000
Non-current 
assets
£’000
Assets
£’000
Liabilities
£’000
Other information – 2012:
Asia Pacific 2,339 1,874 13,617 53,521 (23,263)
UK 1,644 1,548 5,734 68,879 (55,871)
Europe 964 327 1,814 20,941 (14,048)
Other International 84 62 208 3,735 (3,056)
Unallocated corporate assets and liabilities
1
– – 8,033 36,216 (15,536)
5,031 3,811 29,406 183,292 (111,774)
1 For the purposes of segmental information, unallocated corporate assets and liabilities include cash, bank loans, corporation and deferred tax balances. 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
vi) Revenue by business grouping: 
Robert Walters 454,375 467,567
Resource Solutions (recruitment process outsourcing) 143,344 100,204
597,719 567,771
2. Finance costs 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Interest on bank overdrafts 771 700
Interest on bank loans 26 88
Total borrowing costs 797 788
3. Profit before taxation 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit is stated after charging: 
Auditor’s remuneration – Deloitte LLP (as Auditor) 
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 54 53
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 281 286
335 339
– Other services pursuant to legislation 25 25
– Fees payable to the Auditor pursuant to legislation 360 364
– Tax services – compliance 49 39
– Tax services – advisory 27 –
– Other non-audit services 3 4
Total fees 439 407
Depreciation and amortisation of assets – owned 4,024 3,811
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software 378 394
Impairment of trade receivables (net) 76 300
Operating lease rentals – property 10,925 10,417
Operating lease rentals – computers and equipment 886 931
4. Staff costs 
2013
Number
2012
Number
The average monthly number of employees of the Group (including Executive Directors) during the year was:
Group employees 2,273 2,193
The Directors analyse headcount in a number of ways and therefore headcount has been presented on a global basis.   ROBERT WALTERS PLC 65
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
4. Staff costs continued
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 
Wages and salaries 116,249 107,163
Social security costs 16,633 14,144
Other pension costs 3,075 2,960
Cost of employee share options and awards 3,855 4,455
139,812 128,722
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 38. 
5. Taxation 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Current tax charge 
Corporation tax – Overseas 4,387 4,052
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Corporation tax – UK – 32
Corporation tax – Overseas 99 100
4,486 4,184
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax – UK 701 (445)
Deferred tax – Overseas (1,315) (607)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 
Deferred tax – UK 44 118
Deferred tax – Overseas (1) (412)
(571) (1,346)
Total tax charge for year 3,915 2,838
Profit before taxation 10,071 7,725
Tax at standard UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%) 2,341 1,893
Effects of: 
Unrelieved losses (54) 62
Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 114 124
Overseas earnings taxed at different rates 1,067 665
Adjustments to tax charges in previous years 141 (162)
Impact of tax rate change 306 256
Total tax charge for year 3,915 2,838
6. Dividends 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 
Interim dividend paid of 1.54p per share (2012: 1.47p) 1,116 1,052
Final dividend for 2012 of 3.68p per share (2011: 3.68p) 2,710 2,632
3,826 3,684
Proposed final dividend for 2013 of 3.86p per share (2012: 3.68p) 2,843 2,632
The proposed final dividend of £2,843,000 is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been 
included as a liability in these financial statements. 66 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
7. Earnings per share 
The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent and the weighted 
average number of shares of the Company.
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 6,156 4,860
2013
Number
of shares
2012
Number
of shares
Weighted average number of shares: 
Shares in issue throughout the year 85,570,741 85,568,121
Shares issued in the year 107,243 230
Treasury and own shares held (12,682,876) (14,357,336)
For basic earnings per share 72,995,108 71,211,015
Outstanding share options 7,206,147 7,522,863
For diluted earnings per share 80,201,255 78,733,878
8. Intangible assets
Goodwill
£’000
Computer
software
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost: 
At 1 January 2012 7,942 7,331 15,273
Additions 40 1,060 1,100
Disposals – (923) (923)
Foreign currency translation differences (63) (48) (111)
At 31 December 2012 7,919 7,420 15,339
Additions – 1,096 1,096
Disposals – (428) (428)
Foreign currency translation differences 49 (231) (182)
At 31 December 2013 7,968 7,857 15,825
Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 
At 1 January 2012 – 5,981 5,981
Charge for the year – 773 773
Disposals – (840) (840)
Foreign currency translation differences – (52) (52)
At 31 December 2012 – 5,862 5,862
Charge for the year – 815 815
Disposals – (210) (210)
Foreign currency translation differences – (159) (159)
At 31 December 2013 – 6,308 6,308
Carrying value: 
At 1 January 2012 7,942 1,350 9,292
At 31 December 2012 7,919 1,558 9,477
At 31 December 2013 7,968 1,549 9,517  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 67
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
8. Intangible assets continued
The carrying value of goodwill primarily relates to the acquisition of Talent Spotter in China (£1,081,000) and the historic acquisition of 
the Dunhill Group in Australia (£6,847,000). The historical acquisition cost of Talent Spotter was £768,000, with the movement to the 
current carrying value a result of foreign currency translation differences. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently 
if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amount of the goodwill is based on value in use in perpetuity. 
The key assumptions in the value in use are those regarding expected changes to cash flow during the period, growth rates and the 
discount rates. 
Estimated cash flow forecasts are derived from the most recent financial budgets and an assumed average growth rate of 3% for years 
two to five, which does not exceed the long-term average potential growth rate of the respective operations. The forecast for revenue 
and costs approved by the Board reflect the latest industry forecasts and management expectations based on past experience. 
The value of the cash flows is then discounted at a post-tax rate of 6.7% (pre-tax rate of 10.9%), based on the Group’s estimated 
weighted average cost of capital and risk adjusted depending on the location of goodwill. The weighted average cost of capital has 
also been adjusted for a terminal growth rate, between 2–4% depending on location, for year six onwards.
Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact in key assumptions. This included reducing the 
cash flow growth from year two onwards by 0%, 10% and 20% in absolute terms. The sensitivity analysis shows no impairment would 
arise under each scenario. 
9. Property, plant and equipment 
Leasehold
improvements
£’000
Fixtures,
fittings and
office
equipment
£’000
Computer
equipment
£’000
Motor
vehicles
£’000
Total
£’000
Cost: 
At 1 January 2012 6,028 10,270 6,634 81 23,013
Additions 991 2,074 856 10 3,931
Disposals (276) (1,344) (1,412) – (3,032)
Foreign currency translation differences (208) (269) (155) (6) (638)
At 31 December 2012 6,535 10,731 5,923 85 23,274
Additions 171 444 720 16 1,351
Disposals (33) (412) (499) (50) (994)
Foreign currency translation differences (286) (781) (359) (5) (1,431)
At 31 December 2013 6,387 9,982 5,785 46 22,200
Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 
At 1 January 2012 2,155 4,885 4,366 43 11,449
Charge for the year 806 1,044 1,172 16 3,038
Disposals (266) (1,069) (1,385) – (2,720)
Foreign currency translation differences (151) (127) (108) (3) (389)
At 31 December 2012 2,544 4,733 4,045 56 11,378
Charge for the year 826 1,160 1,194 29 3,209
Disposals 18 (329) (473) (50) (834)
Foreign currency translation differences (198) (377) (273) (5) (853)
At 31 December 2013 3,190 5,187 4,493 30 12,900
Carrying value: 
At 1 January 2012 3,873 5,385 2,268 38 11,564
At 31 December 2012 3,991 5,998 1,878 29 11,896
At 31 December 2013 3,197 4,795 1,292 16 9,300 68 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
10. Principal Group investments 
Details of principal Group investments existing as at 31 December 2013 are as follows: 
Subsidiary undertaking
Effective  
ownership of 
ordinary shares
Principal 
activity
Country of
incorporation
Robert Walters Pty Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Australia
Robert Walters SA 100% Recruitment consultancy Belgium
Robert Walters People Solutions SA 100% Recruitment consultancy Belgium
Robert Walters Brazil Limitada 100% Recruitment consultancy Brazil
Robert Walters Talent Consulting (Shanghai) Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy China
Robert Walters SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Walters People SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Walters People Business Support SAS 100% Recruitment consultancy France
Robert Walters Germany GMBH 100% Recruitment consultancy Germany
Resource Solutions Consulting (Hong Kong) Limited 100% HR outsourcing services Hong Kong
Robert Walters (Hong Kong) Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Hong Kong
PT. Robert Walters Indonesia 100% Recruitment consultancy Indonesia
Robert Walters Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Ireland
Robert Walters Japan KK 100% Recruitment consultancy Japan
Robert Walters Resource Solutions Sdn Bhd 100% HR outsourcing services Malaysia
Robert Walters Sdn Bhd 100% Recruitment consultancy Malaysia
Robert Walters BV 100% Recruitment consultancy Netherlands
Walters People BV 100% Recruitment consultancy Netherlands
Robert Walters New Zealand Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy New Zealand
Resource Solutions Consulting (Singapore) Pte Ltd 100% HR outsourcing services Singapore
Robert Walters (Singapore) Pte Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Singapore
Robert Walters Holding SAS Sucursal En Espana 100% Recruitment consultancy Spain
Robert Walters Korea Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy South Korea
Robert Walters Switzerland AG 100% Recruitment consultancy Switzerland
Robert Walters Company Limited (Taiwan) 100% Recruitment consultancy Taiwan
Robert Walters Recruitment (Thailand) Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy Thailand
Robert Walters Dubai Ltd 100% Recruitment consultancy United Arab Emirates
Robert Walters Operations Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Limited 100% HR outsourcing services United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Europe Limited 100% HR outsourcing services United Kingdom
Robert Walters Holdings Limited
1
100% Holding Company United Kingdom
Resource Solutions Inc (Delaware) 100% HR outsourcing services USA
Robert Walters Associates Inc. 100% Recruitment consultancy USA
Robert Walters Associates California Inc. 100% Recruitment consultancy USA
Robert Walters Vietnam Company Limited 100% Recruitment consultancy Vietnam
1 Robert Walters Holdings Limited has branch operations in Luxembourg and South Africa.
In September 2012, the Group gained control of the remaining 30% non-controlling interest in Robert Walters Talent Consulting 
(Shanghai) Ltd for a cost of Renminbi 24,000,000 (£2,341,000) from Talent Spotter with the associated value of the non-controlling 
interest in the Group balance sheet at the date of transaction of £532,000. Under the legal form of this transaction, 30% of the 
ordinary shares are still owned by Talent Spotter, but in substance the control of these shares has come under the control of the 
Group. In the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group made a payment of Renminbi 7,200,000 (£715,000), with the remaining 
balance of Renminbi 9,600,000 (£952,000) held in other payables.
Advantage has been taken of Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 to list only those undertakings required by that provision, as an 
exhaustive list would involve a statement of excessive length. A full listing of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings is included in the 
Company’s annual return.
11. Trade and other receivables 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Receivables due within one year: 
Trade receivables 117,127 100,749
Other receivables 3,337 3,874
Prepayments and accrued income 33,236 21,080
153,700 125,703
Included within prepayments and accrued income is a provision against the cancellation of placements where a candidate may reverse 
their acceptance prior to the start date.   ROBERT WALTERS PLC 69
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
11. Trade and other receivables continued
The value of this provision as of 31 December 2013 is £1,115,000 (31 December 2012: £1,055,000). The movement in the provision during 
the year is a charge to administrative expenses in the income statement of £60,000 (2012: £31,000). 
12. Trade payables and other payables: amounts falling due within one year
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Trade payables 3,794 4,427
Other taxation and social security 20,393 17,656
Other payables 20,404 23,502
Accruals and deferred income 79,558 49,406
124,149 94,991
There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the Group’s trade and other payables.
13. Bank overdrafts and loans
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Bank overdrafts and loans: current 11,496 14,550
11,496 14,550
The borrowings are repayable as follows: 
Within one year 11,496 14,550
11,496 14,550
In January 2014, the Group renewed and extended its three-year committed financing facility to £35.0m which expires in November 2016. 
At 31 December 2013, £11.0m was drawn down under this facility.
The Group has a short-term facility of Renminbi 10m (£1.0m) of which Renminbi 5m (£0.5m) remains outstanding as at 31 December 2013. 
The loan is secured against cash deposits in Hong Kong.
The Directors estimate that the fair value of all borrowings is not materially different from the amounts stated in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet of £11,496,000 (2012: £14,550,000).
14. Deferred taxation 
The following are the major tax assets (liabilities) recognised by the Group and the movements during the current and prior year.
Accelerated
depreciation
Tax 
losses
Share- 
based
payment
Accruals
and 
provisions Total
At 1 January 2012 1,167 1,535 795 3,380 6,877
Credit (charge) to income 281 868 301 (102) 1,348
Charge to equity – – (52) – (52)
Foreign currency translation differences – (10) – (169) (179)
At 31 December 2012 1,448 2,393 1,044 3,109 7,994
Credit (charge) to income (246) (152) 162 807 571
Credit to equity – – 776 – 776
Foreign currency translation differences – (43) – (339) (382)
At 31 December 2013 1,202 2,198 1,982 3,577 8,959
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
financial reporting purposes:
Group 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Deferred tax assets 8,998 8,033
Deferred tax liabilities (39) (39)
8,959 7,994
At 31 December 2013, no deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of £7.6m (2012: £8.6m) relating to the unremitted 
earnings of overseas subsidiaries. Unremitted earnings may be liable to some overseas tax, but should not be liable to UK tax if they were 
to be distributed as dividends.  70 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
14. Deferred taxation continued
The UK Government reduced the rate of corporation tax by 1% from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 and announced its intention 
to reduce the rate further by 2% to 21% by 1 April 2014 and an additional 1% to 20% by 1 April 2015. The changes in corporation tax from 
23% to 20% have been substantively enacted and therefore the effects of these reductions have been included in the calculation of 
deferred tax in these financial statements.
Deferred tax assets of £2.2m (2012: £2.4m) have been recognised in respect of carried forward losses and latest forecasts show that 
these are expected to be recovered against future profit streams.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to £2.9m (2012: £2.5m) of tax losses of which £nil (2012: £nil) have no time 
restriction over when it can be utilised. The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to time restricted tax losses of £2.9m 
(2012: £2.5m) for which the weighted average period over which they can be utilised is 11.9 years.
15. Provisions 
Total
£’000
At January 2012 1,700
Additional provisions charged to income statement 503
Provision released (828)
Utilisation of provisions (32)
Foreign exchange movements (96)
At 31 December 2012 1,247
Additional provisions charged to income statement 807
Provision released (138)
Utilisation of provisions (234)
Foreign exchange movements (27)
At 31 December 2013 1,655
Analysis of total provision: 
Current 606
Non-current 1,049
1,655
The provisions comprise of rents and other related amounts payable on vacated properties and dilapidation provisions. 
16. Financial risk management 
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables, trade payables, etc. 
that arise directly from its operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group 
has not entered into derivative transactions and no gains or losses on hedges have been incurred.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk.
(i) Financial assets
Surplus cash balances are invested in financial institutions with favourable credit ratings that offer competitive rates of return, while still 
providing the Group with flexibility in its cash management.
Cash
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Euros 6,987 6,255
Australian Dollars 5,067 6,588
Japanese Yen 3,885 2,585
Hong Kong Dollars
1
3,769 2,355
Chinese Renminbi 2,542 2,416
US Dollars 1,959 990
Singapore Dollars 1,244 1,962
New Zealand Dollars 1,203 907
Malaysian Ringgit 563 418
Other 2,852 1,546
30,071 26,022
1 Included in the Hong Kong Dollars cash balance is £1.7m (2012: £1.7m) of restricted cash held on deposit as security against the Chinese Renminbi bank loan. Further details 
of this loan are provided in note 13.  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 71
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
16. Financial risk management continued
All financial assets, as detailed above, are at floating rate. There is no material difference between the fair value and the carrying value 
of the financial assets.
(ii) Currency exposures 
The main functional currencies of the Group are Pounds Sterling, the Euro and Australian Dollars. The Group does not have material 
transactional exposures because in the local entities, revenues and costs are in their functional currencies.
There are no material net foreign exchange exposures to monetary assets and monetary liabilities.
The Group has translation exposure in accounting for overseas operations and its policy is not to hedge against this exposure.
(iii) Liquidity risk
The Group’s overall objective is to ensure that at all times it is able to meet its financial commitments as and when they fall due.
Surplus funds are invested on short-term deposit. Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities, if appropriate.
(iv) Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash funds through its London head office and does not actively manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
Surplus funds in the UK earn interest at a rate linked to the Bank of England base rate. Surplus funds in other countries earn interest based 
on a number of different indices, varying from country to country.
(v) Credit risk
The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and investments. The Group’s credit risk 
is primarily in respect of trade receivables.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group 
has adopted a policy of only dealing with counterparties that are deemed creditworthy and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate, 
as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group transacts with entities that are considered to have adequate credit 
ratings. This information is supplied by independent rating agencies where available and if not available the Group uses other publicly 
available financial information and its own trading records to rate its major customers.
The Group’s exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored. Credit exposure is controlled by 
counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by management.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across industry sectors and geographical locations. In a number of 
territories in which the Group operates, particularly in the contract and interim businesses, invoices are contractually payable on demand. 
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee 
insurance cover is purchased.
Balances which are considered uncollectable either in part or for the whole amount are written down on a specific basis. The amount 
of the write-down takes into account an estimate of the recoverable cash flows, nature of counterparty, past due date, geographical area, 
the costs of recovery and the fair value of any guarantee received. The Group has provided fully for all receivables over 120 days because 
historical experience is such that receivables past due beyond 120 days are generally not recoverable.
The maximum exposure of credit risk for trade receivables is represented by their carrying value, net of impairment.
Out of trade receivables totalling £117.1m at 31 December 2013 (2012: £100.7m), balances totalling £94.8m (2012: £81.3m) are not due. 
The amount of trade receivables past due up to one month are £16.3m (2012: £16.8m) and past due greater than one month are £7.7m 
(2012: £4.4m). The amount of trade receivables outstanding by more than 90 days from invoice date at 31 December 2013 was £1.0m 
(2012: £1.4m). The level of bad debt provision at 31 December 2013 was £1.7m (2012: £1.8m).
(vi) Financial liabilities
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and also has a Renminbi loan, which was taken out in 2008, 
and a three-year committed Pounds Sterling sales financing facility entered into in January 2014. The average effective interest rate for 
2013 on the sales financing facility approximates to 2.75% and is determined upon the lender’s published rate plus 2.25%. As the rates 
are floating, the Group is exposed to interest rate risk. Further details in respect of these loans are disclosed in note 13 to the accounts.
The Group’s sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased during the year as repayments have been made on the bank loans. Trade and 
other payables are settled within normal terms of business and are payable in less than 120 days.  72 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013
17. Share capital 
2013
Number
2012
Number
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Authorised 
Ordinary shares of 20p each 200,000,000 200,000,000 40,000 40,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 
Ordinary shares of 20p each 85,886,614 85,570,741 17,177 17,114
The called-up share capital of the Company was increased on a number of occasions during the year following the issue of new shares 
in accordance with obligations in respect of the Executive Share Option Scheme. 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income. 
18. Share options 
Equity settled share option plan 
As at 31 December 2013 the following options had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Company’s ordinary shares 
of 20p each under the Company’s Executive Share Option Scheme and SAYE Option Scheme: 
Share
options 
granted
Price
granted
(p)
Exercisable
From To
Executive Options 50,000 103 June 2007 June 2014
Executive Options 250,000 102 May 2008 May 2015
Executive Options 137,000 135 December 2008 December 2015
Executive Options 125,000 244 July 2009 July 2016
Executive Options 20,000 240 September 2009 September 2016
Executive Options 1,261,925 208 March 2013 March 2020
Executive Options 20,000 221 April 2013 April 2020
Executive Options 20,000 299 November 2013 November 2020
Executive Options 1,417,000 329 March 2014 March 2021
Executive Options 1,264,000 227 March 2015 March 2022
Executive Options 25,000 257 April 2015 April 2022
Executive Options 15,000 197 December 2015 December 2022
Executive Options 1,309,500 211 March 2016 March 2023
SAYE Options 261,014 243 May 2014 November 2014
6,175,439
The movements within the balance of share options are indicated below, as well as a calculation of the respective weighted averages for 
each category of movement and the opening and closing balances. 
2013 2012
Options
Weighted  
average
exercise
price  
(£) Options
Weighted  
average
exercise
price  
(£)
At 1 January 5,659,895 2.39 6,340,560 2.03 
Granted during the year 1,317,500 2.11 1,348,000 2.27 
Forfeited during the year (188,000) 2.78 (387,045) 2.35 
Exercised during the year (613,956) 1.93 (2,620) 0.92 
Expired during the year – n/a (1,639,000) 0.92 
At 31 December 6,175,439 2.36 5,659,895 2.39 
The fair value of share options granted during the year was £802,500.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was £2.11. The options 
outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of seven years and a weighted value of £2.36.
There were 1,883,925 options already exercisable at the end of the year, with a weighted exercise price of £1.90.  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 73
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
18. Share options continued
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows: 
Executive Options SAYE Options
2013 2012 2011 2010 2011
Weighted average share price £2.11 £2.39 £3.29 £2.05 £3.04
Weighted average exercise price £2.11 £2.28 £3.29 £2.08 £2.43
Expected volatility 44.5% 45.7% 44.6% 42.4% 47.0%
Expected life 4 4 4 4 3.25
Risk free rate 1.0% 1.2% 2.8% 3.1% 1.7%
Expected dividend yield 2.4% 2.1% 1.5% 2.3% 1.6%
Expected volatility has been calculated over the period of time commensurate with the expected award term immediately prior to the date of 
grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, 
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Exercise of the Executive Share Options is subject to the achievement of a percentage increase in earnings per share which exceeds the 
percentage increase in inflation by at least an average 8% per annum, over a period of three financial years of the Group.
On satisfaction of these performance targets, 33.33% of the options vest. Vesting then increases progressively with the Executive Options 
fully vesting where earnings per share growth matches the UK retail price index plus an average of 14% per annum.
The SAYE Option Scheme enables UK permanent employees to use the proceeds of a related SAYE contract to acquire options over 
ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of up to 20% of their market price. Options granted under the scheme can normally be 
exercised during a period of six months starting on the third anniversary of the start of the relevant SAYE contract. Exercise of an option 
is subject to continued employment.
Equity settled Performance Share Plan (PSP)
As at 31 December 2013 the following share awards had been granted and remained outstanding in respect of the Company’s ordinary 
shares of 20p each under the Company’s Executive PSP Scheme:
The movements within the balances of share awards and co-investment awards are indicated below. 
2013 2012
Share
awards
Co-investment
awards Total
Share
awards
Co-investment
awards Total
At 1 January 5,380,200 2,413,925 7,794,125 5,509,649 2,096,499 7,606,148 
Granted during the year 2,333,582 785,287 3,118,869 2,074,277 1,009,824 3,084,101
Vested during the year (1,134,430) (509,998) (1,644,428) (1,233,412) (401,337) (1,634,749)
Lapsed during the year (699,939) (310,304) (1,010,243) (846,814) (278,369) (1,125,183)
Forfeited during the year (142,000) (86,759) (228,759) (123,500) (12,692) (136,192)
At 31 December 5,737,413 2,292,151 8,029,564 5,380,200 2,413,925 7,794,125
The fair value of share awards and co-investment awards granted during the year was £5,046,800.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 16 months (2012: 16 months). 
No awards expired during the year (2012: none).
The inputs into the stochastic model are as follows:
2013 2012 2011 2010
Weighted average share price £2.13 £2.39 £3.29 £2.05
Weighted average exercise price nil nil nil nil
Expected volatility 37.9% 41.9% 48.1% 52.2%
Expected life 3 3 3 3 
Risk free rate 0.4% 0.6% 1.4% 3.0%
Expected dividend yield 2.4% 2.2% 1.5% 2.3%
Expected volatility has been calculated over the period of time commensurate with the remainder of the performance period immediately 
prior to the date of grant. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based upon management’s best estimate, for the 
effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 74 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
18. Share options continued
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares receivable by Executive Directors for a nominal value is dependent upon the total 
shareholder return (TSR) and the earnings per share (EPS) growth over the three-year period from the initial date of grant. In the case 
of co-investment awards, the continued ownership of qualifying shares in the Company is also required. As such it is not possible to 
determine the interests of the individual Directors prior to the completion of the vesting period, although no shares will vest if the TSR 
performance does not at least equal the performance of the FTSE Small Cap Index or the EPS compound annual growth exceed 8%. 
For all of the PSP shares to vest, the TSR must exceed the FTSE Small Cap Index by a compound 12.5% per annum and the EPS 
compound annual growth must also exceed 14%.
The Group recognised an expense of £3,855,000 (2012: £4,455,000) during the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions and £nil (2012: £nil) in respect of cash-settled share-based payment transactions. The liability for cash-settled share-based 
payment transactions at 31 December was £nil (2012: £nil).
19. Reserves 
The other reserves of the Group include a merger reserve of £83,379,000 (2012: £83,379,000), a capital reserve of £9,301,000 (2012: 
£9,301,000), capital redemption reserve of £624,000 (2012: £624,000) and a capital contribution reserve of £44,000 (2012: £44,000).
The own shares are held by an employee benefit trust (EBT) to satisfy the potential share obligations of the Group. The Company also 
has an obligation to make regular contributions to the EBT to enable it to meet its financing costs. Rights to dividends on shares held 
by the EBT have been waived by the trustees. Charges of £18,000 (2012: £14,000) have been reflected in the Consolidated Income 
Statement in respect of the EBT.
The number and market value of own shares held at 31 December 2013 was 3,305,159 (2012: 5,129,880) and £10,296,000 
(2012: £9,901,000). The number and market value of treasury shares held at 31 December 2013 was 8,922,900 (2012: 8,922,900) 
and £27,795,000 (2012: £17,221,000).
20. Notes to the cash flow statement 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Operating profit 10,834 8,469
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation charges 4,024 3,811
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software 378 394
Charge in respect of share-based payment transactions 3,855 4,455
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 19,091 17,129
Increase in receivables (33,151) (10,533)
Increase in payables 33,300 4,734
Cash generated from operating activities 19,240 11,330
21. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 6,284 (2,359)
Cash inflow from movement in bank loans 3,061 (2,705)
Foreign currency translation differences (2,242) (525)
Movement in net cash in the year 7,103 (5,589)
Net cash at beginning of year 11,472 17,061
Net cash at end of year 18,575 11,472
Net cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents less bank loans. 
NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 75
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
22. Commitments 
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Within one year 9,547 9,750
In the second to fifth years inclusive 24,891 33,522
After five years 11,232 15,042
45,670 58,314
The Company has no finance lease commitments (2012: £nil). 
There are no capital commitments for the Group (2012: £nil). 
23. Related party transactions 
Transactions between Robert Walters plc and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are 
not disclosed in this note. The remuneration of key management personnel who are deemed to be Directors has been disclosed in the 
Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 38.
24. Contingent liabilities 
Each member of the Robert Walters plc Group is party to joint and several guarantees in respect of banking facilities granted to 
Robert Walters plc.
The Company has no other contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil). 76 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Notes
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Non-current assets
Investments 26 199,815  196,175 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 27 1,047 1,788
Total assets 200,862 197,963
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 28 (117,756) (115,361)
Net current liabilities (117,756) (115,361)
Net assets 83,106 82,602
Equity 
Share capital 29 17,177 17,114
Share premium 30 21,753 21,249
Capital redemption reserve 30 624 624
Own shares held 30 (5,876) (9,121)
Treasury shares held 30 (19,860) (19,860)
Retained earnings 30 69,288 72,596
Shareholders’ funds 83,106 82,602
The accounts of Robert Walters plc, Company Number 3956083, on pages 76 to 78 were approved by the Board of Directors 
on 28 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Bannatyne
Chief Financial Officer
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2013  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 77
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
25. Accounting policies 
The principal accounting policies of the Company are summarised below and have been applied consistently in all aspects throughout 
the current year and the preceding year.
(a) Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. 
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards and law.
(b) Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange 
prevailing at that date.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates 
ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and the results of overseas 
operations are dealt with through reserves.
(c) Investments
Investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment where appropriate. 
26. Fixed asset investments 
Total 
£’000
At 1 January 2013 196,175 
Increase in the year due to equity incentive schemes 3,640 
At 31 December 2013 199,815 
Please refer to note 10 for a list of the Company’s principal investments. 
27. Trade and other receivables
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts due from subsidiaries 1,047 1,788
1,047 1,788
28. Trade payables and other payables: amounts falling due within one year
 
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Amounts due to subsidiaries 117,756 115,361
 117,756 115,361
29. Share capital
 
2013
Number
2012
Number
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Authorised    
Ordinary shares of 20p each 200,000,000 200,000,000 40,000 40,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid    
Ordinary shares of 20p each 85,886,614 85,570,741 17,177 17,114
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 78 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
30. Reserves 
Share
capital
£’000
Share
premium
£’000
Capital
redemption
reserve
£’000
Own
shares
£’000
Treasury
shares
£’000
Retained
earnings
£’000
Total
£’000
Shareholders’ funds at 1 January 2013 17,114 21,249 624 (9,121) (19,860) 72,596 82,602
Shares issued 63 504 – – – – 567
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based payments – – – – – 3,855 3,855
Transfer to own shares held on exercise of equity 
incentives – – – 3,245 – (3,245) –
Loss for the year – – – – – (92) (92)
Dividends paid – – – – – (3,826) (3,826)
Shareholders’ funds at 31 December 2013 17,177 21,753 624 (5,876) (19,860) 69,288 83,106
The Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Since Robert Walters plc prepares a Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption available 
to not produce a Company-only Cash Flow Statement.
Robert Walters plc reported a loss for the year of £0.1m (2012: £0.0m).
£21.4m (2012: £25.3m) of the retained earnings of the Company represents distributable reserves.
Details of the proposed final dividend are provided in note 6 to the accounts.
Details of treasury and own shares held are disclosed in note 19 to the accounts.
31. Commitments 
The Company has no finance lease commitments (2012: £nil).
There are no capital commitments for the Company (2012: £nil).
32. Related party transactions 
There were no related party transactions in the year to 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil) other than as disclosed in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee and notes 27 and 28. 
33. Contingent liabilities 
The Company has no other contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £nil).
NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013  ROBERT WALTERS PLC 79
 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Australia
Adelaide
Level 20
25 Grenfell Street
Adelaide SA 5000
Australia
t: +61 (0) 8 8216 3500
Brisbane
Level 27
Waterfront Place
1 Eagle Street
Brisbane QLD 
Australia 4000
t: +61 (0) 7 3032 2222
Chatswood
Level 15
67 Albert Avenue
Chatswood
NSW 2067
t: +61 (0) 2 8423 1000
Melbourne
Level 41
385 Bourke Street
Melbourne
Australia 3000
t: +61 (0) 3 8628 2100
Parramatta
Level 6 
10 Smith Street 
Parramatta 
NSW 2150
Australia
t: +61 (0) 2 8836 3600
Perth
Level 10
109 St Georges Terrace
Perth WA 
Australia 6001
t: +61 (0) 8 9266 0900
Sydney
Level 53
Governor Phillip Tower
1 Farrer Place
Sydney NSW 2000
t: +61 (0) 2 8289 3100
Belgium
Brussels
Avenue Louise 250
B-1050 Brussels
Belgium
t: +32 (0) 2 511 66 88
Walters People
Avenue Louise 250
B-1050 Brussels
Belgium
t: +32 (0) 2 542 40 40
Ghent
Walters People
Guldensporenpark 120 
9820 Merelbeke 
Belgium
t: +32 (0) 9 210 57 40 
Groot- Bijgaarden
Walters People 
54A Gossetlaan 
1702 Groot- Bijgaarden 
Belgium
t: +32 (0) 2 609 79 00
Zaventem
Walters People 
Leuvensesteenweg 555
Entrance 3
1930 Zaventem
Brussels
t: +32 (0) 2 613 08 00
Brazil
Rio de Janeiro
Praia de Botafogo
501 – Bloco 1 – 1º andar
Torre Pão de Açucar
Rio de Janeiro – RJ
22250-040, Brazil
t: +55 (21) 2586 6165 
São Paulo 
Rua do Rócio
350, 4º andar
Vila Olímpia – SP
04552-000, Brazil
t: +55 (11) 2655 0888 
China
Beijing
Unit 1001, North Tower, Kerry 
Centre
No 1, Guang Hua Road
Chaoyang District
Beijing 100020
PR China
t: +86 10 5282 1888
Nanjing
36th Floor, Suite D/E
IFC, 1 Hanzhong Road 
Baixia District 
Nanjing 210029 
PR China
t: +86 25 8801 5888
Shanghai
36th Floor, Tower 2, 
Jing An Kerry Centre
No. 1539 West Nanjing Road
Shanghai 200040
PR China
Suzhou
Suite 2106
Zhongyin Huilong Building 
No. 8 Suhua Road
Suzhou Industrial Park
Jiangsu 215021
PR China
t: +86 512 6873 5888
France
Lyon
63 quai Charles de Gaulle 
69006 Lyon Cedex 06
France
t: +33 (0) 4 72 44 04 18
Paris
25 rue Balzac
Paris 75008
France
t: +33 (0) 1 40 67 88 00
Walters People
16 rue Washington
Paris 75008
France
t: +33 (0) 1 40 76 05 05
St Quentin
Walters People
43 avenue du centre
78180 Montigny-le-bretonneux 
France
t: +33 (0) 1 30 48 21 80
Strasbourg
3rd Floor
Centre d’Affaire Delta Bleu
5 Place du Corbeau
67000 Strasbourg 
France
t: +33 (0) 3 88 65 58 25
Germany
Düsseldorf
Benrather Straße 12
40213 Düsseldorf
Germany
t: +49 (0) 211 30180 000 
Frankfurt
Taunusanlage 1
60329 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
t: +49 (0) 69 95798 985 
Hong Kong
20/F Nexxus Building
41 Connaught Road Central
Central
Hong Kong
t: +852 2103 5300
Indonesia
Jakarta
World Trade Centre 1
9th Floor
Ji. Jend. Sudirman Kav, 29–31
Jakarta
12920
Indonesia
t: +62 (21) 2965 1500
Ireland
Dublin
2nd Floor
Riverview House
21–23 City Quay
Dublin 2, Ireland
t: +353 (0) 1 633 4111
Japan
Osaka
Pias Tower 15th Floor
3-19-3 Toyosaki
Kita-ku, Osaka-shi
Osaka 531-0072
Japan
t: +81 (0) 6 4560 3100
Tokyo
Shibuya Minami Tokyu Building 
14th Floor
3-12-18 Shibuya
Shibuya-ku
Tokyo
150-0002
Japan
t: +81 (0) 3 4570 1500
OUR OFFICES 80 ROBERT WALTERS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
Luxembourg
5th Floor
26a Boulevard Royal
L-2449 Luxembourg
t: +352 (0) 2647 8585
Malaysia
Kuala Lumpur
Level 24, Menara 3 Petronas
Persiaran KLCC
50088 Kuala Lumpur 
t: +603 2380 8700
Netherlands
Amsterdam
WTC, Toren H
Zuidplein 28
1077 XV Amsterdam
Netherlands
t: +31 (0) 20 644 4655
Eindhoven
Begijnenhof 4–6
5611 EL Eindhoven 
Netherlands
t: +31 (0) 40 799 9910
Rotterdam
Groothandelsgebouw
Ingang A, 3de verdieping
Stationsplein 45
Postbus 746
3000 AS Rotterdam 
Netherlands
t: +31 (0) 10 7998 090
New Zealand
Auckland
Level 9
22 Fanshawe Street
Auckland
New Zealand
t: +64 (0) 9 374 7300
Wellington
Level 8
Featherston House
119–123 Featherston Street
Wellington
New Zealand
t: +64 (0) 4 471 9700
Singapore
6 Battery Road
22-01
Singapore
049909
t: +65 6228 0200 
South Africa
Johannesburg
19th Floor 
World Trade Center 
Johannesburg 
Cnr West Road South and 
Lower Road 
Morningside, Sandton 
Johannesburg 2196 
South Africa
t: +27 (0) 11 881 2400 
South Korea
Seoul
27F, West Center
Center 1 Building
26 Euljiro 5 gil
Jung-gu
Seoul 100-210
Korea
t: +82 (0) 2 6030 8811
Spain
Madrid
Plaza de la Independencia nº2 
3ª planta
28001 Madrid
Spain
t: +34 91 309 79 88 
Switzerland
Zurich
Brandschekestrasse 6
8001 Zurich 
Switzerland
t: +41 (0) 44 809 35 00
Taiwan
Taipei
Room F, 10th Floor
No. 1 Songzhi Road
Xin-yi District
Taipei
Taiwan
t: +886 2 8758 0700
Thailand
Bangkok
1 Zuellig House, 3rd Floor Unit 
302
Silom Road
Bangrak
Bangkok 10500
Thailand
t: +66 (0) 2 344 4800
UAE
Dubai
Tower 2, Floor 33
All Fattan Currency House
Dubai International Financial 
Centre/DIFC
Dubai
PO Box 506851
UAE
t: +971 4 8180 100
United Kingdom
Birmingham
9th Floor
11 Brindley Place
Birmingham B1 2LP
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0) 121 281 5000
Guildford
Bishops Wharf
1 Walnut Tree Close 
Guildford GU1 4UP
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0) 1483 510400
London (Head Office)
11 Slingsby Place
St Martin’s Courtyard
London WC2E 9AB
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0) 20 7379 3333
Manchester
9th Floor
3 Hardman Street
Manchester 
M3 3HF
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0) 161 214 7400
Milton Keynes
Ground Floor
Luminous House
300 South Row
Milton Keynes MK9 2FR
United Kingdom
t: +44 (0) 1908 933975
United States
New York
Suite 1606
7 Times Square 
New York
NY 10036
USA
t: +1 212 704 9900
San Francisco
100 Spear Street
Suite 2000
San Francisco
CA 94105
USA
t: +1 415 549 2000
Vietnam
Ho Chi Minh City
#01, 12A F1, Empress Tower
138–142 Hai Ba Trung Street
District 1
Ho Chi Minh City
Vietnam
t: +84 8 3520 7900 
OUR OFFICES CONTINUED Download our Salary Checker App, Salary 
Survey ebook, Interview Guide App and our 
Job Search App from iTunes or visit Google 
Play for our Android Salary Checker App. 
Visit our websites on any device to find out 
more about Robert Walters.
Strategic Report
01 2013 Highlights
02 Robert Walters at a Glance
04 Our Business
06 Our Strategy
08 Our People and Culture
10 Innovation and Awards
12 Chairman’s Statement
14 Chief Executive’s Statement
18 Financial Review
22 Corporate Responsibility Statement
25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Directors’ Report
27 Directors’ Report
29 Directors and Advisors
30 Corporate Governance Statement
35 Report of the Audit Committee
37 Report of the Remuneration Committee
52 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
53  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members  
of Robert Walters plc
Financials
56 Consolidated Income Statement
56  Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
57 Consolidated Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
59 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
60 Statement of Accounting Policies
63 Notes to the Group Accounts
76 Company Balance Sheet
77 Notes to the Company Accounts
79 Our Offices
www.robertwalters.com
Job: 20042_RobertWalters_AR13_1Cover_AW Proof Read by:
Operator: Mark  Proof: 06 
Set-up: Ross Date: 9 April 2014 4:47 PM First Read/Revisions
Job: 20042_RobertWalters_AR13_1Cover_AW Proof Read by:
Operator: Mark  Proof: 06 
Set-up: Ross Date: 9 April 2014 4:47 PM First Read/Revisions
20042_RobertWalters_AR13_1Cover_AW.indd   5-7 09/04/2014   16:50 ROBERT WALTERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
www.robertwalters.com
AUSTRALIA
BELGIUM
BRAZIL
CHINA
FRANCE
GERMANY
HONG KONG
INDONESIA
IRELAND
JAPAN
LUXEMBOURG
MALAYSIA
NETHERLANDS
NEW ZEALAND
SINGAPORE
SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH KOREA
SPAIN
SWITZERLAND
TAIWAN
THAILAND
UAE
UK
USA
VIETNAM
