 Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements  
2012-13
Royal Mail Group Limited  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012-13 i
 Basis of presentation
Special purpose financial statements
As previously announced, Post Office Limited was transferred from under the ownership of 
Royal Mail Group Limited to become a fellow subsidiary undertaking of Royal Mail Holdings plc 
on 1 April 2012, one week into the 2012-13 reporting year. Accordingly, to enable comparative 
analysis, special purpose consolidated financial statements for Royal Mail Group Limited 
excluding Post Office Limited have been prepared for 2012-13, 2011-12 and 2010-11.
Adjusted 52 week basis
The 2012-13 financial year was a 53 week year and to provide meaningful comparisons, 
revenue and operating costs are also presented on an adjusted 52 week basis. 
The adjustment removes the 53rd week’s revenue and incremental costs associated with 
that revenue.
General Logistics Systems (GLS) reports results for a 52 week year ending 31 March. 
No adjustments have been made for GLS.
Like-for-like revenue and cost growth 
In addition to the 52 week adjustment, the impact of translating GLS’s Euro results into 
Sterling using different average exchange rates has also been eliminated to permit revenue 
and cost growth rates to be calculated on a like-for-like basis. 
The average rates for 2012-13 are £1 = €1.2262 compared with £1 = €1.1572 for 2011-12 – 
a weakening in the Euro of six per cent. Had last year’s GLS revenue of €1,808 million 
(reported as £1,562 million) been translated at the 2012-13 average rate, it would have been 
reported as £1,474 million, or £88 million lower. The translational impact of foreign currency 
on UKPIL’s revenue is some £2 million, which is not material and therefore has not been 
included in the like-for-like calculations.
The transactional cash impact of foreign currency is not eliminated. There are natural hedges 
in the Group to cover this exposure and the impact on operating profit is estimated as £3 million.
Ultimate parent 
Royal Mail Holdings plc is the immediate and ultimate parent of Royal Mail Group Limited and 
consolidated financial statements for the 53 weeks ending 31 March 2013 will be prepared for 
Royal Mail Holdings plc. A summary of the Group structure at 31 March is shown below.
Royal Mail Holdings plc
Post Ofﬁce Limited
Royal Mail 
Group Limited*
Royal Mail
Investments Limited
Royal Mail
Estates Limited
General Logistics
Systems B.V.
* Royal Mail Group Limited and its main subsidiaries. Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2012-13
Contents
Overview
Who we are 01
Financial and business performance highlights 04
Chairman’s statement 05
Chief Executive Officer’s review 07
Strategy
Our strategy 10
Key performance indicators 12
Performance
Financial performance overview 14
Financial review 16
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 21
General Logistics Systems (GLS) 23
Business risks 24
Corporate responsibility 28
Governance
Our Board of Directors 34
Directors’ report 37
Corporate Governance 38
Directors’ remuneration report 46
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement  56
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  57
Consolidated statement of cash flows 58
Consolidated balance sheet 59
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 61
Significant accounting policies 117
Group five year summary (unaudited) 124
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the  
Group financial statements 125
Other information
Forward looking statements 127
Corporate information 128
Go online for  
more information
This icon is used to indicate 
reporting against a KPI 
throughout the document.
Case studies
Information key:  01
Overview
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Who we are
As the sole provider of the Universal Service in the UK, 
Royal Mail Group delivers a six-days-a-week, one-price-
goes-anywhere postal service to more than 29 million 
addresses across the UK. 
Royal Mail is the preferred delivery company in the UK. 
We are a vital link connecting communities, businesses 
and customers. In 2012-13, we collected and delivered 
more than one billion parcels and 14 billion addressed 
letters across the country.
The transformation of Royal Mail Group is 
helping to ensure the sustainability of the 
Universal Service by putting our Company on 
a sound financial footing. Our strategy is to 
capitalise on our strength in delivery to grow 
our presence in the dynamic parcels market, 
thereby maintaining a financially viable 
Universal Service. 
Delivering increasing numbers of parcels 
through our combined UK network and 
capturing the benefits of the new regulatory 
regime will help us to mitigate the financial 
impacts of structural decline in the letters 
market. Addressed volumes have fallen from 
around 63 million items a day in 2011-12 to 
58 million items in 2012-13.
Achieving our strategic priorities, together 
with becoming a more customer-focused 
company, underpins our vision to be the 
most successful delivery company in the UK. 
Driving sustainable, profitable growth will 
allow us to obtain ongoing access to external 
capital, build a sustainable business and 
continue to provide as many good quality 
jobs as we can for our people.
We are making good progress. However, 
more remains to be done to ensure we can 
complete the transformation of our business 
from one that predominantly handles letters, 
to one that handles an increasing number 
of parcels.
Five year Group revenue (£m)
Reported 53 
weeks 2013
Adjusted 52  
weeks 2013
Reported 52 
weeks 2012
Reported 52 
weeks 2011
Reported 52 
weeks 2010
Reported 52 
weeks 2009
9,279 9,146 8,764 8,415 8,547 8,695
Five year Group operating profit after transformation costs (£m)
Reported 53 
weeks 2013
Adjusted 52  
weeks 2013
Reported 52 
weeks 2012
Reported 52 
weeks 2011
Reported 52 
weeks 2010
Reported 52 
weeks 2009
440 403 152 18 147 101
Five year Group free cash inflow/(outflow) (£m)
Reported 53 
weeks 2013
Adjusted 52  
weeks 2013
Reported 52 
weeks 2012
Reported 52 
weeks 2011
Reported 52 
weeks 2010
Reported 52 
weeks 2009
334 334 154 (246) (390) (493) Overview
02
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Who we are (continued)
UKPIL
Royal Mail Group, through its core UK business, 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL), is 
the UK’s sole provider of the Universal Service. 
It is also a leading UK provider of express 
parcels services through Parcelforce Worldwide. 
UKPIL provides letter and parcel services to 
and from countries around the world under 
reciprocal arrangements with other overseas 
postal administrations. It is also responsible 
for the design and production of the UK’s 
stamps and philatelic products.
Through MarketReach, UKPIL provides a 
full-service marketing mail offering and helps 
businesses derive more value from their 
direct mail. 
UKPIL’s transformation programme is one of 
the largest undertaken in the UK in recent 
history. The programme is about making our 
combined UKPIL core network, which handles 
over 90 per cent of the parcels and all of the 
letters we deliver, more competitive and 
effective. We are delivering benefits. 79 per 
cent of letters are now sequenced to delivery 
point. We are progressing with delivery 
revisions, with modernisation underway or 
completed in 860 Delivery Offices since the 
programme began, representing more than 
half of walks. 
GLS
General Logistics Systems (GLS) is one of the 
largest ground-based deferred parcel delivery 
service providers in Europe. It is a pan-
European business, providing parcel and 
express services as well as logistics solutions. 
The GLS network covers 37 countries through 
wholly owned and partner companies, is 
globally connected through contractual 
agreements and acts as the Group’s gateway 
to Europe, opening up new opportunities.
Revenue by business and market (£m) (adjusted 52 weeks 2013)
Business segment/product Parcels
Marketing  
mail
Letters  
& other
mail
1
Total
UK Parcels, International & Letters 
(UKPIL) 2,933 1,118 3,582 7,633
General Logistics Systems (GLS) 1,498 - - 1,498
Other - - 15 15
Group 4,431 1,118 3,597 9,146
Percentage of revenue by market (adjusted 52 weeks 2013)
Group  
revenue (%)
Parcels 48
Letters & other mail
1
40
Marketing mail 12
1
  Includes letters, publishing, data and philatelic. 03
Overview
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Group legal structure 
Royal Mail Holdings plc is directly owned by 
HM Government and is the ultimate parent 
company of Royal Mail Group Limited. The 
Group primarily operates within the United 
Kingdom, including a number of subsidiaries, 
associates and a joint venture. It also has a 
presence in most European countries, mainly 
through General Logistics Systems.
The basic legal structure of the Group as at 
25 March 2012 is shown in diagram one.
On 1 April 2012, Post Office Limited was 
transferred from under the ownership of 
Royal Mail Group Limited to become a direct 
subsidiary of Royal Mail Holdings plc. The 
revised Group structure at this date is as 
shown in diagram two.
Further details on the principal subsidiaries 
are shown in note 30 to the Group 
financial statements.
25 March 2012 – pre-separation
Diagram one
Royal Mail Holdings plc
Royal Mail Group Limited
Post Ofﬁce Limited Royal Mail 
Estates Limited
General Logistics Systems B.V.
Royal Mail Investments Limited
1 April 2012 - post-separation
Diagram two
Royal Mail Holdings plc
Royal Mail Group Limited Post Ofﬁce Limited
Royal Mail 
Estates Limited
General Logistics Systems B.V.
Royal Mail Investments Limited Overview
04
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Financial and business  
performance highlights
Our financial performance
Revenue and volume
•  Reported Group revenue was £9,279 million. 
On a like-for-like basis, it increased by five 
per cent. Reported Group parcel revenue 
increased to £4,477 million, with growth 
of nine per cent on a like-for-like basis. 
Parcels remain a major contributor to 
Group revenue, accounting for almost 
half (48 per cent).
• UKPIL reported revenue was £7,766 million, 
up six per cent on a like-for-like basis. UKPIL 
parcel revenue increased by 13 per cent 
and volumes increased five per cent on a 
like-for-like basis. Reported parcel volumes 
were 1,081 million items, compared with 
1,016 million items in 2012. 
1
  Marketing mail numbers are calculated using statistical 
analysis from surveys in order to estimate how our mail 
is being used. Data services and redirections were added 
into the marketing mail portfolio in 2012-13. Numbers 
have been restated accordingly.
Key financial highlights
Group
Reported 
53 weeks 
2013
Adjusted 
52 weeks 
2013
Reported 
52 weeks 
2012
Revenue (£m) 9,279 9,146 8,764
Operating profit after transformation costs (£m) 440 403 152
Operating profit margin after transformation  
costs (%) 4.7 4.4 1.7
Free cash inflow (£m) 334 n/a 154
Net debt (£m) (906) n/a (1,186)
Revenue (£m)
Operating profit/(loss) after  
transformation costs (£m)
Business unit
Reported 
53 weeks 
2013
Adjusted 
52 weeks 
2013
Reported 
52 weeks 
2012
Reported 
53 weeks 
2013
Adjusted 
52 weeks 
2013
Reported 
52 weeks 
2012
UK Parcels, 
International & Letters 
(UKPIL) 7,766 7,633 7,189 331 294 33
General Logistics 
Systems (GLS) 1,498 1,498 1,562 101 101 128
Other businesses 15 15 13 8 8 (9)
Group 9,279 9,146 8,764 440 403 152
Like-for-like growth rates (%)
Revenue Addressed volumes
Parcels 9 4
– UKPIL 13 5
– GLS 2 1
Letters 3 (8)
• Within UKPIL, reported letter revenue grew 
to £4,787 million (including marketing mail). 
Like-for-like growth of three per cent was 
achieved. Addressed letter volumes declined 
eight per cent on a like-for-like basis, which 
was in line with expectations. Within letter 
revenue, reported marketing mail revenue 
was £1,135 million
1
. This was a two per 
cent increase on a like-for-like basis.
• At GLS, reported revenue was four per cent 
lower at £1,498 million, due to the 
weakness of the Euro against the pound. 
However, on a like-for-like basis, revenue 
increased by two per cent to €1,837 million. 
Volumes increased one per cent on a 
like-for-like basis.
Operating profits and margins after 
transformation costs
• Reported Group operating profit increased 
to £440 million. The operating profit margin 
increased from 1.7 per cent to 4.4 per cent 
on a like-for-like basis. 
• UKPIL generated a reported operating profit 
of £331 million and its operating profit 
margin increased from 0.5 per cent to 
3.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis. The UK 
business is now the biggest contributor to 
Group operating profit.
Cash flow 
• EBITDA before transformation costs was 
£915 million. £665 million was invested 
back into the business, which was mainly 
transformation-related.
•  Free cash inflow of £334 million was 
generated, mainly due to our improved 
trading performance. As a result, net debt 
decreased by £280 million to £906 million.
Modernisation
• Delivery and processing productivity 
increased by 1.7 per cent across the core 
network. In addition, nine Mail Centres were 
closed in the year. In total, 25 Mail Centres 
have closed to date, while four have been 
opened since modernisation began, 
representing a 30 per cent net reduction.
• 79 per cent of letters are now sequenced to 
delivery point. 05
Overview
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chairman’s statement
We have a clear strategy in 
place to meet successfully 
the challenges we face in 
our changing marketplace.
Donald Brydon 
Chairman
A year of further significant progress
I wrote last year about the Company’s 
considerable improvement. I am pleased to 
announce a year of further progress. We have 
reported a stronger financial performance, 
helping to safeguard the continued delivery  
of the Universal Service, secure the provision 
of long-term, good quality employment and 
create new opportunities for the Group.  
We have a clear strategy in place to meet 
successfully the challenges we face in our 
changing marketplace.
Moya Greene, our Chief Executive Officer,  
is leading the business with considerable 
energy and focus. Her commitment to deliver 
our business strategy and her determination 
to put the Company in a position where it is 
strong enough to access external capital is one 
of the key drivers of our continuing success.
Our changing business
We have delivered a robust financial and 
operational performance. Behind the 
numbers lies one of the largest transformation 
programmes in the UK in recent history. 
It is greatly to the credit of the senior 
management team and the union leadership 
that this transformation has been carried out 
with a limited impact on our Quality of Service 
– especially when the standards set for Royal 
Mail are the highest of any major European 
country. See page 29 for more information 
on our Quality of Service performance. 
The changing communications market  
has significant implications for our future. 
Letters will always be an important part of 
our business. However, it has been clear  
for some years that we need to diversify  
our revenue base to ensure the continued 
provision of the Universal Service. 
The vast majority of the letters we deliver  
are now sorted and sequenced automatically. 
Our delivery revisions programme is in place, 
ensuring colleagues are able to manage the 
demands of delivering increasing numbers of 
parcels as part of their daily rounds. Our 
progress is testament to the commitment  
of our people to delivering this difficult, 
wholesale change to the way they work.
Royal Mail is adapting to keep pace with this 
competitive market. We need ongoing access 
to external capital. I am confident that our 
Company is capable of rising to the challenge.
Some key developments
The last two years have seen some of the 
most important legislative and regulatory 
changes with respect to postal services in 
the Group’s history. 
In April 2012, Ofcom implemented a new 
regulatory framework. We welcomed this 
change. It recognises that the Universal 
Service Provider must be able to earn  
a reasonable commercial rate of return.  
We are harnessing the benefits of the new 
framework to secure our financial future. 
Today, approximately five per cent of Royal 
Mail revenue is subject to direct price control.
Ofcom has recently concluded its Review  
of Postal Users’ Needs, in which it ruled  
out the need for any major changes to the 
Universal Service. We also welcomed the 
recent clarification by the Regulator of the 
circumstances in which it would be minded  
to intervene in direct delivery competition in 
order to protect the viability of the one-price-
goes-anywhere service. 
The pension transfer in April 2012 gave our 
colleagues who are members of the Royal Mail 
Pension Plan considerably more security with 
respect to the pension benefits they had 
earned up until 31 March 2012. It also 
immediately removed the obligation to make 
cash payments of around £300 million every 
year to address the pension deficit. Of course, 
the cost of continuing to provide one of the 
largest defined benefit pension schemes in the 
UK is material and growing. See page 75 for 
more information. 
At the same time as the pension transfer, Post 
Office Limited formally separated from Royal 
Mail Group Limited. Royal Mail and the Post 
Office have signed a long-term commercial 
agreement to ensure the two companies will 
continue to work together in the future. With 
its extensive network and its important place 
in rural communities, the Post Office is a 
natural partner for Royal Mail as we serve 
communities across the UK. Overview
06
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chairman’s statement (continued)
Safety
We have made progress on tackling the  
threat dangerous dogs pose to our people. 
Last year, I announced the launch of an 
independent, judge-led inquiry to gather 
evidence on this issue and make 
recommendations for action. In 2012,  
Sir Gordon Langley published his report, 
making clear the necessity for Government 
action and proposals to protect postmen  
and women from this unacceptable hazard. 
In February 2013, I welcomed the 
Government’s announcement that it is 
planning to extend legal protection over dog 
attacks to cover those that take place on 
private property. Since the year end, this 
legislation has been put firmly on the agenda 
through the announcement of the Anti-social 
Behaviour, Crime and Policing Bill in the 
Queen’s Speech in May 2013. Following the 
Langley report’s recommendations, we are 
establishing a process where attacks on our 
people are more likely to be the subject of 
legal action. In addition, we will take a more 
robust approach to the suspension of deliveries 
where dogs pose a danger to our postmen 
and women. 
Our Board 
The Board was pleased to welcome two new 
non-executives to Royal Mail during the year. 
John Allan was appointed a Non Executive 
Director of the Company in January 2013. 
John brings a wealth of strategic, financial and 
marketing experience, including an in-depth 
knowledge of the postal sector. In March 
2013, we announced the appointment of  
Jan Babiak as a Non Executive Director.  
Jan’s extensive IT and regulatory experience 
will further strengthen our Board. 
In September 2012, Dame Jane Newell OBE 
stepped down as Chair of Royal Mail Pension 
Trustees Limited after eight years in the role. 
All involved in the Pension Fund have cause to 
be grateful to her. We welcomed her 
successor, Joanna Matthews, earlier in the 
year and are delighted to see someone with 
such a wealth of experience and knowledge 
take on this important role. 
Our role in the community
The business has continued to develop  
and maintain its role in national culture  
and heritage. Last year I confirmed that  
Royal Mail had granted a lease to give the 
British Postal Museum and Archive (BPMA)  
a new home in Calthorpe House. The new 
exhibition centre on this site continues  
to progress.
I congratulate the BPMA team on securing 
National Lottery funding to support the 
creation of their brand new ‘mail rail’ visitor 
attraction, which will help bring Royal Mail’s 
historic role in the life of the capital to a wider 
national and international audience.
Our place in serving the community goes 
beyond delivering the Universal Service. 
Across the UK, our people play a crucial role, 
both in support of their communities and 
charitable organisations. This year, our 
colleagues chose to appoint Prostate Cancer 
UK as the Group’s charity partner. Through 
our colleagues’ fundraising activities and 
matched funding from the Company, we  
have already raised approximately £800,000 
for this very important cause. We hope  
to raise at least £2 million during our  
two-year partnership.
Royal Mail played an important role in helping 
the UK to support the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games. The Games saw Royal 
Mail at its best, enhancing our reputation and 
position in UK culture. Our operational teams, 
especially in London, faced severe challenges 
in delivering to our customers but, with careful 
planning and dedication, continued to deliver 
to our high service standards. Our gold post 
boxes provided a means for local communities 
to mark the success of their athletes. So too 
did the wonderful Olympic and Paralympic 
stamps, which proved very popular with the 
public and the philatelic community. 
Thank you
We have delivered a great deal. The year ahead 
is an important one for Royal Mail and I believe 
we are now in a good position to build on our 
substantial achievements.
I join our Chief Executive Officer in expressing 
my gratitude to the Secretary of State for 
Business, Innovation & Skills, Vince Cable, 
Minister of State for Business and Enterprise, 
Michael Fallon and all their colleagues in 
Government for their continued support.  
Most of all, I would like to pay tribute to all  
my colleagues for their loyalty, commitment 
and conscientiousness. 
Donald Brydon 
Chairman 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
31 July 2013 Overview
07
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s  
review
Our vision is to be the 
most successful delivery 
company in the UK.
Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer
We are reporting a strong financial 
performance. Our strategy is delivering. 
The transformation of Royal Mail is 
well underway.
Our key metrics are moving in the right 
direction. Reported Group operating profit after 
transformation costs grew from £152 million 
to £440 million due to cost control and 
improved revenue generated by parcel volume 
and letter revenue growth. Our operating profit 
margin after transformation costs increased 
to 4.4 per cent on a like-for-like basis. Free 
cash inflow increased from £154 million to 
£334 million, mainly generated by trading. 
Parcels continue to be a major contributor 
to Group revenue at 48 per cent. 
Just over three years ago, our core UK 
business had significant cash outflows. 
Now, despite the challenging UK economic 
conditions, UKPIL contributes the majority of 
Group operating profit; its reported operating 
profit margin after transformation costs has 
increased to 3.9 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. As the transformation of UKPIL gathers 
pace, we are harnessing the benefits of the 
new regulatory framework, introduced in the 
UK in April 2012. Today, approximately five per 
cent of Royal Mail revenue is subject to direct 
price control. In short, we are delivering a 
stronger commercial performance, and our 
prices are now closer to the European median.
GLS, our ground-based European parcels 
carrier, delivered a resilient performance. 
Difficult trading conditions in Germany 
and France were mitigated to some extent 
by improved trading performance in 
other countries. 
Delivering our strategy
Our vision is to be the most successful delivery 
company in the UK. Royal Mail is already a 
market leader by revenue in both the UK 
parcels and letters markets. GLS is an 
established, ground-based parcels player 
in all its markets. This means we are well 
positioned to deliver our strategic priorities:
1. being a successful parcels business;
2. managing the decline in letters; and
3. being customer-focused.
We are creating a commercial, customer-
focused company, offsetting addressed letter 
declines with revenue growth from parcels, 
which is expected to drive profitable growth. 
With the continued support and engagement 
of our people, we can deliver these objectives 
to help to ensure that we are financially 
successful and able to access the capital 
needed to deliver the ongoing transformation 
of our business. 
Being a successful parcels business
We operate in a dynamic and growing parcels 
market. During the year, we handled a 
reported total of 1,461 million parcels 
(2012 1,391 million) through our three parcel 
networks in the UK and continental Europe. 
For more information on our parcels strategy, 
see page 21.
We remain well positioned to benefit from 
significant growth in online retailing in the UK, 
where Royal Mail is the biggest overall parcel 
delivery player by revenue. A recent survey
1
 
found that 76 per cent of people in the UK are 
more likely to use a particular online retailer 
again if they deliver through Royal Mail.
Over 90 per cent of the UKPIL parcels that we 
handle, including Universal Service Obligation 
(USO) parcels, are delivered by our core UK 
network, through which we also handle letters. 
In the last financial year, this combined network 
handled reported volumes of 1,010 million 
parcels (2012 950 million), with quality being 
a key consideration. This focus on quality 
is important in a market where businesses 
and consumers rightly demand high 
service standards.
Parcelforce Worldwide, our UK express parcels 
delivery business, handled reported volumes 
of 71 million items during the year (2012 
66 million), about seven per cent of our UKPIL 
parcel volumes. It benefits from a very high 
quality of service performance and is poised 
to deliver a significant increase in the volumes 
it handles in the years to come. In October 
2012, we announced a £75 million, four-year 
investment programme for Parcelforce 
Worldwide, as we expand our position 
in the UK express parcels market. 
GLS carried 380 million parcels in 2012-13 
(2012 375 million). Its parcel volumes grew 
by one per cent during the year, with growth 
in both domestic and international volumes.
1
  Hall & Partners, Delivery Matters 2013. Overview
08
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s review (continued)
Managing the decline in letters
UKPIL’s letters business is key to our financial 
success, generating £4,787 million (including 
marketing mail) in reported revenue during 
the year. However, as I have said in my 
previous reports, addressed letter volumes 
have been in structural decline for a number 
of years. In 2011-12, we handled 63 million 
addressed items every day. Today, this has 
fallen to 58 million. For more detail on our 
letters strategy, see page 21.
Our letter revenue, including marketing mail, 
increased by three per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. Addressed letter volumes decreased by 
eight per cent on a like-for-like basis, in line with 
our expectations. Following price increases, we 
are making a profit on Access Mail – the mail 
other postal operators place in our downstream 
network for us to deliver on their behalf. This 
is a significant step forward as it accounts 
for approximately half of our addressed letter 
volumes. Access Mail also makes a considerable 
contribution to the cost of funding the USO 
network. Marketing mail remains a significant 
contributor to letter revenue
2
. MarketReach, 
an initiative we launched in July 2012 to help 
companies and their agencies derive more value 
from mail, is focused on helping to mitigate the 
impact of the letters decline. The advertising 
market has shown little growth during the year. 
Despite this, marketing mail revenue increased 
by two per cent on a like-for-like basis. 
As I have also reported in previous years, 
our transformation programme, one of the 
largest of its kind in UK industry, is improving 
our productivity. 79 per cent of letters are 
now sequenced to delivery point. Our delivery 
revisions programme is well underway, as 
we roll out new methods, processes and 
equipment to help our colleagues manage 
the fundamental shift in our traffic towards 
parcels. 
In March 2013, Ofcom published guidance 
setting out its regulatory approach to 
protect the Universal Service from growing 
direct delivery (end-to-end) competition. 
We welcome Ofcom’s acknowledgement in its 
guidance of its duty, powers and willingness 
to act to protect the Universal Service if 
direct delivery competition threatened its 
sustainability. We are also pleased to note 
Ofcom’s commitment to actively monitor all 
direct delivery market participants and track 
developments and any prospective risks to the 
Universal Service.
Being customer focused
In a recent survey of adults in Great Britain
3
, 
Royal Mail was the most favourably viewed 
company of all the participating organisations. 
Our own research shows that our mean 
business customer satisfaction score is 74, 
an increase of four points on last year. But 
we are aware that our customers have 
many options. 
To be their first choice, we must get the 
basics right and be easy to do business with. 
We gather customer feedback extensively 
across our business and use this insight 
to increase customer satisfaction, reduce 
customer complaints and improve the 
whole customer experience. 
For example, last year we launched a monthly 
customer report, which focuses on a number 
of key metrics, including benchmarking our 
performance against our peers and how likely 
our customers are to recommend Royal Mail. 
Assessing all the information available to us, 
including social media activity and inputs from 
our sales teams, provides a holistic view of 
how we are meeting customer needs, and 
where we need to take action. 
A number of important customer initiatives 
were implemented during the year. In April 
2013, just after the financial year end, we 
streamlined our consumer First Class parcels 
offering from 15 to seven weight bands and 
introduced two parcel categories – small and 
medium. This simplified our product range, 
making it easier for customers to understand 
and make informed choices. 
We know the areas where we need to 
improve our service. Over 60 per cent of all 
our complaints are caused by four issues – 
P739 ‘Something for you’ cards, redelivery, 
redirection and misdelivery. We have made 
good progress on redirection, redelivery and 
misdelivery, where complaints have reduced 
since 2009. For example, we offer a free 
redelivery service, where customers can have 
an item redelivered to their address on a day 
of their choosing, or select an alternative 
address in the same postcode area.
We want to give recipients of parcels more 
control. Having secured regulatory approval 
from Ofcom, we rolled out our Delivery to 
Neighbour programme across the UK in 
September 2012. Our postmen and women 
can now leave parcels with a neighbour if the 
recipient is not at home. Feedback from 
people in the areas where we trialled Delivery 
to Neighbour revealed that 92 per cent
4
 of 
customers whose items were left with a 
neighbour were satisfied with the overall 
experience.
In addition, we work with mailing customers 
on forecasting delivery volumes in order to 
ensure extra temporary operational capacity 
is available to cope with seasonal peaks and 
that we can continue to deliver a high quality 
of service. This approach ensured we had the 
capacity required to manage increased parcel 
volumes over the Christmas period, through 
the installation of eight temporary parcel 
sort centres. 
Our people
Our people are key to our transformation and, 
in particular, the successful delivery of our 
strategic priorities. In a recent survey, eight 
out of ten Royal Mail customers were pleased 
about the helpfulness of our postmen and 
women
5
. They are our ambassadors and 
a credit to Royal Mail. 
The safety of our colleagues in the workplace 
and on their rounds continues to be of 
paramount importance. 
Over the course of the year, the lost time 
accident frequency rate reduced by 
20 per cent.
Our World Class Mail programme – designed 
to promote continuous improvement across 
safety and productivity – continues to be 
embedded across the organisation. 
In 2012, we reintroduced a full employee 
engagement survey for 150,000 colleagues 
across the UK, following a benchmark survey 
in autumn 2011. Almost two-thirds of our 
colleagues are proud to work for Royal Mail. 
Three-quarters (76 per cent) have a clear 
understanding of what customers want. 
We are redoubling our efforts to communicate 
with our people about the challenges we face 
and our strategy to address them. We have 
2
  Marketing mail numbers are calculated using statistical 
analysis from surveys in order to estimate how our mail 
is being used. Data services and redirections were added 
into the marketing mail portfolio in 2012-13. Numbers 
have been restated accordingly.
3
 Ipsos MORI, Corporate Image Survey, December 2012.
4
  Illuminas research: 720 telephone interviews with 
trial participants.
5
  Ipsos MORI, Corporate Image Survey, December 2012. Overview
09
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
provided managers with tools and support to 
help with action planning, allowing members 
of teams to feel more engaged in the business’ 
future. Alongside our broader engagement 
programme, we are undertaking a series of 
‘town hall’ events, where members of our 
senior management team will address as 
many as 1,000 colleagues at a time. 
We are in ongoing discussions with our 
trade unions on a number of issues. In these 
discussions, we have reached agreement on 
some key issues. The Company has extended 
until April 2014 its existing voluntary 
redundancy terms for those impacted by 
modernisation and renewed its commitment 
to maintaining a predominantly full-time 
workforce. We separately confirmed that 
a change in Royal Mail’s ownership 
structure will not affect colleagues’ 
contracts of employment. 
In last year’s Report I confirmed that, just 
after the end of the financial year, almost all 
of the liabilities and assets in the Royal Mail 
Pension Plan (RMPP) were transferred to 
HM Government. This transfer could not 
address the ongoing costs of such a large 
Plan (with approximately 112,000 active 
members), which are material. For more 
information, please see page 75.
Our role in society
London 2012 was a major highlight for 
Royal Mail. We delivered 1.6 million envelopes 
enclosing approximately 7.5 million tickets 
to customers, with over 98 per cent of them 
arriving first time, on time. We were the first 
postal administration to paint its post boxes 
gold in the communities that gold medal-
winning British athletes are associated with, 
the first to pay Olympians and Paralympians 
the same financial consideration for their 
image rights, and the first to produce a 
stamp in honour of every British Olympic and 
Paralympic gold medal athlete. In this very 
special year for the UK, we were touched by 
the very positive response we received from 
members of the public as we celebrated the 
achievements of Team GB and ParalympicsGB.
We have a long heritage of contributing to our 
communities. We connect millions of customers, 
companies and communities, including those 
in the most remote rural areas, making 
commerce happen in the process. Our 
contribution to the UK at this difficult time for 
the economy is significant. For the 2011-12 
financial year, research from the Centre for 
Economics and Business Research (CEBR) 
estimated that: i) in terms of ‘value added’ 
from UK operations of companies, our core UK 
business ranked as the eighth highest in the 
UK; ii) we contributed 0.4 per cent to the UK’s 
total Gross Domestic Product (GDP), rising to 
0.7 per cent when our wider economic impacts 
were included and; iii) for every £1 we paid in 
wages, an estimated additional 57p in wages 
was generated in the wider economy through 
indirect and induced impacts.
Obtaining ongoing access to external capital
As we said at the Interim Report stage, ongoing 
access to external capital is a key part of the 
transformation process.
We believe that Royal Mail will combine the 
best of the public and private sectors. We are 
the provider of the one-price-goes-anywhere, 
six-days-a-week Universal Service Obligation. 
We are honoured to provide the Universal 
Service to more than 29 million addresses 
across the UK. The service is enshrined in the 
Postal Services Act 2011. The Act sets out 
clear and specific minimum requirements, 
which can only be changed by a vote in both 
Houses of Parliament. We are pleased that 
Ofcom found recently that nine out of ten 
residential and business customers consider 
our current level of service meets their core 
needs and there is no need for change. 
Our Quality of Service standard specifications 
are the highest of any major European 
country, and will continue to apply. Our 
societal obligations would also remain in place 
and, again, we are very proud to deliver them. 
For example, our free Articles for the Blind
6
 
service is enshrined in the Postal Services 
Act 2011. 
Demonstrating that Royal Mail can attract 
external capital will pave the way for continued 
investment in our Company. It also represents 
a further opportunity to increase the 
alignment that already exists between 
Royal Mail and its people. 
Outlook 
We are well positioned to continue to benefit 
from the structural change to e-retailing, 
which is driving increases in parcel volumes, 
and to manage the decline in letters. In the 
early weeks of 2013-14, we have seen 
similar trends to those seen in 2012-13. 
In this year’s Report, I must again thank our 
Shareholder, HM Government, for its continued 
support. In particular, I wish to thank the 
Secretary of State for Business, Innovation 
& Skills, Vince Cable, Minister of State for 
Business and Enterprise, Michael Fallon and 
their officials. I also wish to thank Dame Jane 
Newell OBE, until September 2012 the Chair 
of Royal Mail Pension Trustees Limited, and 
her successor, Joanna Matthews, for their 
counsel and support. 
Most importantly, I would like to extend my 
thanks to my colleagues. These are times of 
significant change and we are asking a lot of 
our people. I continue to be grateful for their 
hard work, dedication and support. As the 
ambassadors of this cherished Company, 
I know that they will continue to drive our 
business forward as we seek to realise our 
collective objectives.
Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
31 July 2013
6
  A free-of-charge service for people sending items 
specifically designed for blind and visually impaired 
people within the UK and overseas. 10
Strategy
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Strategy
Our strategy
Royal Mail Group has a clear vision to be the most 
successful delivery company in the UK.
This is underpinned by three priorities: capitalising on 
growth in online retailing to grow our parcels businesses; 
continuing to mitigate structural decline in the letters 
market by maximising the value of mail; and by being 
customer-focused. By doing this, we believe we can drive 
sustainable, profitable growth that will enable us to 
obtain ongoing access to external capital and secure a 
sustainable future for our Company.
Our corporate strategy has three priorities:
Firstly, being a successful parcels business. 
The UK parcels market has shown continued 
growth, thanks to the growth of online 
retailing. In 2012-13, parcels accounted for 
48 per cent of Group revenue. We are 
investing in our three main parcels networks 
and our tracking technology to meet customer 
needs. A long-term investment programme in 
our core, combined UK network will ensure we 
have the capability we need to accommodate 
the changing traffic mix from letters to 
parcels.
Our second strategic priority focuses on 
managing the decline in letters. We have 
already transformed how we sort letters, 
automating the handling process in our  
Mail Centres. 79 per cent of letters are now 
sequenced to delivery point. We are pressing 
on with our programme of delivery revisions, 
changing the way we deliver to more than 
29 million addresses across the UK. This also 
allows us to effectively manage growth in 
parcel volumes and at the same time improve 
our productivity. 
Changes in the regulatory framework last year 
have given us greater commercial freedoms. 
These enable us to respond better to market 
changes. We have already taken steps to 
simplify and improve many of our propositions. 
Marketing mail is one of the most successful 
ways to reach out to customers. We launched 
MarketReach last year to transform our direct 
marketing offering. We are now developing 
ways to help our customers to derive more 
value from all the mail they send. 
Thirdly, we need to continue to be a customer-
focused company. In this competitive market, 
our customers have a choice. We are 
developing the services we offer to ensure 
they meet our customers’ needs. We are 
investing in technology to provide the tracking 
services our customers expect. We are 
working with our customers to anticipate 
times of peak demand and ensure we can 
deliver the high quality service they need.
Our strategic priorities and how we 
achieve them are central to our internal 
communications programme, so our 
colleagues understand their role in delivering 
our strategy. We have achieved a great deal. 
But more remains to be done to safeguard 
the sustainability of the Universal Service 
and ensure we can continue to provide high 
quality jobs for our people. 11
Strategy
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Strategy
Priority one — Being a successful parcels business
Definition
To leverage our network reach and our strong brand to ensure we 
can capture increasing parcel volumes as a result of the growing 
popularity of online retailing in the UK. 
To use our new regulatory freedom for parcels to develop new 
offerings and compete more effectively in the marketplace.
To ensure our combined core UK network can accommodate 
increasing parcel volumes and meet customer needs through the 
completion of our modernisation programme.
Key initiatives
• Investing in our technology: from how customers access our 
networks through to tracking and management information;
• Progressing our core UK network transformation: improving 
safety, customer service, quality and productivity to deliver 
parcels effectively and efficiently;
• Enhancing products and services: expanding services, such as 
Delivery to Neighbour, to give parcel recipients more choice 
and convenience;
• Expanding Parcelforce Worldwide: increasing the capacity of 
the network to meet customer needs; and
• Strengthening our competitive position in the countries 
where GLS operates.
Priority two — Managing the decline in letters
Definition
To manage the structural decline in the letters market by becoming 
more productive and effective, and ensuring we remain the carrier of 
choice for delivery of letters in the UK. 
Harnessing the new regulatory freedoms we have won to ensure we 
make a reasonable, commercial return for the letters we deliver.
Making marketing and business mail more valuable to our customers 
by increasing the data and insight they can gather. 
Key initiatives
• Continuing to focus on improving operational productivity 
through the automation of the sequencing and sorting 
process and completing our programme of delivery revisions;
• Demonstrating to customers the value of mail in customer 
retention and when used in conjunction with other media;
• Building on the successful launch of MarketReach last year to 
develop new ways to prove the value of mail in a digital world 
and enable businesses to take advantage of it; and
• Investing in barcode tracking services to provide far greater 
information and value for bulk mail customers.
Priority three — Being customer-focused
Definition
Putting the customer at the heart of everything we do to ensure that 
we continue to be the delivery partner of choice.
Being easy to do business with, and building new propositions that 
truly meet customer needs.
Key initiatives
• Extending and enhancing our services: launching the UK’s 
largest ‘click & collect’ network; working with the Post Office 
as it lengthens opening hours in many branches; simplifying 
our international product portfolio;
• Tackling the root causes of complaints: focusing on the four 
areas that cause most dissatisfaction – ‘Something for you’ 
cards, redelivery, redirection and misdelivery; and
• Transforming our digital channels to serve customers better.
We are creating a commercial, customer-focused company, capitalising on parcels growth, while successfully managing the decline 
in letters. We are changing from a letters company that carries parcels to a parcels company that also brilliantly delivers letters.
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS 12
Strategy
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Strategy
Key performance indicators 
KPI Measured by Key activities in the year Strategic links More information
People People
Safety Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate: the number of UKPIL 
employee, work-related accidents resulting in an absence 
on a subsequent day or shift per 100,000 hours worked.
We continue the roll-out of our Walk Risk Assessment Programme. This identifies key risks 
on every walk so that our people are aware of potential hazards and we can take action to 
reduce risk where appropriate. Our Zero Accidents Programme continues, focusing on road 
safety and ensuring that our people have the training they need to operate safely on their 
round and in the yard.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Engagement An annual survey by Ipsos MORI measuring involvement, alignment 
and loyalty of colleagues through a number of questions, including: 
what our people think about Royal Mail, their understanding of our 
strategy and their place in achieving our strategic objectives. 
We produced a Corporate Action Plan in response to the 2012 Engagement Survey, developed 
with the involvement of both unions and an Employee Panel. One of the actions within this 
Plan was continued communication with our colleagues. As part of our ‘town hall’ events, 
members of our senior management team including the Chief Executive Officer have addressed 
as many as 1,000 colleagues at a time at more than 20 meetings. Following the survey, we 
also used a specialised planning tool to develop and monitor actions being taken across the 
organisation to improve engagement. Over 90 per cent of managers are involved in action 
planning to improve local engagement.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer focus An annual survey by Ipsos MORI measuring how focused our 
people are on delivering improvements in customer service. 
Through the Corporate Action Plan, we have focused on raising awareness of the key causes 
of customer complaints and working with colleagues to bring the number of complaints down. 
We rolled out our Delivery to Neighbour programme across the UK from 1 October 2012. 
We delivered 1.6 million envelopes, enclosing approximately 7.5 million tickets for London 
2012, with over 98 per cent arriving on time, first time.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer Customer
First Class Quality of 
Service
An independent, audited measure of Quality of Service for First 
Class retail products, adjusted for force majeure
1
.
Through our modernisation programme, we are driving improvements in the pipeline to be 
more productive and effective. For example, 79 per cent of letters are now sequenced to 
delivery point.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Second Class Quality 
of Service
An independent, audited measure of Quality of Service for Second 
Class retail products, adjusted for force majeure
1
.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer 
satisfaction
Average business customer satisfaction scores on a number of 
issues, including price, service quality and customer experience.
A customer satisfaction questionnaire is completed by a sample of business customers every 
month, helping us to identify key areas for action. In response to customer needs, we opened 
eight parcels hubs at Christmas to manage anticipated increases in volumes.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer 
complaints
Number of complaints captured by our Customer Service team
2
. We continue to take action to focus on redelivery, misdelivery, ‘Something for you’ cards and 
redirections, which account for more than 60 per cent of complaints. We have made 
considerable progress in redelivery, misdelivery and redirection since 2009.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Performance Performance
Group revenue Group revenue. Revenue increases were driven by a five per cent like-for-like increase in UKPIL parcel 
volumes and price increases during the year. The Group is also successfully harnessing the 
benefits of the new regulatory framework, helping us to ensure we can generate a reasonable 
commercial rate of return for the services we offer.
  
See ‘Financial performance overview’ on page 14
Delivery hours 
reduction
Percentage year-on-year reduction in the gross hours spent on 
delivery and collection activities.
Delivery transformation continues and is providing our people with tools to manage the 
changing mail mix with fewer letters and more parcels. While we have reduced the gross 
hours spent on delivering mail and improved productivity, factors including the changing 
traffic mix are impacting our progress.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Delivery Offices fully 
modernised
Number of Delivery Offices that have been modernised. We are more than halfway through our Delivery Revisions programme, which is changing 
every aspect of the way our postmen and women work. This will ensure we are more 
productive and effective and can manage the changing traffic mix.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Financial Financial
Total expenditure Total expenditure for UK businesses, excluding all exceptional items. UK costs have been held in line with inflation. Increases in non-people costs in UKPIL were 
partially offset by a programme of procurement savings.
  
See ‘Financial review’ on pages 16-20
Group operating 
profit
Group operating profit before exceptional items. Price increases as a result of the introduction of a new regulatory framework are a key 
driver of revenue increases that have supported an increase in Group operating profit. This has 
been supported by tight controls, which have ensured costs increased in line with inflation.
  
See ‘Financial review’ on pages 16-20
Free cash flow Free cash flow. This year, free cash flow has principally been generated by trading performance.
  
See ‘Financial performance overview’ on page 14
The four sections below (People, Customer, Performance and Financial) and their respective KPIs reflect the four quadrants of our Corporate 
Balanced Scorecard for the year 2012-13. We said last year that as the business changes, we may adapt our KPIs. This year we have added 
Second Class Quality of Service, replaced process sequencing (which has been completed) with a broader KPI on Delivery Office modernisation 
and replaced RIDDORs with Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate. 13
Strategy
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Strategy
KPI Measured by Key activities in the year Strategic links More information
People People
Safety Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate: the number of UKPIL 
employee, work-related accidents resulting in an absence 
on a subsequent day or shift per 100,000 hours worked.
We continue the roll-out of our Walk Risk Assessment Programme. This identifies key risks 
on every walk so that our people are aware of potential hazards and we can take action to 
reduce risk where appropriate. Our Zero Accidents Programme continues, focusing on road 
safety and ensuring that our people have the training they need to operate safely on their 
round and in the yard.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Engagement An annual survey by Ipsos MORI measuring involvement, alignment 
and loyalty of colleagues through a number of questions, including: 
what our people think about Royal Mail, their understanding of our 
strategy and their place in achieving our strategic objectives. 
We produced a Corporate Action Plan in response to the 2012 Engagement Survey, developed 
with the involvement of both unions and an Employee Panel. One of the actions within this 
Plan was continued communication with our colleagues. As part of our ‘town hall’ events, 
members of our senior management team including the Chief Executive Officer have addressed 
as many as 1,000 colleagues at a time at more than 20 meetings. Following the survey, we 
also used a specialised planning tool to develop and monitor actions being taken across the 
organisation to improve engagement. Over 90 per cent of managers are involved in action 
planning to improve local engagement.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer focus An annual survey by Ipsos MORI measuring how focused our 
people are on delivering improvements in customer service. 
Through the Corporate Action Plan, we have focused on raising awareness of the key causes 
of customer complaints and working with colleagues to bring the number of complaints down. 
We rolled out our Delivery to Neighbour programme across the UK from 1 October 2012. 
We delivered 1.6 million envelopes, enclosing approximately 7.5 million tickets for London 
2012, with over 98 per cent arriving on time, first time.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer Customer
First Class Quality of 
Service
An independent, audited measure of Quality of Service for First 
Class retail products, adjusted for force majeure
1
.
Through our modernisation programme, we are driving improvements in the pipeline to be 
more productive and effective. For example, 79 per cent of letters are now sequenced to 
delivery point.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Second Class Quality 
of Service
An independent, audited measure of Quality of Service for Second 
Class retail products, adjusted for force majeure
1
.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer 
satisfaction
Average business customer satisfaction scores on a number of 
issues, including price, service quality and customer experience.
A customer satisfaction questionnaire is completed by a sample of business customers every 
month, helping us to identify key areas for action. In response to customer needs, we opened 
eight parcels hubs at Christmas to manage anticipated increases in volumes.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Customer 
complaints
Number of complaints captured by our Customer Service team
2
. We continue to take action to focus on redelivery, misdelivery, ‘Something for you’ cards and 
redirections, which account for more than 60 per cent of complaints. We have made 
considerable progress in redelivery, misdelivery and redirection since 2009.
    
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Performance Performance
Group revenue Group revenue. Revenue increases were driven by a five per cent like-for-like increase in UKPIL parcel 
volumes and price increases during the year. The Group is also successfully harnessing the 
benefits of the new regulatory framework, helping us to ensure we can generate a reasonable 
commercial rate of return for the services we offer.
  
See ‘Financial performance overview’ on page 14
Delivery hours 
reduction
Percentage year-on-year reduction in the gross hours spent on 
delivery and collection activities.
Delivery transformation continues and is providing our people with tools to manage the 
changing mail mix with fewer letters and more parcels. While we have reduced the gross 
hours spent on delivering mail and improved productivity, factors including the changing 
traffic mix are impacting our progress.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Delivery Offices fully 
modernised
Number of Delivery Offices that have been modernised. We are more than halfway through our Delivery Revisions programme, which is changing 
every aspect of the way our postmen and women work. This will ensure we are more 
productive and effective and can manage the changing traffic mix.
  
See ‘Corporate responsibility’ on pages 28-33
Financial Financial
Total expenditure Total expenditure for UK businesses, excluding all exceptional items. UK costs have been held in line with inflation. Increases in non-people costs in UKPIL were 
partially offset by a programme of procurement savings.
  
See ‘Financial review’ on pages 16-20
Group operating 
profit
Group operating profit before exceptional items. Price increases as a result of the introduction of a new regulatory framework are a key 
driver of revenue increases that have supported an increase in Group operating profit. This has 
been supported by tight controls, which have ensured costs increased in line with inflation.
  
See ‘Financial review’ on pages 16-20
Free cash flow Free cash flow. This year, free cash flow has principally been generated by trading performance.
  
See ‘Financial performance overview’ on page 14
Strategic links key
Being a successful parcels business
To leverage our network reach and our 
strong brand to ensure we can capture 
increasing parcel volumes as a result of 
the growing popularity of online retailing 
in the UK. 
To use our new regulatory freedom 
for parcels to develop new offerings 
and compete more effectively in 
the marketplace.
To ensure our combined UK network 
can accommodate increasing parcel 
volumes and meet customer needs 
through the completion of our 
modernisation programme.
Managing the decline in letters
To manage the structural decline in 
the letters market by becoming more 
productive and effective, and ensuring 
we remain the carrier of choice for the 
delivery of letters in the UK. 
Harnessing the new regulatory freedoms 
we have won to ensure we make a 
reasonable, commercial return for the 
letters we deliver.
Making marketing and business mail more 
valuable to our customers by increasing 
the data and insight they can gather.
CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER
FOCUS
Being customer-focused
Putting the customer at the heart of 
everything we do to ensure that we 
continue to be the delivery partner 
of choice.
Being easy to do business with, and 
building new propositions that truly meet 
customer needs.
This icon is used to indicate 
reporting against a KPI 
throughout the document.
1
  This accounts for the impact of factors which are 
beyond Royal Mail’s control, such as weather and 
the logistical impact of the London 2012 Olympic 
and Paralympic Games. 
2
  We also provide detailed annual disclosure on customer 
complaints to our regulator, which is publicly available. 14
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Financial performance 
overview
Reported Group revenue was £9,279 million.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
Group revenue increased by five per cent on a like-for-like basis with the key 
performance drivers being: 
 – Letters revenue up three per cent.
 – UKPIL parcel revenue up 13 per cent.
 – GLS Euro revenue up two per cent.
• Operating costs have increased by three per cent on a like-for-like basis, 
benefiting from productivity improvements and tight cost management.
• Operating profit after transformation costs before other exceptional items 
of £403 million is £251 million higher than last year, mainly due 
to revenue growth. 
• Other net exceptional items comprise profit from property disposals (last year 
saw significant profit on disposals), property write-offs, industrial diseases 
provisions, Postal Services Act related costs and IT costs relating to the 
separation of Post Office Limited. 
• The current year taxation charge effective rate of 12 per cent is due to the 
charge on current year profit being partly offset by past years’ losses.
• The Group has recognised a deferred taxation asset, primarily in respect of 
taxation losses carried forward and decelerated capital allowances. This is a 
result of an improved profit outlook for the Group.
Profit and loss summary,  
see page 56 for more details
Reported
53 weeks
2013 
£m
Adjusted
52 weeks
2013 
£m
Reported
52 weeks
2012 
£m
Revenue 9,279 9,146 8,764
Operating costs (8,644) (8,548) (8,383)
Transformation exceptional costs (195) (195) (229)
Operating profit after 
transformation costs
1
440 403 152
Other net exceptional items (73) 125
Earnings before interest and 
taxation (EBIT) 367 not 277
Net finance costs and pension interest (43) adjusted (76)
Taxation - current charge (38) at this (36)
 - deferred credit/(charge) 284 level (15)
Profit for the period 570 150
Operating profit after 
transformation costs margin (%) n/m 4.4 1.7
Free cash flow summary,  
see page 58 for more details
Reported
53 weeks
2013
£m
Reported
52 weeks
2012
£m
EBITDA before transformation costs  
– 52 weeks 878 681
– 53rd week 37 –
EBITDA before transformation costs (see page 15) 915 681
Working capital 142 (19)
Other pension payments (3) (45)
Investment costs (665) (579)
Other (taxation, interest, dividends from associates) (81) (87)
Other exceptional items (26) (37)
Disposal of property and business 52 240
Free cash inflow for the period 334 154
Balance sheet summary,  
see page 59 for more details
As at
31 March
2013
£m
As at
25 March
2012
£m
Net operating assets 1,397 1,456
Net debt (906) (1,186)
Operating assets less net debt 491 270
Net deferred taxation assets/(liabilities) 89 (9)
Retirement benefit asset/(liabilities) 825 (2,716)
Net assets/(liabilities) 1,405 (2,455)
1
  Before other exceptional items.
Net debt has reduced by £280 million, mainly as a result of free cash flow 
generation of £334 million.
• A £98 million increase in net deferred taxation assets has resulted from the 
recognition of UK deferred taxation due to an improved profit outlook.
• To comply with accounting standards, a pension surplus of £825 million has 
been recognised following the transfer of the majority of RMPP pension 
liabilities and assets to HM Government as at 1 April 2012. More information 
can be found in note 9 to the financial statements.
Free cash inflow of £334 million was generated.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
• EBITDA before transformation costs of £878 million on a 52 week basis 
is £197 million higher than last year’s £681 million, due to an improved 
trading performance. 
• Working capital inflows include the impact of higher stamp holdings by 
customers and tighter working capital management.
• Investment costs of £665 million (2012 £579 million) comprises:
 – Business transformation payments of £55 million (2012 £60 million).
 – Redundancy payments of £75 million (2012 £129 million).
 – One-off project costs of £100 million (2012 £55 million).
 – Transformation capital expenditure of £177 million (2012 £185 million). 
 – Other capital expenditure (GLS, IT (including software)) of £258 million 
(2012 £150 million).
The profit and loss summary and commentary below provides an analysis of an 
equivalent 52 week period for 2013 compared with the 52 week period for 2012.
The free cash flow and balance sheet summary and commentary below relates 
to the 53 weeks ending 31 March 2013 and 52 weeks ending 25 March 2012. 15
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Adjusted 52 weeks 2013 Reported 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012
Operating profit after 
transformation costs
UKPIL
£m
GLS
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
UKPIL
£m
GLS
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 7,633 1,498 15 9,146 7,189 1,562 13 8,764
Operating profit after 
transformation costs 294 101 8 403 33 128 (9) 152
Operating profit after 
transformation costs 
margin (%) 3.9 6.7 53.3 4.4 0.5 8.2 (69.2) 1.7
Reported 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013 Reported 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012
EBITDA before 
transformation costs
UKPIL
£m
GLS
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
UKPIL
£m
GLS
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Operating profit before 
exceptional items 526 101 8 635 262 128 (9) 381
Adjust for:
Depreciation/amortisation 249 31 1 281 269 32 – 301
Share of (profit)/loss from 
associates – – (1) (1) 2 – (3) (1)
EBITDA before 
transformation costs 775 132 8 915 533 160 (12) 681
Comparison of 2013 vs 2012
Growth rates (%)
Reported
2013
Like-for-like
2
2013
Group revenue 5.9 5.4
– UKPIL letters & marketing mail 4.4 2.5
– UKPIL parcels 14.4 12.7
– GLS (4.1) 1.6
– Other 15.4 15.4
Group operating costs 3.1 3.0
– People 4.6 3.6
– Distribution and conveyance 1.7 4.1
– Infrastructure (0.8) (0.7)
– Other 1.9 1.1
Comparison of 2013 vs 2012
Growth rates (%)
Reported
2013
Like-for-like
2
2013
Group volumes n/a n/a
– Addressed letters (7.1) (8.4)
– UKPIL parcels 6.3 4.8
– GLS 1.4 1.4
GLS financial information
Reported
53 weeks
2013
€m
Reported
52 weeks
2012
€m
Reported
52 weeks
2011
€m
Like-for-like
2
comparison of
2013 vs 2012
%
Revenue 1,837 1,808 1,746 1.6%
Costs (1,714) (1,660) (1,607) 3.3%
Operating profit after transformation costs 123 148 139 (16.9)%
Average £ : € rate 1.2262 1.1572 1.1758 n/a
2
  The methodology to calculate the ‘like-for-like’ 
growth rates is explained on page i. 16
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Financial review
Matthew Lester 
Chief Finance Officer
The 2012-13 financial year comprised 53 weeks, compared with 52 weeks in 2011-12 
and 2010-11. As a result, the 2012-13 income statement is presented both on a reported 
53 week basis and 52 week adjusted basis, to provide a direct comparison of revenue and 
costs (see page 56). Furthermore, in order to obtain like-for-like growth percentages for 
revenue and costs, the material impact arising from foreign exchange has also been eliminated. 
A further explanation of how like-for-like growth is calculated is shown on page i and  
like-for-like percentages can be found on page 15.
Summary Group results
The Group has delivered an improved financial performance in 2012-13, with our core UK 
business, UKPIL, delivering strong growth both in revenue and operating profit before and 
after transformation costs. The Group improved its operating profit margin from 1.7 per cent 
to 4.4 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
The trading performance resulted in EBITDA of £915 million on a reported basis and 
£878 million on an adjusted 52 week basis (2012 £681 million). In addition, the Group 
generated a free cash inflow of £334 million (2012 £154 million). This improvement 
was mainly due to trading, compared with last year where material disposals generated 
£240 million of cash inflows.
Revenue Operating profit after transformation costs
Business unit performance (£m)
Reported
53 weeks
2013
Adjusted
52 weeks
2013
Reported 
52 weeks
2012
Reported
53 weeks
2013
Adjusted
52 weeks
2013
Reported 
52 weeks
2012
UKPIL 7,766 7,633 7,189 331 294 33
GLS 1,498 1,498 1,562 101 101 128
Other businesses 15 15 13 8 8 (9)
Group 9,279 9,146 8,764 440 403 152
Revenue
The Group’s revenue increased by five per cent on a like-for-like basis, largely driven by revenue growth in UKPIL of six per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. UKPIL’s growth was mainly due to a 13 per cent like-for-like improvement in parcel revenue, driven by both higher volumes and price 
increases. In addition, the letter price increases that came into effect in April 2012 increased letter revenue by three per cent on a like-for-like 
basis. This enabled the Group to offset the addressed letter volume decline of eight per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Underlying GLS Euro revenue increased by two per cent on a like-for-like basis to €1.8 billion. All countries apart from France, Portugal and 
Romania saw revenue growth. On conversion to Sterling, GLS revenue decreased by four per cent to £1.5 billion (2012 £1.6 billion) due 
to the weakening of the Euro. GLS parcel volumes increased by one per cent on a like-for-like basis, with growth in both domestic and 
international volumes.
Group operating costs
Group operating costs before transformation and other exceptional items increased by three per cent on a like-for-like basis.
People costs increased by four per cent on a like-for-like basis. This reflects an increase in UKPIL people costs mainly due to a 3.5 per cent pay 
award, in line with the Pay and Transformation Agreement, a higher ongoing pension cost (due to the pension rate increasing to 18.2 per cent), 
and the implementation of the Agency Workers Directive. However, the delivery and processing operations in Royal Mail delivered a productivity 
improvement of 1.7 per cent. 
Group costs (including transformation costs) (£m)
Reported 53
weeks 2013
Adjusted 52
weeks 2013
Reported 52
weeks 2012
People costs 5,147 5,077 4,920
Distribution and conveyance costs 1,785 1,771 1,755
Infrastructure costs 1,052 1,047 1,060
Other operating costs 660 653 648
Transformation costs (operating exceptional items – see note 5) 195 195 229
Total operating and transformation costs 8,839 8,743 8,612 17
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Distribution and conveyance costs increased by four per cent on a like-for-like basis as follows:
• An expected increase in the UKPIL networks as a result of the increase in the number of vehicles, higher fuel price (hedged using a rolling 
three year programme at approximately 90 per cent of expected usage) and higher costs of maintaining the fleet of approximately 
40,000 vehicles.
• Higher third party subcontractor costs in GLS Germany, which reflect the low unemployment rates of five per cent. However, when GLS Euro 
costs are translated into Sterling, they decrease on a reported basis by three per cent.
Infrastructure costs decreased by one per cent on a like-for-like basis, due to lower depreciation and amortisation charges offsetting property 
cost increases in UKPIL.
Other costs include those non-people costs mainly driven by the Commercial and Central functions in the UK. These have increased by just one 
per cent and this is mainly due to tight cost control measures.
 Expenditure relating to UK businesses was £7,247 million (2012 £6,950 million). See KPIs pages 12-13.
UKPIL transformation exceptional costs
Transformation exceptional costs are 15 per cent lower and are the same under the reported or adjusted basis.
UKPIL transformation exceptional costs (£m)
Reported 53
weeks 2013
Reported 52
weeks 2012
Voluntary redundancy (78) (77)
Business transformation payments (22) (87)
Project and property costs (95) (65)
Total (195) (229)
Voluntary redundancy costs are in line with last year and relate to delivery modernisation and announced Mail Centre closures. To date, 25 Mail 
Centres have been closed. A further 11 have been through the appropriate consultation process, and are expected to be closed by 2015.
The £22 million business transformation payments relate to the Pay and Transformation 2010 Agreement where colleagues receive payments 
of up to £1,000 based on specific milestones and specific bonuses with respect to transforming the network.
Project and property costs mainly relate to key business transformation projects such as the implementation of new delivery methods, Mail Centre 
reductions and deployment of automation equipment. Increased activity in Delivery Office revisions during the year has contributed to this increase.
 Operating profit before transformation costs was £635 million on a reported basis (2012 £381 million). See KPIs pages 12-13.
Operating profit after transformation costs
All three of the Group’s business segments generated an operating profit after transformation costs, resulting in a Group operating profit after 
transformation costs of £440 million on a reported basis, and £403 million on an adjusted basis, with UKPIL contributing around 75 per cent 
to the Group total (2012 22 per cent). 
On a like-for-like basis GLS experienced a 17 per cent decline in operating profit after transformation costs, from €148 million to €123 million. 
Germany reported a profit decline reflecting the challenging trading conditions. Operational performance issues remain in France. In most other 
countries profit improved, particularly in Italy and Denmark.
On a like-for-like basis, Group margin improved from 1.7 per cent to 4.4 per cent. UKPIL’s margin was 3.9 per cent, and GLS’s margin was 
6.7 per cent.
Net exceptional items, including transformation costs (same under a reported and adjusted basis)
Exceptional items (£m)
Reported 52
weeks 2013
Reported 52
weeks 2012
Operating exceptional items:
– Transformation costs (see above) (195) (229)
– Other (77) (57)
Total operating exceptional items (272) (286)
Non-operating exceptional items:
– Asset disposals 4 156
– Business disposals – 26
Net exceptional items (268) (104) 18
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Financial review (continued)
Other operating exceptional items mainly comprise costs relating to legacy industrial diseases claims of £28 million (2012 £10 million), one-off 
IT costs associated with the separation of Post Office Limited during the year of £20 million (2012 £nil), impairments (mainly property) of 
£20 million (2012 £7 million) and charges related to the implementation of the Postal Services Act of £10 million (2012 £24 million). 
Non-operating exceptional items are not material this year. Last year there were property disposal gains of £156 million, £104 million of which 
relates to the sale of the Rathbone Place property and £26 million mainly from the sale of the Group’s investment in Romec Services Limited 
(a subsidiary of Romec Limited).
Net finance and pension interest costs
Net finance and pension interest costs of £43 million (2012 £76 million) comprise a £34 million net pension interest credit (2012 £24 million) 
and net finance costs of £77 million (2012 £100 million) relating to net debt. 
The pension interest credit is non-cash and comprises the investment returns on the pension assets held by the Trustee at the start of the year 
and the unwinding of the discount rate on the associated pension liabilities. 
The net finance costs of £77 million comprise finance costs of £104 million (2012 £112 million), offset by finance income of £27 million 
(2012 £12 million).
The finance costs of £104 million for this year mainly comprise £82 million (2012 £91 million) relating to average loans and borrowings 
of £972 million (2012 £1,478 million) resulting in an average interest rate of 8.4 per cent (2012 6.2 per cent). Of the £82 million charge, 
£51 million (2012 £45 million) relates to the 12.0 per cent general purpose/working capital facility. This is an unsecured facility that has 
preconditions to any early repayment, and the interest is rolled-up rather than paid, meaning actual cash interest costs are lower by 
this amount.
During April and May 2012, the Group paid down £600 million of one of its facilities and at 31 March 2013, the following facilities were 
drawn down.
Purpose of loan/borrowing
2013
Average
balance
£m
2013
Average
interest rate
%
Facility
end date
Facility
£m
Drawn
balance at
31 March
2013
£m
Average loan
maturity date
GLS funding 500 5.8 2021-2025 500 500 2023
General Purpose/Working Capital 48 2.0 2014 600 – –
General Purpose/Working Capital – – 2014 300 – –
General Purpose/Working Capital 424 12.0 2016 473 473 2016
Total 972 1,873 973
Current taxation (UK businesses and GLS)
The current tax charge of £39 million (2012 £34 million) represents an effective rate on profit before taxation of 12 per cent (five per cent rate 
in the UK) due to current year UK taxable profit being offset by previous years’ trading tax losses, which arose both due to trading and, up to 
2010-11, the annual cash costs of nearly £300 million used to fund the historic pension deficit. The reason for the low overall UK effective tax 
rate is because no deferred tax asset had previously been recognised for these tax losses. The majority of the remaining trading tax losses 
available to Royal Mail Group Limited will be extinguished at the end of 2012-13 as part of the Postal Services Act pension transfer implementation. 
GLS blended current taxation rates of 26 per cent are in line with the standard rates for the countries in which it operates.
Deferred taxation (UK businesses only)
The return to profitability in the UK, and the pension transfer – bringing an end to Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP) deficit correction payments 
– has meant that the UK businesses produced taxable profit in 2012-13. Consequently, the net deferred tax credit of £284 million in the income 
statement in 2012-13 includes £290 million relating to UK tax, mainly to recognise the improved profit outlook for the Group and future tax 
benefits associated with carried forward tax reliefs (including capital allowances) of approximately £2.4 billion. These unused reliefs have built 
up mainly because of there being insufficient profit to use the potential deductions which had been deferred to later years.
Pension plans
On 1 April 2012 – after the granting of State Aid approval by the European Commission on 21 March 2012 – almost all of the pension liabilities 
and pension assets of the Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP), built up until 31 March 2012, were transferred to HM Government. On this date, 
the RMPP was also sectionalised, with Royal Mail Group Limited and Post Office Limited each responsible for their own liabilities in future. This 
arrangement left the RMPP fully funded on an actuarial basis in respect of historic liabilities at this date. 
Royal Mail Group’s ongoing pension costs, mainly relating to approximately 112,000 active members in RMPP, will continue to be material 
(with associated cash costs being similar to the charges to the income statement). There is no difference between the reported and adjusted basis. 19
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Pension costs in the income statement (£m)
Reported 53
weeks 2013
Reported 52
weeks 2012
UK defined benefit, mainly RMPP (412) (384)
UK defined contribution (17) (11)
GLS defined contribution (5) (5)
Total Group ongoing pension costs (434) (400)
Pension balance sheet amounts (under an IAS 19 basis)
The balance sheet pension deficit has reduced from a deficit of £2.7 billion at March 2012, to a surplus of £825 million at March 2013. The 
movement in the pension liability is almost entirely due to the transfer of pension liabilities and pension assets to HM Government. 
Royal Mail Senior Executives Pension Plan (RMSEPP)
This plan was closed to future accruals on 31 December 2012. The Company has reached an agreement with the RMSEPP Trustees to maintain 
their cash contribution requirement at £10 million per annum until the March 2018 triennial valuation is complete. Also, as a part of the 
agreement, the Company made a one-off deficit correction payment of £19 million to the plan during the year and placed £20 million into 
an escrow account.
Cash flow
EBITDA before transformation costs of £915 million (2012 £681 million) increased due to the trading performance explained above.
Working capital inflow of £142 million (2012 £19 million outflow) is mainly due to the increase in stamp holdings by customers in light of the 
April 2012 price increases and overall tighter working capital management.
Total investment of £665 million (2012 £579 million) comprises £407 million (2012 £429 million) resulting from the continuation of the 
transformation programme, and business as usual spend of £258 million (2012 £150 million). The 2012-13 depreciation charge was 
£281 million (2012 £301 million).
Taxation and interest cash costs of £81 million (2012 £91 million) comprise £44 million (2012 £56 million) relating to net interest paid and 
£37 million (2012 £35 million) relating to current taxation payments. The interest cash costs are lower than the net interest charge of 
£77 million mainly due to the roll-up of interest as explained above. The taxation payments are broadly in line with the current income 
taxation charge of £41 million (2012 £36 million).
Cash inflows associated with disposals have reduced from £240 million in 2011-12 to £52 million in 2012-13. The 2011-12 inflow included 
£120 million from the sale of the Rathbone Place property off Oxford Street, London and £29 million from the sale of the Group’s investment 
in Romec Services Limited.
The combination of these cash flows resulted in a free cash inflow of £334 million (2012 £154 million) and, excluding the one-off impacts of 
disposals of £52 million (2012 £240 million), a cash inflow of £282 million (2012 outflow of £86 million).
Net debt
Net debt has decreased by £280 million to £906 million during the year ending 31 March 2013, mainly due to cash flow generated. During the 
year, £600 million of loans were repaid to HM Government.
Financial risks and related hedging
The Group is exposed to currency and commodity price risk. The Group operates hedging policies which are described in the notes to the 
financial statements. The exposures are set out in the table below, together with how much the 2013-14 operating profit would differ 
from 2012-13 as a result of the changes in commodity costs/exchange rates up to 31 March 2013, post the impact of the respective 
hedging programmes.
Exposure – Royal Mail Group
Impact on
operating profit
of a 5% increase
in price/
weakening of
Sterling (before
hedging)
£m (loss)/gain
Impact of no
further change
in price/rate on
2013-14
operating
profit versus
2012-13
(post hedging)
£m (loss)/gain
Diesel and jet (5) 1
US$ (4) (2)
Euro (9) 1 20
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Financial review (continued)
It is anticipated that there will be a £1 million favourable impact on profits arising from the change in effective (post hedging impact) diesel costs 
from 51ppl in 2012-13 to an anticipated 50ppl in 2013-14. Without hedging, this favourable variance would become an adverse £3 million 
variable (based upon closing fuel prices at 31 March 2013).
The Group’s exposure to fuel prices is shown in the table below, together with the coverage provided by the hedges in place. The exposure 
represents the cost of the underlying commodity and excludes fuel duty (which costs the Group approximately £100 million each year).  
Diesel and fuel costs (including duty) for 2013-14 are expected to be £196 million.
Underlying 
product incl 
irrecoverable 
VAT in 2013-14
£m
Fuel duty in 
2013-14
£m
Total cost in 
2013-14
£m
% of  
underlying 
product  
for 2013-14 
hedged 
£m
Diesel 80 100 180 93
Jet 16 nil 16 92
Total 96 100 196
The currency exposure arises mainly from the Group’s trading with overseas postal operators, the profits of GLS and inter-company loans with 
GLS. There is a significant degree of offset between these exposures and hedge programmes in place which reduce the impact on 2013-14 
operating profit. The residual, unhedged, exposure for 2013-14 is estimated at £14 million for the Euro and £50 million for the US$.
The Group manages its interest rate risk through predominantly fixed rate debt. At the year end 100 per cent of the loans were at fixed rate to 
maturity. Consequently (and taking into account financial assets held but excluding the RMPP pension escrow investments), an increase of 100 
basis points to interest rates during the year end would have resulted in an increase to profit of £3 million. The RMPP pension escrow 
investments were sold in April 2012 and hence would not have been materially affected by an interest rate change during the year.
Counterparty risk is managed by limiting aggregate exposure to any individual counterparty based on their financial strength.
Off balance sheet arrangement
In 2000, Royal Mail entered into a defeased lease arrangement whereby certain automation equipment was leased and the lease rentals 
concurrently prepaid by Royal Mail into an investment fund. Following the general falls in credit ratings, a letter of credit (LOC) has been 
required to provide, on behalf of Royal Mail, additional support to the lessor in the event of default by the investment fund holder. The chances  
of this LOC being called upon are considered to be remote, so no liability to reimburse the bank who have provided the LOC has been included  
in the balance sheet for Royal Mail. The current value of the LOC is £40 million and it is currently not collateralised.
Equity
On 27 June 2012, the Company reduced the amount of its share premium account by £3,784 million, with the Company reducing the deficit 
on its distributable reserves by the same amount at that time. This reduction of capital was approved by a special resolution of the Company, 
supported by a solvency statement made by its Directors pursuant to section 642 of the Companies Act 2006. The reduction was executed 
through a non-cash accounting entry and has no effect on total equity or the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue or their 
nominal value.
Matthew Lester 
Chief Finance Officer 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
31 July 2013 21
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
UK Parcels, International 
& Letters (UKPIL)
Trading results
Reported 
 53 weeks
2013
Adjusted 
 52 weeks
2013
Reported 
52 weeks
2012
Revenue (£m) 7,766 7,633 7,189
Operating profit after transformation 
costs (£m) 331 294 33
Operating profit margin after transformation 
costs (%) 4.3 3.9 0.5
Volumes (m)
Royal Mail UK core parcels network 1,010 994 950
Parcelforce Worldwide 71 70 66
Total parcels 1,081 1,064 1,016
Addressed letters (including international) 14,079 13,869 15,147
Unaddressed letters 3,307 3,258 3,077
About UKPIL
As the UK’s sole provider of the Universal 
Service, UKPIL’s 150,000 employees deliver 
letters and parcels, six-days-a-week, to more 
than 29 million addresses across the UK at 
affordable and competitive prices. It is a leading 
UK provider of collection and delivery services 
for express parcels through Parcelforce 
Worldwide and Royal Mail. MarketReach 
provides a full-service marketing mail offering 
and helps businesses derive more value from 
marketing mail. UKPIL is responsible for the 
design and production of the UK’s stamps and 
philatelic products. It is also responsible for 
the processing of international mail under 
reciprocal arrangements with other overseas 
postal administrations.
Our strategy
Our letters and parcels strategies go hand in 
hand. We derive competitive advantage from 
a combined network. Strategically, we are 
focused on capturing the growth in online 
retailing to ensure a sustainable and profitable 
Universal Service as the number of letters we 
handle continues to decline.
Our parcels strategy:
• Getting the basics right. We are streamlining 
our parcels offering to make it easier for 
customers to choose the right service for 
them. We have simplified our terms and 
conditions. We have provided our colleagues 
with more of the tools they need to deliver 
increasing numbers of parcels; 
• Getting the technology right. We are 
investing in IT to offer our customers the 
services they expect from a parcels 
operator, including SMS messaging and 
tracking services. By Christmas 2013, we 
aim for every postman and woman to have 
access to a hand-held scanner for their 
delivery round; and
• Expanding and automating our networks. 
We are investing to adapt the Royal Mail 
network to handle more parcels and 
expanding the capacity of Parcelforce 
Worldwide’s express network.
Our letters strategy:
• Using our new regulatory freedom to receive 
a commercial return for the letters we deliver. 
Price increases in April 2012 are a key driver 
of UKPIL’s improved profitability; 
• Investing in our operations to improve 
efficiency and in tracking business mail. 
We have put in place initiatives to make 
traditional mail more attractive to 
customers and increase our share 
of the business mail market; and
• Leveraging our position in marketing mail to 
reach customers in new and innovative ways. 
Trading performance
Price increases across UKPIL’s letters and 
parcels portfolio, combined with increasing 
parcel volumes, contributed to a strong 
revenue performance. Reported revenue grew 
to £7,766 million and grew six per cent on a 
like-for-like basis. An increase in non-people 
costs was offset by a number of other factors, 
including procurement savings. Reported 
operating profit after transformation costs 
increased to £331 million.
The operating profit margin after 
transformation costs increased to 3.9 per cent 
from 0.5 per cent on a like-for-like basis, as 
delivery and processing productivity across 
the core network increased by 1.7 per cent. 
UKPIL parcel volumes grew five per cent on 
a like-for-like basis. Reported volumes were 
1,081 million (2012 1,016 million), generating 
a like-for-like increase in parcel revenue of 
13 per cent and reported revenue of 
£2,979 million. Royal Mail handled 14,079 
million addressed letters over the period. 
Letters (including marketing mail) accounted 
for £4,787 million of UKPIL’s total reported 
revenue during the year. While unaddressed 
mail volumes increased by six per cent, 
addressed letter volumes declined by eight 
per cent on a like-for-like basis. This was 
more than offset by price increases, which 
contributed to like-for-like letter revenue 
growth (including marketing mail) of 
three per cent. 22
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
UK Parcels, International  
& Letters (UKPIL) (continued)
1
  Marketing mail numbers are calculated using statistical 
analysis from surveys in order to estimate how our mail 
is being used. Data services and redirections were added 
into the marketing mail portfolio in 2012-13. Numbers 
have been restated accordingly.
£1,135 million of reported Group revenue in 
2012-13 (equivalent to 12 per cent) came 
from marketing mail
1
, including MarketReach. 
The advertising market has shown little 
growth during the year. Despite this, marketing 
mail revenue increased by two per cent on 
a like-for-like basis. 
We had a strong Christmas due to the 
comprehensive planning we put in place to 
prepare for this important trading period. 
We recruited approximately 20,000 temporary 
staff to handle increased Christmas traffic, 
with eight temporary parcel sort centres 
opening at the beginning of November. The 
UKPIL core network handled 125 million 
parcels and Parcelforce Worldwide handled 
eight million express parcels in the four weeks 
to 23 December 2012. A poll carried out after 
the festive period by the leading consumer 
website, moneysavingexpert.com, voted 
Royal Mail the best UK parcel carrier, while 
Parcelforce Worldwide was in third position.
Royal Mail’s Special Stamps programme has 
had a landmark year, thanks to the Queen’s 
Diamond Jubilee and London 2012 Gold 
Medal Stamps. We issued 63 gold medal 
stamps during London 2012 and painted 
110 gold post boxes in honour of our 
Olympians and Paralympians. The post 
boxes, painted to celebrate every gold medal 
win, will remain gold as a permanent 
celebration of these wonderful achievements 
by so many British athletes. Another highlight 
– in a strong year for our stamps programme 
– was the great success of our Doctor Who 
stamp issue.
Stamps & Collectibles
Like-for-like growth rates (%) Revenue Addressed volumes
Parcels 13 5
Letters 3 (8)
For more information visit 
www.royalmailgroup.com
UK Parcels,  
International &  
Letters (UKPIL) 
case study 1 of 1 23
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
General Logistics Systems 
(GLS)
About GLS
General Logistics Systems (GLS) is one of 
the largest ground-based deferred parcel 
delivery service providers in Europe. It is a 
pan-European business, providing reliable 
parcel and express services as well 
as logistics solutions. 
The GLS network covers 37 countries through 
wholly owned and partner companies, is 
globally connected through contractual 
agreements and acts as the Group’s gateway 
to Europe, opening up new opportunities.
Our strategy
GLS aims to be a high quality of service leader 
in the parcels segments in which it operates. 
Its strategy is to invest in systems, products 
and processes which will provide efficiencies 
and opportunities to develop new delivery 
options for the European parcels market. 
While GLS already has a strong presence in 
the European business-to-business parcels 
market, business-to-consumer parcels 
currently represent approximately one 
quarter of GLS volumes. New initiatives 
include investing in improved technology 
to offer customers near real-time track 
and trace services in the GLS network. 
The expansion of the GLS network through 
organic growth and targeted acquisitions 
focused on the standard parcels market is a 
key objective. GLS’s ground-based network 
and pan-European reach mean it is already 
benefiting from cross-border growth in parcel 
volumes. Its broad customer base means it 
is not dependent on specific accounts to 
maintain and grow volumes.
Almost three-quarters (71 per cent) of GLS’s 
revenue is generated in three major markets: 
Germany, Italy and France. GLS provides 
high service levels, supported by its tracked, 
cross-border technology platform and 
European reach. It continues to monitor 
emerging markets, particularly those 
seeking to join the EU, for further 
growth opportunities.
Trading performance
European parcel carriers have been faced with 
a difficult market in recent times. Low or zero 
GDP growth across the Eurozone has 
constrained volume growth and a tight labour 
market in Germany has driven up costs in 
GLS’ largest business-to-business market. 
In this context, GLS performance can be 
considered robust, with like-for-like revenue 
growth of two per cent.
Parcel volumes grew one per cent to 
380 million. Operating costs increased more 
rapidly than revenue, mainly due to the higher 
distribution and conveyance costs arising in 
Germany as low unemployment rates resulted 
in higher subcontractor costs. This was 
partially offset by profit growth in Italy, 
Denmark and Austria.
Operating profit declined by 17 per cent on a 
like-for-like basis to £101 million. This was 
due to a £20 million decline in like-for-like 
operating profit and a £7 million foreign 
exchange impact. As a result, operating profit 
margin declined to 6.7 per cent.
Trading results
Reported 52
weeks 2013
Reported 52
weeks 2012
Revenue (£m) 1,498 1,562
Operating profit after transformation costs (£m) 101 128
Revenue (€m) 1,837 1,808
Operating profit after transformation costs (€m) 123 148
Operating profit margin after transformation costs (%) 6.7 8.2
Volumes (m) 380 375
Note: GLS reports results for the 52 weeks ending 31 March. 24
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Business risks
Principal risk Impact Mitigation
Changes in customer 
preferences and 
competitor activity
Customer behaviours are 
constantly evolving and 
competition is increasing. 
Consequently, there is a risk that 
our product offerings and the 
customer experience we provide 
may not meet changing 
customer needs.
In addition, customer or 
competitor actions could trigger 
significant volumes of physical mail 
bypassing Royal Mail, downtrading 
to lower revenue products and 
acceleration in e-substitution.
Postal operators and other third 
parties may set up discrete direct 
delivery networks in urban areas.
The market and our share of it 
may shrink more rapidly than we 
expect, leading to lower growth 
rates and profitability.
Direct delivery may also threaten 
the sustainability of Royal Mail’s 
Universal Service.
• We have placed significant focus on the key growth area of parcels, 
including investment in Parcelforce Worldwide and enhancing the 
core network to accommodate growing customer traffic;
• We have introduced initiatives to simplify products, improve our 
product delivery and the customer experience to drive loyalty 
and advocacy;
• We have held discussions with key stakeholders, and continue to do 
so, on the risk to the Universal Service if direct delivery competition 
is allowed to develop unchecked; 
• We are developing proposals to maximise commercial opportunities 
from the freedoms we have gained;
• We are focusing product development and sales resource on growth 
opportunities with the greatest potential for added value, especially 
outside e-substitutable markets;
• We launched a new media business, MarketReach, to improve our 
direct marketing mail proposition for customers; and
• We remodel/optimise the operational network as necessary to 
cater for a different mix of products, local direct delivery and 
to reduce costs.
The Corporate Governance section describes in detail how the Group manages its risk from the Group Board level, its respective  
sub-Committees and through the organisation. Further details can be found on pages 38-45.
The table below details the principal business risks, their impact and how the Group mitigates these risks. 25
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Principal risk Impact Mitigation
Economic environment
Historically, there has been a 
correlation between the state of 
the UK economy and the level of 
mail volumes. There is a risk that 
the continuation of flat or adverse 
economic conditions could impact 
our ability to stay profitable,  
either by reducing volumes or  
by encouraging downtrading  
to lower revenue products. 
Additionally, we have significant 
European operations, and current 
uncertainty and economic 
weakness in the Eurozone 
could impact these businesses.
Adverse economic conditions and 
uncertainty would have a direct 
impact on mail volumes and, 
consequently, on Group revenues 
and profit.
Economic conditions may impact 
the ability of key customers or 
critical suppliers to continue 
trading. This would directly 
impact our revenues or day-to-
day operations.
• We continually review our costs to find areas where we can mitigate 
the impacts of any downturn;
• We have conducted a programme of organisational restructuring to 
reduce managerial headcount in line with changing business volumes, 
and monitor closely our progress in realising these savings;
• We have robust econometric models in place to provide early 
warnings of changes to overall volumes and the profile of letter and 
parcel volumes. We continually review and upgrade these models 
to anticipate better the impact of price rises and reflect the 
increasingly deregulated market; and 
• We targeted price increases for 2012-13 tariffs to ensure prices 
remained affordable.
Business modernisation
We are undergoing a significant, 
extensive modernisation 
programme to improve our 
equipment and technical and IT 
infrastructure, and operating 
models. The success of the 
business strategy relies on 
successful extraction of benefits 
from the programme, whilst 
maintaining key business 
outcomes such as Quality of 
Service levels.
Failure to implement our 
modernisation programme 
effectively and extract benefits 
would adversely impact our ability 
to compete.
At the same time, a reduction 
in Quality of Service standards 
could result in loss of traffic, 
reputational damage and failure 
to meet our Quality of Service 
standards will result in 
regulatory scrutiny and 
possible regulatory sanctions.
Failure to improve our IT 
infrastructure would increase 
the risk of delivery or security 
shortfalls, and the risk that the 
IT platform might not be able 
to support the business 
plan initiatives.
• We track progress and outcomes of all revisions to operational 
practice on a weekly basis to ensure completion to time and 
the sharing of good practice and lessons learned. Quality of Service 
is a fundamental consideration prior to any change;
• We have increased focus on delivery modernisation and 
performance with the new Operational organisation;
• We follow an agreed framework for all transformation revisions;
• We are closely managing and monitoring the IT 
transformation project; 
• We are embedding our World Class Mail
1
 initiative into delivery 
operations to ensure that operational change is backed up by 
cultural change; 
• We are closely monitoring our progress in realising role reductions, 
in line with operational changes; and
• We are engaging closely with our unions and colleagues with 
regard to the rationale behind, and our progress with regard 
to, modernisation.
1
  Developed in-house and based on leading global practice 
and expert advice, World Class Mail is a comprehensive 
system for improving safety and productivity. 26
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Principal risk Impact Mitigation
Risks inherent in the postal 
industry
The postal industry has specific 
characteristics that bring particular 
operational and commercial risks. 
Operations are at risk of disruption 
by, for example, adverse weather, 
health and safety incidents, 
industrial action, operational 
change, terrorism (either as a 
target or a conduit), or failure of 
critical suppliers.
In addition to the new regulatory 
regime in the postal sector, there 
is a risk of non-compliance with a 
wide range of legal and regulatory 
requirements, such as 
procurement and competition law, 
Bribery Act and financial services 
and data security regulations.
The legal and regulatory 
environment in which the Group 
operates is subject to change.
Breakdowns in the network would 
reduce Quality of Service, increase 
costs and reduce revenue, and 
damage our reputation.
Failure to meet regulatory, 
competition law, or Bribery Act 
or other legal requirements 
could result in prolonged 
investigations, with potentially 
severe financial consequences 
and reputational damage.
Changes in legal and regulatory 
requirements (including at EU 
level) could impact the Group’s 
ability to meet its targets and 
goals. For example, any change in 
the VAT treatment of network 
access services may make the 
use of third party delivery 
services which take advantage of 
those network access services 
less attractive.
• We have Business Continuity Plans in place which are owned, 
maintained and reviewed by the Operations Executive;
• We have a communication model in place to keep customers 
appraised of potential or actual service impacts;
• We continue to engage constructively with Ofcom;
• Our Regulation team works with key HM Government and EU 
stakeholders on future legislative changes;
• We are embedding a structured approach to relationship 
management for our key suppliers, including providing visibility 
of contract performance throughout the business;
• We have engaged with trade unions at all levels across the 
business, and there is constant visibility of issues, action taken 
and potential risks; 
• The Risk Management Committee conducts formal, ongoing 
environmental scanning to identify emerging risks and episodes and 
root causes of incidents that have impacted other businesses and 
might have implications for Royal Mail Group;
• Comprehensive compliance programmes are in place addressing Mail 
Integrity, Aviation Security and control of Dangerous Goods; and
• The Royal Mail Group compliance team works with business units 
to maintain an overall compliance framework (covering postal 
regulation, competition law and Bribery Act compliance), policy 
and processes, awareness raising, and training programmes.
Business risks (continued) 27
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Principal risk Impact Mitigation
Preparing for attracting 
external capital
We need to be in a position to 
implement the provisions of the 
Postal Services Act 2011, 
including reaching a sufficient state 
of readiness to obtain access to 
external capital.
As we are a recipient of State 
Aid granted to HM Government, 
HM Government must submit 
annual reports to the European 
Commission about progress with 
our restructuring.
Without the changes provided for 
by the Postal Services Act 2011, 
we would be unable to generate 
sufficient cash to meet these 
obligations on a sustainable basis 
or reach a sufficient state of 
readiness to obtain access to 
external capital.
In the event that we fail to 
implement our State Aid 
restructuring plan such that this 
amounts to a failure to comply 
with the conditions imposed by 
the European Commission, the 
European Commission has the 
power to re-open its decision to 
approve the State Aid we received. 
A re-opening of the decision 
would, at a minimum, create 
significant additional work as well 
as a great deal of uncertainty to 
our financial condition.
• We successfully completed separation of Post Office Limited and 
Royal Mail Group on 1 April 2012;
• We transferred the majority of the liabilities and assets of the 
Royal Mail Pension Plan (for service up to and including 31 March 
2012) to HM Government on 1 April 2012;
• We work with HM Government in its preparation of an annual 
report to the European Commission about progress with our 
restructuring. HM Government submitted a first report in October 
2012. We are investing in our processes and data readiness to 
help ensure we are in a position to meet any due diligence demands 
relating to any potential transaction;
• A Director of Investor Relations has been appointed; 
• We are engaging and involving the Shareholder to ensure it has 
a full understanding of our plan and business model; and
• We have had continuing, ongoing dialogue and consultation with 
Ofcom during the year to minimise the risk that the regulatory regime 
will be a barrier to our initiatives to drive profitability, and to 
maximise commercial freedom within the new Ofcom framework. 28
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Customers
82 per cent
1
Proportion of our customers  
who are satisfied with the  
attitude of Royal Mail’s  
delivery staff. 
7.5 million
Tickets delivered in 1.6 million  
envelopes for London 2012.
People, Community & Environment
£800,000
Raised by our colleagues and the  
Company for Prostate Cancer UK.  
Royal Mail contributed  
£9.5 million
2
 in support  
of good causes over the year.
Bronze
Shadow rating in the Dow Jones 
Sustainability World Index. Only  
two other postal operators are  
included in the index.
£2.5 billion
Invested annually through procuring  
goods and services from over  
7,000 suppliers.
50,000 days
Invested in our people through  
formal training programmes.
Corporate responsibility
1
  Ipsos MORI Consumer CSI and Brand Tracker Survey 
2012-13.
2
  Includes our mandated commitments to Articles for the 
Blind and BPMA totalling £6.1 million. 29
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Royal Mail Group makes a major contribution to the UK’s 
social and economic infrastructure. As the sole provider 
of the Universal Service, we play a vital role, connecting 
millions of customers, businesses, organisations and 
communities – including those in the most remote rural 
areas. Our 124,000 postmen and women play a vital role 
in local communities, reaching everyone in the UK.
The objective at the heart of our business 
strategy and our corporate responsibility (CR) 
strategy is the same – to ensure a sound and 
sustainable Universal Service for the benefit 
of everyone in the UK.
Corporate responsibility is a core part of our 
focus on being a sustainable and stakeholder-
centred business. It is essential to our business 
success that we behave responsibly and 
sustainably in relation to our people, customers, 
suppliers, communities and environment. 
Our CR strategy links with our business 
priorities to ensure long-term performance by:
• Delivering economic and social benefit to the 
communities we serve;
• Managing our modernisation programme;
• Driving colleague advocacy of the Group and 
its community role;
• Reducing the environmental impact of our 
business and operations; and
• Communicating our management 
of corporate responsibilities openly 
and transparently.
Measuring our progress
We measure our overall corporate 
responsibility performance using Business 
in the Community’s (BITC) Corporate 
Responsibility Index. Alongside our Platinum 
ranking in BITC’s Corporate Responsibility 
Index, we have achieved a shadow Bronze 
ranking in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
Only two other postal operators globally are 
included in the Dow Jones World Index. 
Our aim is to maintain our Platinum BITC 
ranking. This objective is one of our key 
deliverables. Progress against each deliverable 
is reported to the Chief Executive’s Committee 
on a regular basis. 
Our Corporate Balanced Scorecard supports 
the implementation of our strategy, by 
linking achievement of CR objectives, such 
as Quality of Service and Customer Focus, 
to managers’ remuneration. 
Dedicated to customer service
Becoming a more customer-focused 
company is one of our strategic objectives 
(see page 10). We are committed to delivering 
for everyone in the UK and set high targets 
for customer satisfaction rates to drive 
our performance.
This year we achieved a mean business 
customer satisfaction score of 74, up from 
70 in 2011-12
3
. 
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
We measure the level of employee focus on 
our customers through regular monitoring of 
their opinions on key aspects of the customer 
experience. This year, we achieved a score of 
65, compared with 63 last year.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
Three quarters of non-business customers 
polled by Ipsos MORI agree that “my postie 
provides a good service”
4
. 
We employ a range of communication 
channels to listen and respond to customer 
needs, including via telephone, letter, email 
and Twitter. During 2012-13, we received 
6.62 million calls from customers and 
1.48 million calls from business customers.
This year, we delivered a Quality of Service 
performance of 92.5 per cent in First Class 
Retail and 98.7 per cent in Second Class 
Retail
5
 (2012 92.7 per cent and 98.7 per cent 
respectively).
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
We are very pleased to have exceeded our 
Second Class target of 98.5 per cent. We 
narrowly missed our First Class target of 
93 per cent. We are disappointed not to have 
achieved our goal. However, our performance 
still means that over 1.2 billion First Class 
stamped and metered items were delivered 
on time, first time, against a backdrop of 
significant operational change. 
Of course, customer service extends beyond 
our commitment to achieving our Quality of 
Service specifications. We are working hard 
to maintain customers’ trust and loyalty while, 
at the same time, delivering one of the biggest 
modernisation programmes of its kind in 
UK industry.
Regrettably, the number of complaints 
we received increased last year from 
approximately 457,600
6
 to 486,400.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
3
 Ipsos MORI Business CSI Survey 2012-13. 
4
  Ipsos MORI, Consumer CSI and Brand Tracker Survey 
2012-13.
5
  Adjusted measures. This accounts for the impact of 
factors which are beyond Royal Mail’s control, such as 
weather and the logistical impact of the London 2012 
Olympic and Paralympic Games.
6
  A new complaint type was introduced for 2012-13 called 
P739 complaints now include a new category for items 
not located at the Delivery Office, which were previously 
reported as claims. The 2011-12 number has been 
restated from 439,600 complaints to provide 
a like-for-like comparison. 30
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
We are working hard to reduce the number 
of complaints we receive. Four issues cause 
over 60 per cent of Royal Mail complaints: 
misdelivery, redelivery, redirection and P739 
or ‘Something for you’ cards. 
We have introduced a number of measures 
to improve the service our customers receive, 
such as the Delivery to Neighbour programme 
(see page 8).
Supporting our people 
Royal Mail has long been part of the fabric of 
the UK. Our people interact with customers on 
a daily basis, quite unlike most other companies. 
Our colleagues are trusted and respected. 
They take great pride in the work that they do. 
Royal Mail employs a rich and diverse mix of 
people who reflect the communities in which 
we work, and the customers we serve. We are 
committed to being an equal opportunities 
employer. As part of this endeavour, we work 
with Business in the Community’s 
‘Opportunity Now’ and ‘Race for Opportunity’ 
programmes, which promote best practice in 
equal opportunities. In addition, in 2012-13 
we signed up to the Government’s Think, Act, 
Report initiative, which encourages companies 
to share progress in promoting gender equality.
Springboard is one of our initiatives to promote 
gender equality. It is focused on helping 
women to advance their careers within the 
business. Since 2005, we have run over 50 
courses across the Company and have seen 
almost 800 female non-managers participate. 
In the coming year, we hope to offer the 
programme to another 1,000 colleagues.
Overall, Royal Mail’s ethnic profile is 
representative of the UK workforce
7
 with 
around 10 per cent of our employees from 
ethnic minorities. However, we recognise that 
ethnic minorities could be better represented 
amongst our management population. Our 
priority going forward is to increase the 
representation of ethnic minorities at all levels 
in Royal Mail.
Corporate responsibility  
case study 1 of 2
London 2012 was a major highlight for 
Royal Mail.
We were proud to deliver the tickets for the 
London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
We successfully handled over 1.6 million 
items, delivering approximately 7.5 million 
tickets to customers, with over 98 per cent 
of them arriving first time, on time. 
We were also proud to celebrate the 
achievements of Team GB 
and ParalympicsGB. 
We were the first postal administration to 
produce stamps for every gold medallist in 
both Games.
We also honoured the victories by painting 
110 post boxes gold across the UK in locations 
associated with our gold medal athletes. 
The post boxes have now become cherished 
local landmarks, and in November 2012 we 
announced that these would remain gold 
permanently, with a plaque to name the 
athlete and mark their gold medal 
achievement, or mark the location’s 
connection with London 2012.
The decision to keep the post boxes gold 
marks the first time in Royal Mail’s history 
that it has painted its iconic post boxes 
a different colour permanently to mark 
an historic achievement.
Delivering tickets for London 2012
For more information visit  
www.royalmailgroup.com
7
 ONS, 2010-11.
Corporate responsibility (continued) 31
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
8
  Percentage of employees identifying themselves as 
having a disability in the 2013 Employee Opinion Survey.
9
  Includes our mandated commitments to Articles for the 
Blind and BPMA totalling £6.1 million.
Performance
Royal Mail aims to be a disability confident 
employer. We are committed to employing 
people with disability and supporting disabled 
employees during employment. 
Approximately six per cent of our employees 
have a disability
8
. 
To support our people, we also make a 
significant investment in our learning and 
development programmes. Almost 31,000 
colleagues undertook formal training last year. 
People development also forms a pillar of our 
World Class Mail (WCM) programme.
We achieved an employee engagement score 
of 50, up from 49 in 2011-12.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
Our annual Employee Opinion survey helps us 
identify the areas where we are doing well and 
those we need to improve on. Three-quarters 
of our people responded to the survey, up 
from 68 per cent last year. 
Over three-fifths (62 per cent) of our people 
feel proud to work for Royal Mail Group and 
seven out of ten say they still want to work for 
us in two years’ time.
Safeguarding our workforce
Our commitment to the safety of our 
employees is an enduring priority for us. 
Not only does a safer workplace mean less 
harm to our people, it means more efficient 
operations. Our goal is to reduce the number 
of accidents to zero, a commitment driven 
throughout the business by a KPI on our 
Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
Royal Mail’s Safety Strategy is to make safety 
an integral part of the management of our 
business by:
• Providing visible safety leadership;
• Ensuring that our safety management 
programmes drive continual improvement 
and are sustainable;
• Enhancing employee engagement on 
safety; and
• Continuing to build competency in 
safety management.
By supporting our people in their ability to 
manage risk, we have achieved a 20 per cent 
reduction in the Lost Time Accident Frequency 
Rate (1.17 UKPIL employee, work related 
accidents resulting in an absence on a 
subsequent day or shift per 100,000 hours 
worked in 2012-13, compared with 1.47 in 
2011-12).
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
We strive to improve our safety performance 
in everything we do. It is with great regret that 
we report seven people lost their lives in 
connection with our activities in the UK in the 
past year. All the fatalities were associated 
with road traffic accidents with our vehicles. 
We liaise closely with the relevant authorities 
and undertake our own detailed investigations 
to establish the root cause of each accident 
and, where possible, to determine what 
lessons can be learned. The findings are 
communicated across the Group and 
discussed at the monthly meeting of the 
Board. We are improving our processes to 
ensure that recommendations from the 
independent investigations team are dealt 
with in a timely manner. Our investigations 
have alerted us to potential dangers arising 
when we reverse our vehicles. We are tackling 
this hazard by installing reversing sensors on 
our vans.
Modernising Royal Mail
Central to our relationship with our people is 
the ongoing modernisation of our operations. 
This root and branch revision of every aspect 
of the way we work is difficult for our people. 
But we are making progress. 
452 Delivery Offices began modernising 
during the year, taking the total number of 
offices that have commenced or completed 
modernisation to 860 since the programme 
began. This represents over half of our 
locations, with the remainder to commence 
by March 2014. 298 Delivery Offices began 
modernising in 2011-12.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
We achieved a reduction in delivery hours of 
1.9 per cent compared with 2.2 per cent in 
2011-12. Improving the effectiveness of our 
delivery operations is absolutely crucial to our 
continued financial stability and the provision 
of good quality jobs.
 
See KPIs pages 12-13
In consultation with our unions, the Group has 
made significant commitments to job security, 
including an overarching objective to complete 
our modernisation programme without 
compulsory redundancies, and a commitment 
to remain a predominantly full-time workforce.
Supporting our communities
Our support for communities starts with the 
services we provide and our direct economic 
impact as an employer and purchaser of 
goods and services. We make one of the single 
biggest economic contributions of any UK 
company. Research commissioned by Royal 
Mail from the Centre for Economics and 
Business Research (CEBR) estimated that, in 
the 2011-12 financial year, in terms of the 
‘value-added’ from UK operations of companies, 
our core UK business ranked as the eighth 
highest in the UK. This is supported by our 
active investment in communities and our 
charitable giving programme. We recognise 
that our business will only thrive if the 
communities that we serve are thriving too. 
In 2012-13, Royal Mail contributed  
£9.5 million
9
 directly to charities, good  
causes and schemes for disadvantaged 
groups. We also supported £3.2 million of 
colleague fundraising for charities and good 
causes across the UK. And, in July 2012, we 
further increased our support for colleague 
fundraising by introducing a penny for penny 
matched giving scheme for our new Charity  
of the Year programme. 
Following a successful partnership with the 
children’s charity Barnardo’s, in March 2012 
our colleagues voted to support Prostate 
Cancer UK as our new Charity of the Year 
partner from 2012 to 2014. Our aim is to 
raise at least £2 million to fund specialist 
prostate cancer nurses. During 2012-13, 
we raised enough money to fund 20 nurses. 
Royal Mail provided £144,000 in matched 
giving and grant schemes to support 
employees’ fundraising for all other charities 
and good causes. 32
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Corporate responsibility  
case study 2 of 2
Managing our environmental footprint
We recognise that our business operations 
have environmental impacts. We are 
committed to discovering and adopting 
solutions that minimise our use of natural 
resources, safeguard the built and natural 
environment and support the communities 
we serve.
In 2008, Royal Mail was the first postal 
services operator in the UK to achieve the 
Carbon Trust Standard. In September 2012, 
we successfully achieved recertification. This 
was in recognition of our robust approach to 
measuring, managing and reducing our 
carbon emissions.
Over the last year we have been working to 
further strengthen our performance, setting a 
clear strategic framework for environmental 
management. As part of this renewed drive 
we have set a vision for 2020 and a number 
of new targets. These include an aim to 
reduce carbon emissions by 20 per cent 
(against a 2010-11 baseline) and send zero 
waste to landfill by 2020. We also strengthened 
our governance framework, establishing 
a new Environment Governance Board to 
drive our strategy. In addition, in 2013-14, 
we will introduce a new, Group-wide 
Environment Policy.
Supplier relationships
Royal Mail makes a significant contribution to 
the UK economy through our procurement 
spend. We contribute around £2.5 billion 
annually procuring goods and services from 
over 7,000 suppliers. 
We are committed to ensuring that these 
suppliers maintain high standards of social, 
ethical and environmental conduct. We expect 
suppliers to adhere to our Responsible 
Procurement Policy and regularly audit their 
compliance. The Policy is based on the UN 
Global Compact’s ten principles around good 
human rights, labour and environmental 
practice, and anti-corruption. In addition, we 
encourage them to set targets to improve 
their performance in social, environmental 
and ethical issues. In 2012, the Chartered 
Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS) 
recognised our efforts in this area by 
Royal Mail Group supported the Movember 
campaign in 2012, a global moustache-
growing charity event to raise funds and 
awareness for prostate and testicular 
cancers. Our charity partner, Prostate Cancer 
UK, benefits from funds raised by Movember 
in the UK. 
Over 2,500 Royal Mail employees signed up 
to take part in Movember. We were informed 
by prostate cancer charity Movember that we 
had the second largest number of registered 
fundraisers of any single company network 
worldwide. And, of our top ten fundraisers, 
three were women.
We raised over £525,500 during the 
campaign, including matched giving from the 
Company. According to Movember, that is 
more than any other single company network 
in the world. We also engaged 23 MPs, MSPs 
and researchers in fundraising. These funds 
will pay for 13 new prostate cancer nurses in 
areas of need across the UK. 
Our campaign was shortlisted for two Third 
Sector Business Charity Award categories, 
receiving a Highly Commended in the 
Challenge Event in May 2013. 
Owen Sharp, CEO, Prostate Cancer UK said, 
“Reaching men and women from a wide range 
of backgrounds who are not office based is 
very tough to do. But Royal Mail has done 
exactly that. Thousands of its employees took 
part in Movember and for every participant 
there will have been hundreds of other 
people who will have seen the moustache 
when the post was being delivered.”
Royal Mail’s Movember campaign
Corporate responsibility (continued)
For more information visit  
www.royalmailgroup.com 33
Performance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
awarding Royal Mail a Gold certificate of 
excellence for our purchasing policies and 
procedures – at year end, only 15 other 
organisations worldwide had achieved this. 
We are now aiming to achieve the prestigious 
Platinum standard.
Transparency
Royal Mail is committed to being open and 
transparent with our stakeholders. We feel 
it is important to ensure that information on 
our performance is as comprehensive and 
comprehensible as possible. 
Freedom of Information requests
Each year, we receive hundreds of Freedom of 
Information (FOI) requests about our business. 
We have a dedicated team working on requests, 
ensuring that we respond as fully as possible. 
There are, of course, times when we may not 
be able to make certain information available. 
For example, as a commercial operation, we 
would decline requests for information that 
would damage commercial interests. In other 
cases, we do not hold the data requested. 
Last year, 536 requests were referred to our 
central Information Rights team. Of those, 
188 were answered in full. A further 118 were 
answered in part. There were 151 requests 
where the information requested was not 
provided for commercial and data protection 
reasons. In 79 cases we did not hold the 
information requested. These figures are 
broadly comparable with the previous year.
Returned mail
The overwhelming majority of mail items we 
handle are delivered safely to the correct 
address. A small proportion of items are, 
however, undeliverable for reasons beyond 
our control. These include incomplete 
addresses, lack of forwarding addresses for 
recipients who have moved house and lack of 
return addresses. Our National Returns 
Centre in Belfast handles undeliverable mail. 
We aim to return undeliverable mail to the 
sender or, if this is not possible, securely 
dispose of it. In 2012-13, the Centre 
processed 19.15 million items. That should be 
set against the total of some 15 billion 
addressed mail items we handled in 2012-13.
Exceptions to our collection and 
delivery service
Royal Mail aims to collect and deliver every 
item of mail that passes through our network. 
There are, however, cases where this might 
not be possible. We publish annual reports 
that detail the Universal Service exceptions on 
which we are required to report. The 2012 
Exceptions report, published in October 2012, 
showed there were 3,000 addresses where it 
was not possible to deliver mail (compared with 
3,013 in 2012). Considering Royal Mail delivers 
to over 29 million UK addresses, that figure 
represents only 0.01 per cent of this total. 
During 2012-13, there were 2,001 long-term 
Universal Service collection exceptions across 
the UK (compared with 2,100 in 2011-12). 
This represents one per cent of around 
205,000 collection points across the UK. 
These exceptions can be caused by difficulties 
in accessing post boxes. There were also 118 
temporary collection exceptions of more than 
four months (117 in the prior year). These 
were due to road or building works that 
limited access to post boxes. We report all 
such exceptions to Ofcom on a regular basis.
Mail security
10
We take the security of mail we deliver very 
seriously. Our security team works around the 
clock to identify any threats to our products 
and services and we have robust measures in 
place to deal with any breaches. We now 
publish data on the team’s investigation into 
internal and external crime. During 2012-13, 
we raised 658 full criminal investigations into 
internal crime (2012 757). 248 former 
employees of Royal Mail Group were 
prosecuted in the UK (2012 315). These 
individuals form a small proportion of an 
overall employee population of almost 
150,000. We raised 218 full criminal 
investigations into external crime against 
Royal Mail (2012 160), with 116 external 
prosecutions (2012 66).
Political donations
In line with Group policy, no donations were 
made for political purposes in 2012-13.
Summary
Corporate responsibility is a core part of our 
focus on being a sustainable and stakeholder-
focused business. It is integral to our business 
success. We have an excellent track record. 
In 2012, we achieved our Platinum ranking in 
Business in the Community’s CR Index, placing 
us amongst the most responsible companies 
in the UK. We also achieved a shadow Bronze 
ranking in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index, the leading global sustainability 
benchmark. Only two other postal operators 
are included.
Our people make a major contribution to 
the social fabric of the UK. They go the extra 
mile in supporting good causes in their local 
communities, and we support them in so 
doing. Over the course of our two-year 
partnership with Prostate Cancer UK, we 
aim to raise at least £2 million to fund new 
specialist prostate cancer nurses in areas 
of need.
Looking forward, we need to continue to 
improve customer experience across all our 
businesses. Initiatives such as Delivery to 
Neighbour aim to do just that. We also 
recognise that we need to drive greater 
environmental efficiencies through our 
operations. Most of all, we need to support 
and engage our people throughout this 
period of significant change.
10
  Numbers have been restated to include Parcelforce 
Worldwide. Numbers for full criminal investigations 
were incorrectly reported last year. 34
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Governance
Les Owen 
Non Executive Director
Paul Murray 
Non Executive Director
Cath Keers 
Non Executive Director
Nick Horler 
Non Executive Director
Jan Babiak 
Non Executive Director
John Allan 
Non Executive Director
Mark Higson 
Managing Director, Operations 
and Modernisation
Our Board of Directors
Donald Brydon CBE 
Chairman
Orna Ni-Chionna 
Senior Independent 
Non Executive Director
Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer
Matthew Lester 
Chief Finance Officer
Details of membership of the 
various Board committees can be 
found in the Corporate 
Governance section. 35
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Donald Brydon CBE Chairman, age 68
Appointed to the Board 27 January 2009 
as a Director and 26 March 2009 as Chairman.
Skills and experience Donald had a career in 
finance, during which he ran two of the major 
global asset management companies owned 
respectively by Barclays and AXA. He has 
since chaired several FTSE 100 companies, 
in addition to his experience of a wide range 
of domestic and international industries.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently Chairman of Smiths Group 
(due to retire in 2013) and Sage Group plc.  
He is Chair of the Medical Research Council 
and Patron of the British Postal Museum  
and Archive and was previously Chairman  
of the London Metal Exchange, Amersham plc, 
Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the IFS School of 
Finance and a past Director of Allied Domecq plc, 
Scottish Power plc and AXA UK plc.  
He is a past Chairman of EveryChild.
Committee membership Chairman of the 
Nomination Committee and a member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Moya Greene Chief Executive Officer, age 59
Appointed to the Board 15 July 2010
Skills and experience Moya started her 
career in public service in 1979 and held 
various posts in a variety of departments 
culminating in the position of Assistant Deputy 
Minister for Transport Canada. Her experience 
in the financial sector includes Managing 
Director, Infrastructure Finance at TD 
Securities Inc., and Senior Vice President, 
Retail Products, at CIBC. Moya became 
President and Chief Executive Officer of 
Canada Post Corporation in 2005. In that 
role, she led a wide-ranging transformation 
programme to improve quality of service 
and efficiency across the organisation.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently Director of Tim Hortons 
in Canada. Prior to joining Canada Post, 
she held senior roles at companies including 
Bombardier Inc and TD Bank.
Committee membership Chair of the 
Chief Executive’s Committee.
Orna Ni-Chionna Non Executive Director, 
age 57
Appointed to the Board 1 June 2010. 
Orna was appointed as Senior Independent 
Non Executive Director on 1 April 2011.
Skills and experience Orna is a former 
Partner at McKinsey & Company, where 
she specialised in serving retail and 
consumer clients.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently Chair of the Advisory 
Board at Eden McCallum and Chair of 
Trustees of the Soil Association. Formerly 
Senior Independent Director of HMV plc, 
Northern Foods plc and of BUPA and a Non 
Executive Director of the Bank of Ireland UK 
Holdings plc and Bristol & West plc.
Committee membership Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, member of 
the Audit & Risk Committee and the 
Nomination Committee.
Matthew Lester Chief Finance Officer, age 50
Appointed to the Board 24 November 2010
Skills and experience Matthew was 
previously Group Finance Director of ICAP plc 
for five years and has held a number of senior 
finance roles at Diageo plc, including Group 
Financial Controller.
External appointments (current and 
former) Matthew is a Non Executive Director 
of Man Group plc and a main Committee 
member of the 100 Group of Finance 
Directors, where he is Chairman of its Investor 
Relations and Markets Committee.
Committee membership Member of the 
Chief Executive’s Committee and Chairman 
of the Pensions committee.
Mark Higson Managing Director, Operations 
and Modernisation, age 57
Appointed to the Board 5 November 2007
Skills and experience Mark was previously 
divisional director and Group Operations 
Director of BPB plc. He has also held senior 
positions at Courtaulds plc, HJ Heinz and 
British Aerospace.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently President of the World 
Class Manufacturing Association (WCMA) 
and a member of the IPA Advisory Council.
Committee membership Member of the 
Chief Executive’s Committee.
John Allan Non Executive Director, age 64
Appointed to the Board 14 January 2013
Skills and experience John is currently 
Chairman of Dixons Retail plc, Care UK and 
WorldPay. He is also a Non Executive Director 
of the Home Office where he is chair of the 
Audit and Risk Committee.
External appointments (current and 
former) John is also a former senior executive 
and corporate board member of Deutsche 
Post World Net. Previously, amongst other 
senior executive roles, John is a former CFO 
and corporate board member of Deutsche 
Post DHL. Previously he was CEO of Exel plc, 
a FTSE 100 global logistics company. 
Committee membership Member of the 
Audit & Risk Committee. 36
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Our Board of Directors (continued)
Jan Babiak Non Executive Director, age 55
Appointed to the Board 1 March 2013
Skills and experience Jan previously held 
managing partner and executive board level 
roles at Ernst & Young. She has also been 
an independent board member and Audit 
Committee Chair for Logica plc.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently on the Board of Walgreens 
and is Chair of its Audit Committee and a 
member of its Finance Committee. She is 
also a Board member of the Bank of 
Montreal, a member of its Audit and Conduct 
Review Committee and of the Risk Committee.
Committee membership Member of the 
Nomination Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee.
Nick Horler Non Executive Director, age 54
Appointed to the Board 1 April 2010
Skills and experience Nick was previously 
Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Power and 
has held senior strategic roles in major 
companies, both in the UK and abroad.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently a Non Executive Director 
of Secure Electrans Ltd and The Go-Ahead 
Group plc. Nick is also CEO at Alderney 
Renewable Energy Ltd and also chairs the 
Advisory Board for KPMG’s Energy and 
Natural Resources Practice.
Committee membership Member of 
the Audit & Risk Committee and the 
Nomination Committee.
Cath Keers Non Executive Director, age 48
Appointed to the Board 1 June 2010
Skills and experience Cath was previously 
Customer Director and Marketing Director 
of 02 UK and has held various marketing, 
strategy and business development roles 
at Next, Sky TV, Avon and Thorn EMI.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently a Non Executive Director of 
Telefónica Europe, Home Retail Group plc and 
the insurance group LV=.
Committee membership Member of the 
Audit & Risk Committee and the Nomination 
Committee.
Paul Murray Non Executive Director, age 51
Appointed to the Board 1 August 2009
Skills and experience Paul has been 
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee since 
August 2009 and is Audit Committee 
Chairman at Qinetiq plc.
External appointments (current and 
former) Trustee of Pilotlight and Non 
Executive director of Knowledge Peers plc, 
Naked Energy Ltd, Qinetiq Group plc and 
Ventive Ltd. Formerly Senior Independent 
Director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and Group 
Finance Director of Carlton Communications 
plc and of LASMO plc.
Committee membership Chairman of the 
Audit & Risk Committee; member of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Les Owen Non Executive Director, age 64
Appointed to the Board 27 January 2010
Skills and experience Les is a qualified 
actuary with 35 years’ experience in the 
financial services industry. From 2000 to 
2006, he was the Group Chief Executive 
Officer of AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited 
and responsible for AXA’s Asian Life Insurance 
and Wealth Management operations.
External appointments (current and 
former) Currently Non Executive Chairman 
of Jelf Group plc and Non Executive Director 
of Computershare, CPP Group plc, 
Just Retirement Ltd and of Discovery 
Holdings, a South African listed health and 
life insurer. He was Chief Executive Officer of 
AXA Sun Life plc and a member of the Global 
AXA Group Executive Board and was, until 
15 March 2012, a Non Executive Director 
of Post Office Limited.
Committee membership Member of the 
Audit & Risk Committee, the Pensions 
committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Directors who left during the year 
David Currie 30 August 2012  37
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ report
Directors’ report
The Directors present the Group Annual 
Report and audited Financial Statements for 
Royal Mail Group Limited for the year ended 
31 March 2013 (25 March 2012).
Principal activities
The Group provides a nationwide and 
international distribution service, principally 
of mail and parcels. From 1 April 2012, the 
principal activities of Post Office Limited no 
longer form part of Royal Mail Group Limited.
To enable you to assess how the Directors 
have performed their duty to promote the 
success of the Company, the Companies Act 
2006 requires the Directors to set out in this 
report a fair review of the business of the 
Group during the year, the position of the 
Group at the end of the year and a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing 
the Group. 
Information fulfilling these requirements 
can be found in the following sections of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 
and are incorporated by reference.
Index Page
Review of business and 
future developments 1-13
Results 55-116
Board of Directors 34-36
Charitable contributions 28-33
Financial assets and liabilities 87-102
People 28-33
Corporate responsibility 28-33
Disabled employees 28-33
Going concern 63
Policy on the payment of suppliers
The policy of the Company and its principal 
operating subsidiaries is to use their 
purchasing power fairly. Payment terms are 
agreed in advance for all major contracts. 
For lower value transactions, the standard 
payment terms of the supplier apply. It is the 
Company’s policy to abide with the agreed 
terms. The Company’s average creditor days 
for 2012-13 were 37 days.
Land and buildings
The net book value of the Group’s land and 
buildings, based upon a historic cost 
accounting policy and excluding fit-out, is 
£724 million (2012 £674 million). In the 
opinion of the Directors, the aggregate market 
value of the Group’s land and buildings 
exceeds this net book value by £310 million 
(2012 £390 million).
Qualifying third party indemnity 
provisions for Directors
A partial qualifying third party indemnity 
provision (as defined in section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) was and remains in 
force for the benefit of all the Directors of 
the Company and former Directors who held 
office during the year. The indemnity is 
granted under article 115 of the Company’s 
Articles of Association. The indemnity is partial 
in that it does not allow the Company to cover 
the costs of an unsuccessful defence of a third 
party claim.
Directors and their interests
The Directors of the Company and details 
of changes during the year are given on 
pages 34-36. The Secretary of State (BIS) 
appoints the Chairman; all other Directors are 
appointed by the Company with the Secretary 
of State’s consent. UK Government is the 
Company’s sole shareholder. The Directors 
have no interest in shares of the Company.
Audit information
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the auditor is unaware and that each 
Director has taken all reasonable steps to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditor 
is aware of that information.
Auditor
The auditor is deemed to be reappointed 
under section 487(2) of the Companies 
Act 2006.
By Order of the Board 
Jon Millidge 
Company Secretary 
31 July 2013
Royal Mail Group Limited 
100 Victoria Embankment 
LONDON 
EC4Y 0HQ
Company number 4138203 38
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Corporate Governance
With effect from 1 April 
2012, Post Office Limited 
became a subsidiary of 
Royal Mail Holdings plc and 
became a sister company 
to Royal Mail Group Limited.
Donald Brydon 
Chairman
Chairman’s introduction
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
long-term success of the business. We take 
decisions only after the necessary level of 
information has been made available to us 
and with the necessary consideration of all the 
facts, including risk. The following statement 
is intended to explain our governance 
arrangements in light of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the ‘Code’) principles and 
provisions and to provide insight into how the 
Board and management run the business for 
the benefit of the Shareholder.
The Board of Directors strongly supports 
the principles of best practice in corporate 
governance and we comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code principles 
and provisions in so far as it is appropriate 
to Royal Mail Group as a company with 
a single shareholder.
We have undertaken our annual review of the 
performance of the Board and have shared 
any issues which have arisen from this review 
with individual Directors.
An effective Board is created by bringing 
together the right mixture of individuals and 
by promoting the right dynamic among those 
individuals. In this regard the Company is very 
privileged to have on its Board a number of 
Directors with significant large business 
experience to help guide the business through 
its transformation programme and in helping 
the Board to understand the cultural change 
necessary for the business.
I trust that you will find this Corporate 
Governance report helpful and informative.
Donald Brydon 
Chairman
The Board has focused on the following 
matters during the year:
• Safety;
• Operations and modernisation;
• Growth and innovation;
• Discussing with Ofcom the new regulatory 
framework;
• Balance sheet restructuring; and
• Pensions funding.
Expected Board focus for the next year:
• Safety;
• Growth segments of the business;
• GLS;
• Operations and modernisation;
• Ongoing access to external capital; and 
• Pensions funding.
Governance framework
The Board considers that it complied with the 
full provisions of the Code during the year. 
This report explains the key features of the 
governance framework and how it applies the 
principles of the Code. The location within the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements of 
each of the disclosures required in the 
Directors’ Report are either disclosed 
separately or indexed in the Directors’ Report 
and are therefore incorporated by reference.
The role of the Board
The Board is responsible for setting the 
objectives and strategy of the Group and for 
monitoring performance and risk 
management. At the end of the year, the 
Board comprised a Chairman, three Executive 
Directors and seven Non Executive Directors. 
The biographies of each of the Directors, 
setting out their current roles, commitments 
and previous experience, are on pages 34-36. 
The Board met on nine occasions during the 
course of the year under review.
The Board has defined those matters that are 
reserved exclusively for its consideration.
These include the approval of strategic 
plans, financial statements, acquisitions and 
disposals, major contracts, projects, and 
capital expenditure. It delegates responsibilities 
to the Board Committees detailed in 
this report.  39
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
For each scheduled meeting of the Board, 
the Company Secretary, on behalf of the 
Chairman, collates and circulates the papers, 
aiming to allow sufficient time for the 
Directors to review the information provided.
The Board is confident that all its members 
have the knowledge, talent and experience to 
perform the functions required of a Director 
of the business. Executive Directors have 
rolling 12 month contracts and Non Executive 
Directors are generally appointed for three 
year terms.
The Board considers that each of the Non 
Executive Directors is independent. This 
means that in the views of the Board, they 
have no links to the Executive Directors and 
other managers and no business or other 
relationship with the Company that could 
interfere with their judgement. There is also 
a clear division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman of each of the Committees 
reports to the Board on matters discussed 
at Committee meetings and highlights any 
significant issues requiring Board attention. 
Reports on the work of the Audit & Risk 
Committee and Nomination Committee on 
work during the year are given on pages 40-43. 
Full terms of reference for these Board 
Committees can be found on our website 
www.royalmail.com
Performance evaluation of the Board
Performance evaluation of the Board, its 
Committees and individual Directors takes 
place on an annual basis with the support of 
the Company Secretary. Following last year’s 
evaluation with the help of the London 
Business School, this year’s evaluation was 
conducted via questionnaires, with an 
opportunity to discuss any issues arising. 
It was completed during May 2013. A more 
detailed process will take place again next 
year. A performance evaluation of the Audit 
& Risk Committee was conducted by the 
Chairman of the Committee. Other Committees 
are undertaking a review of their terms 
of reference. 
Directors’ support
Directors may take independent professional 
advice in the furtherance of their duties, at 
the Group’s expense. All Directors have access 
to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, the appointment and removal of 
whom is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Director appointment and election
All Directors are re-appointed with the 
consent of the shareholder. On appointment, 
all the Directors take part in an induction 
programme, in which they receive information 
about the Group, the role of the Board and 
matters reserved for its decision, the role of 
the principal Board Committees, the Group’s 
Corporate Governance arrangements and the 
latest financial information about the Group. 
This is supplemented by visits to key business 
locations. The Group engages in two-way 
communication with the Shareholder to discuss 
information on its strategy, performance and 
policies. The Board receives feedback on these 
meetings from the Directors attending them.
Balance is considered a key requirement for 
the composition of the Board, not only in 
terms of the Executive and Non Executive 
Directors, but also with regard to the mix of 
skills, experience and knowledge.
Biographical details for all the Directors can be 
found on pages 34-36.
Outside appointments
The Board believes that there are significant 
benefits to both the Group and the individual 
from Executive Directors accepting Non 
Executive Directorships of companies outside 
of the Group. The Board’s policy is normally to 
limit Executive Directors to one Non Executive 
Directorship, for which the Director may retain 
the fees (see the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 46-54 for details).
Chief Executive’s Committee 
and Board Committees
The following Committees deal with specific 
aspects of the Group’s governance. The details 
of Committee membership shown are as at 
31 March 2013.
Gender balance
 Female
 Male
36% 
64% 
Balance of Non Executive and 
Executive Directors
 Chairman
 Non Executive Directors
 Executive Directors
27%
9%
64%  40
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Corporate Governance (continued)
Chief Executive’s Committee (CEC)
Chair Moya Greene
Membership Rico Back (CEO GLS), Catherine Doran (Director CIO & Technology), Matthew Lester (Group Chief Finance Officer), 
Neil Harnby (General Counsel), Mark Higson (Managing Director, Operations and Modernisation), Mike Newnham (CCO), 
Stephen Agar (Director Consumer and Network Access), Emily Pang (Chief of Staff), John Duncan (Group HR Director), 
Sue Whalley (Director of Regulation and Government Affairs), Shane O’Riordain (Managing Director, Strategy and 
Communications) and Jon Millidge (Company Secretary).
Role The Committee is responsible for all the key areas of commercial activity within Royal Mail Group. The CEC meets twice 
a month. The role of the CEC is to manage the overall framework of financial risk and business controls to meet 
Shareholder, regulatory and legal requirements. The Committee also assigns key accountabilities for business performance.
Audit & Risk Committee 
Chair Paul Murray
Membership Non Executive Directors – Orna Ni-Chionna, Cath Keers, Nick Horler, Les Owen and John Allan.
Role The Committee, which is supported by the Risk Management Committee, provides a forum for reporting by both internal 
and external auditors and is responsible for a wide range of matters including:
• To oversee the process for managing risks across the business, including review of the Group Risk Profile and ensuring 
risks are being addressed by the Board, relevant Committees, and management;
• To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group;
• To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management processes and the control environment;
• To monitor and review the scope of work, authority, resources and effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit & Risk 
Management function;
• To recommend to the Board, for Shareholder approval, the appointment of the external auditor, and to approve its 
remuneration and terms of engagement; to monitor and review the scope and work of the external auditor to ensure 
that it is appropriate, including the external auditor’s independence, and objectivity; and
• Where the Committee’s monitoring and review activities reveal cause for concern or scope for improvement, to make 
recommendations to the Board or management on action needed to address the issue. 41
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Audit & Risk Committee continued
Work during the year Key matters the Committee considered and actions taken during the year include:
• Material judgements used by management in the interim and year end results, including Assessment of Accrued 
Income, Provision for Industrial Diseases and Accounting for Pensions. Each of these was assessed in light of ranges of 
estimates and third party expert reports;
• Relevant changes to accounting standards;
• The external audit engagement letters and annual audit fee, and the policy for approval of non-audit fees paid to the 
Group’s auditors;
• A review of the effectiveness of the external audit process, including consideration of team structure, global integration, 
tailoring of audit, leveraging of sources of assurance, use of technology, professional scepticism, technical ability, 
communication and reporting, audit efficiency and effectiveness, and independence and quality control;
• Reviewing the external auditor’s report on their audit activity and opinion on Royal Mail’s Annual Report, including 
observations on the control environment;
• Royal Mail’s Treasury Policy Statement;
• The Group Risk Profile, showing those risks of most significance to Royal Mail;
• The remit, resources and plan of the Internal Audit function, and the breadth of the Internal Audit plan, which includes 
reviews of selected specific critical business controls, reviews and investigations into specific areas of the business, 
selected on a risk basis, and reviews of key risk management processes;
• Reports from Internal Audit on key areas and initiatives in the business including Modernisation Programme, Fleet, 
Pension System, Post Office Separation and Regulatory Compliance;
• Summary of results of whistleblowing cases;
• The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee met formally with the Internal Audit & Risk Management Director and with 
the external auditors, separate from Royal Mail senior executive management, as part of standard process, on five 
occasions in the year, to provide a further opportunity for any issues to be aired and dealt with;
• Summary of results of depot and head office audits in GLS;
• The Compliance report, including changes in external environment, and roll-out of training in relation to Bribery Act 
and Competition Law;
• Reviewing a report from Royal Mail’s external auditors on Royal Mail’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code which would be applicable to Royal Mail had it been listed for the year ended 31 March 2013; 
• Directors’ expenses for the period;
• The Audit & Risk Committee’s calendar and agenda for 2013;
• The Committee also held direct discussions with senior management to understand and review issues and actions in 
key areas of the business, including Human Resources and Regulatory/Competition Law Compliance; and
• The Committee carried out a self-assessment of its own effectiveness, using issue-specific questionnaires and 
NED-only discussion of responses.
Chairman’s statement Although not members of the Committee, the Group CFO, Company Secretary, Director Internal Audit & Risk 
Management and Director of Financial Control attend each meeting by invitation as does the lead audit partner from our 
external auditors. The Committee met on five occasions during the year. A significant amount of time this year has been 
spent reviewing the Group Risk Profile, obtaining management updates on specific risks, and ensuring the alignment of 
the Group Risk Profile to the strategic plan.
After each Committee meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that the Committee has discussed.
It has been a year of sound progress and our forward business schedule suggests another busy year ahead. Given the 
skills, knowledge and experience of the Committee members, we are well placed to meet the challenges and 
opportunities we face.
Paul Murray 
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee 42
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Corporate Governance (continued)
Remuneration Committee
Chair Orna Ni-Chionna
Membership Chairman – Donald Brydon, Non Executive Directors – Les Owen, Paul Murray and Jan Babiak.
Role • To determine and recommend for the Board’s approval the framework for the remuneration of the senior executives of 
the Group;
• To determine the individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company 
Secretary, subject where necessary to the consent of the Secretary of State; and
• To agree the targets for any performance-related incentive schemes applicable to senior executives.
Work during the year Examples of matters the Committee considered during the year include reviews of:
• Performance targets;
• Reward philosophy and policy;
• GLS bonus and pay; and
• Committee’s independent consultants.
Chairman’s statement The Committee met on eight occasions during the year. A report detailing the work carried out by the Remuneration 
Committee during the year, including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Code in setting Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, follows this section.
Orna Ni-Chionna 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
Chair Donald Brydon
Membership Non Executive Directors – Orna Ni-Chionna, Nick Horler, Cath Keers and Jan Babiak.
Role • To lead a formal, rigorous and transparent process for appointments to the Board of the Company, to the Boards of 
subsidiaries and to other senior executive positions;
• To advise the Board on succession planning for the positions of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and all other Board 
appointments; and
• To keep under review the balance of Board membership to ensure that it has the required mix of skills, knowledge and 
experience.
Work during the year Examples of matters the Committee considered during the year include:
• The recruitment and appointment of new Non Executive Directors;
• Succession planning; and
• Considering future experience, skills and capabilities required on the Board.
Chairman’s statement The Committee has continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its diversity, 
and is committed to its progressive renewal through orderly succession. Succession plans for the Non Executive Directors 
and Executive Directors were kept under review. During the year we welcomed John Allan and Jan Babiak as new Non 
Executive Directors to the Board.
Donald Brydon 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 43
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Pensions Committee
Chair Matthew Lester
Membership Jon Millidge (Company Secretary), Neil Harnby (General Counsel) and Les Owen (Non Executive Director).
Role • To review funding, benefits, scheme structure and strategic developments impacting the Group’s occupational pension 
schemes; and
• To represent the Group in discussions with the Trustees of the Group’s occupational pension schemes.
Work during the year Examples of matters the Committee considered during the year include:
• Scheme funding;
• Investment strategy;
• Scheme design; and
• Implementation of workplace pension reform (‘auto-enrolment’).
Chairman’s statement The Committee has continued to monitor strategic developments impacting on the Company’s pension arrangements, 
including the Government’s ‘auto-enrolment’ legislation. Due to the size of its workforce, the Company was one of the 
first employers to implement these new requirements. It has also worked closely with stakeholders regarding the March 
2012 actuarial valuations of the Royal Mail Pension Plan and the Royal Mail Senior Executives Plan, and oversaw the 
closure of the latter to future benefit accrual from 31 December 2012.
Matthew Lester 
Chairman of the Pensions committee
During the year, the Directors attended the following number of meetings of the Board and its main Committees.
Attendance at Board and Committees
Name Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination
Total number of meetings 9 5 8 3
Chairman
Donald Brydon 9/9 – 8/8 3/3
Executive Directors:
Moya Greene 8/9 - - -
Mark Higson 8/9 - - -
Matthew Lester 9/9 - - -
Non Executive Directors:
David Currie 3/3 2/2 4/4 -
Nick Horler 8/9 5/5 1/4 3/3
Cath Keers 7/9 4/5 2/4 3/3
Paul Murray 9/9 5/5 8/8 -
Orna Ni-Chionna 9/9 4/5 8/8 3/3
Les Owen 9/9 4/5 8/8 -
John Allan 2/3 1/1 - -
Jan Babiak 1/1 - - - 44
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Other Committees
Risk Management Committee 
The Risk Management Committee supports 
the Audit & Risk Committee and meets to 
promote and support the establishment, 
communication and embedding of risk 
management throughout the business.
Disclosure Committee
The role of the Disclosure Committee is to 
assist the Executive Directors in fulfilling their 
responsibility for oversight of the accuracy and 
timeliness of the disclosures made by the 
Company in relation to its financial and other 
reporting. The Committee meets on a regular 
basis during the reporting process and is 
chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor
In some cases, the nature of advice required 
makes it more timely and cost effective to 
select the external auditor, who already has  
a good understanding of the Group. In order 
to maintain the objectivity and independence 
of the external auditor, the Audit & Risk 
Committee has determined what work can  
be provided by the external auditor and the 
approval processes associated with the auditor. 
The Audit & Risk Committee monitors the level 
of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor.
For this financial year, the statutory auditor 
prepared a report outlining how it assesses its 
own independence.
Risk management and control overview
The Board believes that effective risk 
management and a sound control 
environment are fundamental to the Group.
The system is designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure as taking on 
risk is inherent in undertaking the commercial 
activities of the Group.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, 
evaluating and managing the significant risks 
faced by the Group in accordance with the 
guidance detailed by the Turnbull Committee 
as part of ‘the Combined Code’, including 
financial, operational, compliance risks and 
risks to reputation. The process incorporates 
both a top-down element (which collates 
executive management/Board view of key 
risks) and a bottom-up element (which 
collates the views of the business units and 
functions on risks in their area). Taken 
together, these two perspectives are 
combined to form the Group Risk Profile.
The process has been in place throughout the 
year and up to the date of approval of these 
financial statements.
The responsibility for joint ventures and 
associates rests, on the whole, with the senior 
management of those operations. The Group 
monitors its investments and exerts influence 
through Board representations.
Risk environment
In the main, the principal risks facing the 
Group have not changed. A risk with respect 
to insufficient readiness to access private 
sector capital has been added, and the risk 
relating to cash management activities do not 
maintain solvency was removed as it no 
longer represented an exposure to the Group.
The Group has classified its principal risks into 
five main categories: changes in customer 
preferences and competitor activity; economic 
environment; preparing for attracting external 
capital; business modernisation; and risks 
inherent in the postal industry. An analysis of 
the risks, their impacts, and mitigating actions 
is given on pages 24-27.
Risk framework
The Group-wide risk management 
framework includes risk governance, risk 
identification, measurement and management, 
and risk reporting.
The Group’s approach to control is based on 
the underlying principle of line management 
accountability for internal control and for risk 
management. The Group recognises and uses 
the principle of the ‘Three Lines of Defence’, 
that is:
a)  primary controls over the risks to 
the business are located in the  
day-to-day operation;
b)  these are supported by internal 
monitoring and oversight; and
c)  independent assessments by Internal 
Audit and others provide the third line.
The process for risk identification and 
management consists of formal identification 
by management at each level of the Group of 
the key risks to achieving their business 
objectives and the controls in place to manage 
them. The likelihood and potential impact of 
each risk is evaluated. Risk management 
action plans are monitored at executive level 
to ensure key risks are being mitigated.
The views of top management and units/
functions are collated and brought together, 
in the Group risk profile, to form a 
comprehensive view of key risks in the 
organisation. The Group risk profile is 
reviewed annually against the business 
strategy and refreshed where necessary.
The process also includes an annual 
certification by management that the internal 
controls are such that they provide reasonable 
assurance that the risks are appropriately 
identified, evaluated and managed.
The system of risk management and internal 
control is embedded into the operations of the 
Group, and the actions taken to mitigate risk 
or address any weaknesses are monitored.
Risk governance and the Board
The Board has delegated responsibility for 
specific review of risk and control processes 
to the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC), and 
the ARC in turn is supported by the Risk 
Management Committee (RMC), to help 
discharge its duties. The key responsibilities 
for risk and control among the Board, 
ARC and RMC are set out in this section 
of this report.
Royal Mail Group’s attitude to risk
The structural legacy issues relating to 
pensions and the regulatory framework have 
been resolved and the Group’s revenues, 
profits, margins and cash flows have all 
improved. The letters portfolio remains under 
structural decline but at the same time the 
shift to online retailing has provided 
opportunities in the parcels portfolio, whilst 
the European parcels business operates in 
difficult economic market conditions.
The Group Risk Profile, which identifies the 
highest risks in terms of financial impact and 
possibility, has been modified during the year 
and each risk has clear accountabilities and 
milestones to ensure that all mitigating action 
can be taken. During the year executives from 
Human Resources and Compliance were 
invited to attend the ARC and explain their 
respective risk and how it is being managed. 
Internal control
The Group operates a system of internal 
control, including operational, financial, and 
compliance controls, and risk management 
systems, to control the day-to-day operations 
of the Group’s activities. In terms of the ‘Three 
Lines of Defence’ model, the key processes 
and controls include:
Corporate Governance (continued) 45
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
First line
• Management: the Group has an established 
management organisation, with structure, 
reporting lines, accountabilities and 
delegated authorities.
• Key policies and documentation:
 – A number of Royal Mail’s activities are 
mandated through the Postal Services 
Act 2011 and Royal Mail is further 
bound by regulatory requirements, 
including those which cover service 
standards, complaint handling, 
integrity of mail, access to postal 
facilities, accounting separation and 
process for postal services.
 – The Group’s Code of Business Standards 
sets the principles of professionalism 
and integrity for our people.
 – Standard policies exist within 
each function.
• Standard daily and monthly management 
accounting and payroll processes through 
centralised shared services for the 
UK businesses. 
• A budget prepared, reviewed and set once 
a year, providing clarity on the short-term 
strategies for each part of the Group. This, 
along with the delegated authorities, resets 
the levels of delegated spend in each area 
on an annual basis.
• Performance management reviews include 
production of weekly indicators and a 
pyramid of monthly balanced scorecards 
from front line operations to Holdings Board 
level, which underpin quarterly reviews and 
the interim and year end results.
• Medium-term business plans are collated on 
a regular basis and submitted to both the 
Shareholder and the regulator as part of 
formal external processes such as 
regulatory framework reviews and State Aid 
applications. This provides regular 
opportunities for executive management 
and the Board to reappraise and confirm 
long-term strategies and objectives for 
the Group.
Second line
• Regular rolling reviews and audits are 
carried out within the operations, covering 
key operational areas.
• A self assessment is conducted of key 
financial and non-financial processes across 
all parts of the UK businesses, including 
commercial and operations, and within each 
key function.
• Annual sign-off by Finance Directors to 
provide a formal confirmation, including 
proper preparation of financial results, 
compliance with Group accounting policies, 
compliance to statutory reporting standards 
and tax accounting arrangements, 
disclosure of post balance sheet events and 
related party transactions, and maintenance 
of an appropriate system of internal control, 
including disclosure of material weaknesses 
and confirmation of remedial action plans.
Third line
• Specific and targeted Internal Audit work 
programme. The effectiveness of the 
internal control system is reviewed regularly 
by Internal Audit & Risk Management 
(IA&RM), the Group’s independent Internal 
Audit function. IA&RM reports to the ARC 
and provides assurance to executive 
management and the Board on the 
effectiveness of the internal control system. 
Internal Audit reports include an action plan 
where issues have been identified, and 
progress against action plans is regularly 
tracked and reported.
IA&RM establishes and agrees with the ARC 
an annual plan of assignments and activities 
based on discussions with the Board and 
management, and also taking into account 
known issues in the business and the 
communications industry.
• External audit and other reviews.
External audits and reviews take place during 
the year to provide management, the Board 
and the regulator with assurance on specific 
matters, including:
 – The external auditor performs a 
statutory year end audit.
 – The external auditor performs an audit 
of the regulatory accounts as part of 
Universal Service Provider (USP) 
Accounting Condition 1 requirements.
 – The external auditor confirms that the 
statement to the regulator on 
‘necessary resources’ is consistent with 
their audit findings, as part of 
Transitory Condition 3 requirements.
 – The externally measured end-to-end 
Quality of Service is audited by an 
independent accounting firm (appointed 
by Ofcom) as part of Royal Mail’s 
Designated Universal Service Provider 
condition requirements.
 – The USO daily collections and deliveries 
performance reporting and 
methodology is assured by an 
independent accounting firm (appointed 
by Royal Mail) as part of Royal Mail’s 
Designated Universal Service Provider 
condition requirements.
Statement by the independent 
Non Executive Directors
A number of structured processes exist 
throughout the business to support good 
governance.
The Independent Non Executive Directors 
are satisfied that the Company’s Corporate 
Governance and Internal controls have been 
effective throughout the financial year ended 
31 March 2013.
Orna Ni-Chionna 
Senior Independent Director 46
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ remuneration 
report for 2012-13
This report explains the approach adopted by the 
Remuneration Committee when setting the remuneration 
of the Company’s Executive Directors and certain 
other senior executives. It has been prepared, taking 
due account of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Regulations, in so far as Royal Mail Group as a non-listed 
company can comply with them. This report is split 
into two sections: (i) The Policy report, setting out 
the overall policy for executive remuneration and (ii) 
The Implementation report, setting out details of 
remuneration paid or awarded in 2012/2013. 
Overview by the chair of the 
Remuneration Committee
2012/13 was a year of very significant 
progress for Royal Mail as we put the Universal 
Service on a secure footing. We have made 
considerable headway with respect to the 
achievement of our three strategic objectives 
(see page 10). Particular highlights include: 
• Group revenue has increased by five per 
cent on a like-for-like basis. Profit after 
transformation costs grew to £403 million 
on a 52 week basis and we generated free 
cash inflows of £334 million, mainly through 
our trading performance; 
• UKPIL, our core UK business, is now the 
biggest contributor to Group profit. Its parcel 
revenue increased by 13 per cent, while 
letter revenue increased by three per cent 
on a like-for-like basis; and
• Our customer satisfaction ratings are high. 
We delivered more than 7.5 million tickets 
for London 2012, with over 98 per cent 
arriving on time, first time; we rolled out our 
Delivery to Neighbour programme across 
the UK.
This robust financial and operating 
performance reflects the substantial progress 
made by the Group, led by the Executive team. 
The Committee recognises that executive 
reward is a sensitive issue for society at large. 
The Committee determines remuneration 
levels carefully and the Secretary of State for 
the Department for Business, Innovation and 
Skills (BIS) approves any material changes to 
the remuneration arrangements of Royal Mail 
Group Executive Directors, including the 
approach and targets relating to the short 
term and long term incentive plans. 
Review of remuneration for Executive 
Directors
During 2012/13, the Committee conducted 
a comprehensive review of the remuneration 
packages of the senior executive population, 
including the Executive Directors, 
benchmarking them against comparable 
companies. Appropriate comparator 
companies were chosen from the utilities, 
consumer services, industrials and 
telecommunications industries. The 
companies were selected as they shared 
certain characteristics relating to size and 
complexity and regulatory environment. 
The key findings of this review were: 
• the base salaries of the Executive Directors 
are below the median, with the Chief 
Executive Officer’s salary falling in the 
bottom quartile range. It is worth noting 
that neither the Chief Executive Officer nor 
the Chief Finance Officer has received an 
increase in their base salary since they 
joined the company in July and November 
2010 respectively. 
• the incentive opportunity (STIP and LTIP) 
is significantly below market average both 
as  a percentage of base salary and in 
value terms.
• total remuneration levels are below the 
market average, with total remuneration 
for the Chief Executive in the bottom 
quartile range.
The remuneration arrangements are 
structured so that a significant proportion 
of the overall reward package for executives 
is dependent on performance against short 
term and longer term measures and targets. 
The Committee is satisfied that there is a 
strong link between the rewards received by 
the Executive Directors under the Short Term 
Incentive Plan (‘STIP’) and the financial and 
operational performance of the Group. 
The STIP is primarily dependent on the 
achievement of corporate targets, as 
summarised in the Corporate Balanced 
Scorecard which lists 13 Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) in four equally-weighted 
quadrants: People; Customer; Performance and 
Financial. Within these quadrants, performance 
achieved or exceeded the target level for 11 
out of the 13 KPIs, with stretch performance 
achieved for six of them. There are no Long 
Term Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) awards vesting to 
Executive Directors this year. The performance 
targets for the first awards under the current 
LTIP have been met in full (reflecting the strong 
financial performance of the Group over the 
three year period to 2012/13). However, 
the awards are subject to an additional 
deferral period, requiring continued service 
to 31 March 2014. 
The Committee believes that the current 
remuneration policy is appropriately aligned 
to the business strategy and that there is a 
strong link between performance and reward. 
No changes to the policy are proposed for 
2013/14 except that the LTIP award for 
2013/14 will convert to shares upon a 
transaction.
On behalf of the Committee, I commend this 
report to all stakeholders in Royal Mail Group.
Orna Ni-Chionna 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 47
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Governance
Policy report 
This part of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration report sets out the current 
remuneration policy. The policy remains 
unchanged for the forthcoming year, except 
for the change to the LTIP arrangement 
outlined in my overview above.
Summary of Executive Director 
Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee determines, on 
behalf of the Board, the Company’s policy on 
the remuneration of senior executives and the 
Executive Directors, subject where necessary 
to the consent of the Secretary of State. 
The Company’s policy on Executive Directors’ 
remuneration is that:
•	A	significant	proportion	of	the	remuneration	
package should be dependent on 
achievement of stretching performance 
targets – both short and long term;
•	Incentives should be designed so that they 
align the interests of senior executives, 
customers and the Shareholder;
•	Variable reward should be structured so as 
to achieve a balance between short term 
and long term incentive programmes; and 
•	The overall remuneration package should be 
sufficiently	competitive	to	attract	and	retain	
executives with the commercial experience 
to run a large, complex business in a highly 
challenging context.
The table summarises each element of the 
remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors, explaining how each element 
operates and how each part links to the 
corporate strategy.
Summary table setting out the key features of remuneration policy  
for Executive Directors
The following table sets out a summary of each element of the Executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages, the policy for how these are operated and their link to the Company’s strategy. 
Element of 
reward
 
Structure and opportunity 
Base salary Its	aim	is	to	help	recruit	and	retain	executives	of	a	sufficiently	high	calibre	
to manage	a	large	and	complex	business	in	a	highly	challenging	context.	
Paid monthly in cash and reviewed annually (but not necessarily  
increased annually).
The Secretary of State’s (BIS) consent is required for all material changes  
to remuneration, including base salary increases.
Pension Its	purpose	is	to	provide	appropriate	levels	of	retirement	benefits.	It	consists	
of	a	mix	of	Company	contributions	to	defined	contribution	pension	schemes	
and a cash supplement (in lieu of pension): amounting to a total of 40 per 
cent of salary.
Other	benefits Company	car	and	health	insurance,	or	the	cash	equivalent	of	any	benefits	 
not	taken	and	other	contractual	benefits.
The	Chief	Executive	is	eligible	for	two	return	flights	to	Canada	each	year	and	
financial	advice.	
Short Term 
Incentive Plan 
(STIP)
Its	aim	is	to	drive	and	reward	annual	performance	against	financial	and	
non-financial	targets.
80 per cent of the STIP is dependent on the achievement of corporate targets, 
as summarised in the Corporate Balanced Scorecard (CBS). The CBS is directly 
linked to the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives (see page 10) and 
is used to determine STIP awards for all Royal Mail Group managers. CBS 
targets	relate	to	financial	and	operational	performance,	and	people	and	
customer measures, with all four quadrants given equal weighting.
The	STIP	operates	between	three	specific	points	for	each	measure:	
Threshold,	Target	and	Stretch.	Once	a	measure	has	achieved	a	specific	
Threshold, 50 per cent of the STIP for that measure is awarded. If a measure 
achieves Target, 100 per cent of the STIP for that measure is awarded. If the 
measure outperforms, the STIP pays out above its Target rate proportionally 
up to a maximum (Stretch) at which it is capped. 
See page 52 for details of the metrics used in the Corporate Scorecard for 
2012/13.
The remaining 20 per cent of the STIP is dependent on the achievement of 
specific	personal	targets.	In	addition	to	the	corporate	and	personal	targets,	
a minimum	level	of	operating	profit	must	be	achieved	before	any	Executive	
Director becomes eligible for a payment.
For on-target performance the STIP opportunity is 60 per cent of base salary 
for the Chief Executive and Finance Director, with the maximum (at Stretch 
performance) being 100 per cent of salary. The STIP opportunity for on-target 
performance is 48 per cent of base salary for the Managing Director, 
Operations and Modernisation, with the maximum being 80 per cent of salary.
Payable in cash annually, based on performance against the Group’s KPIs, 
as outlined	in	the	CBS	and	personal	goals.
The structure and size of the STIP is approved by the Secretary of State for 
the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.  48
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
Element of 
reward
 
Structure and opportunity 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
Its purpose is to drive and reward delivery of sustained long term financial 
performance. The measures and targets are chosen to support the 
achievement of the Company’s key strategic objectives.
Awards take the form of a right to receive a cash amount, normally three 
years after grant, subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of 
the performance conditions. Awards are made each year. A threshold applies 
below which no payment is made. The threshold is 70 per cent of the 
operating profit target. The maximum payment is awarded upon achievement 
of a stretch target. The stretch target is 120 per cent of the operating profit 
target. Full details are set out on page 53.
The performance conditions are based on both operating profit and return 
on total assets (ROTA) in the third year of a three year performance period, 
with the targets for each measure derived from the company’s business plan. 
The operating profit is the audited figure as presented in the company’s 
annual report. The ROTA figure is verified by auditors separately.
The primary performance measure is operating profit, with the indicative 
pay-out under this measure then subject to a downward-only adjuster based 
on ROTA targets. ROTA was chosen as the secondary measure as it covers 
the need to make a sufficient return both on any new investments and on  
the existing asset base. 
For awards to pay out in full both the operating profit and ROTA targets  
must be met in full. Details of the operating profit and ROTA targets applying 
to existing LTIP awards are provided on page 53.
For achieving target performance, the LTIP opportunity is 70 per cent of 
salary for each of the Executive Directors; the maximum LTIP opportunity  
is 98 per cent of salary for achieving the stretch target.
The LTIP award for 2013/14 will have the same basic structure as last year, 
but instead of the target LTIP opportunity (70 per cent of salary) being based 
on the business plan number as in prior years, the target LTIP opportunity 
will be subject to a level of performance which will be 10% higher than the 
business plan number. 
In the event of a sale of shares in Royal Mail Group, the LTIP award for 
2013/14 will convert into shares at the Volume Weighted Average Price 
(VWAP) for a specified period post transaction, and these shares will be 
subject to the same multiplier.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to clawback the value of  
any cash amount received if it transpires that an award has been paid on  
the basis of mis-stated results due to willful wrongdoing by employees.  
This restriction lapses five years from the vesting date.
The LTIP grants, size and targets are approved by the Secretary of State  
for the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills. 49
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Governance
Date of Contract
Unexpired Term 
(Months)
Moya Greene 15 July 2010 12
Matthew Lester 24 November 2010 12
Mark Higson 5 November 2007 12
The Non-Executive Directors have service contracts but do not have employment contracts. 
The Company is committed to the service contracts for the remaining term of appointments, 
subject to annual review and notice, for Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.  
The service contract dates as at 31 March 2013 for the Non-Executive Directors who have 
served during the year are as follows:
Date of Contract
Unexpired Term 
(Months)
Donald Brydon 26 March 2012 24
John Allan
1
14 January 2013 33
Jan Babiak
2
1 March 2013 35
Nick Horler
3
1 April 2013 36
Cath Keers
4
1 June 2010 2
Paul Murray
5
1 August 2012 28
Orna Ni-Chionna
6
1 June 2010 2
Les Owen
7
27 January 2013 34
Fees for the Chairman and  
Non Executive Directors
The fee levels are set taking into account the time 
commitment and responsibilities of the Chairman  
and Non Executive Directors.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
The fees for the Chairman are set by the Secretary  
of State for the Department of Business, Innovation 
and Skills. 
Fees for the Non Executive Directors are determined 
by the Executive Directors and are submitted to the 
Secretary of State for approval.
Details of the current fee levels are set out in the 
Implementation Report. Fees are reviewed on a 
periodic basis.
Directors’ Service Contracts 
The Committee’s policy is that Executive 
Directors appointed to the Board are given 
notice periods of one year, and that they  
must give six months’ notice of departure. 
The Committee has a defined policy on 
remuneration and mitigation, to be applied in 
the event of an Executive Director’s contract 
being prematurely terminated. In such 
circumstances, steps would be taken to ensure 
that poor performance is not rewarded. 
The rolling service contracts of the Executive 
Directors include the following terms as at  
31 March 2013.
1
  John Allan was appointed on 14 January 2013  
for a three year term to 13 January 2016.
2
  Jan Babiak was appointed on 1 March 2013  
for a three year term to 28 Feb 2016.
3
  Nick Horler was re-appointed on 1 April 2013  
for a further three year term to 31 March 2016.
4
  Cath Keers was subsequently re-appointed on 1 June 
2013 for a further three year term to 31 May 2016.
5
  Paul Murray was re-appointed on 1 August 2012  
for a further three year term to 31 July 2015.
6
  Orna Ni-Chionna was subsequently re-appointed  
on 1 June 2013 for a further three year term to  
31 May 2016.
7
  Les Owen was re-appointed on 27 January 2013  
for a further three year term to 26 January 2016. 50
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
Reward Scenarios
The chart opposite shows how the 
composition of each of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages varies at different 
levels of performance achievement. The chart 
also shows the total amount of remuneration 
and the proportion made up by each element 
of pay under each scenario. 
On-target Performance assumes a payment 
of 60 per cent of salary under the STIP  
(48 per cent for Mark Higson) and 70 per cent 
of salary under the LTIP. 
Maximum Performance assumes full 
achievement of the STIP and LTIP stretch 
targets, providing an STIP award of 100 per 
cent of salary (80 per cent for Mark Higson) 
and an LTIP award of 98 per cent of salary 
(1.4 x target). 
0
250
500
750
1,000
1,250
1,500
1,750
LTIP STIP Fixed Pay
On-
target
Matthew Lester
Minimum Maximum On-
target
Moya Greene
Minimum
Executive Directors’ reward scenarios
 
£738
£1,386
£1,724
£614
£1,171
£1,462
£615
£1,120
£1,377
Maximum Minimum On-
target
Mark Higson
Maximum
100% 53% 43% 100% 52% 42% 100% 55% 45%
22%
26%
18%
27%
25%
30%
29%
29%
29%
28%
22%
25%
£’000
Fixed pay includes salary, benefits and pension. 51
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Governance
Implementation report
This part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report sets out how the remuneration  
policy and practices for the Company were 
implemented over the financial year. Details  
of the remuneration earned by Executive 
Directors and the outcomes of incentive 
schemes, together with the link to Company 
performance, are also provided in this 
Implementation report.
The detailed information about the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration, set out below and  
on pages 46 to 54 has been audited by the 
Company’s independent auditors, Ernst & 
Young LLP.
Membership of the Remuneration 
Committee
The members of the Committee during the 
last financial year were Orna Ni-Chionna 
(Chair), Donald Brydon, Jan Babiak (from  
1 March 2013), Paul Murray and Les Owen. 
David Currie, Nick Horler and Cath Keers were 
also members of the Committee until 20 June 
2012. All of these are or were independent 
Non-Executive Directors, as defined under  
the Corporate Governance Code, with the 
exception of the Company Chairman who was 
independent on his appointment. Details of the 
number of meetings held during the year and 
the attendance of the members are provided 
on page 43.
The Committee obtains information and 
advice from inside and outside the Group.  
Jon Millidge, the Company Secretary, acted as 
Secretary to the Committee. Internal support 
was provided by John Duncan, the Group HR 
Director, supported by other members of the 
HR department as appropriate. Moya Greene, 
the Chief Executive, was also invited to attend 
meetings where appropriate. No individual 
was present when matters relating directly  
to their own remuneration were discussed. 
New Bridge Street was appointed by the 
Committee in 2011 to act as the independent 
adviser to it on remuneration matters. New 
Bridge Street (NBS) is a trading name of Aon 
Hewitt Limited, which is a subsidiary of Aon 
plc. Advice provided by NBS to the Committee 
during the year included:
• Attendance at Committee meetings;
• Provision of pay benchmarking data  
for the senior executive team (see below);
• Annual update for the Committee on 
developments in best and market practice 
and regulatory requirements for all 
remuneration elements;
• Review of the incentive schemes and 
structure of the remuneration packages;
• Assistance with the drafting of the 
Remuneration Report.
NBS is also assisting the Company in the 
design of the Employee Share Scheme, as 
outlined in the Postal Services Act 2011, 
which provides that a minimum of ten per cent 
of shares in the Company (or the equivalent 
value) will be reserved for employees in the 
event that the Government’s shareholding in 
the Group falls to zero. The Remuneration 
Committee is satisfied that these additional 
services in no way compromised the 
independence of advice provided by NBS. 
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration 
Consultants’ Code of Conduct.
During the year Towers Watson Limited 
provided the Company with advice on 
pensions and actuarial matters and Cameron 
McKenna provided advice on service contracts. 
Base salaries
As stated above, the Committee’s underlying 
policy with regard to senior executive base 
salaries is that levels are enough to recruit 
and retain executives of a suitably high calibre 
to manage a very large and complex company, 
which faces many challenges. During 2012/13 
a comprehensive review of the senior 
executive population against a comparator 
group of similar companies found that the 
base salaries of the Executive Directors were 
below the median, with the Chief Executive 
Officer’s salary falling in the bottom quartile. 
Notwithstanding this, no increases were made 
to the base salary of the Executive Directors. 
This means that neither Moya Greene nor 
Matthew Lester have received an increase  
in their base salary since they joined the 
Company in July 2010 and November 2010 
respectively. Mark Higson’s base salary has 
not increased since 2008. 
Pensions
As in previous years, Mark Higson and Matthew 
Lester receive a cash supplement of 40 per 
cent of salary in lieu of pension contributions. 
Moya Greene also receives pension 
arrangements valued at 40 per cent of basic 
salary, in line with other Executive Directors. In 
2012/13, Moya Greene received a contribution 
to an approved defined contribution plan  
of £50,000 (the HMRC annual limit) and 
£150,000 cash in lieu of pension contributions 
(in total worth 40 per cent of salary). 
In previous financial years, the Company  
has made contributions for Moya Greene to  
a UK HMRC approved pension plan and an 
unfunded promise which together total 40 per 
cent of salary. The cumulative value of this 
unfunded promise was £277,943 at the end of 
2012/13 (2011/12: £261,222) based on the 
value of the amounts accrued having been 
invested in UK 5-year gilts. 52
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
20 per cent of the STIP award is based on 
specific	personal	targets.	The	targets	were	 
set at the start of the year based on each 
Executive Director’s area of responsibility.  
The Committee reviewed performance against 
these objectives at the end of the year and 
awarded bonus payments accordingly.
The total STIP payments awarded to the 
Executive Directors for performance in 
2012/13 were as follows:
•	Moya Greene – 80 per cent of salary;
•	Matthew Lester – 80 per cent of salary;
•	Mark Higson – 57 per cent of salary.
The	above	payments	reflect	the	achievement	
of very strong performance against most of 
the measures and targets in the STIP. 
CUSTOMER 25%
FINANCIAL 25%
PERFORMANCE 25%
PEOPLE 25%
First Class retail Quality of Service
Mean customer 
   satisfaction
Total 
 complaints
    Total 
   expenditure – 
  operating 
 cost of UK 
businesses
      Operating 
   proﬁt before 
exceptionals
Free cash ﬂow
Total revenue
Transformation                  
delivery               
(% gross hours          
year-on-year     
reduction)
Delivery    
Ofﬁces   
fully  
modernised 
Lost time 
accident   
frequency    
rate     
Employee
engagement -     
increase           
index               
Employee 
engagement - 
customer 
focus
5%
5%
5%
5%
10%
10%
10%
10%
5%
10%
10%
Corporate
Balanced
Scorecard
100%
10%
5%
Second Class retail 
      Quality of Service
Short Term Incentive Plan (STIP)
The structure of the STIP is outlined in the 
table on page 47. For each of the Executive 
Directors, 80 per cent of the STIP was 
dependent on the achievement of corporate 
targets, with 20 per cent dependent on the 
achievement	of	specific	personal	targets.	
Again, our benchmarking advice in 2012/13 
demonstrated that the total opportunity 
remained below typical market levels, with  
the	opportunity	for	the	Chief	Executive	Officer	
again falling in the bottom quartile both for 
on-target and for stretch performance. 
A	minimum	level	of	operating	profit	before	
transformational costs and other exceptional 
items must be achieved before an Executive 
Director becomes eligible for a payment.  
This payment then depends on to what  
extent the corporate and personal objectives 
were achieved. For the year in question this 
minimum	profit	level	was	£400	million:	actual	
profit	achieved	was	£633	million.	
A blend of targets determined the extent to 
which STIPs could be earned in 2012/13.  
The chart above contains a summary of  
the corporate metrics under the Corporate 
Balanced Scorecard, which was used to 
determine 80 per cent of the STIP award.  
The same Corporate Balanced Scorecard was 
also used to determine STIP awards for all 
Royal Mail Group managers. The Committee 
reviewed these measures and targets to 
ensure that they were appropriate and 
consistent with challenging levels of 
performance.
Strong performance was achieved across all 
four quadrants (People, Customer, Performance 
and Financial). Target performance (or above) 
was achieved in 11 out of the 13 KPIs and the 
stretch hurdle was exceeded in six of them. The 
total award resulting from achievement of the 
Scorecard for 2012/13 was at 80 per cent of 
the maximum (i.e. 64 per cent of salary for Moya 
Greene and Matthew Lester and 51 per cent  
of salary for Mark Higson. The maximum 
opportunity was of 80 per cent and 64 per cent 
of salary respectively).  53
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Governance
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
As outlined in last year’s Report, in 2011/12, the Remuneration Committee established a new 
LTIP, the structure of which is set out below. The LTIP is a conditional award, payable in cash, 
which usually vests in the third year after the grant is made, provided that stretching financial 
performance conditions are met. In 2011/12, the Remuneration Committee awarded two 
grants to the majority of participants (including Executive Directors) to reflect the fact that  
an award it intended to grant in 2010 had not been made. Both grants reward performance 
over a three year period. However, the award in respect of 2010 will not vest for another  
year (i.e. until the end of 2013/14) to provide additional long term focus. A further grant of  
70 per cent of salary was made in respect of 2012/13, which will vest at the end of 2014/15 
(i.e. in March 2015), subject to performance against targets. 
The table below sets out details of the outstanding LTIP awards.
Name LTIP award
Final year of 
Performance 
Period
Target  
value  
of award  
(£’000)
Maximum 
value  
of award 
(£’000)
Moya Greene 2010 2012/13 £349 £488
2011 2013/14 £349 £488
2012 2014/15 £349 £488
Mark Higson 2010 2012/13 £300 £420
2011 2013/14 £300 £420
2012 2014/15 £300 £420
Matthew Lester 2010 2012/13 £300 £419
2011 2013/14 £300 £419
2012 2014/15 £300 £419
The LTIP is subject to two performance conditions. The primary measure is operating profit:
Operating profit performance in the  
final year of the performance period  
(i.e. 2012/13, 2013/14 or 2014-15) Proportion of target award vesting
Less than 70 per cent of target 0 per cent
70 per cent to 80 per cent of target 0 per cent to 80 per cent vesting  
(straight-line sliding scale)
80 per cent to 100 per cent of target 80 per cent to 100 per cent vesting  
(straight-line sliding scale)
100 per cent to 120 per cent of target 100 per cent to 140 per cent vesting  
(straight-line sliding scale)
More than 120 per cent of target 140 per cent vesting  
(i.e. maximum 98 per cent of salary)
The secondary measure is a downwards only 
adjustment based on ROTA targets. If ROTA 
is greater than 90 per cent of target, there 
is no adjustment. If ROTA is between 75 per 
cent of target and 90 per cent of target there 
is a 50 per cent reduction in the level of 
vesting achieved under the operating profit 
performance condition. If ROTA is less than 
75 per cent of target then the award lapses, 
irrespective of operating profit performance.
The year being reported on (2012/13) was 
the last year of the performance period for 
the 2010 LTIP award. The operating profit 
target for 2012/13 was £368 million and 
the ROTA target was 13.5 per cent. Actual 
operating profit for 2012/13 was £635 million 
and ROTA was 25.8 per cent. Accordingly, the 
total percentage of LTIP awards for 2012/13 
vesting was 140 per cent of target (equivalent 
to 98 per cent of salary). 
This results in the following potential awards 
to the Executive Directors: Moya Greene – 
£488,000, Mark Higson – £420,000, Matthew 
Lester – £419,000. The awards are still 
subject to a forfeiture condition. The awards 
will be paid at the end of 2013/14, providing 
the Executive Director remains in employment 
with the Company and is not under notice at 
the payment date. 
The LTIP is also subject to clawback for a 
maximum of five years after the vesting date 
if it transpires that an award has been made 
on the basis of mis-stated results because of 
wilful wrongdoing by employees. 54
Governance
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Directors’ remuneration report (continued)
Remuneration for 2012/13
The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Executive Directors in relation to performance and/or service during the year.  
The table has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006.
£’000
Annual  
salary/fees
Salary  
and fees 
Received
Contractual
Benefits
14
Other
15
Amount  
in lieu  
of pension
Short Term 
Incentive Plan
Total  
2013
Total  
2012
Chairman
Donald Brydon 200 200 - - - - 200 200
Executive Directors
Moya Greene 498 498 127 250 200 399 1,474 1,107
Mark Higson 428 428 15 171 245 859 887
Matthew Lester 428 428 15 171 344 958 934
Non-Executive Directors
John Allan
8
40 12 - - - - 12 -
Jan Babiak
9
40 3 - - - - 3 -
Nick Horler 40 40 - - - - 40 40
Cath Keers 40 40 - - - - 40 40
Paul Murray
10
50 50 - - - - 50 50
Orna Ni-Chionna
11
60 60 - - - - 60 60
Les Owen 40 40 - - - - 40 40
Former Directors
David Currie
12
40 17 - - - - 17 40
Paula Vennells
13
- - - - - - - 463
David Smith - - - - - - - 59
Total 2013 1,816 157 250 542 988 3,753
Total 2012 2,124 81 578 1,137 3,920
Executive Directors’ outside appointments
The annual fees received by the Executive Directors as at 31 March 2013 in respect of their Non-Executive Directorships are shown in the  
table below:
Name Directorship
2013
£’000
2012
£’000 
Moya Greene Tim Hortons 18
16
16
16
Matthew Lester Man Group plc 95 79
Approval
This remuneration report, including both the 
policy and implementation reports, has been 
approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Directors by
Orna Ni-Chionna 
Remuneration Committee Chair 
31 July 2013
8
 John Allan joined the Board on 14 January 2013.
9
 Jan Babiak joined the Board on 1 March 2013.
10
  Paul Murray’s fee includes £10,000 for his role  
as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
11
  Orna Ni-Chionna’s fee includes £10,000 for her role  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
£10,000 for her role as Senior Independent Director.
12
  David Currie stood down from the Board on  
31 August 2012
13
  Paula Vennells stood down from the Board on 31 March 
2012 following the separation of Post Office Limited.
14
  The Chief Executive’s other benefits include medical 
insurance, contractual relocation payments, financial 
advice and return flights to Canada. 
15
  The Company’s Relocation Policy states that any fees  
or charges associated with relocation at the Company’s 
request are subject to payment by the Company to assist 
any executive.
  In the exceptional circumstances of the Chief Executive’s 
relocation and commitment to the UK, additional 
assistance, on the purchase of a home, was offered given 
the difference in residential costs between the UK and 
Canada. The Remuneration Committee, consisting of all 
Non-Executive Directors at the time, determined that a 
single payment should be made to the Chief Executive 
rather than an annual allowance. The additional 
assistance amounted to £120,000 after tax.
  The Chief Executive was not involved in the decision nor 
does she engage with Government about payments made 
to her by the Company.
  The Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills 
has advised the Remuneration Committee that this was a 
material variation to her remuneration and it therefore 
ought to have sought his prior approval. Although it had 
not done so, the Remuneration Committee considers  
it made its decision in good faith in exceptional 
circumstances . When she learned of this background,  
the Chief Executive voluntarily offered to return this 
assistance. The Remuneration Committee has accepted 
this offer and is arranging the process for repayment.
  The Remuneration Committee will also determine the 
process for the reimbursement of the Company of any 
unrealised gain to date associated with this payment.
16
  Sterling equivalent of payments received during the year.  
 
 
Consolidated income statement
1
 
  
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
1
  
Consolidated statement of cash flows
1
  
Consolidated balance sheet
2
  
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
2
  
Core notes to the consolidated financial statements  
1. Basis of preparation – note explaining how these statements have been prepared  
2. Going concern and funding  
3. Segment information  
4. Revenue  
5. Operating exceptional items (transformation and non-transformation)  
6. Net finance costs and net debt  
7. Taxation  
8. Cash flow information  
9. Employee benefits – pensions  
10. Changes in equity  
11. Events after the reporting period  
Other notes – income statement  
12. People information  
13. Other operating costs  
Other notes – financial assets, financial liabilities and hedging programmes  
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk  
15. Pension escrow investments  
16. Cash and cash equivalents  
17. Loans and borrowings  
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis  
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis  
20. Hedging programmes  
Other notes – balance sheet  
21. Provisions  
22. Property, plant and equipment  
23. Goodwill  
24. Intangible assets  
25. Investments in associates  
26. Current trade and other receivables  
27. Current trade and other payables  
28. Issued share capital and reserves  
29. Commitments  
30. Related party information  
Significant accounting policies  
Group five year summary (unaudited)  
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in relation to the Group financial statements  
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Royal Mail Group Limited  
Forward-looking statements  
1
 For the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013, 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011. 
2
 At 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011. 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 55
Financial statements
Consolidated financial  
statements  
 
  52 weeks 
 Notes 
Reported 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
Adjusted 
2013
2 
(unaudited) 
£m 
Reported 
2012 
£m 
Reported 
2011 
£m 
Revenue 3/4 9,279 9,146 8,764 8,415 
People costs 12 (5,147) (5,077) (4,920) (4,986) 
Distribution and conveyance operating costs  (1,785) (1,771) (1,755) (1,616) 
Infrastructure costs (property, IT, depreciation/amortisation)  (1,052) (1,047) (1,060) (1,025) 
Other operating costs  (660) (653) (648) (578) 
Operating profit before exceptional items  635 598 381 210 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items 5 (195) (195) (229) (192) 
Operating profit after transformation costs
1
  440 403 152 18 
Other operating exceptional items 5 (77)  (57) (48) 
Operating profit/(loss)  
363 
 95 (30) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  
4 
 156 60 
Profit on disposal of business  –  26 44 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT)  367  277 74 
Finance costs 6 (104)  (112) (107) 
Finance income 6 27  12 23 
Net pension interest credit/(charge) 9(g) 34  24 (155) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation  324  201 (165) 
Taxation - current charge 7 (38)  (36) (35) 
 - deferred credit/(charge) 7 284  (15) (88) 
Profit/(loss) for the period  570  150 (288) 
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to:      
Equity holder of the parent company  566  149 (289) 
Non-controlling interest (other partner interest in Romec Limited and  
NDC 2000 Limited)  4  1 1 
1 
Before other operating exceptional items. 
2 
The methodology to calculate the 52 week comparative period is explained on page i. 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 56
Financial statements
Consolidated income  
statement
for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013,
52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011  
 
  52 weeks 
 Notes 
Reported 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
Adjusted 
2013
2 
(unaudited) 
£m 
Reported 
2012 
£m 
Reported 
2011 
£m 
Revenue 3/4 9,279 9,146 8,764 8,415 
People costs 12 (5,147) (5,077) (4,920) (4,986) 
Distribution and conveyance operating costs  (1,785) (1,771) (1,755) (1,616) 
Infrastructure costs (property, IT, depreciation/amortisation)  (1,052) (1,047) (1,060) (1,025) 
Other operating costs  (660) (653) (648) (578) 
Operating profit before exceptional items  635 598 381 210 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items 5 (195) (195) (229) (192) 
Operating profit after transformation costs
1
  440 403 152 18 
Other operating exceptional items 5 (77)  (57) (48) 
Operating profit/(loss)  
363 
 95 (30) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment  
4 
 156 60 
Profit on disposal of business  –  26 44 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT)  367  277 74 
Finance costs 6 (104)  (112) (107) 
Finance income 6 27  12 23 
Net pension interest credit/(charge) 9(g) 34  24 (155) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation  324  201 (165) 
Taxation - current charge 7 (38)  (36) (35) 
 - deferred credit/(charge) 7 284  (15) (88) 
Profit/(loss) for the period  570  150 (288) 
Profit/(loss) for the period attributable to:      
Equity holder of the parent company  566  149 (289) 
Non-controlling interest (other partner interest in Romec Limited and  
NDC 2000 Limited)  4  1 1 
1 
Before other operating exceptional items. 
2 
The methodology to calculate the 52 week comparative period is explained on page i. 
 
 
 
 
 
  Reported 
 Notes 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Profit/(loss) for the period from continuing operations  570 150 (288) 
Other comprehensive income for the period:     
Foreign exchange translation differences  (5) (47) (11) 
 Translation differences on foreign currency net investments  (5) (47) (11) 
Amounts relating to pension accounting  (411) 1,436 3,184 
 IFRIC 14 adjustment relating to pensions 9(c) (5) – – 
 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit schemes 9(g) (218) 1,436 3,184 
 Taxation on items taken directly to equity 7(b) 
(188) 
– – 
Cash flow hedges  2 (14) 10 
 (Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges deferred into equity  (1) (4) 24 
 Losses/(gains) on cash flow hedges released from equity to income  2 (15) (7) 
 Gains on cash flow hedges released from equity to the carrying amount of  
 non-financial assets  (1) (3) (3) 
 Taxation on items taken directly to equity 7(b) 2 8 (4) 
Gains on financial assets  (22) 14 (3) 
 Gains on financial assets deferred into equity  
– 
14 3 
 Gains on financial assets released from equity to income 6 
(22) 
– (6) 
  
 
  
Total comprehensive income for the period  
134 
1,539 2,892 
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to:     
Equity holder of the parent company  130 1,547 2,891 
Non-controlling interest (other partner interest in Romec Limited and  
NDC 2000 Limited)  4 (8) 1 
 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 57
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013,
52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011  
 
The statement of cash flows below is prepared using the template prescribed under IFRS. Note 8 provides a summary statement of cash flows used 
by management, and includes a reconciliation to the statement shown below. 
  Reported 
 Notes 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Cash flow from operating activities     
Operating profit before exceptional items  635 381 210 
Adjustment for:     
Depreciation and amortisation  13 281 301 286 
Share of post taxation profit from associates 25 (1) (1) (3) 
EBITDA before exceptional items 8 915 681 493 
Working capital movements: 8 142 (19) (58) 
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories  8 1 (1) 
 Decrease/(increase) in receivables  25 (148) (21) 
 Increase/(decrease) in payables  136 116 (25) 
 Net increase in derivative assets  (15) (6) (12) 
 (Decrease)/increase in non-exceptional provisions  (12) 18 1 
Difference between pension costs charged in operating profit and pension cash flows 8 (3) (9) (263) 
Payments in respect of transformation operating exceptional items  8 (230) (280) (242) 
Payments in respect of non-transformation operating exceptional items 8 (26) (37) (5) 
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operations  798 336 (75) 
Income taxation paid 8 (37) (35) (36) 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities  761 301 (111) 
Cash flows from investing activities     
Dividends received from associates 8 – 4 9 
Finance income received 8 5 12 22 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8 52 203 157 
Proceeds from disposal of business  – 37 73 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (388) (287) (270) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL 8 (177) (185) (166) 
 Other (GLS and business as usual UKPIL spend) 8 (211) (102) (104) 
Acquisition of business (in GLS) 8 (3) (2) (2) 
Purchase of intangible assets (software) 8 (41) (45) (70) 
Payment of deferred consideration in respect of prior years’ acquisitions 8 (3) (1) – 
Net sale/(purchase) of financial assets investments (non-current)  129 (4) 88 
Net sale/(purchase) of financial assets investments (current)   30 (30) – 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities  (219) (113) 7 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities  542 188 (104) 
Cash flows from financing activities     
Finance costs paid 8 (49) (68) (54) 
Payment of capital element of obligations under finance lease contracts  (74) (49) (62) 
Cash received on sale and leasebacks   58 88 115 
New loans  – – 300 
Repayment of borrowings  (600) (1) (42) 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities  (665) (30) 257 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (123) 158 153 
Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents  1 (4) (2) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  473 319 168 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 16 351 473 319 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 58
Financial statements
Consolidated statement  
of cash flows
for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013,
52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011  
 
The statement of cash flows below is prepared using the template prescribed under IFRS. Note 8 provides a summary statement of cash flows used 
by management, and includes a reconciliation to the statement shown below. 
  Reported 
 Notes 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Cash flow from operating activities     
Operating profit before exceptional items  635 381 210 
Adjustment for:     
Depreciation and amortisation  13 281 301 286 
Share of post taxation profit from associates 25 (1) (1) (3) 
EBITDA before exceptional items 8 915 681 493 
Working capital movements: 8 142 (19) (58) 
 Decrease/(increase) in inventories  8 1 (1) 
 Decrease/(increase) in receivables  25 (148) (21) 
 Increase/(decrease) in payables  136 116 (25) 
 Net increase in derivative assets  (15) (6) (12) 
 (Decrease)/increase in non-exceptional provisions  (12) 18 1 
Difference between pension costs charged in operating profit and pension cash flows 8 (3) (9) (263) 
Payments in respect of transformation operating exceptional items  8 (230) (280) (242) 
Payments in respect of non-transformation operating exceptional items 8 (26) (37) (5) 
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operations  798 336 (75) 
Income taxation paid 8 (37) (35) (36) 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities  761 301 (111) 
Cash flows from investing activities     
Dividends received from associates 8 – 4 9 
Finance income received 8 5 12 22 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 8 52 203 157 
Proceeds from disposal of business  – 37 73 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (388) (287) (270) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL 8 (177) (185) (166) 
 Other (GLS and business as usual UKPIL spend) 8 (211) (102) (104) 
Acquisition of business (in GLS) 8 (3) (2) (2) 
Purchase of intangible assets (software) 8 (41) (45) (70) 
Payment of deferred consideration in respect of prior years’ acquisitions 8 (3) (1) – 
Net sale/(purchase) of financial assets investments (non-current)  129 (4) 88 
Net sale/(purchase) of financial assets investments (current)   30 (30) – 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities  (219) (113) 7 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities  542 188 (104) 
Cash flows from financing activities     
Finance costs paid 8 (49) (68) (54) 
Payment of capital element of obligations under finance lease contracts  (74) (49) (62) 
Cash received on sale and leasebacks   58 88 115 
New loans  – – 300 
Repayment of borrowings  (600) (1) (42) 
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities  (665) (30) 257 
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (123) 158 153 
Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents  1 (4) (2) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period  473 319 168 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 16 351 473 319 
 
 
 
 
  Reported 
 Notes 
At 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
At 
25 March 
2012 
£m 
At 
27 March 
2011 
£m 
Non-current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 22 1,916 1,822 1,829 
Leasehold land payment  3 3 3 
Goodwill (mainly investment in GLS) 23 196 189 197 
Intangible assets (mainly software) 24 139 135 126 
Investments in associates 25 3 3 9 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments 6/14/15 20 149 87 
     – bank deposits 6/14/19 – – 44 
     – derivatives 14/19 3 2 6 
Retirement benefit asset net of IFRIC 14 adjustment 9(c) 825 – – 
Other receivables  8 – – 
Deferred taxation assets 7 112 9 8 
  3,225 2,312 2,309 
Non-current assets held for sale  2 4 4 
Current assets     
Inventories  24 32 33 
Trade and other receivables 26 1,004 1,036 906 
Financial assets  – derivatives 14/19 9 9 36 
     – short-term deposits 6/14/19 1 31 1 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 351 473 319 
  1,389 1,581 1,295 
Total assets  4,616 3,897 3,608 
Current liabilities      
Trade and other payables 27 (1,611) (1,512) (1,394) 
Financial liabilities  – obligations under finance leases  6/14/19 (79) (86) (61) 
      – derivatives 14/19 (2) (4) (3) 
Income taxation payable  (14) (9) (6) 
Provisions  21 (119) (132) (167) 
  (1,825) (1,743) (1,631) 
Non-current liabilities     
Financial liabilities – interest bearing loans and borrowings 6/14/17
/19 
(973) (1,522) (1,478) 
     – obligations under finance leases 6/14/19 (226) (231) (184) 
     – derivatives 14/19 (1) (1) – 
Provisions 21 (127) (85) (85) 
Retirement benefit obligation – pension deficit 9(b) – (2,716) (4,185) 
Other payables  (36) (36) (29) 
Deferred taxation liabilities 7 (23) (18) (10) 
  (1,386) (4,609) (5,971) 
Total liabilities  (3,211) (6,352) (7,602) 
Net assets/(liabilities)   1,405 (2,455) (3,994) 
Equity     
Share capital 28 – – – 
Share premium 10 – 3,784 3,784 
Retained earnings – all distributable  1,318 (6,347) (7,941) 
Other reserves  83 108 155 
Equity attributable to equity holder of parent company  1,401 (2,455) (4,002) 
Non-controlling interest (other partner interest in Romec Limited and NDC 2000 Limited)  4 – 8 
Total equity 10 1,405 (2,455) (3,994) 
 
 
 
 
 
Moya Greene     Matthew Lester 
Chief Executive Officer    Chief Finance Officer 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 59
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011  
 
 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Financial 
assets 
reserve 
£m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserves 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Equity 
holder 
of the 
parent 
£m 
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
£m 
Total 
equity 
£m 
At 28 March 2010 3,784 (10,836) 11 136 12 (6,893) 7 (6,886) 
(Loss)/profit for the period  – (289) – – – (289) 1 (288) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 3,184 (3) (11) 10 3,180 – 3,180 
At 27 March 2011 3,784 (7,941) 8 125 22 (4,002) 8 (3,994) 
Profit for the period – 149 – – – 149 1 150 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 1,436 14 (47) (14) 1,389 – 1,389 
Dividend from non-controlling interest – 9 – – – 9 (9) – 
At 25 March 2012 3,784 (6,347) 22 78 8 (2,455) – (2,455) 
Profit for the period  – 566 – – – 566 4 570 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period – (411) (22) (5) 2 (436) - (436) 
Pension deficit transfer to HM Government on  
1 April 2012 (see note 9(d)) – 3,726 – – – 3,726 – 3,726 
Capital reduction (see note 10) (3,784) 3,784 – – – – – – 
At 31 March 2013 – 1,318 – 73 10 1,401 4 1,405 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 60
Financial statements
Consolidated statement  
of changes in equity
at 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011  
 
 
Share 
premium 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Financial 
assets 
reserve 
£m 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserves 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Equity 
holder 
of the 
parent 
£m 
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
£m 
Total 
equity 
£m 
At 28 March 2010 3,784 (10,836) 11 136 12 (6,893) 7 (6,886) 
(Loss)/profit for the period  – (289) – – – (289) 1 (288) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 3,184 (3) (11) 10 3,180 – 3,180 
At 27 March 2011 3,784 (7,941) 8 125 22 (4,002) 8 (3,994) 
Profit for the period – 149 – – – 149 1 150 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the period – 1,436 14 (47) (14) 1,389 – 1,389 
Dividend from non-controlling interest – 9 – – – 9 (9) – 
At 25 March 2012 3,784 (6,347) 22 78 8 (2,455) – (2,455) 
Profit for the period  – 566 – – – 566 4 570 
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period – (411) (22) (5) 2 (436) - (436) 
Pension deficit transfer to HM Government on  
1 April 2012 (see note 9(d)) – 3,726 – – – 3,726 – 3,726 
Capital reduction (see note 10) (3,784) 3,784 – – – – – – 
At 31 March 2013 – 1,318 – 73 10 1,401 4 1,405 
 
 
 
 
 
Core notes to the consolidated financial statements 
The notes in this section are considered by the Board to be particularly important to a reader of the financial statements. These notes are the 
same as those included in the Preliminary Results announced on 21 May 2013, except for an additional ‘Going concern and funding’ note which 
was not considered relevant for a Preliminary Statement but which is nonetheless an important disclosure, and additional disclosures in the 
‘Taxation’ and ‘Employee benefits – pensions’ notes, in order to fully comply with IFRS. 
Since the publication of the Preliminary Statement, the Company has announced a consultation with members of the Royal Mail Pension Plan 
(RMPP) and details of the proposals have been included in the ‘Events after the reporting period’ note. 
 
1. Basis of preparation – note explaining how these statements have been prepared  
2. Going concern and funding  
3. Segment information  
4. Revenue  
5. Operating exceptional items (transformation and non-transformation)  
6. Net finance costs and net debt  
7. Taxation  
8. Cash flow information  
9. Employee benefits – pensions  
10. Changes in equity  
11. Events after the reporting period   
 
61
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
1. Basis of preparation  
This note explains how these Royal Mail Group Limited consolidated financial statements have been prepared, including management’s 
decision to exclude the consolidated results of the Company’s main subsidiary company, Post Office Limited, up until its transfer of ownership 
to Royal Mail Holdings plc on 1 April 2012, to enable a comparative analysis. 
Introduction  
In preparing these Group financial statements, Royal Mail Group Limited continues to embrace recent guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC). The FRC outlined principles in its ‘Louder than Words’ and ‘Cutting Clutter’ discussion papers to make corporate reporting clearer and 
less complex. 
Based on the views of the Group, as well as the key areas of focus from stakeholders, Royal Mail Group Limited has separated the notes to the 
financial statements into two sections: ‘Core’ and ‘Other’ in order to assist the users of the financial statements. While the financial statements need 
to be considered as a whole, ‘Core’ notes to the financial statements represent those that are regarded by the Board to be of most importance to  
a user of the financial statements. All remaining notes are included in the ‘Other’ category. 
The Group comprises Royal Mail Group Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries. The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom which is also 
the Group’s country of domicile. 
These Group consolidated special purpose financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a 
historic cost basis except for pension assets, derivative financial instruments and available for sale financial assets which have been measured at fair 
value. 
The Directors have established a principle to produce a set of consolidated results for Royal Mail Group Limited which includes the trading activities  
of UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) and General Logistics Systems (GLS). These financial statements therefore exclude the results of Post 
Office Limited, a subsidiary of Royal Mail Group Limited up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc on 1 April 2012. These financial statements do, 
however, include transactions with Post Office Limited, i.e. revenue and costs and trade payable/receivable balances, as though Post Office Limited 
was like any other external customer/supplier of Royal Mail Group Limited. 
Basis of accounting 
These Group consolidated special purpose financial statements do not constitute statutory financial statements as defined in section 434 and 435 of 
the Companies Act 2006, but have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union, except for the non-consolidation of the Company’s Post Office Limited subsidiary up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc on  
1 April 2012. The effect of this is as follows: 
• There is no difference between the closing balance sheet position at 31 March 2013 under this methodology and that required if Post Office 
Limited had been consolidated up until the date of its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc; 
• There has been no disposal accounting in respect of the Post Office Limited transfer;  
• If disposal accounting had been effected in line with IFRS, certain components of these financial statements would have been impacted as follows: 
– 2012 and 2011 comparative information – which would have included the results of Post Office Limited and the related inter-group 
elimination/consolidation accounting entries;  
– Income statement – which would have included the results of Post Office Limited (as a discontinued operation) for the period 26 March 2012 to 
31 March 2012 – i.e. up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc; and  
– Total equity – through which the transfer of Post Office Limited on 1 April 2012 would have been recorded as a transaction with the Company’s 
owner (Royal Mail Holdings plc) in their capacity as owner (IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements). 
The Royal Mail Group Limited statutory financial statements are publicly available from www.royalmailgroup.com. 
Estimation and accounting judgements 
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make various judgements, estimates and assumptions when 
determining the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Further details can be found in ‘Significant 
accounting policies’ on page 117. 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 62
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
 
1. Basis of preparation  
This note explains how these Royal Mail Group Limited consolidated financial statements have been prepared, including management’s 
decision to exclude the consolidated results of the Company’s main subsidiary company, Post Office Limited, up until its transfer of ownership 
to Royal Mail Holdings plc on 1 April 2012, to enable a comparative analysis. 
Introduction  
In preparing these Group financial statements, Royal Mail Group Limited continues to embrace recent guidance issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC). The FRC outlined principles in its ‘Louder than Words’ and ‘Cutting Clutter’ discussion papers to make corporate reporting clearer and 
less complex. 
Based on the views of the Group, as well as the key areas of focus from stakeholders, Royal Mail Group Limited has separated the notes to the 
financial statements into two sections: ‘Core’ and ‘Other’ in order to assist the users of the financial statements. While the financial statements need 
to be considered as a whole, ‘Core’ notes to the financial statements represent those that are regarded by the Board to be of most importance to  
a user of the financial statements. All remaining notes are included in the ‘Other’ category. 
The Group comprises Royal Mail Group Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries. The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom which is also 
the Group’s country of domicile. 
These Group consolidated special purpose financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a 
historic cost basis except for pension assets, derivative financial instruments and available for sale financial assets which have been measured at fair 
value. 
The Directors have established a principle to produce a set of consolidated results for Royal Mail Group Limited which includes the trading activities  
of UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) and General Logistics Systems (GLS). These financial statements therefore exclude the results of Post 
Office Limited, a subsidiary of Royal Mail Group Limited up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc on 1 April 2012. These financial statements do, 
however, include transactions with Post Office Limited, i.e. revenue and costs and trade payable/receivable balances, as though Post Office Limited 
was like any other external customer/supplier of Royal Mail Group Limited. 
Basis of accounting 
These Group consolidated special purpose financial statements do not constitute statutory financial statements as defined in section 434 and 435 of 
the Companies Act 2006, but have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union, except for the non-consolidation of the Company’s Post Office Limited subsidiary up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc on  
1 April 2012. The effect of this is as follows: 
• There is no difference between the closing balance sheet position at 31 March 2013 under this methodology and that required if Post Office 
Limited had been consolidated up until the date of its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc; 
• There has been no disposal accounting in respect of the Post Office Limited transfer;  
• If disposal accounting had been effected in line with IFRS, certain components of these financial statements would have been impacted as follows: 
– 2012 and 2011 comparative information – which would have included the results of Post Office Limited and the related inter-group 
elimination/consolidation accounting entries;  
– Income statement – which would have included the results of Post Office Limited (as a discontinued operation) for the period 26 March 2012 to 
31 March 2012 – i.e. up until its transfer to Royal Mail Holdings plc; and  
– Total equity – through which the transfer of Post Office Limited on 1 April 2012 would have been recorded as a transaction with the Company’s 
owner (Royal Mail Holdings plc) in their capacity as owner (IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements). 
The Royal Mail Group Limited statutory financial statements are publicly available from www.royalmailgroup.com. 
Estimation and accounting judgements 
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make various judgements, estimates and assumptions when 
determining the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Further details can be found in ‘Significant 
accounting policies’ on page 117. 
 
 
2. Going concern and funding  
This note provides details of how the Directors have concluded that Royal Mail Group Limited remains a going concern, including their review of 
the Group’s cash headroom position. 
The Group’s business activities, strategy and performance are outlined on pages 1 to 33. 
Introduction 
In assessing the going concern status of the Group, the Directors have to look forward by a minimum of 12 months from the date of signing the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements to ensure that there is sufficient headroom (broadly available cash and cash equivalents plus available 
unrestricted unused committed facilities) to enable the Group to pay its creditors as they fall due. 
There are two significant events that the Directors have noted and considered whilst performing this review. 
(i)  Pension transfer to HM Government 
On 1 April 2012 (one week into the current financial year) – after the granting of State Aid by the European Commission to HM Government on  
21 March 2012 – almost all of the pension liabilities and pension assets of the Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP), built up until 31 March 2012,  
were transferred to a new HM Government pension scheme, the Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme (RMSPS).   
This transfer left the RMPP fully funded on an actuarial basis and by using long-term actuarial assumptions agreed at that date, it was predicted that 
the Company would have to make no further deficit cash contributions to RMPP (previously the Group had made payments, including £272 million in 
2011 and £262 million in 2010). 
Further details on pensions can be found in note 9. 
(ii) Available loans and borrowings 
Note 17 of these financial statements details the loan facilities agreed between HM Government and Royal Mail Group Limited. This note confirms 
that the £900 million Senior Debt Facility (£600 million term loan, £300 million revolver) is due to expire in March 2014. At 31 March 2013 and at 
the date of signing this Annual Report and Financial Statements, these facilities had not been used and, until their expiry, the Directors can assume 
that they are available to be used. After their expiry they should normally expect that they are not available. 
The Board, however, has written assurance from HM Government that alternative financing on commercial terms would be available to replace these 
borrowing facilities, should a sale transaction not take place and the cash headroom position deteriorated sufficiently to require HM Government to 
roll over the existing facilities. 
Review assumptions 
For the current review of going concern, the Directors undertook a review of the Company’s cash headroom to March 2015, a longer window than 
the minimum requirement, under two different scenarios: 
• A realistic but pessimistic downside case assuming no transaction takes place and placing reliance on the assurance from HM Government referred 
to above; and 
• A realistic but pessimistic downside case assuming a sale transaction takes place and that as a consequence, the existing facilities are replaced by 
new facilities. 
Summary 
The Directors concluded from their review that under both of the above scenarios, sufficient cash headroom exists for the foreseeable future and 
accordingly the Group remains a going concern. 
 
 
63
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
3. Segment information 
Royal Mail Group’s revenue, certain costs and profit before financing and taxation are segmented below, aligned with how the business  
is managed. 
 
Business unit Brand Main statutory entities 
UK Parcels, International & Letters 
(UKPIL) – UK operations 
 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
Royal Mail Estates Limited 
Royal Mail Investments Limited 
General Logistics Systems (GLS) – 
Other European operations 
 
 
 
 
GLS Germany GmbH & Co. OHG 
GLS France S.A.S. 
GLS Italy S.p.A. 
Other – UK operations 
Facilities management 
Design consultancy 
Catering services 
Romec Limited (51% owned subsidiary) 
NDC 2000 Limited (51% owned subsidiary) 
Quadrant Catering Ltd (51% owned associate) 
Royal Mail Group is structured on a geographic business unit basis and these business units report into the Chief Executive’s Committee and the 
Royal Mail Group Board. Each of these units have discrete revenue, costs, profit, cash flows, assets and people and therefore full and complete 
financial information is prepared and reviewed on a regular basis and compared with both historical and budget/forecast information as part of  
a rigorous performance management process. 
In addition to providing segmental disclosures for profit after taxation, consistent with the requirements of accounting standards and how the Group 
is managed, the information below also includes details of free cash flow and EBITDA before transformation costs. 
The majority of inter-segment revenue relates to the provision of facilities management and catering services to UKPIL. Trading between UKPIL and 
GLS is not material. 
Transfer prices between the segments are set on a basis of charges reached through commercial negotiation with the respective business units that 
form part of the segments.  
64
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
3. Segment information 
Royal Mail Group’s revenue, certain costs and profit before financing and taxation are segmented below, aligned with how the business  
is managed. 
 
Business unit Brand Main statutory entities 
UK Parcels, International & Letters 
(UKPIL) – UK operations 
 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
Royal Mail Estates Limited 
Royal Mail Investments Limited 
General Logistics Systems (GLS) – 
Other European operations 
 
 
 
 
GLS Germany GmbH & Co. OHG 
GLS France S.A.S. 
GLS Italy S.p.A. 
Other – UK operations 
Facilities management 
Design consultancy 
Catering services 
Romec Limited (51% owned subsidiary) 
NDC 2000 Limited (51% owned subsidiary) 
Quadrant Catering Ltd (51% owned associate) 
Royal Mail Group is structured on a geographic business unit basis and these business units report into the Chief Executive’s Committee and the 
Royal Mail Group Board. Each of these units have discrete revenue, costs, profit, cash flows, assets and people and therefore full and complete 
financial information is prepared and reviewed on a regular basis and compared with both historical and budget/forecast information as part of  
a rigorous performance management process. 
In addition to providing segmental disclosures for profit after taxation, consistent with the requirements of accounting standards and how the Group 
is managed, the information below also includes details of free cash flow and EBITDA before transformation costs. 
The majority of inter-segment revenue relates to the provision of facilities management and catering services to UKPIL. Trading between UKPIL and 
GLS is not material. 
Transfer prices between the segments are set on a basis of charges reached through commercial negotiation with the respective business units that 
form part of the segments.  
 
 
3. Segment information (continued) 
Reported 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue (external, as reported) 7,766 15 7,781  1,498 9,279 
Inter-segment revenue  – 148 148  –
1
 148 
Total segment revenue 7,766 163 7,929  1,498 9,427 
       
Operating profit before exceptional items 526 8 534  101 635 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items (195) – (195)  – (195) 
Operating profit after transformation costs before other 
operating exceptional items 331 8 339  101 440 
Other operating exceptional items (77) – (77)  – (77) 
Operating profit 254 8 262  101 363 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 – 4  – 4 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) 258 8 266  101 367 
Net finance costs  
not charged at this level 
(82)  5 (77) 
Net pension interest 34  – 34 
Profit before taxation 218  106 324 
Taxation 279  (33) 246 
Profit for the period after taxation 497  73 570 
Free cash flow 
not reported at this level 
309  25 334 
EBITDA before transformation costs 775 8 783  132 915 
 
Reported 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue (external, as reported) 7,189 13 7,202  1,562 8,764 
Inter-segment revenue  – 121 121  –
1
 121 
Total segment revenue 7,189 134 7,323  1,562 8,885 
       
Operating profit/(loss) before exceptional items 262 (9) 253  128 381 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items (229) – (229)  – (229) 
Operating profit after transformation costs before other 
operating exceptional items 33 (9) 24  128 152 
Other operating exceptional items (42) (15) (57)  – (57) 
Operating (loss)/profit (9) (24) (33)  128 95 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 156 – 156  – 156 
Profit on disposal of business – 25 25  1 26 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) 147 1 148  129 277 
Net finance costs  
not charged at this level 
(109)  9 (100) 
Net pension interest 24  – 24 
Profit before taxation 63  138 201 
Taxation (6)  (45) (51) 
Profit for the period after taxation 57  93 150 
Free cash flow  not reported at this level  90  64 154 
EBITDA before transformation costs 533 (12) 521  160 681 
1
 Trading between GLS and UKPIL is not material. 
65
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
3. Segment information (continued) 
Reported 52 weeks ended 27 March 2011 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue (external, as reported) 6,885 45 6,930  1,485 8,415 
Inter-segment revenue  – 135 135  –
1
 135 
Total segment revenue 6,885 180 7,065  1,485 8,550 
       
Operating profit before exceptional items 82 10 92  118 210 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items (192) – (192)  – (192) 
Operating (loss)/profit after transformation costs before other 
operating exceptional items (110) 10 (100)  118 18 
Other operating exceptional items (48) – (48)  – (48) 
Operating (loss)/profit (158) 10 (148)  118 (30) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 60 – 60  – 60 
Profit on disposal of business – 44 44  – 44 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) (98) 54 (44)  118 74 
Net finance costs  
not charged at this level 
(90)  6 (84) 
Net pension interest (155)  – (155) 
(Loss)/profit before taxation (289)  124 (165) 
Taxation (79)  (44) (123) 
(Loss)/profit for the period after taxation (368)  80 (288) 
Free cash flow  not reported at this level  (331)  85 (246) 
EBITDA before transformation costs 335 6 341  152 493 
1
 Trading between GLS and UKPIL is not material. 
Total expenditure for UK businesses in 2013 was £7,247 million (2012 £6,949 million, 2011 £6,838 million). 
The following amounts are included within operating profit before exceptional items: 
Reported 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation  210 1 211  27 238 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software) 39 – 39  4 43 
Share of post taxation profit from associates – 1 1  – 1 
 
Reported 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation  240 – 240  28 268 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software) 29 – 29  4 33 
Share of post taxation (loss)/profit from associates (2) 3 1  – 1 
 
66
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
3. Segment information (continued) 
Reported 52 weeks ended 27 March 2011 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Revenue (external, as reported) 6,885 45 6,930  1,485 8,415 
Inter-segment revenue  – 135 135  –
1
 135 
Total segment revenue 6,885 180 7,065  1,485 8,550 
       
Operating profit before exceptional items 82 10 92  118 210 
Transformation costs – operating exceptional items (192) – (192)  – (192) 
Operating (loss)/profit after transformation costs before other 
operating exceptional items (110) 10 (100)  118 18 
Other operating exceptional items (48) – (48)  – (48) 
Operating (loss)/profit (158) 10 (148)  118 (30) 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 60 – 60  – 60 
Profit on disposal of business – 44 44  – 44 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT) (98) 54 (44)  118 74 
Net finance costs  
not charged at this level 
(90)  6 (84) 
Net pension interest (155)  – (155) 
(Loss)/profit before taxation (289)  124 (165) 
Taxation (79)  (44) (123) 
(Loss)/profit for the period after taxation (368)  80 (288) 
Free cash flow  not reported at this level  (331)  85 (246) 
EBITDA before transformation costs 335 6 341  152 493 
1
 Trading between GLS and UKPIL is not material. 
Total expenditure for UK businesses in 2013 was £7,247 million (2012 £6,949 million, 2011 £6,838 million). 
The following amounts are included within operating profit before exceptional items: 
Reported 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation  210 1 211  27 238 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software) 39 – 39  4 43 
Share of post taxation profit from associates – 1 1  – 1 
 
Reported 52 weeks ended 25 March 2012 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation  240 – 240  28 268 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software) 29 – 29  4 33 
Share of post taxation (loss)/profit from associates (2) 3 1  – 1 
 
 
 
3. Segment information (continued) 
Reported 52 weeks ended 27 March 2011 UK operations  
Other 
European 
operations  
 
UK Parcels, 
International 
& Letters 
£m 
Other 
£m 
 
Total 
£m  
General 
Logistics 
Systems 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Depreciation  223 – 223  27 250 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software) 29 – 29  7 36 
Share of post taxation (loss)/profit from associates (1) 4 3  – 3 
 
4. Revenue  
A summary of Royal Mail Group revenue segmented by business unit and sub-divided by type i.e. parcels, letters and other, and marketing mail. 
 
 Reported 
Group revenue 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
UKPIL 7,766 7,189 6,885 
 Letters 3,652 3,485 3,504 
 Parcels 2,979 2,604 2,348 
 Marketing mail 1,135 1,100 1,033 
GLS     
Parcels 1,498 1,562 1,485 
Other 15 13 45 
Total 9,279 8,764 8,415 
    
Parcels 4,477 4,166 3,833 
Letters and other 3,667 3,498 3,549 
Marketing mail 1,135 1,100 1,033 
Total 9,279 8,764 8,415 
Within UKPIL, stamped, metered and other prepaid revenue channels are subject to statistical sampling surveys to derive the revenue relating to 
parcels, marketing mail and letters. These surveys are subject to continuous refinement, which may over time reallocate revenue between the 
products above and occasionally, prior period results may be restated. 
67
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
5. Operating exceptional items (transformation and non-transformation) 
These are non-recurring or restructuring costs which fall outside the Group’s normal trading activity and which in management’s view need to 
be disclosed separately to provide greater visibility of the trading results of the business. 
 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Transformation costs:    
Incentive payments:    
– Business transformation payments  (22) (87) (31) 
– ‘ColleagueShare’ – legacy share scheme release – – 101 
Restructuring costs:    
– Voluntary redundancy (78) (77) (223) 
– Project and property costs (95) (65) (27) 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – – (12) 
Total transformation costs (195) (229) (192) 
Other operating exceptional costs:    
Potential industrial diseases claims (28) (10) (30) 
Post Office Limited separation – IT costs  (20) – – 
Postal Services Act related costs (10) (24) (15) 
Other exceptional items (Romec transformation costs in 2011-12) 1 (16) – 
Impairments  (20) (7) (3) 
Total non-transformation costs (77) (57) (48) 
Total operating exceptional items (272) (286) (240) 
Business transformation payments represent payments linked to the achievement of key modernisation milestones, as part of the pay deal with the 
Communication Workers Union. 
The non-transformation related impairments of £20 million (2012 £7 million, 2011 £3 million) comprise £21 million (2012 £1 million,  
2011 £nil) relating to property, plant and equipment, a £1 million impairment reversal (2012 £3 million charge, 2011 £1 million charge) relating 
to intangible (software) assets and £nil (2012 £3 million, 2011 £2 million) in respect of the Group’s investment in its G3 Worldwide Mail N.V.  
(Spring) associate company. 
68
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
5. Operating exceptional items (transformation and non-transformation) 
These are non-recurring or restructuring costs which fall outside the Group’s normal trading activity and which in management’s view need to 
be disclosed separately to provide greater visibility of the trading results of the business. 
 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Transformation costs:    
Incentive payments:    
– Business transformation payments  (22) (87) (31) 
– ‘ColleagueShare’ – legacy share scheme release – – 101 
Restructuring costs:    
– Voluntary redundancy (78) (77) (223) 
– Project and property costs (95) (65) (27) 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment – – (12) 
Total transformation costs (195) (229) (192) 
Other operating exceptional costs:    
Potential industrial diseases claims (28) (10) (30) 
Post Office Limited separation – IT costs  (20) – – 
Postal Services Act related costs (10) (24) (15) 
Other exceptional items (Romec transformation costs in 2011-12) 1 (16) – 
Impairments  (20) (7) (3) 
Total non-transformation costs (77) (57) (48) 
Total operating exceptional items (272) (286) (240) 
Business transformation payments represent payments linked to the achievement of key modernisation milestones, as part of the pay deal with the 
Communication Workers Union. 
The non-transformation related impairments of £20 million (2012 £7 million, 2011 £3 million) comprise £21 million (2012 £1 million,  
2011 £nil) relating to property, plant and equipment, a £1 million impairment reversal (2012 £3 million charge, 2011 £1 million charge) relating 
to intangible (software) assets and £nil (2012 £3 million, 2011 £2 million) in respect of the Group’s investment in its G3 Worldwide Mail N.V.  
(Spring) associate company. 
 
 
6. Net finance costs and net debt 
This note provides details of:  
• Interest payable on loans and finance lease obligations and interest received from investments and loans. This analysis excludes net pension 
interest which is a non-cash item and is derived to comply with the requirements of the relevant accounting standard IAS 19; and 
• Net debt – a metric which shows the Group’s overall debt position, by netting the value of financial liabilities (excluding derivatives) against its 
cash and other liquid assets. The balance sheet on page 59 shows these items gross within the different categories of assets and liabilities. 
 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Unwinding of discount relating to ‘ColleagueShare’ legacy share scheme – – (6) 
Unwinding of discount relating to industrial diseases provision (1) (1) – 
Interest payable on financial liabilities (103) (111) (101) 
 Loans and borrowings (82) (91) (79) 
 Finance leases (13) (15) (12) 
 Unused facility fees (5) (2) (3) 
 Other facility fees (3) (3) (7) 
Finance costs (104) (112) (107) 
Release of gains held in equity on disposal of pension escrow gilts 22 – 6 
Other interest received on gilts and Treasury Bills – 4 9 
Interest receivable on other financial assets 5 8 3 
Interest receivable on VAT refund – – 5 
Finance income 27 12 23 
Net finance costs (excluding net pension interest) (77) (100) (84) 
A summary of the Group’s net debt position is shown below: 
 
 
 
 
 Balance sheet category 
At 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
At 
25 March 
2012 
£m 
At 
27 March 
2011 
£m 
Pension escrow investments Non-current assets 20 149 87 
Bank deposits Non-current assets – – 44 
Short-term deposits Current assets 1 31 1 
Cash and cash equivalents:     
– cash at bank and in hand Current assets 
136 172 100 
– cash equivalent investments: short-term bank and local authority 
deposits/money market fund investments Current assets 215 301 219 
Obligations under finance leases  Current liabilities (79) (86) (61) 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings  Non-current liabilities (973) (1,522) (1,478) 
Obligations under finance leases Non-current liabilities (226) (231) (184) 
Net debt  (906) (1,186) (1,272) 
 
69
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
6. Net finance costs and net debt (continued) 
As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, and hence the 
removal of the historic pension deficit, £149 million of investments – which were previously held in pension escrow in Royal Mail Group Limited – 
were released to the Company. These were subsequently sold and proceeds used to pay down loans to HM Government. 
On 25 March 2013, the Company placed £20 million in a money market fund investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail Senior 
Executives Pension Plan (RMSEPP) as part of a funding agreement with the RMSEPP Trustee. This is treated as an investment in the Group’s 
balance sheet. RMSEPP was closed to future accruals on 31 December 2012. 
The Company repaid £600 million of loans and borrowings from HM Government in 2012-13.  
Net debt has decreased overall by £280 million during 2012-13 and by £86 million during 2011-12 as shown below: 
 
 
 
 
At 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
At 
25 March 
2012 
£m 
Net debt brought forward at 26 March 2012 (1,186) (1,272) 
Free cash flow 334 
154 
Increase in value of pension escrow investments – 
14 
Increase in loans and borrowings (roll-up of interest on 12.0 per cent facility) (51) (45) 
Increase in new finance lease obligations (non-cash) (4) (33) 
Foreign currency exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 1 (4) 
Net debt carried forward at 31 March 2013 (906) (1,186) 
The table below shows the average interest bearing loans and borrowings and the interest payable and average interest rate on those loans  
and borrowings. 
 
 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
As 2011 
£m 
Average interest bearing loans and borrowings (972) (1,478) (1,283) 
Interest payable on interest bearing loans and borrowings (82) (91) (79) 
Average interest rate 8.4% 6.2% 6.2% 
During 2012-13 the Group was financed as follows: 
Purpose of loan/borrowing 
2013 
Average 
balance 
£m 
2013 
Average 
interest 
rate  
% 
Facility 
end date 
Facility 
£m 
Drawn  
balance at 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
Average loan 
maturity date 
GLS funding 500 5.8 2021-2025 500 500 2023 
General purpose/working capital (Senior Debt Facility) 48 2.0 2014 600 – – 
General purpose/working capital (Senior Debt Facility) – – 2014 300 – – 
General purpose/working capital (Shareholder Loan) 424 12.0 2016 473 473 2016 
Total facility/facilities utilised 972   1,873 973  
 
70
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
6. Net finance costs and net debt (continued) 
As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, and hence the 
removal of the historic pension deficit, £149 million of investments – which were previously held in pension escrow in Royal Mail Group Limited – 
were released to the Company. These were subsequently sold and proceeds used to pay down loans to HM Government. 
On 25 March 2013, the Company placed £20 million in a money market fund investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail Senior 
Executives Pension Plan (RMSEPP) as part of a funding agreement with the RMSEPP Trustee. This is treated as an investment in the Group’s 
balance sheet. RMSEPP was closed to future accruals on 31 December 2012. 
The Company repaid £600 million of loans and borrowings from HM Government in 2012-13.  
Net debt has decreased overall by £280 million during 2012-13 and by £86 million during 2011-12 as shown below: 
 
 
 
 
At 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
At 
25 March 
2012 
£m 
Net debt brought forward at 26 March 2012 (1,186) (1,272) 
Free cash flow 334 
154 
Increase in value of pension escrow investments – 
14 
Increase in loans and borrowings (roll-up of interest on 12.0 per cent facility) (51) (45) 
Increase in new finance lease obligations (non-cash) (4) (33) 
Foreign currency exchange impact on cash and cash equivalents 1 (4) 
Net debt carried forward at 31 March 2013 (906) (1,186) 
The table below shows the average interest bearing loans and borrowings and the interest payable and average interest rate on those loans  
and borrowings. 
 
 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
As 2011 
£m 
Average interest bearing loans and borrowings (972) (1,478) (1,283) 
Interest payable on interest bearing loans and borrowings (82) (91) (79) 
Average interest rate 8.4% 6.2% 6.2% 
During 2012-13 the Group was financed as follows: 
Purpose of loan/borrowing 
2013 
Average 
balance 
£m 
2013 
Average 
interest 
rate  
% 
Facility 
end date 
Facility 
£m 
Drawn  
balance at 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
Average loan 
maturity date 
GLS funding 500 5.8 2021-2025 500 500 2023 
General purpose/working capital (Senior Debt Facility) 48 2.0 2014 600 – – 
General purpose/working capital (Senior Debt Facility) – – 2014 300 – – 
General purpose/working capital (Shareholder Loan) 424 12.0 2016 473 473 2016 
Total facility/facilities utilised 972   1,873 973  
 
 
 
7. Taxation 
This disclosure provides details about taxation charges relating to current profit and deferred taxation movements for the impact of past events 
on expected future taxation liabilities. 
 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
(a) Taxation charged in the income statement    
Current income taxation    
UK corporation taxation  (11) 2 (2) 
Foreign taxation  (28) (36) (35) 
Current income taxation charge (39) (34) (37) 
Amounts over/(under) provided in earlier years 1 (2) 2 
Total current income taxation (38) (36) (35) 
Deferred taxation    
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 284 (15) (88) 
Taxation credit/(expense) in the consolidated income statement 246 (51) (123) 
 
(b) Taxation relating to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income    
Deferred taxation    
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension plans (188) – – 
Net gain/(loss) on revaluation of cash flow hedges 2 8 (4) 
Total (expense)/credit in the statement of other comprehensive income (186) 8 (4) 
 
(c) Reconciliation of the total taxation charge 
A reconciliation between the taxation charges and the product of accounting profit/(loss) multiplied by the UK rate of Corporation Taxation for the 
years ended 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Profit/(loss) before taxation 324 201 (165) 
    
At UK standard rate of Corporation Taxation of 24% (2012 26%, 2011 28%) (78) (52) 46 
Effect of higher taxes on overseas earnings (1) 1 3 
Taxation over/(under) provided in prior years 1 (2) 2 
Non-taxable income 6 45 29 
Non-deductible expenses (11) (13) (14) 
Associates’ profit after taxation charge included in Group pre-taxation profit – – 1 
Net decrease/(increase) in taxation charge resulting from recognition/(derecognition) of deferred 
taxation assets 329 (30) (191) 
Other – – 1 
Taxation credit/(charge) in the income statement 246 (51) (123) 
 
71
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
7. Taxation (continued) 
Deferred taxation relates to the following: 
 Balance sheet Income statement 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Liabilities       
Accelerated capital allowances – (1) (1) 1 – – 
Goodwill qualifying for taxation allowances (23) (17) (9) (6) (8) (5) 
Deferred taxation liabilities (23) (18) (10)    
Assets        
Deferred capital allowances 244 – 9 244 (9) 8 
Provisions and other 37 4 1 33 3 (29) 
Pensions temporary differences (222) – – (34) – (2) 
Losses available for offset against future taxable income 51 5 6 46 (1) (62) 
Hedging derivatives temporary differences 2 – (8) – – 2 
Deferred taxation assets 112 9 8    
       
Net deferred taxation asset/(liability) disclosed on the  
balance sheet 
89 (9) (2)    
       
Consolidated income statement    284 (15) (88) 
At 31 March 2013 the Group had unrecognised deferred taxation assets of £66 million (2012 £1,176 million, 2011 £1,610 million), comprising  
£nil (2012 £632 million, 2011 £1,132 million) relating to the retirement benefit obligation, £54 million (2012 £219 million, 2011 £206 million) 
relating to taxation losses that are available to offset against future taxable profits and £12 million (2012 £324 million, 2011 £273 million) relating 
to other temporary differences. The Group has capital losses carried forward, the taxation effect of which is £4 million (2012 £4 million, 2011 £nil) 
and temporary differences related to capital losses of £73 million (2012 £80 million, 2011 £91 million). The Group has rolled over capital gains of  
£53 million (2012 £59 million, 2011 £57 million); no taxation liability would be expected to crystallise should the assets into which the gains have 
been rolled be sold at their residual value, as it is anticipated that a capital loss would arise.  
The Finance Act 2012 reduced the main rate of corporation taxation to 23 per cent with effect from 1 April 2013. The effect of this change on 
deferred tax balances is included in these financial statements as detailed above. In the 2012 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor of the Exchequer 
announced that the main rate of corporation taxation will be 21 per cent for the year commencing 1 April 2014 and in the March 2013 budget he 
announced that the rate will be further reduced to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015. It is anticipated that both of these rate changes will be 
included in the Finance Bill 2013. In accordance with accounting standards, the effect of these rate reductions on deferred taxation balances has not 
been reflected in these accounts due to the relevant legislation not having been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A reduction of 20 
per cent would, based on losses and temporary differences at 31 March 2013, reduce the Group’s recognised deferred taxation assets by £14 million 
and reduce unrecognised deferred taxation assets by £4 million. 
Under the Postal Services Act 2011, trading losses which arose due to employer’s pension contributions paid which are unused at 31 March 2013 
are extinguished. The gross amount of losses extinguished is estimated to be £250 million. Losses and deferred taxation assets carried forward are 
stated above, net of the extinguished amount. 
Royal Mail Group Limited is committed to paying taxation in accordance with all relevant laws and regulations in the territories in which it operates. 
72
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
7. Taxation (continued) 
Deferred taxation relates to the following: 
 Balance sheet Income statement 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Liabilities       
Accelerated capital allowances – (1) (1) 1 – – 
Goodwill qualifying for taxation allowances (23) (17) (9) (6) (8) (5) 
Deferred taxation liabilities (23) (18) (10)    
Assets        
Deferred capital allowances 244 – 9 244 (9) 8 
Provisions and other 37 4 1 33 3 (29) 
Pensions temporary differences (222) – – (34) – (2) 
Losses available for offset against future taxable income 51 5 6 46 (1) (62) 
Hedging derivatives temporary differences 2 – (8) – – 2 
Deferred taxation assets 112 9 8    
       
Net deferred taxation asset/(liability) disclosed on the  
balance sheet 
89 (9) (2)    
       
Consolidated income statement    284 (15) (88) 
At 31 March 2013 the Group had unrecognised deferred taxation assets of £66 million (2012 £1,176 million, 2011 £1,610 million), comprising  
£nil (2012 £632 million, 2011 £1,132 million) relating to the retirement benefit obligation, £54 million (2012 £219 million, 2011 £206 million) 
relating to taxation losses that are available to offset against future taxable profits and £12 million (2012 £324 million, 2011 £273 million) relating 
to other temporary differences. The Group has capital losses carried forward, the taxation effect of which is £4 million (2012 £4 million, 2011 £nil) 
and temporary differences related to capital losses of £73 million (2012 £80 million, 2011 £91 million). The Group has rolled over capital gains of  
£53 million (2012 £59 million, 2011 £57 million); no taxation liability would be expected to crystallise should the assets into which the gains have 
been rolled be sold at their residual value, as it is anticipated that a capital loss would arise.  
The Finance Act 2012 reduced the main rate of corporation taxation to 23 per cent with effect from 1 April 2013. The effect of this change on 
deferred tax balances is included in these financial statements as detailed above. In the 2012 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor of the Exchequer 
announced that the main rate of corporation taxation will be 21 per cent for the year commencing 1 April 2014 and in the March 2013 budget he 
announced that the rate will be further reduced to 20 per cent with effect from 1 April 2015. It is anticipated that both of these rate changes will be 
included in the Finance Bill 2013. In accordance with accounting standards, the effect of these rate reductions on deferred taxation balances has not 
been reflected in these accounts due to the relevant legislation not having been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A reduction of 20 
per cent would, based on losses and temporary differences at 31 March 2013, reduce the Group’s recognised deferred taxation assets by £14 million 
and reduce unrecognised deferred taxation assets by £4 million. 
Under the Postal Services Act 2011, trading losses which arose due to employer’s pension contributions paid which are unused at 31 March 2013 
are extinguished. The gross amount of losses extinguished is estimated to be £250 million. Losses and deferred taxation assets carried forward are 
stated above, net of the extinguished amount. 
Royal Mail Group Limited is committed to paying taxation in accordance with all relevant laws and regulations in the territories in which it operates. 
 
 
8. Cash flow information 
Royal Mail uses free cash flow to monitor and manage its cash performance. This measure eliminates inflows/outflows between net debt items 
(see note 6) and includes finance cash costs paid.   
A reconciliation of ‘net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities’ in the consolidated statement of cash flows on page 58 to ‘free cash 
inflow/(outflow) as used internally by management’ is included below. 
 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
EBITDA before exceptional items (see page 58) 915 681 493 
Working capital 142 (19) (58) 
Other UK pension – ongoing – difference between profit and loss and cash flow rates (note 9) 25 (1) 15 
    – deficit correction payments (28) (8) (278) 
    – pension costs relating to redundancy – (36) (29) 
Total investment costs (665) (579) (555) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL – voluntary redundancy (75) (129) (110) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL – business transformation payments/bonus (55) (60) (95) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL – capital expenditure (177) (185) (166) 
 Transformation investment in UKPIL – one-off project costs (100) (55) (8) 
 Total transformation investment (407) (429) (379) 
 Other non-transformation spend (IT (incl. software), GLS and business as usual UKPIL spend) (258) (150) (176) 
Other exceptional items: (26) (37) (5) 
 Postal Services Act related payments (21) (16) (5) 
 Romec Enterprise project – (15) – 
 Industrial diseases claims (1) (3) – 
 Other (4) (3) – 
Other: (81) (87) (59) 
 Taxation paid (37) (35) (36) 
 Net finance costs paid (44) (56) (32) 
 Dividends from associates – 4 9 
    
Cash inflow/(outflow) before disposal of assets and non-core business 282 (86) (476) 
Disposal of property and non-core business 52 240 230 
Free cash inflow/(outflow) as used internally by management 334 154 (246) 
The transformation programme commenced in 2006-07, for which the cumulative spend is shown below: 
 
At 
31 March 
2013 
£m 
Capital expenditure (1,093) 
Redundancy (875) 
Incentive payments (515) 
Project and property costs 
(312) 
Total cumulative transformation spend 
(2,795) 
 
 
 
73
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
8. Cash flow information (continued) 
The following analysis provides a reconciliation of ‘net cash inflow before financing activities’ in the statement of cash flows (see page 58) and free 
cash flow as used internally by management. 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities in the statement of cash flows 542 188 (104) 
Net (sale)/purchase of gilts and Treasury bills (financial asset investments – non-current) (129) 4 (88) 
Net (sale)/purchase of bank deposits (financial asset investments – current) (30) 30 – 
Finance costs paid (49) (68) (54) 
Free cash inflow/(outflow)  334 154 (246) 
 
 
 
74
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
8. Cash flow information (continued) 
The following analysis provides a reconciliation of ‘net cash inflow before financing activities’ in the statement of cash flows (see page 58) and free 
cash flow as used internally by management. 
 Reported 
 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing activities in the statement of cash flows 542 188 (104) 
Net (sale)/purchase of gilts and Treasury bills (financial asset investments – non-current) (129) 4 (88) 
Net (sale)/purchase of bank deposits (financial asset investments – current) (30) 30 – 
Finance costs paid (49) (68) (54) 
Free cash inflow/(outflow)  334 154 (246) 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions 
For a number of years the Group has reported a significant defined benefit pension obligation on its balance sheet, which exceeded its other  
net assets.  
At 31 March 2013, a pension asset of £825 million has been recognised compared with a £2,716 million pension obligation at 25 March 2012. 
This is because the majority of pension liabilities and assets were transferred to HM Government in the first week of the financial year  
on 1 April 2012, leaving the Group’s main defined benefit scheme fully funded at that date. 
 
 Reported 
Summary pension financial information 
53 weeks 
2013 
£m 
52 weeks 
2012 
£m 
52 weeks 
2011 
£m 
Pension costs:    
Ongoing:     
- UK defined benefit scheme (P&L rates 18.2%, 17.1%, 17.8%) (412) (384) (423) 
- UK defined contribution scheme (17) (11) (9) 
Total UK ongoing pension costs (429) (395) (432) 
Total GLS defined contribution type scheme costs (5) (5) (5) 
Total Group ongoing pension costs (434) (400) (437) 
Difference between profit and loss and cash flow rates (cash flow rates 17.1% for all three years) 25 (1) 15 
Total Group pension cash flows relating to ongoing pension costs (409) (401) (422) 
UK defined benefit scheme - active membership at 31 March 112,000 116,000 121,000 
Background 
Royal Mail Group had one of the largest defined benefit pension schemes in the UK (based on membership and assets), called the Royal Mail Pension 
Plan (RMPP), and for a number of years the Company: 
i) made significant pension deficit cash contributions on top of its ongoing pension costs; and 
ii) recognised a pension deficit on its balance sheet which has ranged from £2.7 billion to £7.5 billion. 
This meant the Company faced issues with respect to Going Concern, it was balance sheet insolvent and it carried material pension risk and volatility.  
To address this historic legacy issue, the Postal Services Act, passed in June 2011, proposed to transfer the majority of pension assets and liabilities 
to HM Government. In order to achieve this, HM Government had to seek State Aid approval from the European Commission and made its 
application in the summer of 2011.   
At 25 March 2012, a defined pension obligation of £2,716 million was reported in the balance sheet.   
Transfer of pension liabilities/assets to HM Government 
On 1 April 2012 (one week into the 2012-13 financial year) – after the granting of State Aid approval by the European Commission to  
HM Government on 21 March 2012 – almost all of the pension liabilities and pension assets of RMPP, built up until 31 March 2012, were 
transferred to a new Government pension scheme, the Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme (RMSPS).  
On this date, RMPP was also sectionalised, with Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited each responsible for their own sections from  
1 April 2012 onwards.   
The transfer left the RMPP fully funded on an actuarial basis. This means that using long-term actuarial assumptions agreed at that date,  
it was predicted the Company would have to make no further deficit cash contributions. 
75
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The total (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) liabilities transferred of £41.0 billion comprise: 
i) all liabilities relating to deferred members or pensioners on 1 April 2012; and 
ii) for the liabilities of active members currently employed on 1 April 2012: 
– benefits accrued under the final salary arrangements to 31 March 2008 (based on number of years in scheme and respective salary  
at 1 April 2012). The RMSPS rules increase this final salary benefit by RPI
2
 each year for active membership; and 
– benefits accrued under the career average salary arrangements from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2012, assuming an RPI
2
 future increase.  
The total assets (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) transferred were £28.5 billion, leaving £2.2 billion with the RMPP Trustee to match the 
liabilities (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) relating to the final salary benefit for active members (at 1 April 2012) that the Government did 
not take on. These remaining liabilities relate to the difference in increases to the final salary benefit that the RMSPS provides for (at RPI) and the 
RMPP Trustee assumes (at RPI + 1%
3
). 
Therefore, the Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited retained the liability for each year of future service under the career average salary 
arrangements and the following risk for active members only: 
i) liability for salary growth above RPI (increases up to 1% above RPI are covered by the £2.2 billion funding described above); 
ii) changes in future long-term economic assumptions (e.g. interest rates, RPI/CPI);  
iii) changes in future long-term demographic assumptions (e.g. mortality);  
iv) changes in market assumptions (returns on assets, gilt yields, etc.); and 
v) all existing aspects relating to the RMSEPP scheme (the Company closed this plan to future accruals on 31 December 2012). 
All other financial information other than in this note relates to the amounts that have been sectionalised to Royal Mail Group. 
Application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
Applying IFRS in the accounting valuation of the defined benefit position at 31 March 2013 resulted in the recognition of an accounting pension 
surplus of £825 million, compared with an obligation of £2,716 million at 25 March 2012. The £825 million comprises pension assets of £3,343 
million, less pension liabilities of £2,513 million adjusted as required by IFRIC 14 in respect of RMSEPP by £5 million. 
Why the accounting position is different to the funding (actuarial) position 
On an actuarial basis at 31 March 2013, the pension actuarial deficit was £162 million on an estimated rolled forward basis (formal valuations are 
part of the triennial review). The funding requirements, a mutual agreement between the Company and the Pension Trustees, are normally set every 
three years, with the last agreement dating back to 2010 for the March 2009 valuation. The long-term assumptions used for funding by the Pension 
Trustees are generally more conservative than those that must be used under IFRS. 
As noted in the financial review, the Company has reached an agreement with the RMSEPP Trustee on their cash contribution requirements. The 
Group and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements and, at the date of this report, no new assumptions 
have been agreed. 
Defined benefit 
RMPP is funded by the payment of contributions to separate trustee administered funds. RMPP includes sections A, B and C, each with different 
terms and conditions: 
• Section A is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined before 1 December 1971; 
• Section B is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined on or after 1 December 1971 and before 1 April 1987 or to members of 
Section A who chose to receive Section B benefits; and 
• Section C is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined on or after 1 April 1987 and before 1 April 2008. 
The regular future service contribution rate for RMPP, expressed as a percentage of pensionable pay, remained at 17.1 per cent (2012 and 2011 
17.1 per cent), effective from April 2010. The Company is currently in discussion with the Plan Trustee regarding the March 2012 actuarial valuation, 
and the contribution rate required to provide future benefit accrual. A conclusion to these discussions is expected by September 2013. Following the 
State Aid clearance granted on 21 March 2012, and the subsequent transfer of almost all of the RMPP assets and liabilities to HM Government on  
1 April 2012, no RMPP deficit payment was made during the year.  
2
 Section C members (who joined RMPP on or after April 1987) have this increase capped at five per cent. 
3
 RPI + 1% has been used by the RMPP Trustee in the valuation which was agreed in 2010 because it reflected long-term historical actual pay increases. 
76
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The total (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) liabilities transferred of £41.0 billion comprise: 
i) all liabilities relating to deferred members or pensioners on 1 April 2012; and 
ii) for the liabilities of active members currently employed on 1 April 2012: 
– benefits accrued under the final salary arrangements to 31 March 2008 (based on number of years in scheme and respective salary  
at 1 April 2012). The RMSPS rules increase this final salary benefit by RPI
2
 each year for active membership; and 
– benefits accrued under the career average salary arrangements from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2012, assuming an RPI
2
 future increase.  
The total assets (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) transferred were £28.5 billion, leaving £2.2 billion with the RMPP Trustee to match the 
liabilities (Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited) relating to the final salary benefit for active members (at 1 April 2012) that the Government did 
not take on. These remaining liabilities relate to the difference in increases to the final salary benefit that the RMSPS provides for (at RPI) and the 
RMPP Trustee assumes (at RPI + 1%
3
). 
Therefore, the Royal Mail Group and Post Office Limited retained the liability for each year of future service under the career average salary 
arrangements and the following risk for active members only: 
i) liability for salary growth above RPI (increases up to 1% above RPI are covered by the £2.2 billion funding described above); 
ii) changes in future long-term economic assumptions (e.g. interest rates, RPI/CPI);  
iii) changes in future long-term demographic assumptions (e.g. mortality);  
iv) changes in market assumptions (returns on assets, gilt yields, etc.); and 
v) all existing aspects relating to the RMSEPP scheme (the Company closed this plan to future accruals on 31 December 2012). 
All other financial information other than in this note relates to the amounts that have been sectionalised to Royal Mail Group. 
Application of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 
Applying IFRS in the accounting valuation of the defined benefit position at 31 March 2013 resulted in the recognition of an accounting pension 
surplus of £825 million, compared with an obligation of £2,716 million at 25 March 2012. The £825 million comprises pension assets of £3,343 
million, less pension liabilities of £2,513 million adjusted as required by IFRIC 14 in respect of RMSEPP by £5 million. 
Why the accounting position is different to the funding (actuarial) position 
On an actuarial basis at 31 March 2013, the pension actuarial deficit was £162 million on an estimated rolled forward basis (formal valuations are 
part of the triennial review). The funding requirements, a mutual agreement between the Company and the Pension Trustees, are normally set every 
three years, with the last agreement dating back to 2010 for the March 2009 valuation. The long-term assumptions used for funding by the Pension 
Trustees are generally more conservative than those that must be used under IFRS. 
As noted in the financial review, the Company has reached an agreement with the RMSEPP Trustee on their cash contribution requirements. The 
Group and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements and, at the date of this report, no new assumptions 
have been agreed. 
Defined benefit 
RMPP is funded by the payment of contributions to separate trustee administered funds. RMPP includes sections A, B and C, each with different 
terms and conditions: 
• Section A is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined before 1 December 1971; 
• Section B is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined on or after 1 December 1971 and before 1 April 1987 or to members of 
Section A who chose to receive Section B benefits; and 
• Section C is for members (or beneficiaries of members) who joined on or after 1 April 1987 and before 1 April 2008. 
The regular future service contribution rate for RMPP, expressed as a percentage of pensionable pay, remained at 17.1 per cent (2012 and 2011 
17.1 per cent), effective from April 2010. The Company is currently in discussion with the Plan Trustee regarding the March 2012 actuarial valuation, 
and the contribution rate required to provide future benefit accrual. A conclusion to these discussions is expected by September 2013. Following the 
State Aid clearance granted on 21 March 2012, and the subsequent transfer of almost all of the RMPP assets and liabilities to HM Government on  
1 April 2012, no RMPP deficit payment was made during the year.  
2
 Section C members (who joined RMPP on or after April 1987) have this increase capped at five per cent. 
3
 RPI + 1% has been used by the RMPP Trustee in the valuation which was agreed in 2010 because it reflected long-term historical actual pay increases. 
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
For RMSEPP, regular future service contributions remained at 35.9 per cent (2012 and 2011 35.9 per cent) until 31 December 2012 when this 
Plan closed to future accruals. Deficit recovery payments were £28 million (including a special one-off payment of £19 million) (2012 £8 million, 
2011 £6 million). The Company and the Trustee have reached agreement over the March 2012 actuarial valuation. As the Plan is closed to future 
accruals there will be no regular future service contributions, but the Company will continue to make deficit payments of £10 million p.a. 
A liability of £1 million (2012 and 2011 £1 million) has been recognised for future payment of pension benefits to a past Director  
(see page 51 of the Directors’ remuneration report). 
a) Major long-term assumptions used for accounting purposes – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The major assumptions were: 
 
At 31 March  
2013 
% pa 
At 25 March  
2012 
% pa 
At 27 March  
2011 
% pa 
Inflation assumption (RPI) 3.3 3.3 3.5 
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.3 2.3 2.8 
Discount rate – nominal 4.8 5.1 5.5 
 – real
4
 1.5 1.8 2.0 
Rate of increase in salaries RPI + 1% RPI + 1% RPI + 1% 
Rate of increase for deferred pensions – RMSEPP members transferred from  
Section A or B of RMPP RPI RPI RPI 
Rate of increase for deferred pensions – all other members CPI CPI CPI 
Rate of pension increases – RMPP Sections A/B CPI CPI CPI 
Rate of pension increases – RMPP Section C
5
 RPI RPI RPI 
Rate of pension increases – RMSEPP all members RPI RPI RPI 
Expected average rate of return on assets n/a
6
 5.9 6.5 
4 
The real discount rate selected reflects the long duration of the schemes. 
5 
Section C members (who joined RMPP on or after April 1987) have this increase capped at five per cent, which results in the average long-term pension increase assumption being 10 basis 
points lower than the RPI long-term assumption at 31 March 2013 (prior two years - this reduction did not apply). 
6 
In accordance with the 2011 revision of IAS 19, which applies for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the historic expected return on assets assumption is no longer 
required to determine the 2013-14 expense. 
Mortality 
The mortality assumptions for the larger plan are based on the latest Self Administered Pension Scheme (SAPS) mortality tables with appropriate 
scaling factors (106 per cent for male pensioners and 101 per cent for female pensioners). For future improvements the assumptions allow for 
‘medium cohort’ projections with a 1.25 per cent floor. These are detailed below: 
Average expected life expectancy from age 60: 
 2013 2012 2011 
For a current 60 year old male RMPP member 26 years 26 years 26 years 
For a current 60 year old female RMPP member 29 years 29 years 29 years 
For a current 40 year old male RMPP member 29 years 29 years 29 years 
For a current 40 year old female RMPP member 32 years 32 years 32 years 
77
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The Company and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements, and this could materially change the pension 
costs and balance sheet amounts that are reported in future financial statements.  
The following disclosures relate to the gains/losses and surplus/deficit in the schemes recognised for the RMPP and RMSEPP defined benefit plans in 
the financial statements of the Group: 
The real discount rate has decreased to 1.5 per cent since March 2012 when it was 1.8 per cent (March 2011 2.0 per cent).  
Demographic assumptions, for example mortality, remain unchanged from those made in March 2012 and March 2011. 
The following table shows the potential impact on the RMPP liabilities and pension deficit of changes in key assumptions: 
 
b) Plans’ assets and expected rates of return and deficit calculation – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The assets in the plans and the expected rates of return were: 
6 
In accordance with the 2011 revision of IAS 19, which applies for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the historic expected return on assets assumption is no longer 
required to determine the 2013-14 expense. 
There is no element of the present value of Plans’ liabilities above, that arises from plans that are wholly unfunded.  
Included within the pension assets are £1.4 billion (2012 £11.6 billion, 2011 £7.8 billion) of HM Government Bonds.
  
 
  
Long-term expected rate 
of return 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
% pa 
2012 
% pa 
2011 
% pa 
Equities 558 3,151 3,971  n/a
6
 7.7 8.2 
Bonds 2,479 23,600 19,812  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Property 218 1,319 1,480  n/a
6
 6.8 6.5 
Cash/other 88 310 389  n/a
6
 3.4 4.2 
Derivatives – 236 110  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Fair value of plans’ assets 3,343 28,616 25,762     
Present value of plans’ liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947)     
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185)     
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The Company and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements, and this could materially change the pension 
costs and balance sheet amounts that are reported in future financial statements.  
The following disclosures relate to the gains/losses and surplus/deficit in the schemes recognised for the RMPP and RMSEPP defined benefit plans in 
the financial statements of the Group: 
The real discount rate has decreased to 1.5 per cent since March 2012 when it was 1.8 per cent (March 2011 2.0 per cent).  
Demographic assumptions, for example mortality, remain unchanged from those made in March 2012 and March 2011. 
The following table shows the potential impact on the RMPP liabilities and pension deficit of changes in key assumptions: 
 
b) Plans’ assets and expected rates of return and deficit calculation – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The assets in the plans and the expected rates of return were: 
6 
In accordance with the 2011 revision of IAS 19, which applies for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the historic expected return on assets assumption is no longer 
required to determine the 2013-14 expense. 
There is no element of the present value of Plans’ liabilities above, that arises from plans that are wholly unfunded.  
Included within the pension assets are £1.4 billion (2012 £11.6 billion, 2011 £7.8 billion) of HM Government Bonds.
  
 
  
Long-term expected rate 
of return 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
% pa 
2012 
% pa 
2011 
% pa 
Equities 558 3,151 3,971  n/a
6
 7.7 8.2 
Bonds 2,479 23,600 19,812  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Property 218 1,319 1,480  n/a
6
 6.8 6.5 
Cash/other 88 310 389  n/a
6
 3.4 4.2 
Derivatives – 236 110  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Fair value of plans’ assets 3,343 28,616 25,762     
Present value of plans’ liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947)     
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185)     
78
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)
expectancy
 1 year life 
An additional
of +0.1% pa
assumptions 
CPI 
Change in 
+0.5% pa
growth of 
real salary 
Change in 
of -0.1% pa
discount rate 
Change in 
+0.1% pa
increases of 
pension 
Change in 
Sensitivity analysis on RMPP liabilities
£m
 
60 60
20
50
720  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The Company and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements, and this could materially change the pension 
costs and balance sheet amounts that are reported in future financial statements.  
The following disclosures relate to the gains/losses and surplus/deficit in the schemes recognised for the RMPP and RMSEPP defined benefit plans in 
the financial statements of the Group: 
The real discount rate has decreased to 1.5 per cent since March 2012 when it was 1.8 per cent (March 2011 2.0 per cent).  
Demographic assumptions, for example mortality, remain unchanged from those made in March 2012 and March 2011. 
The following table shows the potential impact on the RMPP liabilities and pension deficit of changes in key assumptions: 
 
b) Plans’ assets and expected rates of return and deficit calculation – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The assets in the plans and the expected rates of return were: 
6 
In accordance with the 2011 revision of IAS 19, which applies for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the historic expected return on assets assumption is no longer 
required to determine the 2013-14 expense. 
There is no element of the present value of Plans’ liabilities above, that arises from plans that are wholly unfunded.  
Included within the pension assets are £1.4 billion (2012 £11.6 billion, 2011 £7.8 billion) of HM Government Bonds.
  
 
  
Long-term expected rate 
of return 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
% pa 
2012 
% pa 
2011 
% pa 
Equities 558 3,151 3,971  n/a
6
 7.7 8.2 
Bonds 2,479 23,600 19,812  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Property 218 1,319 1,480  n/a
6
 6.8 6.5 
Cash/other 88 310 389  n/a
6
 3.4 4.2 
Derivatives – 236 110  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Fair value of plans’ assets 3,343 28,616 25,762     
Present value of plans’ liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947)     
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185)     
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
c) Plans’ assets and liabilities  
The combined plans’ assets and liabilities were: 
 Market value 
 
At 31 March 
2013 
£m 
At 25 March 
2012 
£m 
At 27 March 
2011 
£m 
Fair value of plans’ assets 3,343 28,616 25,762 
Present value of plans’ liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947) 
Surplus/(deficit) in schemes (pre IFRIC 14 adjustment) 830 (2,716) (4,185) 
IFRIC 14 adjustment (5) – – 
Surplus/(deficit) in schemes 825 (2,716) (4,185) 
The surplus in the RMSEPP is assumed to be available as a refund as per IFRIC 14 and, as such, is shown net of withholding taxation. 
The surplus in RMPP is assumed to be available as a reduction to contributions and this future benefit is recognised within the net deferred taxation 
asset. Therefore, no IFRIC 14 adjustment is required. The Directors do not believe that the current excess of pension scheme assets over the liabilities 
on an accounting basis will result in an excess of pension assets on a funding basis. However, the Directors are required to account for the pension 
scheme, based on their legal right to benefit from a surplus, using long-term actuarial assumptions current at the reporting date, as required  
by IFRS. 
There were no open equity derivatives within this portfolio at 31 March 2013. 
The RMPP Trustee has elected to use interest rate and inflation rate swaps (‘derivatives’) to deliver the investment strategy whilst managing risk as 
described below. These derivatives are recorded at market value within the table on the previous page and are commonly used by pension funds. 
The interest rate and inflation rate swaps are used to hedge the exposure to movements in interest rates and inflation (which are key, long-term 
assumptions used to estimate future pension liabilities). The economic exposure of these swaps held in a specific managed portfolio for this purpose 
at 31 March 2013 is £1.53 billion (March 2012 £9.9 billion, March 2011 £6.6 billion). 
The investment strategy of the RMPP Trustee aims to safeguard the assets of the RMPP and to provide, together with contributions, the financial 
resource from which benefits are paid. Investment is inevitably exposed to risks. The investment risks inherent in the investment markets are partially 
mitigated by pursuing a widely diversified approach across asset classes and investment managers. The RMPP Trustee recognises that there is a 
natural conflict between improving the potential for positive return and limiting the potential for poor return. The RMPP Trustee has specified 
objectives for the investment policy that balance these requirements.  
The spread of investments continues to balance security and growth in order to pay the RMPP benefits when they become due. An actuarial 
valuation will be undertaken at 31 March 2012 and the Trustee will seek to agree funding arrangements with the Company. As part of this exercise 
the RMPP Trustee will be undertaking a full investment strategy review. On conclusion of the review, the RMPP’s Statement of Investment Principles 
will be reviewed and updated.  
d) Movement in Plans’ assets and liabilities 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Opening net retirement benefit deficit at 26 March 2012, 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 (2,716) (4,185) (7,477) 
Increase in value of pension assets 26-31 March 2012
7
 
(Actuarial gain) 224 – – 
Increase in value of pension liabilities 26-31 March 2012
7
 
(Actuarial loss) (652) – – 
Transfer of historic pension deficit to HM Government
7
 3,726 – – 
Net retirement benefit surplus/(deficit) at 1 April 2012, 28 March 2011 and  
29 March 2010 582 (4,185) (7,477) 
Current service cost (see section (g) on page 81) (412) (384) (423) 
Movement in Company contributions accrued (2) (5) 4 
Curtailment costs (17) (31) (33) 
Net pension interest credit/(charge) (see section (g) on page 81) 34 24 (155) 
Employer’s contributions 435 429 715 
Actuarial gains 1 April 2012 – 31 March 2013, 28 March 2011 – 25 March 2012 and  
29 March 2010 – 27 March 2011
7
 210 1,436 3,184 
Closing net retirement benefit surplus/(deficit) (pre IFRIC 14 adjustment) 830 (2,716) (4,185) 
7 
Taken directly to equity. 
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
The Company and the RMPP Trustee are currently in discussion about the future funding requirements, and this could materially change the pension 
costs and balance sheet amounts that are reported in future financial statements.  
The following disclosures relate to the gains/losses and surplus/deficit in the schemes recognised for the RMPP and RMSEPP defined benefit plans in 
the financial statements of the Group: 
The real discount rate has decreased to 1.5 per cent since March 2012 when it was 1.8 per cent (March 2011 2.0 per cent).  
Demographic assumptions, for example mortality, remain unchanged from those made in March 2012 and March 2011. 
The following table shows the potential impact on the RMPP liabilities and pension deficit of changes in key assumptions: 
 
b) Plans’ assets and expected rates of return and deficit calculation – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The assets in the plans and the expected rates of return were: 
6 
In accordance with the 2011 revision of IAS 19, which applies for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, the historic expected return on assets assumption is no longer 
required to determine the 2013-14 expense. 
There is no element of the present value of Plans’ liabilities above, that arises from plans that are wholly unfunded.  
Included within the pension assets are £1.4 billion (2012 £11.6 billion, 2011 £7.8 billion) of HM Government Bonds.
  
 
  
Long-term expected rate 
of return 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
% pa 
2012 
% pa 
2011 
% pa 
Equities 558 3,151 3,971  n/a
6
 7.7 8.2 
Bonds 2,479 23,600 19,812  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Property 218 1,319 1,480  n/a
6
 6.8 6.5 
Cash/other 88 310 389  n/a
6
 3.4 4.2 
Derivatives – 236 110  n/a
6
 5.7 6.2 
Fair value of plans’ assets 3,343 28,616 25,762     
Present value of plans’ liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947)     
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185)     
79
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
e) Movement in plans’ assets and liabilities – RMPP and RMSEPP 
Changes in the value of the plans’ assets and analysis is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Plans’ assets at beginning of period 28,616 25,762 24,017 
Increase in value of pension assets 26-31 March 2012 224 – – 
Transfer of pension assets to HM Government (26,485) – – 
Company contributions paid 435 429 715 
Employee contributions paid 136 134 141 
Movement in Company contributions accrued (2) (5) 4 
Finance income (expected rate of return) 163 1,651 1,594 
Actuarial gains (additional increase in market values) 273 1,738 437 
Benefits paid to members (17) (1,093) (1,146) 
Plans’ assets at end of period 3,343 28,616 25,762 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Plans’ liabilities at beginning of period (31,332) (29,947) (31,494) 
Increase in value of pension liabilities 26-31 March 2012 (652) – – 
Transfer of pension liabilities to HM Government 30,211 – – 
Current service cost (412) (384) (423) 
Employee contributions  (136) (134) (141) 
Curtailment costs
8
 (17) (31) (33) 
Finance cost (129) (1,627) (1,749) 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (recognised in statement of comprehensive income) (63) (302) 2,747 
Benefits paid 17 1,093 1,146 
Plans’ liabilities at end of period (2,513) (31,332) (29,947) 
8 
The curtailment costs in the income statement are recognised on a consistent basis with the associated compensation costs. Estimates of both are included, for example, in any redundancy 
provisions raised. The curtailment costs above represent the costs associated with those people paid compensation in respect of redundancy during the accounting period. Such payments may 
occur in an accounting period subsequent to the recognition of costs in the income statement. 
f) History of experience gains and losses – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since transition to IFRSs at 29 March 2004 in the statement of comprehensive 
income is a £212 million gain (2012 £430 million gain, 2011 £1,006 million loss). 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Fair value of assets 3,343 28,616 25,762 24,017 18,670 
Present value of liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947) (31,494) (24,971) 
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185) (7,477) (6,301) 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Experience adjustment on assets 497 1,738 437 4,156 (5,097) 
Experience adjustment on liabilities 101 (5) (7) 626 (9) 
This disclosure is in accordance with IAS 19. 
80
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
e) Movement in plans’ assets and liabilities – RMPP and RMSEPP 
Changes in the value of the plans’ assets and analysis is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Plans’ assets at beginning of period 28,616 25,762 24,017 
Increase in value of pension assets 26-31 March 2012 224 – – 
Transfer of pension assets to HM Government (26,485) – – 
Company contributions paid 435 429 715 
Employee contributions paid 136 134 141 
Movement in Company contributions accrued (2) (5) 4 
Finance income (expected rate of return) 163 1,651 1,594 
Actuarial gains (additional increase in market values) 273 1,738 437 
Benefits paid to members (17) (1,093) (1,146) 
Plans’ assets at end of period 3,343 28,616 25,762 
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations are analysed as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Plans’ liabilities at beginning of period (31,332) (29,947) (31,494) 
Increase in value of pension liabilities 26-31 March 2012 (652) – – 
Transfer of pension liabilities to HM Government 30,211 – – 
Current service cost (412) (384) (423) 
Employee contributions  (136) (134) (141) 
Curtailment costs
8
 (17) (31) (33) 
Finance cost (129) (1,627) (1,749) 
Actuarial (losses)/gains (recognised in statement of comprehensive income) (63) (302) 2,747 
Benefits paid 17 1,093 1,146 
Plans’ liabilities at end of period (2,513) (31,332) (29,947) 
8 
The curtailment costs in the income statement are recognised on a consistent basis with the associated compensation costs. Estimates of both are included, for example, in any redundancy 
provisions raised. The curtailment costs above represent the costs associated with those people paid compensation in respect of redundancy during the accounting period. Such payments may 
occur in an accounting period subsequent to the recognition of costs in the income statement. 
f) History of experience gains and losses – RMPP and RMSEPP 
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since transition to IFRSs at 29 March 2004 in the statement of comprehensive 
income is a £212 million gain (2012 £430 million gain, 2011 £1,006 million loss). 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Fair value of assets 3,343 28,616 25,762 24,017 18,670 
Present value of liabilities (2,513) (31,332) (29,947) (31,494) (24,971) 
Surplus/(deficit) in plans 830 (2,716) (4,185) (7,477) (6,301) 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Experience adjustment on assets 497 1,738 437 4,156 (5,097) 
Experience adjustment on liabilities 101 (5) (7) 626 (9) 
This disclosure is in accordance with IAS 19. 
 
 
9. Employee benefits – pensions (continued) 
g) Recognised charges – RMPP and RMSEPP 
A disaggregation of the amounts recognised in the income statement, statement of comprehensive income and directly in equity is as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Analysis of amounts recognised in the income statement:    
Analysis of amounts charged to operating profit before exceptional items:    
– Current service cost (412) (384) (423) 
Total charge to operating profit before exceptional items (412) (384) (423) 
    
Analysis of amounts charged to operating exceptional items:    
– Loss due to curtailments (within provision for restructuring charge – note 21) (11) (15) (45) 
Total charge to operating profit (423) (399) (468) 
    
Analysis of amounts charged/(credited) to financing:    
– Interest on plans’ liabilities (129) (1,627) (1,749) 
– Expected return on plans’ assets  163 1,651 1,594 
Total net credit/(charge) to financing 34 24 (155) 
Net charge to income statement before deduction for taxation (389) (375) (623) 
    
Analysis of amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:    
– Actual return on plans’ assets 660 3,389 2,031 
– Deduct: expected return on plans’ assets (163) (1,651) (1,594) 
Actuarial gains on assets (all experience adjustments) 497 1,738 437 
– Experience adjustments on liabilities 101 (5) (7) 
– Effects of changes in actuarial assumption on liabilities  (816) (297) 2,754 
Actuarial (losses)/gains on liabilities (715) (302) 2,747 
Total actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before 
deduction for taxation (see section (d) above) (218) 1,436 3,184 
    
Analysis of amounts recognised directly in equity:    
– Transfer of pension assets to HM Government (26,485) – – 
– Transfer of pension liabilities to HM Government 30,211 – – 
Transfer of historic pension deficit to HM Government 3,726 – – 
 
81
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
10. Changes in equity 
There have been material changes to the share premium account and to total equity and these have created £1,318 million of distributable 
reserves. 
Share premium account 
On 27 June 2012, the Company reduced the amount of its share premium account by £3,784 million with the Company reducing the deficit on its 
distributable reserves by the same amount at that time. This reduction of capital was approved by a special resolution of the Company, supported by 
a solvency statement made by its Directors pursuant to section 642 of the Companies Act 2006. The reduction was executed through a non-cash 
accounting entry and has no effect on total equity and the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue or their nominal value. 
Summary of movements in total equity 
 £m £m 
Total equity brought forward at 26 March 2012  (2,455) 
Movement relating to defined benefit pension scheme (note 9(d)):   
Increase in value of pension assets 26-31 March 2012 224  
Increase in value of pension liabilities 26-31 March 2012 (652)  
Transfer of historic pension deficit to Government on 1 April 2012 3,726  
Actuarial gains 1 April 2012 – 31 March 2013 210 3,508 
IFRIC 14 adjustment (note 9 (c))  (5) 
Taxation on items taken direct to equity (deferred taxation relating to pensions)   (188) 
  860 
Profit for the period  570 
Other reserves movements in the period (release of gains on disposal of pension escrow gilts, foreign currency 
translation losses and net gains on cash flow hedges) 
 
(25) 
Total equity carried forward at 31 March 2013  1,405 
 
11. Events after the reporting period 
This note confirms whether or not there have been any material events occurring between the end of the financial reporting period on  
31 March 2013 and the publication of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
On Friday 21 June 2013, the Group launched a consultation with members of the Royal Mail Pension Plan on a proposal to change the terms of the 
Plan. Under the proposal, members’ basic pensionable pay under the Plan would increase by RPI (up to five per cent) each year, regardless of 
whether members’ actual basic pay goes up by more or less. This change would, subject to the agreement of the Plan Trustee, allow the Company to 
maintain its current rate of contributions. 
If we are able to reach agreement with our unions on our proposal we would in return be able to commit that, at least until we have concluded our 
next review in March 2018: 
- The Plan would remain open to future accruals; and  
- There would be no change to members’ contribution rate, accrual rates or normal retirement age.  
An agreement of the type that we are proposing would, subject to its conditions, be legally binding on the Company, irrespective of any change of 
ownership.  
The consultation will conclude on 25 August 2013, following which the Company will consider the feedback received before making its final 
decision, and then communicate the outcome to colleagues shortly afterwards. 
 
82
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
10. Changes in equity 
There have been material changes to the share premium account and to total equity and these have created £1,318 million of distributable 
reserves. 
Share premium account 
On 27 June 2012, the Company reduced the amount of its share premium account by £3,784 million with the Company reducing the deficit on its 
distributable reserves by the same amount at that time. This reduction of capital was approved by a special resolution of the Company, supported by 
a solvency statement made by its Directors pursuant to section 642 of the Companies Act 2006. The reduction was executed through a non-cash 
accounting entry and has no effect on total equity and the number of the Company’s ordinary shares in issue or their nominal value. 
Summary of movements in total equity 
 £m £m 
Total equity brought forward at 26 March 2012  (2,455) 
Movement relating to defined benefit pension scheme (note 9(d)):   
Increase in value of pension assets 26-31 March 2012 224  
Increase in value of pension liabilities 26-31 March 2012 (652)  
Transfer of historic pension deficit to Government on 1 April 2012 3,726  
Actuarial gains 1 April 2012 – 31 March 2013 210 3,508 
IFRIC 14 adjustment (note 9 (c))  (5) 
Taxation on items taken direct to equity (deferred taxation relating to pensions)   (188) 
  860 
Profit for the period  570 
Other reserves movements in the period (release of gains on disposal of pension escrow gilts, foreign currency 
translation losses and net gains on cash flow hedges) 
 
(25) 
Total equity carried forward at 31 March 2013  1,405 
 
11. Events after the reporting period 
This note confirms whether or not there have been any material events occurring between the end of the financial reporting period on  
31 March 2013 and the publication of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
On Friday 21 June 2013, the Group launched a consultation with members of the Royal Mail Pension Plan on a proposal to change the terms of the 
Plan. Under the proposal, members’ basic pensionable pay under the Plan would increase by RPI (up to five per cent) each year, regardless of 
whether members’ actual basic pay goes up by more or less. This change would, subject to the agreement of the Plan Trustee, allow the Company to 
maintain its current rate of contributions. 
If we are able to reach agreement with our unions on our proposal we would in return be able to commit that, at least until we have concluded our 
next review in March 2018: 
- The Plan would remain open to future accruals; and  
- There would be no change to members’ contribution rate, accrual rates or normal retirement age.  
An agreement of the type that we are proposing would, subject to its conditions, be legally binding on the Company, irrespective of any change of 
ownership.  
The consultation will conclude on 25 August 2013, following which the Company will consider the feedback received before making its final 
decision, and then communicate the outcome to colleagues shortly afterwards. 
 
 
 
Other notes – income statement 
The notes in this section provide details of people costs and numbers and other operating costs (e.g. pensions, depreciation and amortisation and 
operating lease charges). 
 
12. People information  
13. Other operating costs  
 
83
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
12. People information 
Of the total Group operating costs, 60 per cent (2012 59 per cent, 2011 61 per cent) relate to our people. This note provides a breakdown of 
our people costs and numbers. 
 
  Reported 
People costs:  
 
53 weeks 
March 
2013 
£m  
52 weeks 
March 
2012 
£m 
 
 
52 weeks 
March 
2011 
£m 
Wages and salaries       
- UK based 4,072  3,890  3,940  
- GLS 282 4,354 290 4,180 274 4,214 
Pensions       
- Defined benefit (UK) 412  384  423  
- Defined contribution (UK) 17 429 11 395 9 432 
- GLS (mainly Defined Contribution type)  5  5  5 
Social security       
- UK based 309  287  287  
- GLS 50 359 53 340 48 335 
       
Group total  5,147  4,920  4,986 
       
Defined benefit pension rate:       
Profit and loss   18.2%  17.1%  17.8% 
Cash flow  17.1%  17.1%  17.1% 
Defined contribution:       
Employer contribution rates – Profit and loss and  
cash flow
9
  1% - 7%  5% - 7%  5% - 7% 
9
 Employer contribution rates are 1 per cent for employees in the Entry Level category, and 5 per cent - 7 per cent for those in the Standard Level category, depending on the employees 
 selected contribution rate. 
People numbers: 
The number of people employed, calculated on a headcount basis, was: 
 Period end employees  Average employees 
 
31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
 31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 149,940 151,156 155,181  149,710 152,514 157,317 
UK partially owned subsidiaries (Romec, NDC 2000) 4,030 3,926 4,254  4,013 3,972 4,244 
General Logistics Systems  13,646 13,362 13,167  13,569 13,103 13,120 
Group total 167,616 168,444 172,602  167,292 169,589 174,681 
The number of Full-Time Equivalents (FTE) employed was: 
 Period end FTE  Average FTE 
 
31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
 31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 151,191 153,751 158,376  154,362 157,286 162,865 
UK partially owned subsidiaries (Romec, NDC 2000) 3,655 3,813 4,214  3,655 3,813 4,214 
General Logistics Systems  9,272 9,198 9,021  9,232 9,568 9,200 
Group total 164,118 166,762 171,611  167,249 170,667 176,279 
84
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
12. People information 
Of the total Group operating costs, 60 per cent (2012 59 per cent, 2011 61 per cent) relate to our people. This note provides a breakdown of 
our people costs and numbers. 
 
  Reported 
People costs:  
 
53 weeks 
March 
2013 
£m  
52 weeks 
March 
2012 
£m 
 
 
52 weeks 
March 
2011 
£m 
Wages and salaries       
- UK based 4,072  3,890  3,940  
- GLS 282 4,354 290 4,180 274 4,214 
Pensions       
- Defined benefit (UK) 412  384  423  
- Defined contribution (UK) 17 429 11 395 9 432 
- GLS (mainly Defined Contribution type)  5  5  5 
Social security       
- UK based 309  287  287  
- GLS 50 359 53 340 48 335 
       
Group total  5,147  4,920  4,986 
       
Defined benefit pension rate:       
Profit and loss   18.2%  17.1%  17.8% 
Cash flow  17.1%  17.1%  17.1% 
Defined contribution:       
Employer contribution rates – Profit and loss and  
cash flow
9
  1% - 7%  5% - 7%  5% - 7% 
9
 Employer contribution rates are 1 per cent for employees in the Entry Level category, and 5 per cent - 7 per cent for those in the Standard Level category, depending on the employees 
 selected contribution rate. 
People numbers: 
The number of people employed, calculated on a headcount basis, was: 
 Period end employees  Average employees 
 
31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
 31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 149,940 151,156 155,181  149,710 152,514 157,317 
UK partially owned subsidiaries (Romec, NDC 2000) 4,030 3,926 4,254  4,013 3,972 4,244 
General Logistics Systems  13,646 13,362 13,167  13,569 13,103 13,120 
Group total 167,616 168,444 172,602  167,292 169,589 174,681 
The number of Full-Time Equivalents (FTE) employed was: 
 Period end FTE  Average FTE 
 
31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
 31 March 
2013 
25 March 
2012 
27 March 
2011 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 151,191 153,751 158,376  154,362 157,286 162,865 
UK partially owned subsidiaries (Romec, NDC 2000) 3,655 3,813 4,214  3,655 3,813 4,214 
General Logistics Systems  9,272 9,198 9,021  9,232 9,568 9,200 
Group total 164,118 166,762 171,611  167,249 170,667 176,279 
 
 
12. People information (continued) 
Directors’ emoluments: 
 
2013 
£000 
2012 
£000 
2011 
£000 
Directors’ emoluments 3,753 3,398 2,345 
Amounts earned under Long-Term Incentive Plans - - - 
    
Number of Directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes - - - 
 
13. Other operating costs 
Below is an analysis of other operating costs in the income statement (e.g. pensions, depreciation and amortisation and operating lease charges) 
that require specific disclosure under IFRS. 
Operating profit before exceptional items is stated after charging the following other operating costs: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
UK Pension costs (note 9) 429 395 432 
    
Depreciation and amortisation    
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 22) 238 268 250 
Amortisation of intangible assets (mainly software – note 24) 43 33 36 
Total 281 301 286 
    
Operating lease charges on property, plant and equipment  153 150 151 
    
Costs of inventories expensed 184 174 157 
Research and development expenditure during the year amounted to £nil (2012 £nil, 2011 £nil). 
The following information is relevant in understanding the extent of the Group’s regulatory costs and statutory audit costs: 
Regulatory body costs 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Postcomm - 6 10 
Ofcom 5 2 - 
Consumer Futures 3 3 3 
Total 8 11 13 
 
Auditor’s fees 
2013 
£000 
2012 
£000 
2011 
£m 
Audit of statutory financial statements 402 402 402 
Other fees to auditor:    
Statutory audits for subsidiaries 1,566 1,706 1,398 
Other services (including regulatory audits) 208 669 471 
Taxation services 228 78 55 
Total 2,404 2,855 2,326 
The Group paid £80,850 additional amounts in 2013 in respect of the 2012 audit (£267,000 in 2012 in respect of 2011 audit, £nil in 2011 in 
respect of the 2010 audit). 
85
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
Other notes – financial assets, financial liabilities and hedging programmes 
The notes in this section explain how the Group is financed, including details of associated risks, interest rates, additional loan facilities available 
and hedging programmes in place to mitigate volatility in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk  
15. Pension escrow investments  
16. Cash and cash equivalents  
17. Loans and borrowings  
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis  
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis  
20. Hedging programmes  
 
86
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
Other notes – financial assets, financial liabilities and hedging programmes 
The notes in this section explain how the Group is financed, including details of associated risks, interest rates, additional loan facilities available 
and hedging programmes in place to mitigate volatility in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 
 
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk  
15. Pension escrow investments  
16. Cash and cash equivalents  
17. Loans and borrowings  
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis  
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis  
20. Hedging programmes  
 
 
 
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk 
Below is a summary of financial assets (e.g. cash, investments and deposits) and liabilities (e.g. loans and finance lease obligations) and details of 
how the various risks associated with these assets and liabilities are managed. Subsequent notes in this section provide more detailed 
disclosures on specific financial assets and liabilities. 
 
 
2013  2012 
 
2011 
 
Non- 
current 
£m 
Current 
£m 
Total 
£m 
 Non- 
current 
£m 
Current 
£m 
Total 
£m  
 Non- 
current 
£m 
Current 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Pension escrow investments 20 – 20  149 – 149  87 – 87 
Cash and cash equivalents – 351 351  – 473 473  – 319 319 
Other bank and local authority deposits – 1 1  – 31 31  44 1 45 
Derivative assets 3 9 12  2 9 11  6 36 42 
Total financial assets 23 361 384  151 513 664  137 356 493 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (973) – (973)  (1,522) – (1,522)  (1,477) – (1,477) 
Miscellaneous loans in subsidiaries – – –  – – –  (1) – (1) 
Total loans and borrowings (973) – (973)  (1,522) – (1,522)  (1,478) – (1,478) 
Finance leases obligations (226) (79) (305)  (231) (86) (317)  (184) (61) (245) 
Derivative liabilities (1) (2) (3)  (1) (4) (5)  – (3) (3) 
Total financial liabilities (1,200) (81) (1,281)  (1,754) (90) (1,844)  (1,662) (64) (1,726) 
Financial assets and liabilities – financial risk management objectives and policies 
The Group’s principal financial assets and liabilities comprise short-term deposits, money market liquidity investments, Government gilt edged 
securities, loans, finance leases and cash. The main purposes of these financial instruments are to raise finance and manage the liquidity needs of  
the business operations. The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from 
operations and are not disclosed further in this section. 
The Group enters into derivative transactions, which create derivative assets and liabilities, mainly commodity price swaps and forward currency 
contracts, their purpose being to manage the commodity and currency risks arising from the Group’s operations.  
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. 
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below. 
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to the Group’s loans and borrowings and interest bearing financial assets. 
The BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited of £973 million (2012 £1,522 million, 2011 £1,477 million) are a mix of £nil (2012 £600 million, 2011 
£600 million) floating interest rate and £973 million (2012 £922 million, 2011 £877 million) fixed interest rate with a combined average maturity 
date of 2019 (2012 average maturity date of 2017, 2011 average maturity date of 2017). The total interest bearing financial assets of the Group 
(excluding the non-current investments) of £336 million (2012 £487 million, 2011 £319 million) are at short-dated fixed or variable interest rates 
with average maturity nine days (2012 average maturity 18 days, 2011 average maturity six days).  
The Group’s policy is to manage its net interest expense using a mix of fixed and floating rate financial instruments. No external hedging  
of interest rate risk is undertaken. 
Foreign currency transaction risk 
The Group is exposed to foreign currency transaction risk due to: trading with overseas postal operators for carrying UK mail abroad and delivering 
foreign origin mail in UKPIL, and various purchase contracts denominated in foreign currency, all in UKPIL. These risks are mitigated by hedging 
programmes managed by Group Treasury. Where possible, exposures are netted internally and any remaining exposure is hedged using a 
combination of external spot and forward contracts. Hedging will not normally be considered for exposures of less than £1 million and hedging is 
normally confined to 80 per cent of the forecast exposure, where forecast cash flows are highly probable. 
Foreign currency translation risk 
The Group’s functional currency is the pound Sterling. GLS’ functional currency is the Euro. GLS Euro profits are converted at the average exchange 
rate for the year, which can result in reported growth which does not relate to underlying performance. This is addressed by using like-for-like 
growth rates as described on page i. 
GLS’ balance sheet is converted at year end rates, and movements relating to foreign currency translation are taken to equity. 
87
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk 
(continued) 
The Group’s obligation to settle with overseas postal operators is denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) – a basket of currencies comprised of 
US Dollar (US$), Japanese Yen, Sterling and Euro. Group Treasury operates a rolling 18-month hedge programme, which is subsequently reviewed 
on a quarterly basis. 
The Group’s obligations to settle conveyance charges in UKPIL in US$ have been hedged to March 2014. 
The Group has two hedge programmes covering obligations to settle Euro invoices on automation projects in UKPIL. 
The Group does not hedge the translation exposure created by the net assets of its overseas subsidiaries, mainly GLS. However, it does hedge the 
transactional exposure created by inter-company loans with these subsidiaries. 
Commodity price risk 
The Group is exposed to fuel price risk arising from operating one of the largest vehicle fleets in Europe, which consumes over 130 million litres of 
fuel per year, and a jet fuel price risk arising from the purchasing of air freight services. The Group’s fuel risk management strategy aims to reduce 
uncertainty created by the movements in the oil and foreign currency markets. The strategy uses over-the-counter derivative products (in both US$ 
commodity price and US$/Sterling exchange rate) to manage these exposures, mainly on a combined basis. 
In addition, the Group is exposed to the commodity price risk of purchasing electricity and gas. The Group’s risk management strategy aims to reduce 
uncertainty created by the movements in the electricity and gas markets. These exposures are managed by locking into fixed rate price contracts with 
suppliers and using over-the-counter derivative products to manage these exposures. 
Credit risk 
Royal Mail considers that a fair and equitable credit policy is in operation for all its account customers. The level of credit granted is based on a 
customer’s risk profile assessed by an independent credit reference agent. The credit policy is applied rigidly within the regulated products area so  
as to ensure that Royal Mail is not in breach of compliance legislation. Assessment of credit for the non-regulated products is based on commercial 
factors, which are commensurate with the Group’s appetite for risk. 
Royal Mail has a dedicated credit management team, which sets and monitors credit limits, and takes corrective action as and when appropriate.  
The level of bad debt incurred for the whole Group is 0.1 per cent (2012 0.4 per cent) of turnover. 
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash, cash equivalent investments, available for sale 
financial assets, held to maturity financial assets, held for trading financial assets, loans and receivables financial assets and certain derivative 
instruments, the Group invests/trades only with high-quality financial institutions. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the 
counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s primary objective is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds available to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. This is 
achieved by aligning short-term investments and borrowing facilities with forecast cash flows. Typical short-term investments include money market 
funds, time deposits with approved counterparties, UK Government gilts and Treasury bills. Borrowing facilities are regularly reviewed to ensure 
continuity of funding. 
The unused facilities for Royal Mail Group Limited of £900 million expire in 2014 (2012 and 2011 £300 million expiring in 2014). Additionally, the 
Group has £200 million (2012 and 2011 £200 million) of uncommitted lines of credit which are reviewed annually. 
Capital management 
Royal Mail Group Limited is a limited company whose shares are not traded and the Group regards its capital as share capital, share premium, 
retained earnings and debt provided by the UK Government. The ultimate shareholder and the provider of the majority of debt to the Group is the UK 
Government. The management of capital is closely linked to the Group’s relationship with its ultimate shareholder. The Group maintains its liquidity 
requirements by the management of its internal funds and by the drawing down of equity and debt from its ultimate shareholder as well as drawing 
on limited external debt facilities. The Group’s debt to equity ratio is determined by its ultimate shareholder. 
Sensitivity 
As a result of the mix of fixed and variable rate financial instruments and the currency and commodity hedge programmes in place, the 
Group has no material exposure to operating profit from interest rate risk, exchange rate risk or commodity price risk (2012 and 2011 £nil). 
The Group has an exposure to the exchange rate risk on translating the GLS net assets into Sterling on consolidation. The impact of a five per 
cent strengthening of Sterling would have been to reduce the Group net assets by £31 million (2012 £39 million, 2011 £37 million).  
88
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
14. Financial assets and liabilities – introduction, summary and management of financial risk 
(continued) 
The Group’s obligation to settle with overseas postal operators is denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) – a basket of currencies comprised of 
US Dollar (US$), Japanese Yen, Sterling and Euro. Group Treasury operates a rolling 18-month hedge programme, which is subsequently reviewed 
on a quarterly basis. 
The Group’s obligations to settle conveyance charges in UKPIL in US$ have been hedged to March 2014. 
The Group has two hedge programmes covering obligations to settle Euro invoices on automation projects in UKPIL. 
The Group does not hedge the translation exposure created by the net assets of its overseas subsidiaries, mainly GLS. However, it does hedge the 
transactional exposure created by inter-company loans with these subsidiaries. 
Commodity price risk 
The Group is exposed to fuel price risk arising from operating one of the largest vehicle fleets in Europe, which consumes over 130 million litres of 
fuel per year, and a jet fuel price risk arising from the purchasing of air freight services. The Group’s fuel risk management strategy aims to reduce 
uncertainty created by the movements in the oil and foreign currency markets. The strategy uses over-the-counter derivative products (in both US$ 
commodity price and US$/Sterling exchange rate) to manage these exposures, mainly on a combined basis. 
In addition, the Group is exposed to the commodity price risk of purchasing electricity and gas. The Group’s risk management strategy aims to reduce 
uncertainty created by the movements in the electricity and gas markets. These exposures are managed by locking into fixed rate price contracts with 
suppliers and using over-the-counter derivative products to manage these exposures. 
Credit risk 
Royal Mail considers that a fair and equitable credit policy is in operation for all its account customers. The level of credit granted is based on a 
customer’s risk profile assessed by an independent credit reference agent. The credit policy is applied rigidly within the regulated products area so  
as to ensure that Royal Mail is not in breach of compliance legislation. Assessment of credit for the non-regulated products is based on commercial 
factors, which are commensurate with the Group’s appetite for risk. 
Royal Mail has a dedicated credit management team, which sets and monitors credit limits, and takes corrective action as and when appropriate.  
The level of bad debt incurred for the whole Group is 0.1 per cent (2012 0.4 per cent) of turnover. 
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash, cash equivalent investments, available for sale 
financial assets, held to maturity financial assets, held for trading financial assets, loans and receivables financial assets and certain derivative 
instruments, the Group invests/trades only with high-quality financial institutions. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the 
counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group’s primary objective is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds available to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. This is 
achieved by aligning short-term investments and borrowing facilities with forecast cash flows. Typical short-term investments include money market 
funds, time deposits with approved counterparties, UK Government gilts and Treasury bills. Borrowing facilities are regularly reviewed to ensure 
continuity of funding. 
The unused facilities for Royal Mail Group Limited of £900 million expire in 2014 (2012 and 2011 £300 million expiring in 2014). Additionally, the 
Group has £200 million (2012 and 2011 £200 million) of uncommitted lines of credit which are reviewed annually. 
Capital management 
Royal Mail Group Limited is a limited company whose shares are not traded and the Group regards its capital as share capital, share premium, 
retained earnings and debt provided by the UK Government. The ultimate shareholder and the provider of the majority of debt to the Group is the UK 
Government. The management of capital is closely linked to the Group’s relationship with its ultimate shareholder. The Group maintains its liquidity 
requirements by the management of its internal funds and by the drawing down of equity and debt from its ultimate shareholder as well as drawing 
on limited external debt facilities. The Group’s debt to equity ratio is determined by its ultimate shareholder. 
Sensitivity 
As a result of the mix of fixed and variable rate financial instruments and the currency and commodity hedge programmes in place, the 
Group has no material exposure to operating profit from interest rate risk, exchange rate risk or commodity price risk (2012 and 2011 £nil). 
The Group has an exposure to the exchange rate risk on translating the GLS net assets into Sterling on consolidation. The impact of a five per 
cent strengthening of Sterling would have been to reduce the Group net assets by £31 million (2012 £39 million, 2011 £37 million).  
 
 
15. Pension escrow investments 
This note provides an analysis of various pension escrow investments provided as security to the Group’s Pension Trustees. 
As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, and hence the 
removal of the historic pension deficit, £149 million of investments – which were previously held in pension escrow in Royal Mail Group Limited – 
were released to the Company. These were subsequently sold and proceeds used to pay down loans to HM Government. 
On 25 March 2013, the Company placed £20 million in a money market fund investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail Senior 
Executives Pension Plan (RMSEPP) as part of a funding agreement with the RMSEPP Trustees. This is treated as an investment in the Group’s 
balance sheet. RMSEPP was closed to future accruals on 31 December 2012. 
The pension escrow investments are analysed in the table below: 
 2013 
 
2012 
 2011 
 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% £m 
 Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% £m 
 Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% £m 
Treasury bills – –  0.4 45  – – 
Gilt edged securities (index-linked) – –  4.3 79  4.7 66 
Gilt edged securities (conventional) – –  4.8 25  4.8 21 
Money market fund 0.3 20  – –  – – 
Total pension escrow investments  20   149   87 
Treasury bills, index-linked gilt edged securities and conventional gilt edged securities are classified as available for sale financial instruments on the 
basis that they are quoted investments that are not held for trading and may be disposed of prior to maturity. The investments are initially 
recognised at fair value, being the purchase price. After initial recognition, interest is included in the reported profit/(loss) for the year, using the 
effective interest rate method and the assets are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in the Financial Assets Reserve until 
the investment is derecognised. 
The decrease in the pension escrow investments of £129 million in 2013 consists of £149 million relating to RMPP due to the sale of the 
investments, offset by a £20 million money market investment established as security for RMSEPP. The increase in the RMPP related pension 
escrow investments of £62 million in 2012 comprised £4 million interest on the investments, £14 million fair value gain deferred into equity and 
£44 million paid into escrow on disposal of a property previously held under mortgage in escrow. 
89
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
16. Cash and cash equivalents 
Below is a summary of the cash and cash equivalents balances held by the Group. 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and other cash equivalent investments as shown below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 136 172 100 
Cash equivalent investments: short-term bank and local authority deposits and money market fund 
investments 215 301 219 
Total cash and cash equivalents 351 473 319 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits (cash equivalents) with an original maturity date of three 
months or less. In addition, the Group uses money market funds as a readily available source of cash, and these funds are also categorised as cash 
equivalents. Where interest is earned, this is either at floating or short-term fixed rates based upon bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and 
cash equivalent investments is not materially different from the carrying value of £351 million (2012 £473 million, 2011 £319 million).  
 
17. Loans and borrowings 
Details of loans and borrowings, including interest rates, additional loan facilities available and any security provided against the loans are 
provided below. 
Below is a summary of loans and borrowings at the year end, the average interest rate, facility availability and security granted. 
 2013 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Further 
committed 
facility 
£m 
Total 
facility 
£m 
Average 
interest rate 
of loan 
drawn down 
% 
Average 
maturity date of 
drawn loans 
Average 
maturity 
date 
of facility 
Senior Debt Facility (term loan)
10
 – 600 600 – – 2014 
Senior Debt Facility (revolver) – 300 300 – – 2014 
GLS Funding Loan 500 – 500 5.8 2023 2023 
Shareholder Loan 473 – 473 12.0 2016 2016 
Total BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 973 900 1,873 8.8   
10 
On 30 March 2012, the Group agreed an amendment to this facility to permit repayment and reborrowing. The outstanding balance was repaid during April and May 2012, since when no 
further drawdowns have been made. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2012 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Further 
committed 
facility 
£m 
Total 
facility 
£m 
Average 
interest rate 
of loan 
drawn down 
% 
Average maturity 
date of drawn 
loans 
Average 
maturity 
date 
of facility 
Senior Debt Facility (term loan) 600 – 600 2.2 2014 2014 
Senior Debt Facility (revolver) – 300 300 – – 2014 
GLS Funding Loan 500 – 500 5.8 2023 2023 
Shareholder Loan 422 – 422 12.0 –
11 
–
11 
Total BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 1,522 300 1,822 6.1   
11 
Loan facilities are repayable on the later of March 2016 and the release of the pension escrow investment. As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension 
liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, the loan facilities are repayable in March 2016. 
90
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
16. Cash and cash equivalents 
Below is a summary of the cash and cash equivalents balances held by the Group. 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and other cash equivalent investments as shown below: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Cash at bank and in hand 136 172 100 
Cash equivalent investments: short-term bank and local authority deposits and money market fund 
investments 215 301 219 
Total cash and cash equivalents 351 473 319 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits (cash equivalents) with an original maturity date of three 
months or less. In addition, the Group uses money market funds as a readily available source of cash, and these funds are also categorised as cash 
equivalents. Where interest is earned, this is either at floating or short-term fixed rates based upon bank deposit rates. The fair value of cash and 
cash equivalent investments is not materially different from the carrying value of £351 million (2012 £473 million, 2011 £319 million).  
 
17. Loans and borrowings 
Details of loans and borrowings, including interest rates, additional loan facilities available and any security provided against the loans are 
provided below. 
Below is a summary of loans and borrowings at the year end, the average interest rate, facility availability and security granted. 
 2013 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Further 
committed 
facility 
£m 
Total 
facility 
£m 
Average 
interest rate 
of loan 
drawn down 
% 
Average 
maturity date of 
drawn loans 
Average 
maturity 
date 
of facility 
Senior Debt Facility (term loan)
10
 – 600 600 – – 2014 
Senior Debt Facility (revolver) – 300 300 – – 2014 
GLS Funding Loan 500 – 500 5.8 2023 2023 
Shareholder Loan 473 – 473 12.0 2016 2016 
Total BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 973 900 1,873 8.8   
10 
On 30 March 2012, the Group agreed an amendment to this facility to permit repayment and reborrowing. The outstanding balance was repaid during April and May 2012, since when no 
further drawdowns have been made. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2012 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Further 
committed 
facility 
£m 
Total 
facility 
£m 
Average 
interest rate 
of loan 
drawn down 
% 
Average maturity 
date of drawn 
loans 
Average 
maturity 
date 
of facility 
Senior Debt Facility (term loan) 600 – 600 2.2 2014 2014 
Senior Debt Facility (revolver) – 300 300 – – 2014 
GLS Funding Loan 500 – 500 5.8 2023 2023 
Shareholder Loan 422 – 422 12.0 –
11 
–
11 
Total BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 1,522 300 1,822 6.1   
11 
Loan facilities are repayable on the later of March 2016 and the release of the pension escrow investment. As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension 
liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, the loan facilities are repayable in March 2016. 
 
 
17. Loans and borrowings (continued) 
 2011 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Further 
committed 
facility 
£m 
Total 
facility 
£m 
Average 
interest rate 
of loan 
drawn down 
% 
Average maturity 
date of drawn 
loans 
Average 
maturity 
date 
of facility 
Senior Debt Facility (term loan) 600 – 600 3.0 2014 2014 
Senior Debt Facility (revolver) – 300 300 – – 2014 
GLS Funding Loan 500 – 500 5.8 2023 2023 
Shareholder Loan 377 – 377 12.0 –
11
 –
11
 
Miscellaneous loans and borrowings in subsidiaries 1 – 1 4.5 2012 2012 
Total BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 1,478 300 1,778 6.3   
The undrawn committed facilities, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at the balance sheet date, expire as follows: 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Expiring in one year or less 900 – – 
Expiring in more than one year, but not more than two years – 300 – 
Expiring in more than two years – – 300 
Total 900 300 300 
The following securities apply to the Group’s committed facilities: 
 
2013 
Facility 
£m 
Facility 
end date 
2012 
 Facility 
£m 
Facility 
end date 
2011 
 Facility 
£m 
Facility 
end date Security 
Royal Mail Group Limited Senior Debt 
Facility 
900 2014 900 2014 900 2014 Fixed charges over Royal Mail Holdings plc’s 
shares in Royal Mail Group Limited and Royal 
Mail Group Limited’s shares in Royal Mail 
Estates Limited. Floating charges over all 
assets of Royal Mail Holdings plc, Royal Mail 
Group Limited and Royal Mail Estates Limited.  
Royal Mail Group Limited Shareholder 
Loan facility 
473 2016 422 –
12
 377 –
12
 None 
Royal Mail Group Limited other drawn 
down loans 
500 2021-
2025 
500 2021-
2025 
500 2021- 
2025 
Fixed charges over any Royal Mail Group 
Limited loans to General Logistics Systems 
B.V., any Royal Mail Group Limited loans to 
subsidiaries of General Logistics Systems B.V. 
and Royal Mail Investments Limited’s shares 
in General Logistics Systems B.V. Floating 
charge over non-regulated assets of Royal 
Mail Group Limited. 
 1,873  1,822  1,777   
12
 Loan facilities are repayable on the later of March 2016 and the release of the pension escrow investment. As from 1 April 2012, following the transfer of almost all of the RMPP pension 
liabilities and pension assets to HM Government, the loan facilities are repayable in March 2016. 
The Royal Mail Group Limited Shareholder Loan increased by £51 million (2012 £45 million, 2011 £40 million) as a result of accrued interest added 
to the loan balance. 
The security in place in the previous year was as disclosed above – with the exception of £nil (2012 £60 million, 2011 £102 million) mortgages over 
certain Group properties which were established in March 2011. 
The BIS loan to Royal Mail Group Limited becomes repayable immediately on the occurrence of an event of default under the loan agreements. 
These events of default include non-payment, insolvency and breach of covenant relating to interest and total indebtedness. 
It is not anticipated that the Group is at risk of breaching any of these obligations. 
91
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis 
This note focuses on loans and borrowings, finance leases and derivatives and provides further details on when amounts fall due, both for 
principal and for total contractual payments (e.g. including interest). 
 
 2013 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 79 2 81 
More than one year (non-current) 973 226 1 1,200 
 More than one year but not more than two years – 56 1 57 
 More than two years but not more than five years 473 139 – 612 
 More than five years 500 31 – 531 
     
Total 973 305 3 1,281 
 
 2012 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 86 4 90 
More than one year (non-current) 1,522 231 1 1,754 
 More than one year but not more than two years 600 52 1 653 
 More than two years but not more than five years – 142 – 142 
 More than five years 922 37 – 959 
     
Total 1,522 317 5 1,844 
 
 2011 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 61 3 64 
More than one year (non-current) 1,478 184 – 1,662 
 More than one year but not more than two years – 47 – 47 
 More than two years but not more than five years 601 103 – 704 
 More than five years 877 34 – 911 
     
Total 1,478 245 3 1,726 
Obligations under finance leases are either unsecured or secured on the leased assets. These are repayable in variable and fixed amounts over their 
maturity periods. The average interest rate is four per cent (2012 and 2011 four per cent). The average maturity date is more than five years (2012 
and 2011 more than five years). 
92
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis 
This note focuses on loans and borrowings, finance leases and derivatives and provides further details on when amounts fall due, both for 
principal and for total contractual payments (e.g. including interest). 
 
 2013 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 79 2 81 
More than one year (non-current) 973 226 1 1,200 
 More than one year but not more than two years – 56 1 57 
 More than two years but not more than five years 473 139 – 612 
 More than five years 500 31 – 531 
     
Total 973 305 3 1,281 
 
 2012 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 86 4 90 
More than one year (non-current) 1,522 231 1 1,754 
 More than one year but not more than two years 600 52 1 653 
 More than two years but not more than five years – 142 – 142 
 More than five years 922 37 – 959 
     
Total 1,522 317 5 1,844 
 
 2011 
 
Loans 
and 
borrowings 
£m 
Finance 
leases 
£m 
Derivative 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:     
One year or less or on demand (current) – 61 3 64 
More than one year (non-current) 1,478 184 – 1,662 
 More than one year but not more than two years – 47 – 47 
 More than two years but not more than five years 601 103 – 704 
 More than five years 877 34 – 911 
     
Total 1,478 245 3 1,726 
Obligations under finance leases are either unsecured or secured on the leased assets. These are repayable in variable and fixed amounts over their 
maturity periods. The average interest rate is four per cent (2012 and 2011 four per cent). The average maturity date is more than five years (2012 
and 2011 more than five years). 
 
 
18. Financial liabilities net and gross maturity analysis (continued) 
The tables below set out the gross (undiscounted) contractual cash flows of the Group’s financial liabilities. For overdrafts, loans and finance lease 
contracts, these cash flows represent the undiscounted total amounts payable including interest. For derivatives which are settled gross, these cash 
flows represent the undiscounted gross payment due and do not reflect the accompanying inflow. For derivatives which are settled net, these cash 
flows represent the undiscounted forecast outflow. 
 2013 
 
Gross 
loans and 
borrowings 
commitments 
£m 
Gross 
finance lease 
instalments 
£m 
Sub-total 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled gross 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled net 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:       
One year or less or on demand (current) 29 87 116 120 2 238 
More than one year (non-current) 1,435 330 1,765 2 1 1,768 
 More than one year but not more than two years 29 61 90 2 1 93 
 More than two years but not more than five years 752 147 899 – – 899 
 More than five years 654 122 776 – – 776 
       
Total 1,464 417 1,881 122 3 2,006 
Less interest (491) (112) (603) n/a n/a n/a 
Net total 973 305 1,278 n/a n/a n/a 
 
 2012 
 
Gross 
loans and 
borrowings 
commitments 
£m 
Gross 
finance lease 
instalments 
£m 
Sub-total 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled gross 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled net 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:       
One year or less or on demand (current) 46 98 144 316 3 463 
More than one year (non-current) 2,081 344 2,425 3 1 2,429 
 More than one year but not more than two years 646 60 706 3 1 710 
 More than two years but not more than five years 88 153 241 – – 241 
 More than five years 1,347 131 1,478 – – 1,478 
       
Total 2,127 442 2,569 319 4 2,892 
Less interest (605) (125) (730) n/a n/a n/a 
Net total 1,522 317 1,839 n/a n/a n/a 
 
 2011 
 
Gross 
loans and 
borrowings 
commitments 
£m 
Gross 
finance lease 
instalments 
£m 
Sub-total 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled gross 
£m 
Gross 
payments on 
derivatives 
settled net 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Amounts falling due in:       
One year or less or on demand (current) 49 72 121 379 2 502 
More than one year (non-current) 2,144 297 2,441 3 – 2,444 
 More than one year but not more than two years 51 54 105 3 – 108 
 More than two years but not more than five years 717 112 829 – – 829 
 More than five years 1,376 131 1,507 – – 1,507 
       
Total 2,193 369 2,562 382 2 2,946 
Less interest (715) (124) (839) n/a n/a n/a 
Net total 1,478 245 1,723 n/a n/a n/a 
93
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis 
This note provides an analysis of the pound Sterling carrying values of the financial assets and liabilities held in various foreign currencies, along 
with details of interest rates, interest rate risk and maturity timescales.  
Table 1 shows all the financial assets and liabilities in detail and on a net basis. Table 2 shows the net amount by currency. Table 3 shows the 
respective assets/liabilities by whether they are fixed, floating or non-interest bearing. Table 4 shows the effective interest rate and maturity 
analysed as fixed rate, floating rate and non-interest bearing. 
Carrying amounts and fair values 
Trade receivables, payables, prepayments, accruals and client payables have been omitted from this analysis on the basis that carrying value is a 
reasonable approximation for fair value. Pension scheme assets and liabilities are also excluded. Fair values have been calculated using current 
market prices (forward exchange rates/commodity prices) and discounted using appropriate discount rates. There are no material differences 
between the fair value (transaction price) of all financial instruments at initial recognition and the fair value calculated using these valuation 
techniques. The fair value of the BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (non-current) is £1,165 million at 31 March 2013 (2012 £1,698 million, 
2011 £1,563 million). The fair value of ‘Obligations under finance leases’ is £308 million (2012 £327 million, 2011 £248 million). For all other 
financial instruments fair value is equal to the carrying amount. 
The tables below also set out the carrying amount of the currency of the Group’s financial instruments: 
Table 1 Level Classification 
2013 
Total 
£m 
2012 
Total 
£m 
2011 
Total 
£m 
Financial assets      
Cash at bank or in hand   136 172 100 
Cash equivalent investments   215 301 219 
 – Money market funds  Loans and receivables 88 271 98 
 – Short-term deposits – local government  Loans and receivables 7 – 29 
 – Short-term deposits – bank  Loans and receivables 120 30 92 
Cash and cash equivalents   351 473 319 
Financial assets – investments (current)   1 31 1 
 – Short-term deposits – Government/local government  Loans and receivables 1 1 1 
 – Short-term deposits – bank  Loans and receivables – 30 – 
Financial assets – investments (non-current) – bank deposits  Loans and receivables – – 44 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current) 1  20 149 87 
 – Money market funds  Loans and receivables 20 – – 
 – Treasury bills 1 Available for sale – 45 – 
 – Gilt edged securities (conventional) 1 Available for sale – 25 21 
 – Gilt edged securities (index linked)  1 Available for sale – 79 66 
Derivative assets – current 2  9 9 36 
   – non-current 2  3 2 6 
Total financial assets   384 664 493 
      
Financial liabilities      
Obligations under finance leases (current)  Amortised cost (79) (86) (61) 
Financial liabilities – loans and borrowings (non-current)   (973) (1,522) (1,478) 
 – BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited  Amortised cost (973) (1,522) (1,477) 
 – Miscellaneous loans in subsidiaries (non-current)  Amortised cost – – (1) 
Obligations under finance leases (non-current)  Amortised cost (226) (231) (184) 
Derivative liabilities – current 2  (2) (4) (3) 
Derivative liabilities – non-current 2  (1) (1) – 
Total financial liabilities   (1,281) (1,844) (1,726) 
Net total financial assets   (897) (1,180) (1,233) 
94
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis 
This note provides an analysis of the pound Sterling carrying values of the financial assets and liabilities held in various foreign currencies, along 
with details of interest rates, interest rate risk and maturity timescales.  
Table 1 shows all the financial assets and liabilities in detail and on a net basis. Table 2 shows the net amount by currency. Table 3 shows the 
respective assets/liabilities by whether they are fixed, floating or non-interest bearing. Table 4 shows the effective interest rate and maturity 
analysed as fixed rate, floating rate and non-interest bearing. 
Carrying amounts and fair values 
Trade receivables, payables, prepayments, accruals and client payables have been omitted from this analysis on the basis that carrying value is a 
reasonable approximation for fair value. Pension scheme assets and liabilities are also excluded. Fair values have been calculated using current 
market prices (forward exchange rates/commodity prices) and discounted using appropriate discount rates. There are no material differences 
between the fair value (transaction price) of all financial instruments at initial recognition and the fair value calculated using these valuation 
techniques. The fair value of the BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (non-current) is £1,165 million at 31 March 2013 (2012 £1,698 million, 
2011 £1,563 million). The fair value of ‘Obligations under finance leases’ is £308 million (2012 £327 million, 2011 £248 million). For all other 
financial instruments fair value is equal to the carrying amount. 
The tables below also set out the carrying amount of the currency of the Group’s financial instruments: 
Table 1 Level Classification 
2013 
Total 
£m 
2012 
Total 
£m 
2011 
Total 
£m 
Financial assets      
Cash at bank or in hand   136 172 100 
Cash equivalent investments   215 301 219 
 – Money market funds  Loans and receivables 88 271 98 
 – Short-term deposits – local government  Loans and receivables 7 – 29 
 – Short-term deposits – bank  Loans and receivables 120 30 92 
Cash and cash equivalents   351 473 319 
Financial assets – investments (current)   1 31 1 
 – Short-term deposits – Government/local government  Loans and receivables 1 1 1 
 – Short-term deposits – bank  Loans and receivables – 30 – 
Financial assets – investments (non-current) – bank deposits  Loans and receivables – – 44 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current) 1  20 149 87 
 – Money market funds  Loans and receivables 20 – – 
 – Treasury bills 1 Available for sale – 45 – 
 – Gilt edged securities (conventional) 1 Available for sale – 25 21 
 – Gilt edged securities (index linked)  1 Available for sale – 79 66 
Derivative assets – current 2  9 9 36 
   – non-current 2  3 2 6 
Total financial assets   384 664 493 
      
Financial liabilities      
Obligations under finance leases (current)  Amortised cost (79) (86) (61) 
Financial liabilities – loans and borrowings (non-current)   (973) (1,522) (1,478) 
 – BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited  Amortised cost (973) (1,522) (1,477) 
 – Miscellaneous loans in subsidiaries (non-current)  Amortised cost – – (1) 
Obligations under finance leases (non-current)  Amortised cost (226) (231) (184) 
Derivative liabilities – current 2  (2) (4) (3) 
Derivative liabilities – non-current 2  (1) (1) – 
Total financial liabilities   (1,281) (1,844) (1,726) 
Net total financial assets   (897) (1,180) (1,233) 
 
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
There are no financial assets or liabilities designated at fair value through the income statement on initial recognition. 
The criteria for codification of ‘Level’ in the above table is described in the accounting policy ‘Fair value measurement of financial instruments’ on  
page 121. 
Derivative assets - £9 million current, £3 million non-current (2012 £9 million current, £2 million non-current, 2011 £36 million current, £6 million 
non-current) and liabilities £2 million current, £1 million non-current (2012 £4 million current, £1 million non-current, 2011 £3 million current, £nil non-
current) are valued at fair value. Effective changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are part of a designated cash flow hedge under IAS 39, are 
deferred into equity. All other changes in derivative fair value are taken directly to the income statement. 
None of the financial assets listed above are either past due or considered to be impaired. 
The net total financial assets are held in various different currencies as summarised in the table below. The majority of the non-Sterling financial 
assets are held within cash at bank, or in hand. 
Table 2 
  
Sterling 
£m 
US$ 
£m 
Euro 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets 2013   (1,005) 5 66 37 (897) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets 2012   (1,343) 11 118 34 (1,180) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets 2011   (1,416) 74 87 22 (1,233) 
Interest rate risk 
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year. Interest on financial instruments classified as 
fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. 
The tables below set out the carrying amount by maturity of the Group’s financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk. The pension 
escrow investments of £20 million at 31 March 2013 represent a money market fund investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail 
Senior Executives Pension Plan (RMSEPP) in support of a deficit recovery period agreed with the Trustee in 2013 and as such are disclosed as 
maturing in more than five years. 
Financial year ended 31 March 2013 
Table 3 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cash 18 102 16 136 
Cash equivalent investments 127 88 - 215 
Financial asset investments (current) 1 - - 1 
Pension escrow investments - 20 - 20 
Derivative - assets - - 12 12 
 - liabilities - - (3) (3) 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (973) - - (973) 
Obligations under finance leases (305) - - (305) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets (1,132) 210 25 (897) 
Financial year ended 25 March 2012 
Table 3 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cash 28 127 17 172 
Cash equivalent investments 30 271 - 301 
Financial asset investments (current) 31 - - 31 
Pension escrow investments 25 124 - 149 
Derivative - assets - - 11 11 
  - liabilities - - (5) (5) 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (922) (600) - (1,522) 
Obligations under finance leases (317) - - (317) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets (1,125) (78) 23 (1,180) 
 
95
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
Financial year ended 27 March 2011 
Table 3 (continued) 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cash 12 87 1 100 
Cash equivalent investments 121 98 - 219 
Financial asset investments (current) 1 - - 1 
Pension escrow investments 21 66 - 87 
Financial asset investments (non-current) 44 - - 44 
Derivative - assets - - 42 42 
  - liabilities - - (3) (3) 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (877) (600) - (1,477) 
Miscellaneous loans and borrowings in subsidiaries (1) - - (1) 
Obligations under finance leases (245) - - (245) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets (924) (349) 40 (1,233) 
Financial year ended 31 March 2013 
Table 4 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% 
Within 
1 year 
£m 
1-2 
years 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
More than 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate       
Cash at bank 3.2 18 – – – 18 
Cash equivalent investments:       
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.4 120 – – – 120 
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local government 0.4 7 – – – 7 
Financial assets – investments (current)       
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local government 7.7 1 – – – 1 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 8.8 – – (473) (500) (973) 
Obligations under finance leases  3.6 (79) (56) (139) (31) (305) 
Total  67 (56) (612) (531) (1,132) 
       
Floating rate       
Cash at bank 0.6 102 – – – 102 
Cash equivalent investments:       
 – Money market funds 0.4 88 – – – 88 
Pension escrow investments – money market finds 0.3 – – – 20 20 
Total  190 – – 20 210 
       
Non-interest bearing        
Cash at bank or in hand  16 – – – 16 
Derivative assets  9 3 – – 12 
Derivative liabilities  (2) (1) – – (3) 
Total  23 2 – – 25 
Net total financial assets/(liabilities)  280 (54) (612) (511) (897) 
 
96
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
Financial year ended 27 March 2011 
Table 3 (continued) 
Fixed rate 
£m 
Floating rate 
£m 
Non-interest 
bearing 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cash 12 87 1 100 
Cash equivalent investments 121 98 - 219 
Financial asset investments (current) 1 - - 1 
Pension escrow investments 21 66 - 87 
Financial asset investments (non-current) 44 - - 44 
Derivative - assets - - 42 42 
  - liabilities - - (3) (3) 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited (877) (600) - (1,477) 
Miscellaneous loans and borrowings in subsidiaries (1) - - (1) 
Obligations under finance leases (245) - - (245) 
Net total financial (liabilities)/assets (924) (349) 40 (1,233) 
Financial year ended 31 March 2013 
Table 4 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% 
Within 
1 year 
£m 
1-2 
years 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
More than 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate       
Cash at bank 3.2 18 – – – 18 
Cash equivalent investments:       
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.4 120 – – – 120 
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local government 0.4 7 – – – 7 
Financial assets – investments (current)       
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local government 7.7 1 – – – 1 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 8.8 – – (473) (500) (973) 
Obligations under finance leases  3.6 (79) (56) (139) (31) (305) 
Total  67 (56) (612) (531) (1,132) 
       
Floating rate       
Cash at bank 0.6 102 – – – 102 
Cash equivalent investments:       
 – Money market funds 0.4 88 – – – 88 
Pension escrow investments – money market finds 0.3 – – – 20 20 
Total  190 – – 20 210 
       
Non-interest bearing        
Cash at bank or in hand  16 – – – 16 
Derivative assets  9 3 – – 12 
Derivative liabilities  (2) (1) – – (3) 
Total  23 2 – – 25 
Net total financial assets/(liabilities)  280 (54) (612) (511) (897) 
 
 
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
Financial year ended 25 March 2012 
Table 4 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% 
Within 
1 year 
£m 
1-2 
years 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
More than 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate       
Cash at bank 4.2 28 – – – 28 
Cash equivalent investments:       
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.7 30 – – – 30 
Financial assets – investments (current)       
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local government 7.7 1 – – – 1 
– Short-term deposits – Bank 2.4 30 – – – 30 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
– Gilt edged securities (conventional) 4.8 – – – 25 25 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 8.7 – – – (922) (922) 
Obligations under finance leases  3.8 (86) (52) (142) (37) (317) 
Total  3 (52) (142) (934) (1,125) 
       
Floating rate       
Cash at bank 0.5 127 – – – 127 
Cash equivalent investments:       
 – Money market funds 0.8 271 – – – 271 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
 – Treasury bills 0.4 – – – 45 45 
 – Gilt edged securities (index linked) 4.3 – – – 79 79 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 2.2 – (600) – – (600) 
Total  398 (600) – 124 (78) 
       
Non-interest bearing        
Cash at bank or in hand  17 – – – 17 
Derivative assets  9 2 – – 11 
Derivative liabilities  (4) (1) – – (5) 
Total  22 1 – – 23 
Net total financial assets/(liabilities)  423 (651) (142) (810) (1,180) 
97
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013   
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
Financial year ended 27 March 2011 
Table 4 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% 
Within 
1 year 
£m 
1-2 
years 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
More than 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate       
Cash at bank 3.9 12 – – – 12 
Cash equivalent investments:       
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.6 29 – – – 29 
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.8 92 – – – 92 
Financial assets – investments (current)       
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local  
 government 7.7 1 – – – 1 
Financial assets – investments (non-current) – bank deposits 0.4 – 5 24 15 44 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
– Gilt edged securities (conventional) 4.8 – – – 21 21 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 8.4 – – – (877) (877) 
Obligations under finance leases  4.3 (61) (47) (103) (34) (245) 
Miscellaneous loans in subsidiaries 4.5 – – (1) – (1) 
Total  73 (42) (80) (875) (924) 
       
Floating rate       
Cash at bank 0.8 87 – – – 87 
Cash equivalent investments:       
 – Money market funds 0.7 98 – – – 98 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
 – Gilt edged securities (index linked) 4.7 – – – 66 66 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 3.0 – – (600) – (600) 
Total  185 – (600) 66 (349) 
       
Non-interest bearing        
Cash at bank or in hand   1 – – – 1 
Derivative assets  36 6 – – 42 
Derivative liabilities  (3) – – – (3) 
Total  34 6 – – 40 
Net total financial assets/(liabilities)  292 (36) (680) (809) (1,233) 
98
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)   
 
19. Financial assets and liabilities – additional analysis (continued) 
Financial year ended 27 March 2011 
Table 4 
Average 
effective 
interest rate 
% 
Within 
1 year 
£m 
1-2 
years 
£m 
2-5 
years 
£m 
More than 
5 years 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Fixed rate       
Cash at bank 3.9 12 – – – 12 
Cash equivalent investments:       
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.6 29 – – – 29 
– Short-term deposits – bank 0.8 92 – – – 92 
Financial assets – investments (current)       
– Short-term deposits – HM Government/local  
 government 7.7 1 – – – 1 
Financial assets – investments (non-current) – bank deposits 0.4 – 5 24 15 44 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
– Gilt edged securities (conventional) 4.8 – – – 21 21 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 8.4 – – – (877) (877) 
Obligations under finance leases  4.3 (61) (47) (103) (34) (245) 
Miscellaneous loans in subsidiaries 4.5 – – (1) – (1) 
Total  73 (42) (80) (875) (924) 
       
Floating rate       
Cash at bank 0.8 87 – – – 87 
Cash equivalent investments:       
 – Money market funds 0.7 98 – – – 98 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments (non-current)       
 – Gilt edged securities (index linked) 4.7 – – – 66 66 
BIS loans to Royal Mail Group Limited 3.0 – – (600) – (600) 
Total  185 – (600) 66 (349) 
       
Non-interest bearing        
Cash at bank or in hand   1 – – – 1 
Derivative assets  36 6 – – 42 
Derivative liabilities  (3) – – – (3) 
Total  34 6 – – 40 
Net total financial assets/(liabilities)  292 (36) (680) (809) (1,233) 
 
 
20. Hedging programmes 
Information regarding the various hedging programmes in place to mitigate volatility in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates is 
provided below. 
The hedging programmes use a number of financial derivative products to manage volatility in commodity prices and foreign exchange. If these 
hedges are ‘in the money’, i.e. hedged rates are better than the current market rate, then a derivative asset is recognised and if they are ‘out of 
the money’, a derivative liability is recognised. We show the full picture in this note even though the balance sheet amounts are not material in 
the context of the Group’s total assets and liabilities. 
The purpose of the Group’s hedging programmes is to mitigate volatility in commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. As explained in note 14, 
interest rate risk is managed using an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate financial instruments. There are no significant concentrations of 
credit risk. Accounting rules require the Company to choose whether to designate effective cash flow hedge programmes or not (subject to various 
tests). The impact of not designating a cash flow hedge programme is that all gains or losses on the derivatives in the programme have to be taken 
immediately to the income statement and cannot be deferred into equity. The Group had the following designated cash flow hedge programmes 
during the current and previous year. 
Hedging activities 
The diesel fuel hedge programme uses forward commodity price swaps in US$ or Sterling and forward currency purchase contracts to hedge the 
exposure arising from commodity price and US$/Sterling exchange rates for forecast diesel fuel purchases. 
The jet fuel hedge programme uses forward commodity price swaps and forward currency purchase contracts to hedge the exposure arising from 
commodity price and US$/Sterling exchange rates for forecast jet fuel usage. 
The air conveyance hedge programme uses US$ forward currency purchase contracts to hedge the exposure arising from US$/Sterling exchange 
rates for forecast air conveyance purchases. 
Three capital programmes (one of which completed during the year) use Euro forward currency purchase contracts to hedge the exposure arising 
from Sterling/Euro exchange rates for contracted capital expenditure on automation projects. 
The electricity hedge programme uses forward commodity price swaps to hedge the exposure arising from electricity prices. 
The gas hedge programme uses forward commodity price swaps to hedge the exposure arising from gas prices. 
The Group had undesignated cash flow hedge programmes for UKPIL overseas postal operator liabilities and the transactional exposure created by 
inter-company loans with GLS. The derivative balances of these programmes are not material. 
Commodity price hedging 
The Group’s normal operating activities result in the consumption of fuel (both diesel and jet), electricity and gas. The prices of these commodities can 
be volatile, so the Group enters into price swap contracts to lock future purchases (at an agreed volume) into a known price. For diesel and jet these 
price swaps are sometimes entered into on the US$ price for the commodity (based upon available market prices), in which case the Group uses 
forward foreign currency contracts to lock into a combined Sterling price for the commodity. The following table shows the commodity, risk, the 
amount of the exposure and the percentage of the expected consumption hedged. The Group hedges the cost of the underlying commodity and any 
irrecoverable VAT that is incurred on this cost. It does not hedge any fuel duty. The exposures shown in the following table exclude the costs of fuel 
duty and are based upon the hedges in place combined with market prices at the balance sheet date for the unhedged amounts. Fuel duty (and the 
associated VAT) add an additional cost of approximately £100 million to diesel costs each year. Total fuel costs for 2013-14 are estimated to be 
£196 million. 
 
99
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
20. Hedging programmes (continued) 
 
 Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2013 
  March Year ending 2014 March Year ending 2015 March Year ending 2016 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 80 93% 82 79% 83 9% 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 16 92% 16 − 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 18 83% 18 54% 19 6% 
Gas £ price movement 14 81% 14 56% 14 7% 
 
  Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2012 
  March Year ending 2013 March Year ending 2014 March Year ending 2015 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 83 91% 86 51% 84 9% 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 15 90% 16 52% 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 19 83% 17 85% 17 20% 
Gas £ price movement 15 78% 14 80% 13 9% 
 
  Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2011 
  March Year ending 2012 March Year ending 2013 March Year ending 2014 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 59 90% 73 29% 75 − 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 13 90% 16 30% 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 15 76% 17 26% 18 − 
Gas £ price movement 8 88% 11 40% 11 − 
Foreign currency hedging for non-commodity items 
As highlighted in note 14, the Group, where possible, nets exposure to foreign currency internally. The remaining net exposure may be hedged with 
external forward foreign currency contracts. The underlying exposures, (e.g. the foreign postal administration liabilities) and the derivatives are both 
revalued to current market prices at the balance sheet dates, meaning that no net gains or losses arise in the income statement. 
The following table shows for each hedge programme, the risk and the percentage hedged of the next 12 months’ exposure: 
  
Percentage of next 12 months’ exposure that  
has been hedged 
Hedge programme Risk 
At 
31 March 
2013 
At 
25 March 
2012 
At 
 27 March 
 2011 
Air conveyance $/£ exchange rate movements 92% 89% 90% 
Capital programmes €/£ exchange rate movements 95% 86% 87% 
Overseas postal operator liabilities SDR/£ exchange rate movements 17% 36% 41% 
GLS inter-company loan €/£ exchange rate movements 100% 100% 100% 
The next 12 months’ exposure is calculated as the combination of the cost of settling liabilities during the next 12 months and the cost of revaluing 
unsettled liabilities at the end of 12 months. 
As highlighted in note 14, the Company does not hedge the translational exposure created by the net assets or profits of its overseas subsidiaries, 
mainly GLS. 
Derivative values 
At any point in time, the derivatives in these cash flow hedge programmes are either ‘in the money’ which means the hedged rates are better than 
current market rates or ‘out of the money’ which means the hedged rates are worse than current market rates. The gains (‘in the money’) and losses 
(‘out of the money’) at the balance sheet date are deferred into equity (where the hedge is effective) and an associated financial asset or financial 
liability is created in the balance sheet. The financial asset/liability is either realised in cash or used to discharge a liability when the derivative matures. 
The amounts deferred into equity are released from equity to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of non-financial assets when 
the hedged transaction occurs. The following tables show the derivative contracts entered into at 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 
2011 and the associated derivative assets and liabilities. 
100
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
20. Hedging programmes (continued) 
 
 Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2013 
  March Year ending 2014 March Year ending 2015 March Year ending 2016 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 80 93% 82 79% 83 9% 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 16 92% 16 − 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 18 83% 18 54% 19 6% 
Gas £ price movement 14 81% 14 56% 14 7% 
 
  Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2012 
  March Year ending 2013 March Year ending 2014 March Year ending 2015 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 83 91% 86 51% 84 9% 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 15 90% 16 52% 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 19 83% 17 85% 17 20% 
Gas £ price movement 15 78% 14 80% 13 9% 
 
  Exposure (excluding fuel duty) and expected consumption hedged 2011 
  March Year ending 2012 March Year ending 2013 March Year ending 2014 
Commodity Risk 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged 
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Exposure 
£m 
% 
hedged  
Diesel fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 59 90% 73 29% 75 − 
Jet fuel US$ price and $/£ exchange rate movements 13 90% 16 30% 16 − 
Electricity £ price movement 15 76% 17 26% 18 − 
Gas £ price movement 8 88% 11 40% 11 − 
Foreign currency hedging for non-commodity items 
As highlighted in note 14, the Group, where possible, nets exposure to foreign currency internally. The remaining net exposure may be hedged with 
external forward foreign currency contracts. The underlying exposures, (e.g. the foreign postal administration liabilities) and the derivatives are both 
revalued to current market prices at the balance sheet dates, meaning that no net gains or losses arise in the income statement. 
The following table shows for each hedge programme, the risk and the percentage hedged of the next 12 months’ exposure: 
  
Percentage of next 12 months’ exposure that  
has been hedged 
Hedge programme Risk 
At 
31 March 
2013 
At 
25 March 
2012 
At 
 27 March 
 2011 
Air conveyance $/£ exchange rate movements 92% 89% 90% 
Capital programmes €/£ exchange rate movements 95% 86% 87% 
Overseas postal operator liabilities SDR/£ exchange rate movements 17% 36% 41% 
GLS inter-company loan €/£ exchange rate movements 100% 100% 100% 
The next 12 months’ exposure is calculated as the combination of the cost of settling liabilities during the next 12 months and the cost of revaluing 
unsettled liabilities at the end of 12 months. 
As highlighted in note 14, the Company does not hedge the translational exposure created by the net assets or profits of its overseas subsidiaries, 
mainly GLS. 
Derivative values 
At any point in time, the derivatives in these cash flow hedge programmes are either ‘in the money’ which means the hedged rates are better than 
current market rates or ‘out of the money’ which means the hedged rates are worse than current market rates. The gains (‘in the money’) and losses 
(‘out of the money’) at the balance sheet date are deferred into equity (where the hedge is effective) and an associated financial asset or financial 
liability is created in the balance sheet. The financial asset/liability is either realised in cash or used to discharge a liability when the derivative matures. 
The amounts deferred into equity are released from equity to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of non-financial assets when 
the hedged transaction occurs. The following tables show the derivative contracts entered into at 31 March 2013, 25 March 2012 and 27 March 
2011 and the associated derivative assets and liabilities. 
 
 
20. Hedging programmes (continued) 
 
Commodity/ 
currency 
Nominal 
amount Maturity date 
Average contracted 
commodity price/ 
exchange rate 
Derivative 
asset 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
asset 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
liability 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
 liability 
current 
fair value 
£m 
2013         
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 182,000 tonnes Apr 13 – Apr 15 US$931/tonne – 3 (1) (1) 
Diesel fuel US$ $169m Apr 13 – Apr 15 US$1.56/£ 1 2 – – 
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 93m litres Apr 13 – Oct 15 £0.5/litre 2 – – – 
Jet fuel Jet fuel 17,000 tonnes Apr 13 – Dec 13 US$1,016/tonne – – – – 
Jet fuel Jet fuel $17m Apr 13 – Dec 13 US$1.56/£ – – – – 
Air conveyance US$ $29m Apr 13 – May 14 US$1.60/£ – 1 – – 
Capital programmes Euro €4m Jun 13 – Oct 14 £0.82/ € – – – – 
Electricity Electricity 535,000 MWh Apr 13 – Oct 15 £55/MWh – 1 – (1) 
Gas Gas 33m therms Apr 13 – Oct 15 £0.70/therm – 1 – – 
Cash flow hedges     3 8 (1) (2) 
Other derivatives     – 1 – – 
Total     3 9 (1) (2) 
 
 
Commodity/ 
currency 
Nominal 
amount Maturity date 
Average contracted 
commodity price/ 
exchange rate 
Derivative 
asset 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
asset 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
liability 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
 liability 
current 
fair value 
£m 
2012         
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 191,000 tonnes Apr 12 – Oct 14 US$963/tonne 1 7 – – 
Diesel fuel US$ $184m Apr 12 – Oct 14 US$1.58/£ – 1 – (1) 
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 32m litres May 13 – Jul 14 £0.5/litre 1 – – – 
Jet fuel Jet fuel 29,000 tonnes Apr 12 – Sep 13 US$1,017/tonne – 1 – – 
Jet fuel Jet fuel $29m Apr 12 – Sep 13 US$1.58/£ – – – – 
Air conveyance US$ $28m Mar 12 – Apr 13 US$1.60/£ – – – – 
Capital programmes Euro €21m Mar 12 – Jun 12 £0.84/ € – – – – 
Electricity Electricity 695,000 MWh Apr 12 – Oct 14 £55/MWh – – (1) (2) 
Gas Gas 40m therms Apr 12 – Oct 14 £0.70/therm – – – – 
Cash flow hedges     2 9 (1) (3) 
Other derivatives     – – – (1) 
Total     2 9 (1) (4) 
 
 
101
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013   
 
20. Hedging programmes (continued) 
 
Commodity/ 
currency 
Nominal 
amount Maturity date 
Average contracted 
commodity price/ 
exchange rate 
Derivative 
asset 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
asset 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
liability 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
 liability 
current 
fair value 
£m 
2011         
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 148,000 tonnes Apr 11 – Jan 13 US$795/tonne 4 17 – – 
Diesel fuel US$ $118m Apr 11 – Jan 13 US$1.57/£ – – – (1) 
Air conveyance US$ $25m Mar 11 – Apr 12 US$1.63/£ – – – – 
Capital programmes Euro €67m Mar 11 – Apr 12 £0.85/ € – 2 – – 
Electricity Electricity 378,000 MWh Apr 11 – Jan 13 £46/MWh 1 3 - - 
Gas Gas 24m therms Apr 11 – Apr 13 £0.56/therm - 3 – – 
Cash flow hedges     5 25 – (1) 
Other derivatives     1 11 – (2) 
Total     6 36 – (3) 
Other derivatives represent hedges by the Group of other foreign exchange and commodity price exposures, which are not designated under IAS 39 
(including the hedge of the trading balance with overseas postal operators and the hedge of inter-company loans with overseas subsidiaries). 
There are timing differences between the maturity of the derivatives and the maturity of the underlying hedged transaction. For example, the diesel 
derivatives that hedge the exposure to purchasing fuel in March 2013 mature in April 2013. Hence at 31 March 2013, the balance sheet includes 
the market value of these derivatives but the cumulative gains and losses on these derivatives have been released from the hedging reserve to the 
income statement to match the exposure to purchasing fuel in March 2013. Therefore there are differences between derivative balances (shown 
above) and the balance on the hedging reserve. 
 
 
102
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)   
 
20. Hedging programmes (continued) 
 
Commodity/ 
currency 
Nominal 
amount Maturity date 
Average contracted 
commodity price/ 
exchange rate 
Derivative 
asset 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
asset 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
liability 
non- 
current 
fair value 
£m 
Derivative 
 liability 
current 
fair value 
£m 
2011         
Diesel fuel Diesel fuel 148,000 tonnes Apr 11 – Jan 13 US$795/tonne 4 17 – – 
Diesel fuel US$ $118m Apr 11 – Jan 13 US$1.57/£ – – – (1) 
Air conveyance US$ $25m Mar 11 – Apr 12 US$1.63/£ – – – – 
Capital programmes Euro €67m Mar 11 – Apr 12 £0.85/ € – 2 – – 
Electricity Electricity 378,000 MWh Apr 11 – Jan 13 £46/MWh 1 3 - - 
Gas Gas 24m therms Apr 11 – Apr 13 £0.56/therm - 3 – – 
Cash flow hedges     5 25 – (1) 
Other derivatives     1 11 – (2) 
Total     6 36 – (3) 
Other derivatives represent hedges by the Group of other foreign exchange and commodity price exposures, which are not designated under IAS 39 
(including the hedge of the trading balance with overseas postal operators and the hedge of inter-company loans with overseas subsidiaries). 
There are timing differences between the maturity of the derivatives and the maturity of the underlying hedged transaction. For example, the diesel 
derivatives that hedge the exposure to purchasing fuel in March 2013 mature in April 2013. Hence at 31 March 2013, the balance sheet includes 
the market value of these derivatives but the cumulative gains and losses on these derivatives have been released from the hedging reserve to the 
income statement to match the exposure to purchasing fuel in March 2013. Therefore there are differences between derivative balances (shown 
above) and the balance on the hedging reserve. 
 
 
 
 
Other notes – balance sheet 
The notes in this section provide additional information regarding certain assets and liabilities on the Group balance sheet, most notably 
provisions, mainly in relation to transformation costs, and fixed and intangible assets and goodwill. 
 
21. Provisions  
22. Property, plant and equipment  
23. Goodwill  
24. Intangible assets  
25. Investments in associates  
26. Current trade and other receivables  
27. Current trade and other payables  
28. Issued share capital and reserves  
29. Commitments  
30. Related party information  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
103
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
21. Provisions 
A summary of the provisions that have been made in the accounts, including for transformation costs are shown below. 
 
 Exceptional   
 
Transformation 
£m 
Non- 
transformation 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 28 March 2010 186 – 47 233 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 254 30 – 284 
– charged in other operating costs – – 23 23 
Unused amounts reversed (113) – (7) (120) 
Utilised in the year (159) – (15) (174) 
Discount rate adjustment 6 – – 6 
At 27 March 2011 174 30 48 252 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 89 19 – 108 
– charged in other operating costs – – 32 32 
Unused amounts reversed (7) (2) (2) (11) 
Utilised in the year (148) (6) (12) (166) 
Discount rate adjustment – 2 – 2 
At 25 March 2012 108 43 66 217 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 87 48 – 135 
– charged in other operating costs – – 27 27 
Unused amounts reversed (17) – (17) (34) 
Utilised in the year (73) (5) (22) (100) 
Discount rate adjustment – 1 – 1 
At 31 March 2013 105 87 54 246 
     
Disclosed as:     
Current at 31 March 2013 69 18 32 119 
Non-current at 31 March 2013 36 69 22 127 
 105 87 54 246 
     
Current at 25 March 2012 73 7 52 132 
Non-current at 25 March 2012 35 36 14 85 
 108 43 66 217 
     
Current at 27 March 2011 133 3 31 167 
Non-current at 27 March 2011 41 27 17 85 
 174 30 48 252 
 
104
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
21. Provisions 
A summary of the provisions that have been made in the accounts, including for transformation costs are shown below. 
 
 Exceptional   
 
Transformation 
£m 
Non- 
transformation 
£m 
Other 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 28 March 2010 186 – 47 233 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 254 30 – 284 
– charged in other operating costs – – 23 23 
Unused amounts reversed (113) – (7) (120) 
Utilised in the year (159) – (15) (174) 
Discount rate adjustment 6 – – 6 
At 27 March 2011 174 30 48 252 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 89 19 – 108 
– charged in other operating costs – – 32 32 
Unused amounts reversed (7) (2) (2) (11) 
Utilised in the year (148) (6) (12) (166) 
Discount rate adjustment – 2 – 2 
At 25 March 2012 108 43 66 217 
Arising during the year:     
– charged in operating exceptional items 87 48 – 135 
– charged in other operating costs – – 27 27 
Unused amounts reversed (17) – (17) (34) 
Utilised in the year (73) (5) (22) (100) 
Discount rate adjustment – 1 – 1 
At 31 March 2013 105 87 54 246 
     
Disclosed as:     
Current at 31 March 2013 69 18 32 119 
Non-current at 31 March 2013 36 69 22 127 
 105 87 54 246 
     
Current at 25 March 2012 73 7 52 132 
Non-current at 25 March 2012 35 36 14 85 
 108 43 66 217 
     
Current at 27 March 2011 133 3 31 167 
Non-current at 27 March 2011 41 27 17 85 
 174 30 48 252 
 
 
 
21. Provisions (continued) 
Transformation provisions (charged as transformation operating exceptional items) 
Transformation exceptional provisions of £105 million (2012 £108 million, 2011 £174 million) principally comprise redundancy schemes of  
£92 million (2012 £87 million, 2011 £156 million). A further £13 million (2012 £21 million, 2011 £18 million) relates to onerous property contracts 
associated with restructuring. Current transformation provisions of £69 million are expected to be utilised in 2013-14, with the remainder due within 
two to three years, except for onerous property provisions of £1 million, expected to be utilised within three to five years, and a further £3 million 
over a period greater than five years. 
Non-transformation provisions (charged as other operating exceptional items) 
Included in non-transformation provisions of £87 million at 31 March 2013 (2012 £43 million, 2011 £30 million) is £67 million (2012 £39 million, 
2011 £30 million) for potential industrial diseases claims relating to both current and former employees of the Group.  
Royal Mail Group’s liability in respect of former employees arose in 2010 as a result of a Court of Appeal judgment that held the Group liable for 
diseases claims brought by individuals who were employed in the General Post Office telecommunications division and whose employment ceased 
prior to October 1981. Consequently, a provision was first recognised in 2010-11. 
The Group has derived its current provision by using estimates and ranges calculated by its actuary, which are based on current experience of claims, 
and an assessment of potential future claims, the majority of which are expected to be received over the next 25 to 30 years. The Group has a 
rigorous process of ensuring that only valid claims are accepted. £4 million of this provision is expected to be utilised in 2013-14.  
The remaining £20 million (2012 and 2011 £nil) relates to IT systems costs associated with Post Office Limited separation, of which £14 million is 
expected to be utilised in 2013-14, with the remainder expected to be utilised in the following year.  
Other provisions (charged in normal operating expenses) 
‘Other’ provisions of £54 million (2012 £66 million, 2011 £48 million) mainly comprise onerous lease obligations, decommissioning costs and 
estimated exposures resulting from legal claims incurred in the normal course of business. The majority of ‘Other’ provision amounts are expected  
to be utilised in 2013-14, with £3 million onerous lease obligations and decommissioning costs expected to be utilised within two to three years,  
£12 million within three to five years and a further £7 million over a period greater than five years. 
105
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
22. Property, plant and equipment 
Below are details of the Group’s property, automation equipment and vehicles, which are recorded at their historic cost (what we paid for them) 
less; accumulated depreciation (reflecting their usage within the business over their useful life - from 3 to 50 years); and impairments relating to 
underperformance of assets in their objective of generating economic benefits. 
 
 Land and buildings     
 
Freehold 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles 
£m 
Fixtures and 
equipment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost        
At 26 March 2012 1,528 259 633 1,224 448 328 4,420 
Exchange rate movements 4 – – 2 1 2 9 
Reclassification (29) 1 27 1 – – – 
Additions 176 4 19 47 110 36 392 
Disposals (33) (2) (29) (87) (21) (4) (176) 
Legal entity transfer to POL (22) – – – – – (22) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale  (2) – – – – – (2) 
At 31 March 2013 1,622 262 650 1,187 538 362 4,621 
Depreciation and impairment        
At 26 March 2012 801 157 403 735 262 240 2,598 
Exchange rate movements 1 – – 2 – 1 4 
Reclassification – – (1) – 1 – – 
Depreciation (note 13) 40 6 46 68 46 32 238 
Impairment (note 5) 21 – – – – – 21 
Disposals  (16) (1) (16) (87) (20) (4) (144) 
Legal entity transfer to POL (11) – – – – – (11) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale (1) – – – – – (1) 
At 31 March 2013 835 162 432 718 289 269 2,705 
Net book value        
At 31 March 2013 787 100 218 469 249 93 1,916 
At 26 March 2012 727 102 230 489 186 88 1,822 
Depreciation rates are disclosed within accounting policies (page 119). No depreciation is provided on land, which represents £196 million 
(2012 £199 million, 2011 £166 million) of the total cost of properties. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment held under 
finance leases amounts to £378 million (2012 £320 million, 2011 £262 million) comprising £208 million (2012 £137 million, 2011 £152 million) 
vehicles, £146 million (2012 £154 million, 2011 £88 million) plant and machinery and £24 million (2012 £29 million 2011 £22 million) land and 
buildings. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes £206 million (2012 £171 million, 2011 £146 million) in respect 
of assets in the course of construction. The net book value of the Group’s land and buildings includes £382 million (2012 £389 million, 2011  
£383 million) in respect of building fit-out. 
The £392 million (2012 £327 million, 2011 £262 million) additions include borrowing costs capitalised in relation to specific qualifying assets of £nil 
(2012 £2 million, 2011 £nil). 
106
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
22. Property, plant and equipment 
Below are details of the Group’s property, automation equipment and vehicles, which are recorded at their historic cost (what we paid for them) 
less; accumulated depreciation (reflecting their usage within the business over their useful life - from 3 to 50 years); and impairments relating to 
underperformance of assets in their objective of generating economic benefits. 
 
 Land and buildings     
 
Freehold 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles 
£m 
Fixtures and 
equipment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost        
At 26 March 2012 1,528 259 633 1,224 448 328 4,420 
Exchange rate movements 4 – – 2 1 2 9 
Reclassification (29) 1 27 1 – – – 
Additions 176 4 19 47 110 36 392 
Disposals (33) (2) (29) (87) (21) (4) (176) 
Legal entity transfer to POL (22) – – – – – (22) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale  (2) – – – – – (2) 
At 31 March 2013 1,622 262 650 1,187 538 362 4,621 
Depreciation and impairment        
At 26 March 2012 801 157 403 735 262 240 2,598 
Exchange rate movements 1 – – 2 – 1 4 
Reclassification – – (1) – 1 – – 
Depreciation (note 13) 40 6 46 68 46 32 238 
Impairment (note 5) 21 – – – – – 21 
Disposals  (16) (1) (16) (87) (20) (4) (144) 
Legal entity transfer to POL (11) – – – – – (11) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale (1) – – – – – (1) 
At 31 March 2013 835 162 432 718 289 269 2,705 
Net book value        
At 31 March 2013 787 100 218 469 249 93 1,916 
At 26 March 2012 727 102 230 489 186 88 1,822 
Depreciation rates are disclosed within accounting policies (page 119). No depreciation is provided on land, which represents £196 million 
(2012 £199 million, 2011 £166 million) of the total cost of properties. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment held under 
finance leases amounts to £378 million (2012 £320 million, 2011 £262 million) comprising £208 million (2012 £137 million, 2011 £152 million) 
vehicles, £146 million (2012 £154 million, 2011 £88 million) plant and machinery and £24 million (2012 £29 million 2011 £22 million) land and 
buildings. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment includes £206 million (2012 £171 million, 2011 £146 million) in respect 
of assets in the course of construction. The net book value of the Group’s land and buildings includes £382 million (2012 £389 million, 2011  
£383 million) in respect of building fit-out. 
The £392 million (2012 £327 million, 2011 £262 million) additions include borrowing costs capitalised in relation to specific qualifying assets of £nil 
(2012 £2 million, 2011 £nil). 
 
 
22. Property, plant and equipment (continued) 
 Land and buildings     
 
Freehold 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles 
£m 
Fixtures and 
equipment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost        
At 28 March 2011 1,524 260 580 1,178 438 312 4,292 
Exchange rate movements (16) (1) – (8) (3) (5) (33) 
Reclassification (32) – 32 – – – – 
Additions 127 2 29 114 28 27 327 
Disposals (55) (1) (8) (60) (15) (6) (145) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale  (20) (1) – – – – (21) 
At 25 March 2012 1,528 259 633 1,224 448 328 4,420 
Depreciation and impairment        
At 28 March 2011 797 153 357 718 224 214 2,463 
Exchange rate movements (4) (1) – (5) (2) (4) (16) 
Reclassification (9) – 9 – – – – 
Depreciation (note 13) 46 6 45 82 54 35 268 
Impairment (note 5) 1 – – – – – 1 
Disposals  (14) (1) (8) (60) (14) (5) (102) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale (16) – – – – – (16) 
At 25 March 2012 801 157 403 735 262 240 2,598 
Net book value        
At 25 March 2012 727 102 230 489 186 88 1,822 
At 28 March 2011 727 107 223 460 214 98 1,829 
 
 Land and buildings     
 
Freehold 
£m 
Long 
leasehold 
£m 
Short 
leasehold 
£m 
Plant and 
machinery 
£m 
Motor 
vehicles 
£m 
Fixtures and 
equipment 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost        
At 29 March 2010 1,647 250 494 1,139 422 290 4,242 
Exchange rate movements (5) – – (2) (1) (1) (9) 
Reclassification (73) (4) 77 (2) 3 (1) - 
Additions 73 19 12 85 43 30 262 
Disposals (106) (5) (3) (42) (29) (6) (191) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale  (12) – – – – – (12) 
At 27 March 2011 1,524 260 580 1,178 438 312 4,292 
Depreciation and impairment        
At 29 March 2010 821 150 280 678 195 186 2,310 
Exchange rate movements (1) – – (2) – (1) (4) 
Reclassification (40) (3) 42 – 1 – – 
Depreciation (note 13) 44 7 38 74 53 34 250 
Impairment (note 5) 2 – – 10 – – 12 
Disposals  (19) (1) (3) (42) (25) (5) (95) 
Reclassification to non-current 
assets held for sale (10) – – – – – (10) 
At 27 March 2011 797 153 357 718 224 214 2,463 
Net book value        
At 27 March 2011 727 107 223 460 214 98 1,829 
At 29 March 2010 826 100 214 461 227 104 1,932 
107
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
23. Goodwill 
This note provides details of the goodwill at the start and end of the reporting period, most of which relates to the Group’s acquisition of its 
overseas subsidiary, General Logistics Systems (GLS). 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Cost    
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 599 628 636 
Exchange rate movements 8 (32) (11) 
Acquisition of businesses  4 3 3 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 611 599 628 
Impairment (including amortisation up to the date of transition to IFRS)    
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 410 431 439 
Exchange rate movements 5 (21) (8) 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 415 410 431 
Net book value    
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 196 189 197 
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 189 197 197 
The Group’s investment in General Logistics Systems (GLS) occurred substantially over the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 financial years. In 2001-02, 
£256 million of the goodwill recognised on acquisition was impaired, based on the forecast under-performance of GLS. Whilst this forecast under-
performance did not fully materialise, the goodwill impairment could not be reversed, as this is not permitted under IFRS. In retrospect, this 
impairment would not have been recognised based on GLS’ actual financial performance.  
The remaining impairment amount of £159 million at 31 March 2013 relates to amortisation prior to the Group’s transition to IFRS in 2005-06, and 
the impact of foreign exchange rates on translation of Euros to pounds Sterling. 
The carrying value of goodwill arising on business combinations of £196 million (2012 £189 million, 2011 £197 million) at the balance sheet date 
includes £194 million (2012 £187 million, 2011 £195 million) relating to the GLS business segment. In line with the Group’s accounting policy (see 
page 118), this goodwill has been reviewed for impairment. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value of an asset 
or cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of net realisable value and value in use. The net 
assets of GLS, excluding interest bearing and taxation related assets and liabilities, is £487 million (2012 £446 million, 2011 £450 million) at  
31 March 2013 and the operating profit before exceptional items is £101 million (2012 £128 million, 2011 £118 million) for the year (note 3). The 
carrying value of GLS represents a multiple of 4.8 (2012 3.5, 2011 3.8) on operating profit before exceptional items. The net realisable value of GLS, 
for the purposes of the impairment review (i.e. the ‘fair value less costs to sell’), has been assessed with reference to earnings multiples for quoted 
entities in a similar sector. On this basis, the net realisable value has been assessed to be in excess of the carrying value. The earnings multiples 
referenced would need to reduce by more than 30 per cent to reduce the net realisable value to below the carrying value. 
108
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
23. Goodwill 
This note provides details of the goodwill at the start and end of the reporting period, most of which relates to the Group’s acquisition of its 
overseas subsidiary, General Logistics Systems (GLS). 
 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Cost    
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 599 628 636 
Exchange rate movements 8 (32) (11) 
Acquisition of businesses  4 3 3 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 611 599 628 
Impairment (including amortisation up to the date of transition to IFRS)    
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 410 431 439 
Exchange rate movements 5 (21) (8) 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 415 410 431 
Net book value    
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 196 189 197 
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010 189 197 197 
The Group’s investment in General Logistics Systems (GLS) occurred substantially over the 1998-99 and 1999-2000 financial years. In 2001-02, 
£256 million of the goodwill recognised on acquisition was impaired, based on the forecast under-performance of GLS. Whilst this forecast under-
performance did not fully materialise, the goodwill impairment could not be reversed, as this is not permitted under IFRS. In retrospect, this 
impairment would not have been recognised based on GLS’ actual financial performance.  
The remaining impairment amount of £159 million at 31 March 2013 relates to amortisation prior to the Group’s transition to IFRS in 2005-06, and 
the impact of foreign exchange rates on translation of Euros to pounds Sterling. 
The carrying value of goodwill arising on business combinations of £196 million (2012 £189 million, 2011 £197 million) at the balance sheet date 
includes £194 million (2012 £187 million, 2011 £195 million) relating to the GLS business segment. In line with the Group’s accounting policy (see 
page 118), this goodwill has been reviewed for impairment. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value of an asset 
or cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of net realisable value and value in use. The net 
assets of GLS, excluding interest bearing and taxation related assets and liabilities, is £487 million (2012 £446 million, 2011 £450 million) at  
31 March 2013 and the operating profit before exceptional items is £101 million (2012 £128 million, 2011 £118 million) for the year (note 3). The 
carrying value of GLS represents a multiple of 4.8 (2012 3.5, 2011 3.8) on operating profit before exceptional items. The net realisable value of GLS, 
for the purposes of the impairment review (i.e. the ‘fair value less costs to sell’), has been assessed with reference to earnings multiples for quoted 
entities in a similar sector. On this basis, the net realisable value has been assessed to be in excess of the carrying value. The earnings multiples 
referenced would need to reduce by more than 30 per cent to reduce the net realisable value to below the carrying value. 
 
 
24. Intangible assets 
Intangible assets, mainly software, are recorded in much the same way as our physical assets such as property and vehicles, but with shorter 
useful lives over which they are amortised (three to six years). 
 
 2013 
 
Master 
franchise 
licences 
£m 
Customer 
listings 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost     
At 26 March 2012 23 30 248 301 
Additions – – 44 44 
Disposals – – (5) (5) 
Acquisition of business – 2 – 2 
At 31 March 2013  23 32 287 342 
     
Amortisation and impairment     
At 26 March 2012  23 26 117 166 
Impairment (note 5) – – (1) (1) 
Amortisation (note 13) – 2 41 43 
Disposals – – (5) (5) 
At 31 March 2013  23 28 152 203 
Net book value     
At 31 March 2013  – 4 135 139 
At 26 March 2012  – 4 131 135 
The £44 million (2012 £43 million, 2011 £62 million) additions include borrowing costs capitalised in relation to specific qualifying assets of  
£1 million (2012 £nil, 2011 £1 million). 
 2012 
 
Master 
franchise 
licences 
£m 
Customer 
listings 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost     
At 28 March 2011  24 29 216 269 
Additions – – 43 43 
Disposals – – (10) (10) 
Acquisition of business – 2 – 2 
Exchange rate movements (1) (1) (1) (3) 
At 25 March 2012  23 30 248 301 
     
Amortisation and impairment     
At 28 March 2011 24 25 94 143 
Impairment (note 5) – – 3 3 
Amortisation (note 13) – 2 31 33 
Disposals – – (10) (10) 
Exchange rate movements (1) (1) (1) (3) 
At 25 March 2012 23 26 117 166 
Net book value     
At 25 March 2012 – 4 131 135 
At 28 March 2011 – 4 122 126 
 
109
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
24. Intangible assets (continued) 
 2011 
 
Master 
franchise 
licences 
£m 
Customer 
listings 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost     
At 29 March 2010 24 27 170 221 
Additions – – 62 62 
Disposals – – (16) (16) 
Acquisition of business – 2 – 2 
At 27 March 2011 24 29 216 269 
     
Amortisation and impairment     
At 29 March 2010 22 22 78 122 
Impairment (note 5) – – 1 1 
Amortisation (note 13) 2 3 31 36 
Disposals – – (16) (16) 
At 27 March 2011 24 25 94 143 
Net book value     
At 27 March 2011 – 4 122 126 
At 29 March 2010 2 5 92 99 
The intangible assets above, none of which have been internally generated, have finite lives and are being written down on a straight-line basis. 
110
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
24. Intangible assets (continued) 
 2011 
 
Master 
franchise 
licences 
£m 
Customer 
listings 
£m 
Software 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost     
At 29 March 2010 24 27 170 221 
Additions – – 62 62 
Disposals – – (16) (16) 
Acquisition of business – 2 – 2 
At 27 March 2011 24 29 216 269 
     
Amortisation and impairment     
At 29 March 2010 22 22 78 122 
Impairment (note 5) – – 1 1 
Amortisation (note 13) 2 3 31 36 
Disposals – – (16) (16) 
At 27 March 2011 24 25 94 143 
Net book value     
At 27 March 2011 – 4 122 126 
At 29 March 2010 2 5 92 99 
The intangible assets above, none of which have been internally generated, have finite lives and are being written down on a straight-line basis. 
 
 
25. Investments in associates 
This note provides details of the Group’s associate companies, including its share of the net assets of these entities. 
Details of the Group’s two associate companies are provided in note 30. During March 2013 it was announced that one of these companies,  
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring), was to be sold and, accordingly, the Group’s share of its net assets was reclassified to the ‘assets held for sale’ 
category on the Group balance sheet. G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) was subsequently sold on 2 April 2013, after the balance sheet date. 
The reporting year end date for Quadrant Catering Limited was 30 September 2012 (30 September 2011) and for G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) 
was 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011). To ensure that the reported share of profit/loss of these two associate companies align with the 
Group’s reporting period ending 31 March 2013 (2012 25 March 2012), an estimated profit/loss, using forecasts from the respective companies’ 
management reporting systems, was used for the month of March 2013. 
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associates to transfer funds to the Group in the form of cash dividends, repayment of loans  
or advances. 
 
At 
26 March 
2012 
£m 
Share of post 
taxation pre 
dividend 
profit 
£m 
Impairment 
£m 
Disposal 
£m 
Reclassification 
£m 
Dividend 
£m 
At 31 March 
2013 
£m 
Share of net assets 3 1 – – (1) – 3 
Total net investments in associates 3 1 – – (1) – 3 
 
 
At 
28 March 
2011 
£m 
Share of post 
taxation pre 
dividend 
profit 
£m 
Impairment 
£m 
Disposal 
£m 
Dividend 
£m 
At 25 March 
2012 
£m 
Share of net assets  9 1 (3) – (4) 3 
Total net investments in associates 9 1 (3) – (4) 3 
 
 
At 
29 March 
2010 
£m 
Share of post 
taxation pre 
dividend 
profit 
£m 
Impairment 
£m 
Disposal 
£m 
Dividend 
£m 
At 27 March 
2011 
£m 
Share of net assets  35 3 – (20) (9) 9 
Goodwill  11 – (2) (9) – – 
Total net investments in associates 46 3 (2) (29) (9) 9 
 
   
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Share of assets and liabilities:    
Current assets 6 10 25 
Non-current assets – 1 3 
Share of gross assets 6 11 28 
Current liabilities (3) (8) (18) 
Non-current liabilities – – (1) 
Share of gross liabilities (3) (8) (19) 
Share of net assets 3 3 9 
Share of revenue and profit:    
Revenue 61 68 341 
Profit after taxation 1 1 3 
111
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
26. Current trade and other receivables 
The following details relate to amounts owed to the Group by third parties (including Post Office Limited) and also the level of bad and doubtful 
debts that the Company has provided for in the financial statements. 
 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Trade receivables  758 759 820 
Prepayments and accrued income  241 275 86 
Income taxation receivable 5 2 – 
Total 1,004 1,036 906 
Movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts were as follows: 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010  35 19 23 
Receivables provided for during the year 11 26 8 
Release of provision (10) (4) (4) 
Utilisation of provision (6) (6) (8) 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 30 35 19 
The amount of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired are as follows: 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Past due not more than one month 93 60 62 
Past due more than one month and not more than two months 8 12 10 
Past due more than two months  29 33 18 
Total past due but not impaired 130 105 90 
Provided for or not yet overdue 658 689 749 
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (30) (35) (19) 
Total  758 759 820 
 
27. Current trade and other payables 
The following details relate to amounts owed by the Group to third parties (including Post Office Limited). 
 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Trade payables and accruals  1,076 1,044 1,004 
Advance customer payments (for stamps held, not yet used by customers) 375 292 241 
Social security  102 85 85 
Capital expenditure payables 48 47 44 
Other 10 44 20 
Total 1,611 1,512 1,394 
 
 
112
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
26. Current trade and other receivables 
The following details relate to amounts owed to the Group by third parties (including Post Office Limited) and also the level of bad and doubtful 
debts that the Company has provided for in the financial statements. 
 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Trade receivables  758 759 820 
Prepayments and accrued income  241 275 86 
Income taxation receivable 5 2 – 
Total 1,004 1,036 906 
Movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts were as follows: 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
At 26 March 2012 and 28 March 2011 and 29 March 2010  35 19 23 
Receivables provided for during the year 11 26 8 
Release of provision (10) (4) (4) 
Utilisation of provision (6) (6) (8) 
At 31 March 2013 and 25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011 30 35 19 
The amount of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired are as follows: 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Past due not more than one month 93 60 62 
Past due more than one month and not more than two months 8 12 10 
Past due more than two months  29 33 18 
Total past due but not impaired 130 105 90 
Provided for or not yet overdue 658 689 749 
Provision for bad and doubtful debts (30) (35) (19) 
Total  758 759 820 
 
27. Current trade and other payables 
The following details relate to amounts owed by the Group to third parties (including Post Office Limited). 
 
  
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Trade payables and accruals  1,076 1,044 1,004 
Advance customer payments (for stamps held, not yet used by customers) 375 292 241 
Social security  102 85 85 
Capital expenditure payables 48 47 44 
Other 10 44 20 
Total 1,611 1,512 1,394 
 
 
 
 
28. Issued share capital and reserves 
Details of the authorised share capital of the Company and that which has been issued are as follows. 
Authorised share capital 
 
2013 
£ 
2012 
£ 
2011 
£ 
Ordinary shares of £1 each  100,000 100,000 100,000 
Special Rights Redeemable Preference Share (Special Share) of £1 each 1 – – 
Total 100,001 100,000 100,000 
Issued and called up share capital 
 
2013 
£ 
2012 
£ 
2011 
£ 
Ordinary shares of £1 each  50,000 50,000 50,000 
Special Rights Redeemable Preference Share (Special Share) of £1 each 1 – – 
Total 50,001 50,000 50,000 
The Special Share can be redeemed at any time by its holder (the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation & Skills), subject to such redemption 
being compliant with the Companies Act 2006. The Company cannot redeem the Special Share without the prior consent of its holder. No premium 
is payable on redemption.  
On distribution in a winding up of the Company, the holder of the Special Share is entitled to repayment of the lower of (a) the capital paid up on the 
Special Share in priority to any repayment of capital to any other member; and (b) an amount equal to 24 per cent of the assets available for 
distribution to equity holders of the Company. The Special Share does not carry any rights to vote. 
Under section 63(7) of the Postal Services Act 2000, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, certain shares issued shall be treated as if their 
nominal value had been fully paid up. 
Under section 72 of the Postal Services Act 2000, the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation & Skills may issue directions to Royal Mail Holdings 
plc (the Company’s parent company) which, depending on the particulars of that direction, could result in the establishment of a separate reserve in 
equity by the Company. 
Other reserves identified in the consolidated statement of changes in equity 
Financial Assets Reserve 
The Financial Assets Reserve is used to record fair value changes on available for sale financial assets. 
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve 
The Foreign Currency Translation Reserve is used to record the gains and losses arising from 29 March 2004 on translation of assets and liabilities 
of subsidiaries denominated in currencies other than the reporting currency. 
Hedging Reserve 
The Hedging Reserve is used to record gains and losses arising from cash flow hedges since 28 March 2005. 
Dividends 
The Directors do not recommend a dividend (2012 £nil dividend). 
113
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
29. Commitments 
The information below includes details of committed future rental payments for the use of assets which the Group does not legally own, and are 
either not recognised on the Group’s balance sheet (operating leases); or are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet (finance leases) on the 
basis that the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the finance leased assets lie with Royal Mail Group. 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group is committed to the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 March 2013 and  
25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011: 
 Land and buildings  Vehicles and equipment  IT equipment  Total 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Within one year  125 132 130  13 11 11  8 13 20  146 156 161 
Between one and five years  391 414 412  14 18 13  17 16 19  422 448 444 
Beyond five years  507 535 476  – – –  – 3 –  507 538 476 
Total 1,023 1,081 1,018  27 29 24  25 32 39  1,075 1,142 1,081 
Existing leases for UK land and buildings have an average term of 13 years and lease renewals tend to have a 10-year term with a break in year five. 
Existing land and buildings leased overseas by the GLS subsidiary have an average lease term of eight years. Vehicle leases generally have a term of 
between one and seven years, depending on the asset class, with the average term being two years – the existing leases have an average term 
remaining of one year. The IT commitments relate to 10-year contracts, with an average term remaining of four years. 
Finance lease commitments 
 2013  2012  2011 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
 of minimum 
 lease 
payments 
£m 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
 of minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
of minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Within one year  87 79  98 86  72 61 
Between one and five years  208 195  213 194  166 150 
Beyond five years  122 31  131 37  131 34 
Total minimum lease payments 417 305  442 317  369 245 
Less amounts representing finance charges (112) –  (125) –  (124) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 305 305  317 317  245 245 
The Group has finance lease contracts for vehicles (47 per cent), land and buildings (10 per cent) and plant and equipment (43 per cent). The leases 
have no terms of renewal, purchase options or escalation clauses and there are no restrictions concerning dividends, borrowings or additional leases. 
Vehicle leases have a term of between one and seven years, depending on the class of vehicle, with the average term being four years. Property 
leases have a term of between 1 and 106 years with the average term being 41 years. The term of the plant and equipment leases range from five 
to eight years with the average being five years. 
Capital commitments 
The Group has commitments of £42 million at 31 March 2013 (25 March 2012 £81 million, 27 March 2011 £140 million) which are contracted for 
but not provided for in the financial statements. 
114
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
29. Commitments 
The information below includes details of committed future rental payments for the use of assets which the Group does not legally own, and are 
either not recognised on the Group’s balance sheet (operating leases); or are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet (finance leases) on the 
basis that the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the finance leased assets lie with Royal Mail Group. 
Operating lease commitments 
The Group is committed to the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 March 2013 and  
25 March 2012 and 27 March 2011: 
 Land and buildings  Vehicles and equipment  IT equipment  Total 
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
 2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Within one year  125 132 130  13 11 11  8 13 20  146 156 161 
Between one and five years  391 414 412  14 18 13  17 16 19  422 448 444 
Beyond five years  507 535 476  – – –  – 3 –  507 538 476 
Total 1,023 1,081 1,018  27 29 24  25 32 39  1,075 1,142 1,081 
Existing leases for UK land and buildings have an average term of 13 years and lease renewals tend to have a 10-year term with a break in year five. 
Existing land and buildings leased overseas by the GLS subsidiary have an average lease term of eight years. Vehicle leases generally have a term of 
between one and seven years, depending on the asset class, with the average term being two years – the existing leases have an average term 
remaining of one year. The IT commitments relate to 10-year contracts, with an average term remaining of four years. 
Finance lease commitments 
 2013  2012  2011 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
 of minimum 
 lease 
payments 
£m 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
 of minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
 
Minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Present value 
of minimum 
lease payments 
£m 
Within one year  87 79  98 86  72 61 
Between one and five years  208 195  213 194  166 150 
Beyond five years  122 31  131 37  131 34 
Total minimum lease payments 417 305  442 317  369 245 
Less amounts representing finance charges (112) –  (125) –  (124) – 
Present value of minimum lease payments 305 305  317 317  245 245 
The Group has finance lease contracts for vehicles (47 per cent), land and buildings (10 per cent) and plant and equipment (43 per cent). The leases 
have no terms of renewal, purchase options or escalation clauses and there are no restrictions concerning dividends, borrowings or additional leases. 
Vehicle leases have a term of between one and seven years, depending on the class of vehicle, with the average term being four years. Property 
leases have a term of between 1 and 106 years with the average term being 41 years. The term of the plant and equipment leases range from five 
to eight years with the average being five years. 
Capital commitments 
The Group has commitments of £42 million at 31 March 2013 (25 March 2012 £81 million, 27 March 2011 £140 million) which are contracted for 
but not provided for in the financial statements. 
 
 
30. Related party information 
This note provides details of amounts owed to and from related parties, which include Post Office Limited, the Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP), 
the Group’s associate companies, and payments to key management personnel. Details of the Group’s principal subsidiaries and associates are 
also provided. 
Related party transactions 
During the year the Group entered into transactions with related parties. The transactions were in the ordinary course of business and included 
administration and investment services recharged to the Group’s pension plan, Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP), by the Royal Mail Pensions Trustees 
Limited subsidiary. The material transactions entered into, and the balances outstanding at the year end reporting date were as follows: 
 
Counter-party 
business segment 
Sales/recharges 
 to related party 
Purchases/ 
recharges from 
related party 
Amounts 
owed from related 
party including 
outstanding loans 
Amounts 
owed to related 
party including 
outstanding loans 
  
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
Royal Mail Pension Plan (RMPP) UKPIL 2 9 9 – – – – – – – – v 
Quadrant Catering Limited UKPIL – – – 26 35 34 1 – – – 3 3 
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) UKPIL – – – 6 6 6 3 4 3 – – 1 
Post Office Limited UKPIL/Other 37 33 35 371 359 346 6 9 12 – – – 
On 1 April 2012 Post Office Limited became a sister company to Royal Mail Group Limited and the transactions summarised above are in respect of 
trading between the two entities from that date. Quadrant Catering Limited and G3 Worldwide N.V. (Spring) were both associate companies of the 
Group during the reporting year. 
The sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices. Balances outstanding at the year end are unsecured, interest 
free and settlement is made by cash.  
The Group trades with numerous HM Government bodies on an arm’s length basis. Transactions with these entities are not disclosed owing to the 
significant volume of transactions that are conducted.  
Key management compensation 
 
2013 
£000 
2012 
£000 
2011 
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 3,753 3,398 2,345 
Post-employment benefits – – – 
Other long-term benefits – – – 
Total compensation earned by key management 3,753 3,398 2,345 
Key management comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Royal Mail Group Limited Board at 31 March 2013. 
HM Government is the Company’s sole shareholder and accordingly the Directors have no interest in the shares of the Company. 
Royal Mail Group Limited - principal subsidiaries 
Royal Mail Holdings plc is the immediate and ultimate parent company of Royal Mail Group Limited. These Royal Mail Group Limited consolidated 
financial statements include the financial results of the principal subsidiaries listed below: 
Company Principal activities Country of incorporation 
% equity 
interest 
2013 
% equity 
interest 
2012 
% equity 
interest 
2011 
Royal Mail Investments Limited Holding company United Kingdom 100 100 100 
General Logistics Systems B.V. Parcel services Netherlands 100 100 100 
Royal Mail Estates Limited Property holdings United Kingdom 100 100 100 
Romec Limited Facilities management United Kingdom 51 51 51 
The legal structure of the Group is shown on page i. 
115
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
30. Related party information (continued) 
Associates 
The following companies were the principal associates of the Group at the balance sheet date: 
Company Principal activities Country of incorporation 
% 
ownership 
2013 
% 
ownership 
2012 
% 
ownership 
2011 
Quadrant Catering Limited Catering services United Kingdom 51 51 51 
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) Mail services Netherlands 32.45 32.45 32.45 
The majority of Board membership and voting power in Quadrant Catering Limited is held by the Group’s business partner, hence it is not a 
subsidiary company. The investment in Quadrant Catering Limited is held by Royal Mail Group Limited. 
The investment in G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) was held by Royal Mail Investments Limited. During March 2013 it was announced that  
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring), was to be sold and accordingly, the Group’s share of its net assets was transferred to the ‘assets held for sale’ 
category on the Group balance sheet. G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. was subsequently sold on 2 April 2013, after the balance sheet date. 
 
 
116
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  
(continued)  
 
30. Related party information (continued) 
Associates 
The following companies were the principal associates of the Group at the balance sheet date: 
Company Principal activities Country of incorporation 
% 
ownership 
2013 
% 
ownership 
2012 
% 
ownership 
2011 
Quadrant Catering Limited Catering services United Kingdom 51 51 51 
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) Mail services Netherlands 32.45 32.45 32.45 
The majority of Board membership and voting power in Quadrant Catering Limited is held by the Group’s business partner, hence it is not a 
subsidiary company. The investment in Quadrant Catering Limited is held by Royal Mail Group Limited. 
The investment in G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring) was held by Royal Mail Investments Limited. During March 2013 it was announced that  
G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. (Spring), was to be sold and accordingly, the Group’s share of its net assets was transferred to the ‘assets held for sale’ 
category on the Group balance sheet. G3 Worldwide Mail N.V. was subsequently sold on 2 April 2013, after the balance sheet date. 
 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited 
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. The financial statements of 
the major subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.  
All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated in full. Transfer prices between business segments are set on a basis of charges 
reached through negotiation with the respective businesses. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is 
no longer held by the Group. Where the Group ceases to hold control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the 
part of the reporting year during which the Group held control. 
Non-controlling interest represents the portion of profit/loss, gains/losses and net assets relating to subsidiaries that are not attributable to members 
of the Company. The non-controlling interest balance is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent 
shareholder’s equity. 
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures 
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The Group adopted the amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ 
during the year although this currently has no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance. No other new or amended/revised accounting 
standards were required to be adopted by the Group during the reporting period. 
Key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical accounting judgements 
Deferred taxation 
Assessment of the deferred taxation asset requires an estimation of future profitability. Such estimation is inherently uncertain in a market subject to 
various competitive pressures. Should estimates of future profitability change in future years, the amount of deferred taxation recognised will also 
change accordingly. The carrying values of the deferred taxation assets and liabilities are included within note 7. 
Provisions 
Due to the nature of provisions, a significant part of their determination is based upon estimates and judgements concerning the future.  
Restructuring provisions, including for redundancy and property costs, are derived based upon the most recent business plan for direct expenditure, 
where plans are sufficiently detailed and appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken. This includes the expected number of 
employees impacted, rate of compensation per employee, rental costs and expected period of properties remaining vacant and dilapidation costs. 
The industrial diseases claims provision is based on the best information available at the year end, including independent expert advice. 
Pensions 
The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined by long-term actuarial assumptions which include salary growth, inflation rates, returns on 
investments and mortality rates. Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in the Group’s 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The Group exercises its judgement in determining the assumptions to be adopted, after discussion 
with its Actuary. 
The pension deficit transfer to HM Government on 1 April 2012 was taken directly through equity as, in management’s judgement, this transaction 
was undertaken with HM Government in its capacity as the owner of Royal Mail Holdings plc, the Company’s parent company, rather than in its 
capacity as Government. 
Deferred revenue 
The Group recognises advance customer payments on its balance sheet (see note 27) relating to stamps and meter credits purchased by customers 
but not used at the balance sheet date. The valuation of this deferred revenue is based on a number of different estimation and sampling methods 
using external specialist resource as appropriate, the results of which are reviewed by management in order to make a judgement of the carrying 
amount of the accrual. 
Investments in associates 
The Group’s investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method, the investment is 
carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in 
value. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of post taxation profits from the associates. 
Any goodwill arising on acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Group’s share of the net 
fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is included in the carrying amount and not amortised.  
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 117
Financial statements
Significant accounting policies  
 
Revenue 
Revenue reported in the income statement is net of value added taxation and comprises Turnover which principally relates to the rendering of 
services as follows: 
UK Parcels, International & Letters  
Account revenue is derived from specific contracts and recognised when the delivery of an item is complete. Prepaid revenue mainly relating to 
stamp and meter income is recognised when the sale is made, adjusted to reflect a value of stamp and meter credits held but not used by the 
customer.  
General Logistics Systems 
Revenue is derived from specific contracts and is recognised at the time of delivery. 
Distribution and conveyance 
Distribution and conveyance costs relate to non-people costs incurred in transporting and delivering mail. These include conveyance by rail, road, sea 
and air, together with costs incurred by international mail carriers and Parcelforce Worldwide delivery operators and GLS. These costs are disclosed 
separately on the face of the income statement. 
Operating exceptional items 
Operating exceptional items are items of income and expenditure arising from the operations of the business which, due to the nature of the events 
giving rise to them, require separate presentation on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of financial performance in 
the year, in comparison to prior years. 
‘ColleagueShare’ - legacy share scheme  
This scheme introduced in 2007-08, was a five-year scheme spanning the accounting years from April 2007 to March 2012 and comprised both a 
‘share’ plan and a related stakeholder dividend throughout the life of the scheme. 
The costs of the scheme were included in the income statement as an exceptional item throughout the life of the scheme and corresponding liabilities 
were included within payables or provisions as appropriate.  
Operating profit 
Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging operating exceptional items defined 
above. It excludes the non-operating exceptional items for profit or loss on disposal of businesses and profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and 
equipment. These items are not part of the normal recurring operations of the business but are material, so are presented separately on the face of 
the income statement to allow a better understanding of financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years. 
Goodwill 
Business combinations on or after 29 March 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method. 
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities at the date of acquisition is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.  
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising from business combinations is reviewed 
for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.  
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset (or cash generating unit) exceeds 
its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. For the purpose of such impairment reviews, 
goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash generating units. 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included in the cost of those entities and therefore not reported in the balance sheet 
as goodwill. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on 
initial recognition. Intangible assets acquired separately or development costs that meet the criteria to be capitalised are initially recognised at cost 
and are assessed to have either a finite or indefinite useful life. Those with a finite life are amortised over their useful life and those with an indefinite 
life are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
which is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. 
Amortisation of intangible assets with finite lives is charged annually to the income statement on a straight-line basis as follows: 
Customer listings 3 to 4 years 
Software 3 to 6 years 
 
118
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Significant accounting policies  
(continued)  
 
Revenue 
Revenue reported in the income statement is net of value added taxation and comprises Turnover which principally relates to the rendering of 
services as follows: 
UK Parcels, International & Letters  
Account revenue is derived from specific contracts and recognised when the delivery of an item is complete. Prepaid revenue mainly relating to 
stamp and meter income is recognised when the sale is made, adjusted to reflect a value of stamp and meter credits held but not used by the 
customer.  
General Logistics Systems 
Revenue is derived from specific contracts and is recognised at the time of delivery. 
Distribution and conveyance 
Distribution and conveyance costs relate to non-people costs incurred in transporting and delivering mail. These include conveyance by rail, road, sea 
and air, together with costs incurred by international mail carriers and Parcelforce Worldwide delivery operators and GLS. These costs are disclosed 
separately on the face of the income statement. 
Operating exceptional items 
Operating exceptional items are items of income and expenditure arising from the operations of the business which, due to the nature of the events 
giving rise to them, require separate presentation on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of financial performance in 
the year, in comparison to prior years. 
‘ColleagueShare’ - legacy share scheme  
This scheme introduced in 2007-08, was a five-year scheme spanning the accounting years from April 2007 to March 2012 and comprised both a 
‘share’ plan and a related stakeholder dividend throughout the life of the scheme. 
The costs of the scheme were included in the income statement as an exceptional item throughout the life of the scheme and corresponding liabilities 
were included within payables or provisions as appropriate.  
Operating profit 
Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging operating exceptional items defined 
above. It excludes the non-operating exceptional items for profit or loss on disposal of businesses and profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and 
equipment. These items are not part of the normal recurring operations of the business but are material, so are presented separately on the face of 
the income statement to allow a better understanding of financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years. 
Goodwill 
Business combinations on or after 29 March 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method. 
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
liabilities at the date of acquisition is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.  
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill arising from business combinations is reviewed 
for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.  
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset (or cash generating unit) exceeds 
its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. For the purpose of such impairment reviews, 
goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash generating units. 
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included in the cost of those entities and therefore not reported in the balance sheet 
as goodwill. 
Intangible assets 
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on 
initial recognition. Intangible assets acquired separately or development costs that meet the criteria to be capitalised are initially recognised at cost 
and are assessed to have either a finite or indefinite useful life. Those with a finite life are amortised over their useful life and those with an indefinite 
life are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
which is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. 
Amortisation of intangible assets with finite lives is charged annually to the income statement on a straight-line basis as follows: 
Customer listings 3 to 4 years 
Software 3 to 6 years 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is recognised at cost, including directly attributable costs in bringing the asset into working condition for its intended 
use. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis by reference to net book value and to the remaining useful 
economic lives of assets and their estimated residual values. The useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where 
applicable, are made on a prospective basis. The lives assigned to major categories of property, plant and equipment are: 
Land and buildings:  
Freehold land Not depreciated 
Freehold buildings Up to 50 years 
Leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease, 50 years or the estimated remaining useful life 
Plant and machinery 3-15 years 
Motor vehicles and trailers 2-12 years 
Fixtures and equipment 2-15 years 
Non-current assets held for sale  
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets 
are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. 
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date 
of classification.  
Impairment reviews 
Unless otherwise disclosed in these accounting policies, assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the 
carrying value may be impaired. The Group assesses at each reporting date whether such indications exist. Where appropriate, an impairment loss is 
recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset (or cash generating unit) exceeds its recoverable 
amount, which is the higher of an asset’s net realisable value and its value in use. 
Leases 
Finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item have passed to the Group, are capitalised at 
the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the 
minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and capital element of the lease liability to achieve a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful 
life of the asset and the lease term. 
Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases and 
rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term. The aggregate benefit of incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense 
over the lease term on a straight-line basis. 
A leasehold land payment is an upfront payment to acquire a long-term leasehold interest in land. This payment is stated at cost and is amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any non-collectable amounts. An estimate for doubtful 
debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable. Bad debts are written off when identified. 
Financial instruments 
Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are classified as: financial assets at fair value 
through the income statement (held for trading); held to maturity investments, loans and receivables or available for sale financial assets as 
appropriate. Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement or 
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end. 
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial 
instruments not at ‘fair value through the income statement’, any directly attributable transactional costs. 
The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on their classification as follows: 
Loans and receivables 
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and 
have not been designated as either ‘fair value through the income statement’ or available for sale, are carried at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and 
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
119
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
Available for sale financial assets 
‘Available for sale financial assets’ are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the three preceding 
categories. After initial recognition, interest is taken to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and the assets are measured at 
fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised, or until the investment is 
deemed to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement (held for trading) 
Derivatives liabilities are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. They are carried in the balance sheet at fair 
value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially 
recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, less directly attributable issue costs. After initial recognition, non-derivative financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement 
when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits (cash equivalents) with an original 
maturity date of three months or less. In addition, the Group uses money market funds as a readily available source of cash, and these funds are also 
categorised as cash equivalents. 
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts. 
Cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments. 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments comprise cash at bank, conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and 
Treasury bills. 
Conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills are classified as available for sale financial instruments on the 
basis that they are quoted investments that are not held for trading and may be disposed of prior to maturity. 
Financial assets – other investments 
Financial assets – other investments comprise short-term deposits (other investments) with Government, local government or banks with an original 
maturity of three months or more. Short-term deposits are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.  
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 
Financial liabilities – obligations under finance leases  
All obligations under finance leases are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative instruments such as foreign currency contracts in order to manage the risk profile of any underlying risk exposure of the 
Group, in line with the Group’s treasury management policies. Such derivative financial instruments are initially stated at fair value. 
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either 
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge the foreign exchange or commodity price risk of firm commitments that meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to relate to an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity 
and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, then at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost 
or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to 
the income statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit/loss, for example when the hedged transaction 
actually occurs. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income 
statement in the period. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income 
statement for the year. 
120
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Significant accounting policies  
(continued)  
 
Available for sale financial assets 
‘Available for sale financial assets’ are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the three preceding 
categories. After initial recognition, interest is taken to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and the assets are measured at 
fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised, or until the investment is 
deemed to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement (held for trading) 
Derivatives liabilities are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments. They are carried in the balance sheet at fair 
value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement. 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially 
recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, less directly attributable issue costs. After initial recognition, non-derivative financial 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement 
when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits (cash equivalents) with an original 
maturity date of three months or less. In addition, the Group uses money market funds as a readily available source of cash, and these funds are also 
categorised as cash equivalents. 
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts. 
Cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments. 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments 
Financial assets – pension escrow investments comprise cash at bank, conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and 
Treasury bills. 
Conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills are classified as available for sale financial instruments on the 
basis that they are quoted investments that are not held for trading and may be disposed of prior to maturity. 
Financial assets – other investments 
Financial assets – other investments comprise short-term deposits (other investments) with Government, local government or banks with an original 
maturity of three months or more. Short-term deposits are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.  
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 
All loans and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 
Financial liabilities – obligations under finance leases  
All obligations under finance leases are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. 
Derivative financial instruments 
The Group uses derivative instruments such as foreign currency contracts in order to manage the risk profile of any underlying risk exposure of the 
Group, in line with the Group’s treasury management policies. Such derivative financial instruments are initially stated at fair value. 
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either 
attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. 
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge the foreign exchange or commodity price risk of firm commitments that meet the conditions for hedge 
accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to relate to an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity 
and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, then at the time the asset or liability is 
recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost 
or other carrying amount of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to 
the income statement in the same year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit/loss, for example when the hedged transaction 
actually occurs. 
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income 
statement in the period. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. At that point, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction 
occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income 
statement for the year. 
 
 
Fair value measurement of financial instruments 
The fair value of quoted investments (including conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills)  
is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date. Hence the conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked 
gilt edged securities and Treasury bills are within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy as defined within IFRS 7. 
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques. These include using recent arm’s length market transactions; 
reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same; and discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models. 
Specifically, in the absence of quoted market prices, derivatives are valued by using quoted forward prices for the underlying commodity/currency and 
discounted using quoted interest rates (both at the close of business on the balance sheet date). Hence derivative assets and liabilities are within 
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as defined within IFRS 7. 
For the purposes of disclosing the fair value of investments held at amortised cost in the balance sheet, in the absence of quoted market prices, fair 
values are calculated by discounting the future cash flows of the financial instrument using quoted equivalent interest rates at close of business on 
the balance sheet date. 
Income taxation and deferred taxation 
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items that are non-assessable or disallowed. It is calculated using 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred income taxation assets and liabilities are recognised for all taxable and deductible temporary differences and unused taxation assets and 
losses except: 
• Initial recognition of goodwill; 
• The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither 
the accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss;  
• Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interest in joint ventures, where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future; 
and 
• Deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised. 
The carrying amount of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent that it is probable 
that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow them to be utilised. 
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are measured at the taxation rates that are expected to apply to the period when the taxation asset is realised 
or the liability is settled, based on taxation rates (and taxation laws) that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred taxation 
balances are not discounted. 
Current and deferred taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity, otherwise it 
is recognised in the income statement. 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If the effect of the time value 
of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-taxation rate.  
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The pension assets for the defined benefit plans are measured at fair value. Liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit 
credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term. The 
resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet. Full actuarial valuations are carried out at intervals 
not normally exceeding three years as determined by the Trustees and, with appropriate updates and accounting adjustments at each balance sheet 
date, form the basis of the deficit disclosed. All members of defined benefit schemes are contracted out of the earnings-related part of the State 
pension scheme. 
For defined benefit schemes, the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and any gains and losses arising from 
settlements, curtailments and past service costs. The net difference between the interest costs and the expected return on plan assets is recognised 
as net pension interest in the income statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Any deferred taxation movement associated with the actuarial gains and losses is also recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
For defined contribution plans, the Group’s contributions are charged to operating profit within people costs in the period to which the contributions 
relate. Overseas subsidiaries make separate arrangements for the provision of pensions and other post-retirement benefits. 
121
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
Foreign currencies 
The functional and presentational currency of Royal Mail Group Limited is pound Sterling (£). The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries in 
Europe is mainly the Euro ( €). 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The trading results of foreign 
operations are translated at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period, being a reasonable approximation to the actual transaction rate. 
The exchange rate differences arising on the translation, since the date of transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to the Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve in equity.  
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at 
the balance sheet date. Currently hedge accounting is not claimed for any monetary assets and liabilities. All differences are therefore taken to the 
income statement, except for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These 
are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment occurs, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the 
initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value is determined. 
Contingent liabilities  
Contingent liabilities are not disclosed if the possibility of losses occurring is considered to be remote. 
Segment information 
The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided, with each 
segment representing a business unit that offers different products and serves largely different markets. Management monitors the operating results 
of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is 
evaluated based on operating profit/loss. 
There is no aggregation of operating segments. The operating units that make up the three operating segments are detailed in note 3. 
The operating segments comprise operations in both the UK and other parts of Europe, the latter being relevant to the GLS business segment.  
The UK operations include the UKPIL and ‘Other’ segments. 
Segment revenues have been attributed to the respective countries based on the location of the customer. 
Transfer prices between the segments are set on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective business units that form part of 
the segments.  
There are no differences in the measurement of the respective segments’ profit/loss and the consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRSs. 
122
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Significant accounting policies  
(continued)  
 
Foreign currencies 
The functional and presentational currency of Royal Mail Group Limited is pound Sterling (£). The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries in 
Europe is mainly the Euro ( €). 
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The trading results of foreign 
operations are translated at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period, being a reasonable approximation to the actual transaction rate. 
The exchange rate differences arising on the translation, since the date of transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to the Foreign Currency Translation 
Reserve in equity.  
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at 
the balance sheet date. Currently hedge accounting is not claimed for any monetary assets and liabilities. All differences are therefore taken to the 
income statement, except for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These 
are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment occurs, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the 
initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair 
value is determined. 
Contingent liabilities  
Contingent liabilities are not disclosed if the possibility of losses occurring is considered to be remote. 
Segment information 
The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided, with each 
segment representing a business unit that offers different products and serves largely different markets. Management monitors the operating results 
of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is 
evaluated based on operating profit/loss. 
There is no aggregation of operating segments. The operating units that make up the three operating segments are detailed in note 3. 
The operating segments comprise operations in both the UK and other parts of Europe, the latter being relevant to the GLS business segment.  
The UK operations include the UKPIL and ‘Other’ segments. 
Segment revenues have been attributed to the respective countries based on the location of the customer. 
Transfer prices between the segments are set on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective business units that form part of 
the segments.  
There are no differences in the measurement of the respective segments’ profit/loss and the consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRSs. 
 
 
Accounting standards issued but not yet applied 
The following new and revised accounting standards are relevant to the Group and are in issue but were not effective (and in some instances have 
not yet been adopted by the EU) at the balance sheet date: 
• Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle 
• IFRS 7 (amended) Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
• IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 
• IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities (amendments) 
• IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 
• IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities 
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
• IAS 1 (amended) Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income 
• IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits 
• IAS 32 (amended) Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities 
• IAS 36 (amended) Impairment of Assets  
• IAS 39 (amended) Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement  
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in 
future periods, except as follows: 
IAS 19 (revised) Employee Benefits 
The key impact will be to replace the separate assumptions for expected return on plan assets and discounting of scheme liabilities and 
replace them with one single discount rate for the net surplus or deficit. This net interest income/cost will be measured based on the plan’s 
discount rate. Asset returns greater or less than the accounting discount rate will be recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 
(SOCI). 
 
 
123
Financial statements
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013  
 
 
Adjusted 
52 weeks 
Reported 
53 weeks Financial year ending March 
Income statement 
March 
2013 
£m 
March 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Revenue 9,146 9,279 8,764 8,415 8,547 8,695 
Operating profit before exceptional items 598 635 381 210 332 280 
Operating exceptional items – transformation costs (195) (195) (229) (192) (185) (179) 
Operating profit after transformation costs before other  
 operating exceptional items 403 
440 
152 18 147 101 
Other operating exceptional items   (77) (57) (48) 4 (26) 
Non-operating exceptional items  4 182 106 2 3 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT)  367 277 74 153 78 
Finance (interest) income and costs, including net pension interest  (43) (76) (239) (388) (137) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation   324 201 (165) (235) (59) 
Taxation   246 (51) (123) (87) (290) 
Profit/(loss) after taxation   570 150 (288) (322) (349) 
 
Free cash flow
#
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
EBITDA before transformation costs  915 681 493 595 523 
Working capital 142 (19) (58) 31 63 
Other pension payments (3) (45) (292) (395) (341) 
Transformation investment in UKPIL (404) (429) (377) (325) (427) 
Other exceptional items (26) (37) (7) (8) – 
Other capital expenditure (261) (150) (176) (234) (237) 
Other (dividends, taxation, interest) (81) (87) (59) (64) (85) 
Cash inflow/(outflow) before disposal of assets 282 (86) (476) (400) (504) 
Disposal of assets 52 240 230 10 11 
Free cash inflow/(outflow) 334 154 (246) (390) (493) 
# 
An explanation of ‘free cash flow’ is provided in note 8. 
Balance sheet 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Property, plant and equipment 1,916 1,822 1,829 1,932 1,884 
Intangible assets (mainly software) 139 135 126 99 78 
Inventories  24 32 33 32 26 
Trade and other receivables 1,012 1,036 906 911 934 
Trade and other payables  (1,647) (1,548) (1,423) (1,536) (1,572) 
Other net assets/(liabilities) – 4 40 10 (4) 
Provisions (246) (217) (252) (233) (248) 
Goodwill (mainly relates to GLS) 196 189 197 197 206 
Investments in associates 3 3 9 46 38 
Net operating assets and investments in associates 1,397 1,456 1,465 1,458 1,342 
Cash and cash equivalents 351 473 319 171 214 
Pension escrow investments 20 149 87 178 166 
Loans and borrowings (973) (1,522) (1,478) (1,183) (805) 
Other net financial liabilities (304) (286) (200) (123) (94) 
Net debt (906) (1,186) (1,272) (957) (519) 
Other net assets/(liabilities) (deferred taxation) 89 (9) (2) 90 153 
Net assets before pension deficit and pension escrow investments 580 261 191 591 976 
Pension surplus/(deficit) 825 (2,716) (4,185) (7,477) (6,301) 
Net assets/(liabilities) 1,405 (2,455) (3,994) (6,886) (5,325) 
 
People numbers – period end employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 149,940 151,156 155,181 160,291 167,396 
General Logistics Systems (GLS) 13,646 13,362 13,167 12,885 13,059 
UK partially owned subsidiaries 4,030 3,926 4,254 4,217 4,438 
Group total 167,616 168,444 172,602 177,393 184,893 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 124
Financial statements
Group five year summary 
(unaudited)  
 
 
Adjusted 
52 weeks 
Reported 
53 weeks Financial year ending March 
Income statement 
March 
2013 
£m 
March 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Revenue 9,146 9,279 8,764 8,415 8,547 8,695 
Operating profit before exceptional items 598 635 381 210 332 280 
Operating exceptional items – transformation costs (195) (195) (229) (192) (185) (179) 
Operating profit after transformation costs before other  
 operating exceptional items 403 
440 
152 18 147 101 
Other operating exceptional items   (77) (57) (48) 4 (26) 
Non-operating exceptional items  4 182 106 2 3 
Earnings before interest and taxation (EBIT)  367 277 74 153 78 
Finance (interest) income and costs, including net pension interest  (43) (76) (239) (388) (137) 
Profit/(loss) before taxation   324 201 (165) (235) (59) 
Taxation   246 (51) (123) (87) (290) 
Profit/(loss) after taxation   570 150 (288) (322) (349) 
 
Free cash flow
#
 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
EBITDA before transformation costs  915 681 493 595 523 
Working capital 142 (19) (58) 31 63 
Other pension payments (3) (45) (292) (395) (341) 
Transformation investment in UKPIL (404) (429) (377) (325) (427) 
Other exceptional items (26) (37) (7) (8) – 
Other capital expenditure (261) (150) (176) (234) (237) 
Other (dividends, taxation, interest) (81) (87) (59) (64) (85) 
Cash inflow/(outflow) before disposal of assets 282 (86) (476) (400) (504) 
Disposal of assets 52 240 230 10 11 
Free cash inflow/(outflow) 334 154 (246) (390) (493) 
# 
An explanation of ‘free cash flow’ is provided in note 8. 
Balance sheet 
2013 
£m 
2012 
£m 
2011 
£m 
2010 
£m 
2009 
£m 
Property, plant and equipment 1,916 1,822 1,829 1,932 1,884 
Intangible assets (mainly software) 139 135 126 99 78 
Inventories  24 32 33 32 26 
Trade and other receivables 1,012 1,036 906 911 934 
Trade and other payables  (1,647) (1,548) (1,423) (1,536) (1,572) 
Other net assets/(liabilities) – 4 40 10 (4) 
Provisions (246) (217) (252) (233) (248) 
Goodwill (mainly relates to GLS) 196 189 197 197 206 
Investments in associates 3 3 9 46 38 
Net operating assets and investments in associates 1,397 1,456 1,465 1,458 1,342 
Cash and cash equivalents 351 473 319 171 214 
Pension escrow investments 20 149 87 178 166 
Loans and borrowings (973) (1,522) (1,478) (1,183) (805) 
Other net financial liabilities (304) (286) (200) (123) (94) 
Net debt (906) (1,186) (1,272) (957) (519) 
Other net assets/(liabilities) (deferred taxation) 89 (9) (2) 90 153 
Net assets before pension deficit and pension escrow investments 580 261 191 591 976 
Pension surplus/(deficit) 825 (2,716) (4,185) (7,477) (6,301) 
Net assets/(liabilities) 1,405 (2,455) (3,994) (6,886) (5,325) 
 
People numbers – period end employees 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
UK Parcels, International & Letters (UKPIL) 149,940 151,156 155,181 160,291 167,396 
General Logistics Systems (GLS) 13,646 13,362 13,167 12,885 13,059 
UK partially owned subsidiaries 4,030 3,926 4,254 4,217 4,438 
Group total 167,616 168,444 172,602 177,393 184,893 
 
 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the special purpose financial statements. The Directors have prepared the 
Group financial statements in accordance with note 1.  
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether the basis of preparation in accordance with note 1 has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained by the financial statements; and 
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in 
business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.  
 
 
 
 
Donald Brydon       Moya Greene 
 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 125
Financial statements
Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities in relation to  
the Group financial statements  
 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Directors of Royal Mail Group Limited 
We have audited the Group financial statements of Royal Mail Group Limited for the year ended 31 March 2013, which comprise the Consolidated 
income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance 
sheet, the Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 30. The financial statements have been prepared by Directors of Royal 
Mail Group Limited based on the basis of preparation described in note 1 of the financial statements. 
Directors’ responsibility for the financial statements 
Directors are responsible for the preparation of these Group financial statements in accordance with note 1 and for such internal control as the 
Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  
or error.  
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the Directors’ remuneration report, which they have voluntarily prepared on the basis set 
out on page 46.   
Auditor’s responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. 
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in 
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
the entity’s internal control. Our audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting 
estimates made by Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 
In addition, you have requested us to report on whether: 
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of 
preparation set out on page 46; and 
• The information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements. 
Opinion of financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• The financial statements of Royal Mail Group Limited for the year ended 31 March 2013 are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with 
the basis of preparation described in note 1. 
Opinion on other matters 
In our opinion: 
• The part of the Directors’ remuneration report that has been described as audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of 
preparation set out on page 46; and 
• The information given in the Directors’ report is consistent with the Group financial statements.  
Basis of accounting and restriction on use 
Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to note 1 to the financial statements, which describe the basis of accounting. The financial 
statements are prepared to assist Royal Mail Group Limited to illustrate the results of Royal Mail Group Limited if Post Office Limited had never been 
a subsidiary. As a result, the financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our auditor’s report is intended solely for Royal Mail 
Group Limited, in accordance with our engagement letter dated 7 March 2013 and should not be used by other parties. 
 
 
 
Richard Wilson 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP,  
Statutory Auditor 
London 
31 July 2013 
 
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 126
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report  
to the members of  
Royal Mail Group Limited 127
Other information
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Forward looking statements
Forward looking statements
The Group is subject to a number of risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to its business and 
operations, concerning, among other things, the results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth and strategies of the Group and the 
industries, markets and territories in which it operates.
This document does not constitute or form part of and should not be construed as: (a) an invitation, offer or solicitation to purchase, subscribe 
for, or otherwise acquire or dispose of any shares or other securities of any member of the Group; or (b) any advice or recommendation with 
respect to any shares or other securities of any member of the Group, and should not be used as the basis of any investment decision.
This document contains certain forward looking statements concerning the Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations and 
certain of the Group’s plans, objectives, assumptions, projections, expectations or beliefs with respect to these items. Forward looking 
statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as ‘anticipates’, ‘aims’, ‘due’, ‘could’, 
‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘potential’, ‘targets’, ‘goal’ or ‘estimates’. 
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the Group’s actual financial 
condition, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations set out in the forward looking 
statements included in this document. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements. 
By their nature, forward looking statements relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future and are inherently 
unpredictable. Such forward looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual 
results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. These factors include, 
among other things: changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates; changes in the regulatory regime within which the 
Group operates; changes in interest and exchange rates; the impact of competitive products and pricing; the occurrence of major operational 
problems; the loss of major customers; undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds; contingent liabilities; the impact of legal or other 
proceedings against, or which otherwise affect, the Group; and risks associated with the Group’s overseas operations. 
All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Group or any 
persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above. No assurance can be given that the 
forward looking statements in this document will be realised; actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group. Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulation, the Company does not intend to update the forward looking 
statements in this document to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, and does not undertake any obligation to do so. 128
Royal Mail Group Limited
Annual Report and special purpose Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013
Corporate information
Registered Office and Group Head Office
Royal Mail Group Limited
100 Victoria Embankment
LONDON
EC4Y 0HQ
Telephone: 020 7250 2888
Registered No: 4138203
Royal Mail, the Cruciform, the colour red, Parcelforce Worldwide and the Parcelforce Worldwide 
logo are registered trademarks of Royal Mail Group Limited. Group Annual Report and Financial 
Statements 2013 © Royal Mail Group Limited 2013. All rights reserved.
Corporate websites
Information made available on the Group’s websites does not, and is not intended to, form part 
of these Financial Statements.
Auditor
Ernst & Young LLP
1 More London Place
LONDON
SE1 2AF
Regulator (Ofcom)
Riverside House
2a Southwark Bridge Road
LONDON
SE1 9HA
Actuary
Towers Watson Limited
Watson House
London Road
REIGATE
Surrey
RH2 9PQ
Consumer body
Consumer Futures
Fleetbank House
Salisbury Square
LONDON
EC4Y 8JX  Royal Mail, the Cruciform, the colour red and the Parcelforce Worldwide logo are registered trade marks, of Royal Mail 
Group Limited. The GLS arrow logo is a registered trade mark of General Logistics Systems Germany GmbH & Co. OHG.  
Annual Report 2012-13 © Royal Mail Group Limited 2013. All rights reserved.
Royal Mail Group Limited  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012-13
