 Europe’s Leader in
Rigid Plastic Packaging
RPC Group Plc
Lakeside House
Higham Ferrers
Northants NN10 8RP
Tel: +44 (0) 1933 410064
Fax: +44 (0) 1933 410083
www.rpc-group.com
Typeset and printed by
Park Communications, London
Report and Accounts 2008
RPC Group Plc Report & Accounts 2008 Contents
Financial highlights 1
Statement by the Chairman 2
Statement by the Chief Executive 3
Geographic locations 7
Principal subsidiaries 8
Directors’ biographies 9
Business review 10
Report of the directors 17
Remuneration report 29
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 39
Independent auditors’ report 40
Consolidated income statement 41
Consolidated statement of recognised income and 
expense 41
Consolidated balance sheet 42
Consolidated cash flow statement 43
Company statement of 
recognised income and expense 44
Company balance sheet 45
Company cash flow statement 46
Notes to the financial statements 47
Ten year financial record 84
Financial calendar 84
Notice of annual general meeting 85
Explanatory notes 88
Registered office
Lakeside House
Higham Ferrers
Northants NN10 8RP
Website
www.rpc-group.com
Registered Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
1 Waterloo Way
Leicester LE1 6LP
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Joint Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
New Court
St Swithin's Lane
London EC4P 4DU
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Principal Bankers
Commerzbank AG
60 Gracechurch Street
London EC3V 0HR
Royal Bank of Scotland
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Joint Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall
155 Moorgate
London EC2M 6XB
This Report and Accounts, including the Business
Review and Statements by the Chairman and Chief
Executive, has been prepared solely for RPC Group Plc’s
shareholders as a body. The Company, its directors,
employees, agents or advisers do not accept
responsibility to any other person and any such
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Business Review and other Statements within the
Report and Accounts contain forward-looking
statements, which
– have been made by the directors in good faith based
on the information available to them up to the time
of their approval of the Report and Accounts; and
– should be treated with caution due to the inherent
uncertainties, including both economic and business
risk factors, underlying such forward-looking
information.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update these
forward-looking statements and nothing in the Report
and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
RPC Group Plc
RPC Group is Europe’s leading manufacturer of rigid
plastic packaging and is unusual in that it is able to offer
products made by all three conversion processes, blow
moulding, injection moulding and thermoforming. It has
50 operations in 13 countries and employs over 6,900
people. RPC services a comprehensive range of customers
– from the largest European manufacturers of consumer
products to the smallest national businesses. It has
particularly strong positions in the beauty and personal
care sector, the vending and drinking cup market, the
margarine industry, and in multi-layer sheet and packs for
oxygen sensitive food products. Our objectives are to
further strengthen RPC’s position in these and other
sectors of the European market where we can have a
significant presence in the market, be in the forefront in
product design and development, and have sufficient size
to enable us to optimise our production process. This
strategy, we believe, will produce a satisfactory return for
our shareholders and the best possible security for our
employees, suppliers and customers.
Directors
J P Williams MA BComm
Non-Executive Chairman
R J E Marsh BA
Chief Executive
M J B Green FCA
Senior Independent Director
P Hilton MA PhD
P J H Hole BSc
Drs H J Kloeze
S Rojahn Dipl-Ing MSIE
Independent Non-Executive Director
C H Sworn MA PhD FCA
Drs P R M Vervaat RC
(appointed 1 November 2007)
Finance Director
D J Wilbraham BSc PhD
Independent Non-Executive Director
P S Wood FCA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary
Rebecca K Joyce BA ACA ACIS Financial highlights
●
Record sales (up 7.7%) and adjusted operating profit
(up 6.6%) achieved in a challenging environment
●
Adjusted EPS improved to 21.5p (2007: 20.6p)
●
Basic EPS of 4.4p (2007: 13.2p) due to significant
restructuring costs and impairment charges
●
Cost pressures being met by determined action on
operational efficiencies and on underperforming
businesses
●
Improving trend in revenue and margins in the
second half
●
Pim Vervaat appointed as Finance Director on
1 November 2007
●
7.1% increase in total dividend to 9.0p (2007: 8.4p)
with recommended final dividend up to 6.1p
(2007: 5.7p)
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 1
Turnover £m Adjusted operating profit £m
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Statement by the Chairman
As I am stepping down as Chairman at
the AGM, I have decided to revert to a
more conventional format and make
this separate statement.
The Chief Executive’s statement that
follows this outlines RPC’s progress last
year. Trading was challenging largely
because of input cost pressures,
particularly for polymers. Nevertheless,
RPC reported an improvement in
adjusted operating profit and ended the
year in a strong financial position
despite incurring significant
restructuring and closure costs. RPC
also continued to deliver on its
strategy, growing organically and by
acquisition, and building its market and
technology leadership position in
Europe. In my judgement, these are
excellent results in the circumstances,
and are ahead of the latest market
estimates; they also compare very
favourably with our European industry
peer group.
Unfortunately, despite good strategic
execution and operational
management, there has been only
limited progress in underlying earnings
per share over recent years. This is
primarily due to the unprecedented and
unrelenting rise in polymer costs and to
the difficulties recovering these and
other cost increases from our
customers. Over the last five years,
polymer prices have increased by
approximately 80%. Despite our
improved efficiencies and the strong
growth in specialist products, polymer
costs now represent 33% of our
revenue compared with 25% five years
ago. Price increases over this period
have not kept pace, under-recovering
the rapid escalation in input costs
including polymers. Thankfully, our
focus on improving the product mix
towards more specialised, higher added
value packaging, and at making
significant operational improvements,
has limited the decline in our adjusted
operating profit margin to 1%.
This resilience is a consequence of
RPC’s long-term strategic development.
A little over a decade ago, we were a
UK based company producing mainly
commodity products with no presence
in Continental Europe. Over the last ten
years, we have built, by acquisition and
investment, a very strong Continental
European business which includes a
European leader in specialist rigid
plastics packaging. The rising profits
from our rapidly growing specialist
business have largely offset the
deterioration in the profitability of our
commodity businesses as a result of
these sustained cost pressures. The
latter includes, of course, most of our
original UK businesses.
This brings me to my decision to step
down. Some large shareholders have
over the last few months indicated
their disappointment with the Group’s
recent lack of progress and have
expressed concerns about our strategy,
management and the Board. Whilst I
believe their concerns to be unjustified
and result from the very difficult
trading environment in which RPC has
operated for some time, I and the rest
of the Board accept that over the last
few years there has been limited
progress in underlying earnings per
share and share shareholders’
frustration with the Group’s recent
share price performance. Against this
background, and in order to restore
shareholder confidence, the Board has
launched a strategic review, including a
full property valuation, which will
consider all options available to RPC to
maximise shareholder value. In coming
to this decision I have concluded that
this will be best accomplished by
appointing a new set of independent
eyes in my role.
We are therefore following due process
to find my replacement as quickly as
possible and hope to have the
appointment announced by the
upcoming AGM. This should permit the
new Chairman to participate in the
review process and to act on its
conclusions as appropriate.
The strategic review will be completed
as quickly as possible and the present
strategic direction reconfirmed or a
new direction established. Given
current industry conditions there are an
unusually large number of attractive
businesses potentially available at
reasonable prices. If the strategy
remains to participate in industry
consolidation, RPC must avail itself of
this window of opportunity. For this
reason, and to minimise uncertainty
amongst the management team and
the rest of our employees, urgency is
important.
The last few years have been
exceptionally difficult for the plastics
packaging industry. In my view much
better days are ahead. Growth for
plastics packaging is expected to
continue at rates above Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). Polymer costs appear
set to move in our favour as a result of
substantial new capacity coming on-
stream later this year. There are already
early signs that a shift in the market is
beginning which should lead in time to
better returns from our commodity
businesses. I expect our specialist
businesses to continue to prosper and
the benefits of our recent
rationalisation programmes to be felt
across the Group. While my positive
view of the future has to be tempered
in the short-term by the adverse
impact of the continuing surge in oil
prices, I am convinced that RPC’s
medium and long-term prospects are
excellent.
Lastly, I want to say it has been a
pleasure serving RPC shareholders. I
want to thank my Board colleagues and
the management team for their
support over the years and to wish RPC
every success in the future.
Peter Williams
Chairman Statement by the Chief Executive
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 3
In 2007/08, we achieved record
revenue and adjusted operating profit
levels in what continues to be a very
competitive environment marked by
input cost pressures from both high
polymer and energy costs. This year
has seen a continuation of effort to
give the Group a more efficient cost
base with major rationalisation
programmes underway across five of
the seven clusters. Given this backdrop,
it is pleasing to report that a record
adjusted operating profit of £40.6m
(2007: £38.1m) was achieved and that
the adjusted profit before tax*
increased to £30.2m (2007: £29.4m).
The adjusted earnings per share**
improved from 20.6p to 21.5p.
Significant restructuring costs, in total
amounting to £19.7m (2007: £12.0m),
were incurred. Consequently the basic
earnings per share was reduced to 4.4p
(2007: 13.2p).
Overview of the Year
The principal challenge came again
from rising polymer prices which, for
the 12 month period, were at their
highest ever level and more than 9%
ahead of the average for the previous
year. This means that our 2007/08
portfolio of business has now incurred
almost £100m of additional polymer
cost over the last five years which we
have either passed on to our
customers or has damaged our profits.
This is before the substantial increases
in electricity, outer packaging and
carriage costs which were once again a
feature of the year and from which a
high proportion of manufacturing
industry is currently suffering. The
Blow Moulding and Thermoforming
businesses have a high content of raw
material and experienced another
difficult year. Generally speaking, these
businesses have been able, however, to
offset the input cost challenge with a
combination of cost saving initiatives
and pricing strategies to pass on the
raw material increases to our
customers. We had another successful
year in Injection Moulding with good
underlying performance in both the UK
Injection Moulding and Bramlage-Wiko
clusters, the latter demonstrating
strong growth in Tassimo coffee
capsules.
The cost pressures on the Group are
being met by a real determination
across all our operations to effect
operational efficiencies and achieve
cost reductions. In this challenging
environment we are looking harder at
our underperforming operations and, as
can be seen from the size of our
restructuring costs, we are taking
strong action where necessary. Sites at
Hereford, Thornaby, Piaseczno and
L
/
askarzew have been closed or will be
by the end of the second quarter of
2008/09. We have also moved activity
between locations, with an example
being our recent decision to rationalise
our blow moulding activities in the
Netherlands leading to a significant
reduction in the workforce at Halfweg
and the transfer of equipment to our
Kerkrade site. The significant
restructuring costs incurred over the
last 2 years, encompassing the closure
of 6 sites, are starting to have a
progressively more beneficial effect
not only by eliminating some loss-
making operations but also by the
transfer of profitable contracts to
other locations without taking on
additional overhead.
Financial Highlights
Revenue for the year at £695.2m was
7.7% ahead of last year’s £645.7m;
this represents a 4.4% increase on a
like-for-like basis. Adjusted operating
profit was up 6.6% at £40.6m (2007:
£38.1m) although margins reduced
slightly to 5.8% of sales (2007: 5.9%).
Adjusted EBITDA was largely flat at
£71.6m compared with £72.2m in the
previous year. The underlying tax rate
at 29.5% is lower than the previous
year (31.0%) primarily as a result of
reduced corporate tax rates in some of
our key operating environments, in 
Custom-moulded multi-layer bottles from
RPC Containers Corby have been used for
the launch of the UK foodservice industry’s
first ever premium range of ready-to-use
cooking sauces and soups, produced by
Premier Foods under the famous Loyd
Grossman brand.
The launch of the microwavable Snap Pot,
the revolutionary new concept from 
HJ Heinz for its famous baked beans, has
been made possible by the multi-layer
thermoforming expertise of RPC Bebo
Plastik.
** adjusted profit before tax is operating
profit before restructuring, disruption
and impairment charges, and negative
goodwill released to income less net
interest
** adjusted earnings per share is adjusted
profit before tax less underlying tax at
29.5% (2007: 31.0%) divided by the
weighted average number of shares in
issue during the year Statement by the Chief Executive continued
particular, Germany. Performance in the
second half improved compared with
the first half year with revenues up by 
10.8% and the adjusted operating profit
increasing from £18.7m to £21.9m.
Cash generated by operations was
£63.5m compared with £40.9m last
year mainly due to a better working
capital performance reflecting the
increased focus on cash generation.
The higher value of raw materials and
finished goods stocks was primarily
due to higher polymer prices and the
weakening of the Sterling exchange
rate to the Euro. Net bank debt at the
year end was £149.4m (2007:
£137.1m). At constant exchange rates
the equivalent net debt would be
approximately £137m. Gearing reduced
to 83.1% (2007: 86.5%).
Capital expenditure at £33.4m (2007:
£35.5m) was lower reflecting the
increased focus on cash generation.
Significant projects completed were
the installation of new capacity to
make barrier jars for the expanding
fruit market, the extension of our
facility to manufacture Nestlé’s Dolce
Gusto capsules, the re-location of
equipment for the manufacture of
cups from the Netherlands to the UK
to save transport costs and the
automation of our specialised electro-
plating facility in France. Capital
expenditure net of disposals reduced
to £27.1m (2007: £33.2m).
Strategy and Acquisitions
Our key strategy over the years has
been to develop our business through
organic growth and acquisition in well-
defined niches within the rigid plastic
packaging industry. It is of benefit that
we are able to service our customers
with the full range of technologies
used in this industry, but it is critical
that we have not sought to be a minor
player in every niche. Thus we have a
major position in plastic paint cans for
the UK surface coatings market, in
stock injection and blow-moulded
packs for the UK market, and across
Europe in blow-moulded and
thermoformed oxygen barrier
technology, in pre-printed lids
principally for the yellow fats market,
in deo-sticks, toothpaste dispensers,
airless cream dispensers, inhalant
devices and a host of other products. It
is because we offer our customers
unique strengths in these well-defined
areas that we have been able to
recover the majority of the
unprecedented cost increases that we
have incurred in recent years.
Nonetheless on 6 June 2008, we
launched a comprehensive strategic
review of all these issues in the hope
and expectation that we can further
improve our performance. The results
will be announced as soon as they are
available.
Meanwhile there were three beneficial
acquisitions made in the year under
review:
On 1 June 2007, we acquired the
plastic manufacturing operations of
DM Plast s.r.o. in Vel’k´ y Meder, near
Bratislava, in Slovakia for a
consideration of £1.7m. Importantly, it
gives us our first injection moulding
facility in the lower-cost economies of
Central Europe, ideally situated to
supply the Central and Eastern
European economies and with a track-
record of supplying Western European
customers, notably Henkel. Annual
sales in the full year before acquisition
totalled c. £3.0m; it has integrated well
and is providing an additional
dimension to our successful Bramlage-
Wiko injection moulding business.
We acquired Raytec BV for £3.0m on 
8 October 2007. Raytec, which is
based in the Netherlands, reported
sales of about £11.0m in its last
financial year and will allow further
expansion into the DIY, household and
stationery markets. This business is
now trading as RPC Bramlage DHS BV.
We purchased a business called MOB
located at Moirans en Montagne from
the Administrator on 23 November
2007 for a consideration of £1.7m.
MOB was a leader in the French blow-
moulded stock container industry until
July 2007 when it was forced into
administration by its parent, Smoby,
which was in financial difficulties. The
turnover of c. £12.0m recorded in the
4 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The latest luxury cosmetics packaging
concept developed by RPC beauté for
Lancôme Color Fever uses several
technologies, including bi-injection,
overmoulding, sonic welding and the
recently developed technique of partial
electroplating, to create its distinctive
look.
The proven functionality and aesthetics of
RPC Bramlage-Wiko’s Magic Star and
Magic SL dispensers are playing a vital role
in the launch of a men’s range of personal
care products under the renowned Boots
No. 7 brand. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 5
year to 31 March 2007 fell as a result
of polymer supply problems during the
early part of the period in which it was
in administration, but we have seen
some recovery since its acquisition by
the Group. This acquisition has allowed
us to concentrate our French stock
container manufacture at this site
moving the more specialised
customised products to our nearby,
existing facility at Montpont.
All three of these acquisitions made a
positive contribution to the Group’s
results.
New Product Development
Activities
Our reputation in the market place for
innovation and development of new
packaging concepts is based upon a
number of successful launches
including those of the in-mould
labelled margarine tub and pre-printed
lid for Unilever, the Dolce Gusto coffee
capsule for Nestlé, the Snap Pots pack
for Heinz’ Baked Beans and Spaghetti
Hoops and the Fruitissimo jar for
Schwartauer Werke. This activity has
intensified during the year under
review and we anticipate a number of
novel and interesting new pack
launches over the coming months,
including a new dry powder inhalation
system for the pharmaceutical market
which we are developing in
conjunction with a major
pharmaceutical company. We have also
strengthened our design and
development facilities at Bramlage in
Germany and at Rushden in the UK.
Furthermore, we have continued to
explore some exciting new processing
technologies which we expect will
yield significant benefits in the future.
All in all we have become the supplier
of choice for the development of
novel, innovative products designed to
open up new markets. Nothing could
demonstrate this more clearly than our
supply position to the newly emerging
market for pods and discs for closed
loop coffee systems to replace
“instant” beverages.
Board and Personnel
We have ensured a smooth Board
succession with the appointment of a
new Finance Director, Pim Vervaat, on
1 November 2007. Pim has brought a
refreshing new impetus to the Group
with a renewed focus on performance
measurement, working capital
management and cash conservation.
Chris Sworn who has made an
invaluable contribution as Finance
Director over 17 years, has assumed
responsibility for managing our Blow
Moulding operations and has adopted
this role with characteristic energy and
enthusiasm. Chris remains an executive
member of the Board.
The Board would like to thank Peter
Williams who is retiring as Chairman
after 17 years on the Board, with the
last 8 of those years at the helm of
your Company. In that period, Peter has
been instrumental in forging our
special ethos by helping to create the
decentralised structure that has so
influenced the culture of the Company
and has led the Group’s growth to its
current size. Without him the Group
would not have enjoyed the success it
has and the Board have thanked him
for his contribution over this period.
The search for his successor is
underway with a specialist firm having
been appointed to assist us. Further
information on this appointment will
be provided as soon as it is available.
As a consequence of our decentralised
structure we are able to provide many
opportunities for individuals to make
their own contribution to the Group.
We appreciate the outstanding efforts
by all who together have enabled the
Group to confront the difficult market
conditions.
Dividend
Your Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend to 6.1p
per share (2007: 5.7p) making a total
for the year of 9.0p (2007: 8.4p), an
increase of 7.1%. Subject to approval
at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid
The innovative and convenient double-
pack concept for Lätta margarine
demonstrates the thermoforming and pre-
printing expertise of RPC Bebo Plastik.
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh makes the unique single
serve drink capsules for Nestlé’s
revolutionary Nescafé Dolce Gusto system,
delivering coffee shop quality beverages in
the home. Statement by the Chief Executive continued
6 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
on 5 September 2008 to shareholders
on the register on 8 August 2008.
Outlook
Our market positioning will benefit us
in the uncertain period that lies ahead.
Over 50% of our products are supplied
to the food market which can be relied
upon to remain resilient. Our second
biggest market is beauty and personal
care which continues to grow strongly.
Overall, rigid plastic packaging
continues to grow faster than GDP, and
GDP in Germany is outpacing GDP in
the rest of Europe to our advantage.
We are also benefiting from the
adverse effect increased costs have
had on our competitors.
Our performance in the last financial
year improved as it progressed and we
have benefited in the later stages from
some modest amelioration in polymer
prices. It is not possible to predict with
any certainty whether this favourable
development will continue in the
short-term particularly with oil prices
hitting new highs. However, the
significant polymer capacity coming
on stream over the next few years
makes it highly likely that polymer
markets will move in our favour in the
medium term. What is sure for
2008/09 is that energy costs will be
higher, but the on-going cost reduction
measures and recent acquisitions will
benefit our results along with the
translational effect of the strong Euro
– a currency in which we make a
significant percentage of our sales and
profits. The new financial year has
started satisfactorily but the surge in
oil prices may restrict our progress in
the short-term. Nevertheless, the
Board continues to believe that our
medium and long-term prospects are
excellent.
R J E Marsh
Chief Executive
Prestigo is RPC Tedeco-Gizeh’s innovative
system for providing the hygiene and
convenience of disposable cups without
compromising on quality. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 7
Geographic locations
United Kingdom
RPC Containers, Oakham (IM)
RPC Containers, Blackburn (IM)
RPC Barplas, Bradford (IM)
RPC Containers, Corby (BM)
RPC Bebo UK, Corby (T)
RPC Containers, Raunds (BM)
RPC Containers, Market Rasen (IM)
RPC Containers, Rushden (BM)
RPC Containers, Halstead (IM)
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Port Talbot (T)
RPC Containers, Old Dalby (IM)
RPC Containers, Llantrisant (BM)
RPC Containers, Plenmeller (BM)
The Netherlands
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Deventer (T)
RPC Bebo Nederland, Beuningen (T)
RPC Bebo Nederland, Goor (T)
RPC Packaging Halfweg (BM)
RPC Packaging Kerkrade (BM)
RPC Bramlage DHS, Ravenstein (IM)
Spain
RPC Envases, Madrid (BM)
RPC Envases, San Roque (BM)
Germany
RPC Bebo Plastik, Bremervörde (T)
RPC Verpackungen Kutenholz (BM)
RPC Bramlage Celle (IM)
RPC Bramlage, Lohne (IM)
Bramlage Kork, Lohne
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Offenburg (T)
RPC Wiko, Pulheim (IM)
RPC Formatec, Mellrichstadt (IM)
RPC Neutraubling (IM)
France
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Bouxwiller (T)
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Troyes (T)
RPC Emballages Montpont (BM)
RPC Emballages, Moirans en Montagne (BM)
RPC beauté Marolles (IM)
Belgium
RPC Cobelplast, Lokeren (T)
RPC Bramlage Antwerpen (IM)
RPC Packaging Gent (BM)
Italy
RPC Cobelplast Montonate, Varese (T)
RPC beauté Mozzate (IM)
Poland
RPC Bebo Polska, Poznan (T)
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Polska, L
/
askarzew (T)
RPC Bebo Polska, Kruszwica (T)
Hungary
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Kajárpéc (T)
Romania
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Ploiesti (T)
Czech Republic
RPC Bebo C
˘
R, As ˘ (T)
Slovak Republic
RPC Bramlage Vel’k´ y Meder (IM)
United States
RPC Bramlage-Wiko USA (IM)
The locations are coded for:
(T) – Thermoforming 
(IM) – Injection Moulding 
(BM) – Blow Moulding 8 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Principal subsidiaries
The following companies are, in the
opinion of the directors, the principal
trading subsidiaries of RPC Group Plc.
All the companies are wholly owned
and the Group’s interests are in
ordinary shares or their equivalent. All
the companies are involved in the rigid
plastic packaging market.
Country of Incorporation in italics
RPC Containers Limited
Lakeside House, Higham Ferrers,
Northants NN10 8RP,
United Kingdom
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh (UK) Limited
Kenfig Industrial Estate,
Water Street, Margam, Port Talbot,
West Glamorgan SA13 2PG,
United Kingdom
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh SASU
Zone Industrielle, BP30,
F-67330 Bouxwiller,
France
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Kft
Ipartelep 1771,
H-9123 Kajárpéc,
Hungary
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh GmbH
Robert Bosch Straße 16,
D-77656 Offenburg,
Germany
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Polska Sp. z o.o.
ul. Warszawska 77,
PL-08-450 L
/
askarzew,
Poland
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Romania S.r.l.
DN1 km5,
R-2047 Blejoi, Ploiesti,
Romania
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Troyes SASU
199 Avenue Pierre Brossolette,
F-10001 Troyes,
France
RPC Cobelplast NV
Antwerpse Steenweg 14,
B-9160 Lokeren,
Belgium
RPC Cobelplast Montonate S.r.l.
Via Sandroni 40,
I-21040 Sumirago,Varese,
Italy
RPC Bebo Plastik GmbH
Lloydstraße 6, D-27432 Bremervörde,
Germany
RPC Bebo Polska Sp. z o.o.
ul. Ledóchowskiej 33/35,
PL-60-462 Pozna´ n,
Poland
RPC Packaging Europe BV
Zilverwerf 14,
NL-6641 TD Beuningen,
The Netherlands
RPC Bebo C
˘
R s.r.o.
Skándinávska 2,
CZ-35201 As ˘,
Czech Republic
RPC Bramlage GmbH
Brägeler Straße 70,
D-49393 Lohne,
Germany
RPC Bramlage Celle GmbH
Bremer Weg 205,
D-29223 Celle,
Germany
RPC Bramlage Antwerpen NV
Terbekehofdreef 29,
B-2610 Wilrijk,
Belgium
RPC Bramlage DHS BV
Stationssingel 110,
NL-5371 BB Ravenstein,
The Netherlands
Bramlage Kork GmbH
Raiffeisenstraße 10,
D-49393 Lohne,
Germany
RPC Bramlage Food GmbH
Bremer Weg 205,
D-29223 Celle,
Germany
RPC Bramlage Vel’k´ y Meder s.r.o.
Okoc
v
ská 74,
932 01 Vel’k´ y Meder,
Slovak Republic
RPC Bebo Print Patent GmbH
Lloydstraße 6,
D-27432 Bremervörde,
Germany
RPC Verpackungen Kutenholz GmbH
Industriestraße 3,
D-27449 Kutenholz,
Germany
RPC Envases SA
Avenida de Madrid 68-70,
E-28500 Arganda del Rey, Madrid,
Spain
RPC Packaging Gent NV
Singel 20, Havennr. 0955B,
B-9000 Gent,
Belgium
RPC Packaging Kerkrade BV
Spekhofstraat 16,
NL-6466 LZ Kerkrade,
The Netherlands
RPC Packaging Halfweg BV
Haarlemmerstraatweg 73,
NL-1165 MK Halfweg,
The Netherlands
RPC Emballages Montpont SA
Les Touppes,
F-71470 Montpont-en-Bresse,
France
RPC Emballages Moirans SAS
BP30, Z.I. du Vernoire,
F-39260 Moirans en Montagne,
France
RPC Wiko GmbH
Donatusstraße 102,
D-50259 Pulheim,
Germany
RPC Formatec GmbH
Stockheimer Straße 30,
D-97638 Mellrichstadt,
Germany
RPC Neutraubling GmbH
Pommernstraße 12,
D-93073 Neutraubling,
Germany
RPC Bramlage Wiko USA Inc.
1075 Hemlock Road,
Morgantown, PA, 19543,
United States of America
RPC beauté Marolles SAS
Z.I. La Touche
F-72260 Marolles Les Braults,
France
RPC beauté Mozzate S.r.l.
Via A Frank 1-3,
I-22076 Mozzate (CO),
Italy
In addition, RPC Group Plc owns all the
shares in RPC Packaging Holdings
Limited (a company incorporated in
Great Britain and located at Lakeside
House, Higham Ferrers, Northants
NN10 8RP), RPC Packaging Holdings BV
(a company incorporated in The
Netherlands and located at
Bergweidedijk 1, NL-7418 AB Deventer),
RPC Packaging Holdings (Deutschland)
GmbH (a company incorporated in
Germany and located at Lloydstraße 6,
D-27432 Bremervörde) and RPC
Packaging Holdings US Inc (a company
incorporated in the United States of
America and located at 1075 Hemlock
Road, Morgantown, PA 19543, USA).
These four companies are intermediate
holding companies. All companies are
included within the consolidation. All
United Kingdom companies are
registered in England and Wales. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 9
Directors’ biographies
J P Williams, MA BComm (66)
Non-Executive Chairman
Peter Williams first joined the RPC Board as a non-executive
director in 1991 and was appointed Chairman in July 2000. He
was Chief Executive of D S Smith (Holdings) Plc until May 2002.
Before that he was a director of Reed International Plc (1984-
1988) and then the Chief Executive of Reedpack Limited. He is
also Senior Independent Director of Electra Investment Trust Plc,
a director of Xenos Group Inc (listed on the Toronto Stock
Exchange), Chairman of Very Mobile Group Limited and a
director of a number of other private entities.
R J E Marsh, BA (57)
Chief Executive
Ron Marsh has been Chief Executive of the RPC Group since July
1989. Prior to that he was involved in the manufacture and sale
of folding cartons first with Metal Box (1971-1987) and
subsequently with Reed International.
M J B Green, FCA (65)
Senior Independent Director
Bay Green joined the Board of RPC in March 1998 and was
appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2001. He has
over 30 years’ experience in investment banking and is currently
Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Investment Bank. He is a
non-executive director of Invensys PLC, Chairman of its audit
committee, and a member of its remuneration and nomination
committees. Bay Green is also a non-executive director and
Chairman of the audit committee of Axis-Shield PLC and a
member of its compensation and nomination committees. In
addition, he is a specialist advisor to the Institutional and
Wholesale Markets Division of the Financial Services Authority.
P Hilton, MA PhD (60)
Director and RPC Bebo Cluster Manager
Philip Hilton has been in the plastics industry since leaving
University in 1973. He joined the Group as General Manager of
RPC’s Rushden factory in 1988, and has subsequently been
responsible for the Raunds business and then RPC’s UK Injection
Moulding cluster. In 2001 he was appointed to the position of
Manager of the RPC Bebo cluster of thermoforming businesses.
He has been on the Board of RPC since February 1997.
P J H Hole, BSc (63)
Director and General Manager, RPC Corby and Halstead
Peter Hole joined the RPC Corby operation in 1988 as General
Manager. Subsequently he has been involved in the
development of RPC’s UK Thermoforming business and the
expansion of multi-layer Blow Moulding throughout the Group.
Prior to joining RPC he gained experience in both rigid and
flexible packaging. Peter Hole is Chairman of the Trustee of the
RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme. He was appointed to
the RPC Board on 29 January 2003.
Drs H J Kloeze (60)
Director and RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Cluster Manager
Henk Kloeze has been involved in the packaging industry since
1971. He joined Tedeco, in the Netherlands, as an Assistant
Marketing and Sales Manager in 1983 and became General
Manager in 1985. He was appointed to the Board of RPC on 
26 September 2001.
S Rojahn, Dipl-Ing MSIE (59)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Stephan Rojahn, a German national, was appointed to the Board
of RPC on 25 January 2006. He is Chairman of the Board of
Management of Wittur Holding GmbH, a global supplier of
components to manufacturers of elevators. Between 2003 and
2005 he was Chairman of the Board of Management of Durr AG.
Previously he worked for more than 20 years for the Bosch
Group culminating in a position on the Board of Management.
He is a member of the Supervisory Board of Brabant Alucast
International B.V.
C H Sworn, MA PhD FCA (61)
Director and RPC Blow Moulding Cluster Manager
Chris Sworn joined Reed International in 1980 as a planning
executive. He was Technical Manager of the Oakham factory
from 1985 to 1989, and was appointed Finance Director of the
RPC Group in January 1990. On 1 November 2007 he
relinquished his responsibilities as Finance Director while
remaining on the Board and was appointed Manager of RPC’s
Blow Moulding cluster of businesses.
Drs P R M Vervaat RC (43)
Finance Director
Pim Vervaat joined the Dutch metals producer, Hoogovens
Groep in 1987 and held various finance positions in the
Netherlands, Germany and Belgium until 1996 when he joined
the Dutch ship propulsion producer Lips Group as Chief Financial
Officer. In 1999 he returned to Hoogovens Groep, which was
acquired by Corus, and in 2004 became divisional Finance
Director of the £3 billion turnover Corus Distribution and
Building Systems Division. During this time he was also
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of a Norwegian joint
venture, Norsk Stal. Pim Vervaat, a Dutch national, was
appointed Finance Director of RPC Group on 1 November 2007.
D J Wilbraham, BSc PhD (69)
Independent Non-Executive Director
David Wilbraham became the Chief Operating Officer of Laporte
plc in 1992 after many years with ICI. In 1996 he moved to
Hickson International Plc first as the Chief Executive and
subsequently as the Chairman, until the company was acquired
in 2000. He is now the Senior Independent Director of St Ives
plc, Chairman of Akers Biosciences Inc, Chairman of Intelligent
Engineering Ltd and Treasurer of the City & Guilds of London
Institute. He joined the Board of RPC in July 1998.
P S Wood, FCA (61)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Peter Wood was appointed to the Board of RPC on 22 March
2006. He was, until his retirement at the end of 2005, Chief
Executive of BSS Group Plc. Previously he had been Finance
Director and ultimately Chief Executive of Ellis and Everard plc
until the company was acquired in 2000. He is Chairman of
White Young Green plc, the Senior Independent Director and
Chairman of the remuneration committee of Yule Catto plc
and non-executive director of Grafton Group plc. 10 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Principal Activities
RPC is the leading supplier of rigid plastic packaging in
Europe, with manufacturing operations in 12 countries of the
European Union and one in the USA. Our product range
spans all forms of rigid plastic packaging in use today,
namely injection moulded packs, and thermoformed packs,
sheet, and extrusion blow-moulded packs as well as
injection-blown and injection-stretch-blown packs.
Our plants typically convert granules of polymer into
finished packaging by a combination of moulding and
assembly processes; these may or may not then be
decorated by printing or label application thereby adding
considerable value to the product. Normally we aim to add
all this value in-house but, on occasions, we have to buy in
components or services – for example some tooling and
computer software.
Our customers range from the largest multi-national
companies like Unilever, Kraft, Nestlé and Procter & Gamble
to local ‘one-man’ operators. Our objective is to give all our
customers good service and quality, and thereby to retain
their custom.
We structure our operations along market and technological
lines. Thus, we have a number of plants in the UK which
primarily use injection moulding to convert polymer into
pails, paint cans, tubs and vitamin supplement packs, while in
Germany there are several plants making personal care and
pharmaceutical packs using the same technique. Each one of
these groups of operations is known as a cluster. We have, in
all, seven clusters whose principal served markets are:
Cluster Market
UK Injection Moulding paints, DIY products, fresh soups
and sauces, vitamins, yellow fats
Blow Moulding personal care, motor oil, food
and drinks, agrichemicals
Bramlage-Wiko personal care, tablet dispensers
(injection moulding) coffee capsules, DIY, household,
stationery, yellow fats
beauté cosmetics
(injection moulding)
Bebo (thermoforming) margarine and spreads, fresh,
frozen and long shelf life foods
Cobelplast (sheet) form-fill-seal lines, phone cards,
long shelf life foods
Tedeco-Gizeh vending and drinking cups, food
(thermoforming) service disposables, coffee
capsules, the French dairy market
On average, each of these clusters has seven plants and is
usually spread across a number of countries.
We aim to give each plant as much autonomy as possible
commensurate with maintaining overall financial control and
effective co-ordination in each market sector. Hence, every
cluster and most plants have a management team headed up
by a cluster or general manager. We believe that this
structure encourages focus and delivers enhanced
performance.
Strategy
Our primary objective is to maximise shareholder value and
generate attractive long term returns on the capital
employed in the business through the manufacture and sale
of rigid plastic packaging in Europe.
We focus our efforts on those sections of the industry where
we have strong positions: for example, injection moulded
personal care packaging, margarine tubs, multi-layer sheet,
tubs and bottles for oxygen sensitive foods, single serve
coffee systems and containers for surface coatings. In these
sectors, we seek to consolidate the industry and to give our
customers good service in part by providing innovative high
quality packaging.
At the operational level we continually review the make-up
of our production capacity. To this end, your Board has taken
action in the current year to close our plants in the UK at
Thornaby and Hereford and at Piaseczno and Laskerzew in
Poland with production expected to finally cease at all of
these locations by the end of the second quarter of 2008/09.
It has also taken many other steps to improve the
manufacturing efficiency and cost effectiveness in our
remaining sites. These processes are ongoing and can be
expected to be a feature of the business going forward. At
the same time we continue to examine every opportunity to
acquire businesses that facilitate the achievement of our
strategic objectives.
On 6 June 2008, the Board announced that it has decided to
commission a strategic review which will consider all options
to maximise shareholder value.
Review of Operations
Injection Moulding
We had another successful year in injection moulding with
both the Bramlage-Wiko and the UK Injection Moulding
clusters maintaining their good underlying performance
while progress in the beauté cluster was slower than
anticipated. Bramlage-Wiko, in particular, saw increasing
volumes with a strong position in personal care and
pharmaceuticals which helped drive increased profitability
this year. In order to optimise the future cost base of both
the UK Injection Moulding and beauté clusters, a significant
rationalisation programme was undertaken which resulted in
the closure of the Hereford and Thornaby sites.
Bramlage-Wiko is partner to a wide variety of customers
with activities in a number of distinct markets. Our
traditional product ranges of deo-sticks, cream jars,
Business review RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 11
toothpaste dispensers, airless cream dispensers, margarine
tubs, and inhalant devices have enjoyed another good year,
while sales of Tassimo coffee capsules demonstrated their
strong growth potential. The main part of the operations in
this cluster is located in Germany and has benefited
noticeably from the improvement in the German economy.
During the year, DM Plast (Slovakia) was acquired to provide
a low cost manufacturing facility for Central Europe. Raytec
in the Netherlands (now re-branded as RPC Bramlage DHS)
was acquired to strengthen the position with one of our
major customers and extend our product range into the DIY,
household and stationery sectors.
Our injection moulding business is the largest in the UK with
activities at five sites and has maintained a good
performance despite the weakening demand witnessed
towards the end of the financial year, particularly in the
surface coatings market sector. In order to maintain a
competitive cost base, the Hereford site has been closed
with the majority of the business retained and re-distributed
to other sites. The expanded range of healthcare packaging
produced at Market Rasen coupled with the move of a major
competitor into receivership has improved its prospects. The
Barplas facility in Bradford has continued to make a very
valuable contribution.
The sales development of the beauté cluster has been
disappointing as competition in mass market cosmetics
intensified. In order to maintain an optimum cost base, the
Thornaby site in the UK has been closed with some of the
business transferred elsewhere.
Thermoforming
The thermoforming operations (comprising the Bebo,
Tedeco-Gizeh and Cobelplast clusters) produce products with
a high raw material content and, with polymer prices once
again rising significantly, experienced another challenging
year in terms of input costs. Nonetheless significant progress
has been made during the year to improve profitability
through numerous actions including optimising the cost base
through rationalisation and consolidation of our Central
European operations. This resulted in the closure of two
Polish sites at L
/
askarzew and Piaseczno. Many of our
competitors have also rationalised their activities and this
has strengthened our position as the clear leader in the
European thermoforming sector.
The Bebo thermoformed packaging business enjoyed the
recovery of sales of one of our barrier packaging products,
fruit bowls, which directly benefited our Dutch facilities. In
spite of this sales recovery, we initiated a cost optimisation
programme with the objective of simplifying operations so
that assets can be better utilised, resources more effectively
focused and manufacturing costs reduced. As part of this
programme the Piaseczno site in Poland was closed with the
major part of the business being transferred to the Kruszwica
site. In the UK, the Bristol closure and subsequent
consolidation on to the Corby site was completed early in
the financial year. We are in the course of expanding our pre-
printed lid capacity in Germany in order to meet the
demands of our customers for ever higher standards of
decoration. We have innovated products in other areas of the
thermoforming business with the release, for example, of
new barrier packaging products such as the Heinz Snap Pots.
Our Tedeco-Gizeh plastic cup and disposables business
enjoyed some success in achieving price increases. The “price
over volume” strategy, combined with cost reductions has
led to improved profitability, although some business has
been lost. A further cost optimisation programme was
initiated which has meant that the Central European
production activities will be concentrated on our Kajárpéc
site in Hungary; the L
/
askarzew site in Poland is to be closed.
Sales of Dolce Gusto coffee capsules to Nestlé have shown
strong growth this year in an area where we have excellent
prospects of achieving further volume growth.
The Cobelplast sheet business rebounded as the demand
from our major customer for fruit bowls recovered
significantly while two of our major competitors in this area
have struggled to produce the products that the market
demands. We aim to increase our capacity to serve this
market, thereby ensuring that we are able to maintain and
deepen our relationships with key customers. The facility in
Italy continued to benefit from past investment and an
improved balance of supply and demand in the PET sheet
market.
Blow Moulding
All the blow moulding activities have been organised into
one cluster with Chris Sworn, the former Finance Director,
appointed as Cluster Manager in November 2007. The major
issue for this cluster is to retain cost competitiveness while
achieving price increases to reflect ever increasing raw
material costs in what is a very competitive environment.
Various initiatives have been undertaken to optimise the
overall cost base. Towards the end of the financial year, we
decided to rationalise our activities in the Netherlands by
significantly reducing the workforce at Halfweg and
transferring some equipment to our Kerkrade site. Energy
saving equipment is being installed to combat high energy
costs. In order to fully utilise the installed cost base at
Envases in Spain, the Arganda site will also produce injection
moulded products going forward. Our north German site at
Kutenholz has grown considerably in the last seven years
with a more than doubling of its volumes and nearly half its
capacity dedicated to serving customers in the personal care
sector such as Beiersdorf’s Nivea range. Gent in Belgium is
increasing its capacity to meet the demands of Monsanto for
large containers. Further cost savings are being planned for
our UK stock container businesses as we seek to automate more of the packaging in this area and we rationalise the
product range. At our Corby site, volume has been lost with
Heinz’ move to source PET co-injected stretch blown bottles
from a competitor. We are seeking opportunities to replace
this lost volume with both new customers and new products
that are showing signs of considerable promise.
The acquisition of MOB in France will allow the nearby site
of Montpont to focus on custom-moulded products with
MOB itself focusing on standardised products. The relatively
low cost base of MOB has served as a catalyst for the
exchange of best practice across the cluster.
Future Outlook for Rigid Plastic Packaging
We expect overall demand for rigid plastic packaging to
continue to increase ahead of the growth in GDP. This is the
result of continuing conversions from paperboard, glass and
tin-plate packaging coupled with the demand for smaller
pack sizes. Western European demand growth is likely to be
below that of other regions.
With significant polymer capacity coming on stream over
the next few years we expect that polymer markets will
move in our favour in the medium term. It is however not
possible to predict that the modest amelioration of the
polymer prices witnessed recently will continue in the short-
term particularly with oil prices hitting new highs.
For the rigid plastic industry in Europe, consolidation appears
set to continue and should lead to an industry that can
better serve its customers while earning improved returns for
its various stakeholders.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
RPC is subject to a number of risks, both external and
internal, some of which could have a serious impact on the
performance of our business.
Each year we conduct a wide-embracing review of these
risks. This process helps both identify the nature and
magnitude of a risk and the manner in which it can be
mitigated. The risks that are seen as being particularly
important at the current time are:
Polymer price and availability: RPC converts principally
polypropylene (PP), high density polyethylene (HDPE) and
polystyrene (PS). The prices of each of these polymers have
been subject to considerable upward pressure due to the rise
in the underlying price of oil. In recent years polymer
supplies have been seriously affected by plant breakdowns
and maintenance: this has led to supply shortages with the
consequence that we have had to reduce our dependence on
one or two suppliers and, in consequence, to adapt our
plants to converting a wider range of polymer grades with
the attendant complications of stock-holding, scrap
generation and customer approvals. This will continue as new
suppliers come on stream in areas like the Middle East, Brazil
and India.
Energy costs: In order to convert polymer, it must first be
‘melted’ and then, once in its desired shape, cooled: this
entails the use of substantial amounts of electricity. We have
sought to adapt our plants to an era of higher and
fluctuating electricity prices by the combination of a
purchasing strategy which ‘balances’ the risks and a drive to
reduce the amount of electricity consumed per tonne of
material converted. We are also working in conjunction with
the British Plastics Federation to set up a UK Climate Change
Levy Discount Scheme. This involves agreeing certain targets
for the reduction of energy use over the next 8 years. If we
achieve the targets we will receive an 80% reduction in the
UK Climate Change Levy.
Packaging legislation: RPC is subject to new legislation
affecting the use and re-use of polymers and other materials
in packaging; on occasions such legislation can arise as a
result of the activities of environmental pressure groups. We
seek to respond to these by involvement in national and
pan-European industry groups including the British Plastics
Federation and the EuPC. We participate in Valpak in order to
meet our obligations in the UK towards the national
recycling scheme. This entails the subscription for a number
of credits.
Dependency on key customers: Our top 10 customers in
total account for 31.3% of our sales; if we lose any one of
them, our results would be significantly affected. Conversely,
because of our size and product range, many of our
customers would have great difficulty in moving their
business to another supplier. In consequence, there is a high
degree of mutual dependency between RPC and its
customers, which, of course, will be strengthened if we are
responsive to their requests and service them properly with
quality products. We seek to maintain a strong relationship
with these customers by developing products that are suited
to their needs.
Essential services and supplies: The loss of essential services
or products produced by a major supplier could have a
significant impact on the Group’s ability to service its
customers. As such, we seek to maintain alternative sources
of supply wherever possible. If a problem is localised, in
many cases, it is possible to manufacture the product from
another site within the RPC Group.
Pricing and competitive pressures: The consolidation of
major European customers and the trend towards Pan-
European purchasing and competitive tendering have
increased pressure on prices. Furthermore, the increasing
threat of competition from Eastern Europe and the Far East
may have an adverse impact on our sales and profits. To
mitigate these risks we continually strive to achieve optimal
customer service while at the same time seeking to reduce
12 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Business review continued RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 13
the cost base and to achieve improved productivity,
efficiency and economies of scale. In evaluating investment
opportunities, we consider whether we can obtain higher
value added returns by moving into new markets.
Financial risks: RPC’s treasury activities are governed by
policies and procedures approved and monitored by the
Board. The principal exposures might be expected to be those
related to interest rate movements and foreign currency
fluctuations. In the case of the former, RPC borrows at both
fixed and floating rates in order to give a degree of stability
to the composite rate charged each year. We have limited
transactional exposure to the most influential currency risk –
that of the Sterling : Euro rate. We seek to ‘hedge’ the Balance
Sheet exposure as much as possible by controlling our
borrowings so that two thirds are in Euros to balance the two
thirds of our net assets which are naturally denominated in
Euros. The recent liquidity crisis in the financial markets could
have had an impact on our ability to fund activities, but the
risk is limited as, other things being equal, we have sufficient
funding under our existing finance facilities until they finally
expire in June 2012.
Safeguarding physical property: The risk of fire represents the
most significant internal risk to the Group. Although the
likelihood of such an event is considered low, the impact of a
major catastrophe of this type could be considerable. We
seek to mitigate this risk with, for example, many sites
having sprinkler and/or smoke detection systems in place. In
addition, the Group carries a comprehensive (subject to a
sizeable excess) property damage and business interruption
insurance policy; we implement the recommendations of the
insurer wherever practical.
Resources
RPC’s success in achieving its objective of generating an
adequate return for its shareholders is critically dependent
upon the resources which are available.
First and foremost, RPC is reliant upon the quality,
dedication and commitment of its entire staff. RPC has
enjoyed remarkable loyalty from its staff. This is partly
because of the ethos of commitment and participation
which is prevalent throughout the Group. The devolved
nature of our management structure strongly contributes to
a sense of challenge and fulfilment amongst the
management of the Group – as a result of which, staff
turnover amongst those at this level has been very low.
Secondly, RPC is dependent upon the capabilities of its
manufacturing operations to enable it to meet its customers’
requirements. RPC has consistently invested in plant and
equipment, as well as in factory and warehousing space so
that it can meet its customers’ requirements for quality,
innovation and service.
Thirdly, RPC monitors carefully major customer contracts
with the objective of limiting its exposure to risks beyond its
control; for other customers we apply our general conditions
of sale which are broadly in line with those applied by our
peers and we are covered by public and product liability
insurance.
Corporate Responsibility
As a leader in the rigid plastic packaging industry we
recognise our responsibility to minimise the impact of our
activities on the environment and to contribute towards the
well-being of those communities in which we operate and
which we serve. We have identified those areas where our
activities have the greatest impact on the natural and social
environment and we seek to reduce or mitigate these
exposures wherever possible.
The public perception of plastic packaging as ‘a waste of
resources’, if not as a potential contributor to the
degradation of the environment, is the key exposure we face.
We judge that the information published by industrial
bodies, such as the British Plastics Federation and the
Packaging Federation, is the best way to counter such
misconceptions and to convince people of the benefits of
good packaging. In addition, the Group undertakes trials with
materials that are claimed to be environmentally friendly,
and also participates positively in WRAP (the Government
sponsored Waste and Resources Action Programme)
activities concerning rigid plastic packaging.
Our activities have the following direct impacts on the
natural and social environment:
● Energy and water consumption: we constantly strive to
reduce the amount of energy and water consumed in our
conversion activities. In particular, we have installed
closed loop cooling systems in a number of our plants –
these have multiple benefits as they consume less water
and electricity and they virtually eliminate the risk of
contaminating the neighbourhood with legionnaires’
disease.
● Transport: we are utilising our transport facilities more
effectively through careful planning and optimising the
selection and use of distribution vehicles in order to cut
costs and to reduce pollution of the environment.
● Materials: we have a continuing programme to maximise
material utilisation and to reduce the amount of material
which is sold externally as scrap by recycling more once-
processed materials internally. We work closely with
customers to minimise the use of material in packs
through careful attention to design and the production
process.
● Noise: we test the noise levels in the workplace and seek
to minimise the noise generated by our production and Business review continued
handling equipment. Ear defending equipment is provided
to employees and visitors working in or entering noisy
work areas.
● Airborne pollutants: we monitor and reduce wherever
possible the amount of volatile solvents used in our
plants.
● Responsible employment: we have a policy of non-
discrimination in our employment procedures and we
seek to develop our employees’ skills wherever possible
and practicable. We also offer employees membership of a
pension scheme where appropriate.
● Employees health and safety: we invest considerable
resources in both reducing the accident rate and
improving the health and safety of our employees.
RPC has three main non-financial key performance indicators
(KPIs). From an environmental and cost control perspective
we measure electricity usage per tonne produced and water
usage per tonne produced. From an employee welfare
perspective we monitor lost time accidents.
These non-financial KPIs are set out below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Electricity usage per tonne (Kwh/T) 2,005 2,027
Water usage per tonne (M
3
/T) 967 999
Lost time accident frequency rate 1,781 2,176
Lost time accident frequency rate is defined as the number of
accidents resulting in more than 3 days off work, excluding
accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work,
divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by the
constant 100,000.
We have made stringent efforts over the last year to
improve our efficient usage of electricity and water the
results of which are only now beginning to show through.
Similarly, with our employees, we are focused on reducing
the number of accidents. Although the impact of a serious
accident can be damaging to the business, our primary
objective is to avoid the potentially devastating impact such
an event can have on employees and their families. In all
these areas, there is more work to do and we expect to see
further improvements as these programmes progress.
Financial Review
Consolidated income statement
The Group’s 2007/08 turnover was 7.7% ahead of that in
2006/07, with all clusters achieving higher revenue levels.
The like-for-like increase (excluding acquisitions) was 4.4%
(2007: 1.8%) which was partly driven by exchange rate
movements.
The adjusted operating profit (before restructuring,
disruption and impairment costs) increased by 6.6% from
£38.1m to £40.6m. The operating profits in both years
include some non-recurring benefits and costs, including in
2007/08 the sale of property at Hereford that realised a gain
of £1.0m. In our efforts to actively manage our pension
liabilities and optimise the cost base, the defined benefit
Deventer Pension Plan was closed and all accrued past
service benefits were transferred to an industry-wide
scheme. The overall impact of the review of the employee
benefits liabilities such as the Deventer Pension Plan resulted
in a £0.6m non-recurring benefit. In 2006/07, we received
£3.0m of compensation for sales shortfalls on major product
launches.
The net financing costs increased from £7.2m in 2006/07 to
£11.5m in 2007/08 due to a rise in the net interest charge
from £9.7m to £10.4m and a £1.1m net financial expense
related to exchange rate movements (2006/07: net financial
income of £1.5m). The increase in the net interest charge is
due to higher average borrowings (average 2007/08:
£183.6m, 2006/07: £166.0m) and higher interest rates.
The adjusted profit before tax improved from £29.4m in
2006/07 to £30.2m in 2007/08 as the improvement in
adjusted operating profit of £2.5m was partially offset by the
£1.7m increase in the net interest charge.
The underlying tax rate for the Group decreased from 31.0%
in 2006/07 to 29.5% in 2007/08 primarily as the corporate
tax rate in Germany, where a high proportion of the Group’s
taxable profits arise, reduced from 39.0% to 30.0%. The
Group’s overall taxation charge of £5.4m resulted in a tax
rate of 55.5% as the tax rate related to the restructuring
charges and impairment losses was considerably lower than
the underlying tax rate.
The adjusted profit after tax improved from £20.3m in
2006/07 to £21.3m in 2007/08 as the adjusted profit before
tax improved by £0.8m and the underlying tax rate reduced
as noted above. The adjusted basic earnings per share thus
improved from 20.6p in 2006/07 to 21.5p in 2007/08.
The restructuring, disruption and impairment costs incurred
this year total £19.7m compared with £12.0m in the
previous year. This year, the charge relates to rationalisation
programmes in the Blow Moulding, UK Injection Moulding,
beauté, Bebo and Tedeco-Gizeh clusters which have resulted
in the closure of sites at Piaseczno and L
/
askarzew in Poland
and Hereford and Thornaby in the UK. The workforce at the
Halfweg site in the Netherlands was significantly reduced.
Included in the total restructuring costs are £8.4m of asset
impairments and write downs leaving £11.3m of redundancy
and other closure costs. In 2006/07, the charge included the
final costs associated with the closure of Woburn Sands
(£2.2m), the estimated cost of closing Bristol (£2.0m), the
cost of staff redundancies at Deventer (£0.7m), the
14 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 impairment of the assets within the beauté cluster and Spain
(£6.2m), as well as the cost of disruption at Halstead
following a fire (£0.4m).
The net profit for the period reduced from £13.1m in
2006/07 to £4.4m in 2007/08 primarily due to the increase
in the (net of tax) restructuring, disruption costs and
impairment losses. Basic earnings per share have
consequently fallen from 13.2p to 4.4p.
In the second half of the year the revenues increased by
£35.8m or 10.8% compared with the first half. On a like-for-
like basis the increase was 8.3%. The adjusted operating
profit improved in the second half to £21.9m (equal to 6.0%
of revenues) compared with £18.7m (equal to 5.7% of
revenue) in the first half.
Consolidated balance sheet and cash flow
statement
The property, plant and equipment book value increased
from £235.5m last year to £259.1m in 2007/08 primarily as
a consequence of the exchange rate movements’ impact of
£24.3m. The capital expenditure (net of disposals) stayed
below the depreciation level.
The overall working capital (defined as the sum of inventories,
trade and other receivables and trade and other payables)
increased from £91.6m in 2006/07 to £92.5m in 2007/08 due
to exchange rate movements. When relating the working
capital to annualised second half revenues the working capital
efficiency improved from 13.6% in 2006/07 to 12.7% in
2007/08.The higher value of raw materials and finished goods
stocks were primarily due to higher polymer prices and the
weakening of the Sterling exchange rate to the Euro.
The long-term employee benefits liabilities reduced from
£33.0m in 2006/07 to £26.3m in 2007/08. The main
component of these liabilities is the retirement benefit
obligations which reduced from £28.5m in 2006/07 to
£20.4m in 2007/08. The UK defined benefit pension scheme
remains in deficit but the net liability included in the Balance
Sheet has reduced by £6.0m. Financial and other information
about the Group’s retirement benefit obligations are set out
in note 24 of the financial statements.
The capital and reserves increased from £158.5m in 2006/07
to £179.7m in 2007/08 primarily due to a £19.6m increase
in the translation differences reserves.
Despite a net increase in net debt from £137.1m to £149.4m
during the year, the Balance Sheet remains sound with a
gearing of 83.1% (86.5% at 31 March 2007). The main
reason for the rise in the net bank debt is the weakened
Sterling : Euro exchange rate. At constant exchange rates, the
31 March 2008 net debt would have been approximately
£137m. The Group has total finance facilities of
approximately £279m of which £28m will fall due in 2011
with the main balance due in 2012. At 31 March 2008, the
headroom under the finance facilities was approximately
£130m.
Net cash from operating activities (after tax and interest)
was £42.0m compared with £25.0m last year mainly due to
a better working capital performance reflecting the increased
focus on cash generation. The cash outflow from investing
activities reduced from £42.1m in 2006/07 to £33.7m in
2007/08 as the acquisition of property, plant and equipment
(net of proceeds on disposal) was £6.1m lower. The net cash
outflow from the acquisition of subsidiaries reduced from
£8.1m in 2006/07 to £5.6m in 2007/08. During the year
DM Plast (Slovakia), Raytec BV (the Netherlands) and
MOB (France) were acquired with an overall net goodwill of
£2.0m which included a small amount of negative goodwill
of £0.4m which was taken to the Income Statement.
Group KPIs
The Group’s financial KPIs are value added per tonne of
goods produced (which is the difference between production
sales value per tonne and the cost of polymer per tonne
produced), gross margins (which are selling prices less all
directly variable costs such as polymer, packaging, transport,
electricity) as well as the return on capital employed, though
this is a longer-term metric in comparison with the former
two indicators.
The Group’s KPIs are as follows:
2008 2007
Added value per tonne £1,724 £1,710
Gross margin 45% 46%
The year-on-year increase in added value per tonne from
£1,710 to £1,724 is due to currency and acquisition impacts.
The acquired businesses in total showed a higher added
value per tonne than the Group’s average. The movement of
Sterling versus the Euro also increased the consolidated
Group’s average. The gross margin percentage reduced
slightly as a consequence of rising input costs and generally
higher price levels. Overall, the Group has been reasonably
successful this year in compensating the rise in input costs
with improvements in sales mix and prices.
The key measure of our stewardship is the return on capital
employed. This shows a slight decrease in the year under
review:
2008 2007
Return on capital employed 10.7% 10.9%
Return on capital employed is defined as being adjusted
operating profit divided by the average of opening and closing
of shareholders’ equity, adding back net deferred tax assets or
liabilities, retirement benefit obligations and liabilities in
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 15 Business review continued
16 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
connection with derivative financial instruments and after
adding back average net borrowings for the year in question.
The return on capital employed reduced slightly as the
improvement in adjusted operating profit was negated by
the increased average capital employed. This increase was
partly due to exchange rate movements but also due to the
higher revenues which necessitated additional working
capital requirements throughout the year. Going forward the
continuing focus on cash generation should help to improve
the overall return by reducing the capital employed. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 17
The directors present their report and the audited financial
statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Group are unchanged from last
year and are the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic
packaging and associated equipment.
Acquisitions
In June 2007, the Group acquired the injection moulding
business of DM Plast located at Vel’k´ y Meder near Bratislava,
Slovakia. The business operates principally in the personal
care market. Raytec BV, an injection moulding business in
the DIY, household and stationery markets based in the
Netherlands, was acquired on 8 October 2007. On 
23 November 2007, the trade and assets of MOB, a blow
moulding business in the French stock container industry
located at Moirans en Montagne, in France were acquired.
The acquisition consideration including expenses in respect
of these three businesses was paid in cash and totalled
£6.4m.
Review of Business and Future Developments
A review of the Group’s performance during the year ended
31 March 2008 and its position at that date together with
the risks that it faces is contained within the Statement by
the Chief Executive and the Business Review.
Share Capital
The Company had one class of ordinary 5p shares in issue at
31 March 2008. Full details of the Company’s authorised and
issued share capital together with the rights, obligations and
restrictions attaching to the shares are set out in note 21 to
the financial statements.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 2.9p per ordinary share was paid on
25 January 2008. The Board is recommending a final dividend
of 6.1p per ordinary share to be paid on 5 September 2008,
subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting of the Company, to shareholders on the Register on
8 August 2008 making the total dividend for the year 9.0p
per share (2007: 8.4p).
Financing
The Group’s policy is to finance its operations through a
mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings. The Group
does not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Group’s borrowings are
market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency
risk and credit risk. The Group Board reviews and agrees
policies for managing each of these risks. The policies, which
have been applied throughout the year, are set out in note
18 to the financial statements.
Directors
The present directors of the Company, who, with the
exception of P R M Vervaat who was appointed on 
1 November 2007, have served for the full financial year, are
listed on page 9.
All directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no
more than three years. Resolutions will be proposed at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 23 July 2008 to re-
elect D J Wilbraham and P Hilton and to elect P R M Vervaat
in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association,
and to re-elect M J B Green in accordance with the
provisions of the Combined Code. Biographical details and
other relevant information are given on page 9. During the
year the Board reappointed D J Wilbraham as a non-
executive director for a fourth three-year term of office
which expires on 13 July 2010, subject to annual re-election
by shareholders. M J B Green’s current three-year term of
office as a non-executive director expires on 25 March 2010.
Non-executive directors’ appointments may be terminated
with immediate effect. The service contract for P Hilton
provides for a notice period of 12 months to be given. A
performance evaluation has been conducted for all three
directors due for re-election. On 1 November 2007 the
Board appointed P R M Vervaat as Finance Director, subject
to the election referred to above, following recommendation
by the Nomination Committee. The service contract for 
P R M Vervaat provides for a notice period of 12 months to
be given except in the event of a change of control when the
notice period is 24 months if the employing Group company
gives notice within one year following the change of control.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of
directors are contained in the Company’s Articles of
Association. The powers of the directors are contained in the
Memorandum and Articles of Association which may only be
amended by resolution passed by the shareholders at a
general meeting in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give powers to the directors to authorise the
issue and to buy back the Company’s shares by the
Company, subject to authority being given to the directors
by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant
legislation. Resolutions to authorise the directors to exercise
these powers are put to shareholders at each Annual General
Meeting.
None of the directors had any interest in any contracts,
other than their service contracts, with the Company or any
of its subsidiaries during the year.
Further information on the appointment, re-election and
performance evaluation of directors is given in the Corporate
Governance section of this report. Details of the directors’
remuneration, notice periods under their service contracts or
terms of appointment and their interests, including any
interest of a connected person, in the share capital of the
Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
18 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Company are shown in the Remuneration Report. The service
contracts for executive directors and terms of appointment
for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the
Company’s registered office and at the Annual General
Meeting.
Directors’ Indemnities
The Board has provided qualifying third party indemnities to
the Company’s directors and agreed to provide funds to
meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings
in accordance with legislation and the Articles of Association.
The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded
to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is
unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company,
criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of
successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties,
may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company
even if judgement goes against the director.
The indemnities provided to the directors are available for
inspection at the Company’s registered office and at the
Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholdings
The Company has received notification under the Disclosure
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of
direct and indirect interests in 3% or more of the issued
share capital and voting rights in the Company from the
following financial institutions at 16 June 2008. The number
of shares and the percentage given are as disclosed at the
date of the notification.
Number of shares %
Aberforth Partners LLP 11,673,700 11.8
AXA SA 9,135,039 9.2
North Atlantic Value LLP 7,322,000 7.4
SVG Investment Managers Ltd 5,698,054 5.8
Aviva plc and subsidiaries 4,892,213 4.9
Legal & General Group PLC 3,961,134 4.0
Zurich Financial Services Group 3,498,750 4.0
Aegon UK Group of Companies 3,379,704 3.4
Atorka Group hf 3,144,238 3.2
Lehman Brothers International (Europe) 2,983,253 3.0
Significant Agreements
Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company
is required to disclose any significant agreements that take
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the
Company. The Company’s £200m revolving credit facility
agreement contains a change of control clause whereby a
participating bank may cancel its commitment and require
the Company to repay outstanding loans and interest. A
holder of the €35m or $40m seven year floating loan notes
has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its principal
amount together with interest accrued in the event of a
change of control.
Research and Development
The Group’s research and development activities ensure that
it stays at the forefront of rigid plastic packaging technology
with regards to design, functionality, aesthetics and
specification with particular attention to weight reduction
and the incorporation of recycled materials.
Creditor Payment Policy
The Group endeavours to agree the terms and conditions
under which transactions with its suppliers are conducted
prior to placing business, there being no specific payment
code for the packaging industry. It is the Group’s policy to
pay to agreed terms. RPC Group Plc is a non-trading
company. However, the significant UK trading subsidiary, RPC
Containers Limited, had average creditor days outstanding at
31 March 2008 of 107 days (31 March 2007: 81 days).
Political and Charitable Donations
The Group donated £8,925 (2007: £8,794) to charities in the
UK during the year.
The Group’s policy is to make no political donations, and
none were made in the year.
Annual General Meeting
The Notice of the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be
held on 23 July 2008 and related explanatory notes are
included after the financial statements.
The Board is recommending the re-election of M J B Green
and D J Wilbraham as non-executive directors, the re-
election of P Hilton and the election of P R M Vervaat as
directors in separate resolutions. Further information is given
under the Directors heading in this Report.
Under the special business of the Annual General Meeting,
the Board is recommending the adoption of the RPC Group
2008 Performance Share Plan. The Plan will enable progress
to be made towards increasing performance related pay and
a more meaningful alignment between shareholders and
participating executives. The Board believes that the Plan and
its terms reflect current best practice and that its adoption is
in the best interests of the Company. Further information
about the Plan is given in the Remuneration Report.
A special resolution is proposed by the Board to adopt new
Articles of Association primarily to take account of changes
brought about by the Companies Act 2006 including
provisions relating to proxies and corporate representatives,
electronic and web communications and directors’
indemnities. In addition it is proposed that the new Articles
are amended with effect from 1 October 2008 to ensure
that situations where a director has an interest that may conflict with the interests of the Company are dealt with in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board is also recommending proposals to renew the
directors’ authority to allot shares, the directors’ power to
disapply pre-emption rights and the authority for the
Company to purchase its own shares.
Further information on these resolutions is given in the
explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The draft Rules of the RPC Group Performance Share Plan
and a copy of the current and the proposed new Articles of
Association are available for inspection at the Company’s
registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Auditors
In accordance with Section 385 of Companies Act 1985, a
resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting
for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the
Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Principles Statement
The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good
corporate governance as an important factor in achieving its
overall objectives. In accordance with the Financial Services
Authority UK Listing Rules a statement describing how the
Company has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of
the Combined Code is set out in the following paragraphs
and in the Remuneration Report.
Statement of Compliance
The Company has applied the June 2006 Combined Code on
the basis that it is a smaller company defined by the
Combined Code as a company that is below the FTSE 350
throughout the year immediately prior to the reporting
period. With the exceptions set out below, the Company has
complied throughout the accounting period with the
provisions of the June 2006 Combined Code (references are
given to the relevant Code provision).
B.1.1 The performance-related element of the
remuneration of executive directors does not form a
significant proportion of their total remuneration.
Proposals to address compliance with this Code
provision are set out in the Remuneration Report.
B.1.6 Notice in the event of a change of control for a
director appointed during the year exceeds one year
and does not revert to one year after an initial period
of employment. An explanation is given in the service
contracts section of the Remuneration Report.
The Board
The Board is principally concerned with the overall
leadership, strategy, development and control of the Group
in order to achieve its objectives for continued earnings
growth and to enhance shareholder value. The Board sets the
Group’s strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial
and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its
objectives, reviews management performance and ensures
that high ethical standards of behaviour are followed. The
role also includes ensuring that there is an effective system
of controls to safeguard the Company’s assets and to enable
risks to be properly assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes
key matters such as approval of the Group’s objectives,
strategic plans, annual budgets, financial reporting, risk
assessment and internal controls, monitoring operating and
financial performance, capital and legal structure, material
capital investments, material contracts and transactions,
communication with shareholders, Board membership and
appointments, directors’ remuneration and contracts,
corporate governance, Group policies, and delegation of
responsibilities. Matters not specifically reserved for the
Board are delegated to management. The Board reviewed
and updated the schedule of matters reserved for the Board
during the year.
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 19 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
The directors reviewed the frequency of meetings during the
year. An additional Board meeting will be held in the year
ending 31 March 2009.
The Board currently consists of the non-executive Chairman,
J P Williams, four independent non-executive directors, and,
with effect from 1 November 2007, six executive directors.
The Board reviewed its size, composition and balance during
the year. No immediate changes are planned, but the Board
will reduce in size in the medium-term with the retirement
of certain executive directors. The Chief Executive is 
R J E Marsh. The names and biographical details of the
directors are shown on page 9 and demonstrate the
executive directors’ breadth of knowledge of the plastic
packaging industry. The significant commitments outside the
Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given
in their biographies. Changes to such commitments are
reported to the Board as they arise. All the directors served
on the Board throughout the year with the exception of 
P R M Vervaat who was appointed a director on 1 November
2007. P R M Vervaat was appointed in the role of Finance
Director in place of C H Sworn who remains on the Board as
Blow Moulding Cluster Manager.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman’s significant external
commitments do not interfere with the performance of his
duties to the Group. The Board reappointed the Chairman for
a further three-year term with effect from 12 July 2006
following a review of his performance and recommendation
by the Nomination Committee. On 24 April 2008 the
Company announced that the Chairman, J P Williams, had
informed the Board that he intends to retire as a director
and Chairman of the Company at the Annual General
Meeting on 23 July 2008. The Board has appointed
consultants and commenced a search to identify a new non-
executive Chairman.
The independent non-executive directors are M J B Green,
D J Wilbraham, S Rojahn and P S Wood. The independent
non-executive directors constructively challenge executive
directors’ proposals and bring valuable knowledge and
experience and strong, independent character and judgement
to the Board’s decision-making process. The Board considers
that all these directors, including M J B Green and 
D J Wilbraham who completed nine years service in March
2007 and July 2007 respectively, meet the criteria for
independence set out in provision A.3.1 of the Combined
Code and there are no other relationships or circumstances
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the
directors’ judgement.
The Board reviews the level of insurance cover in respect of
legal action against the Group’s directors and officers and
senior management on an annual basis prior to renewal. The
Board has also provided indemnities to the directors which
are described on page 18 of the Report of the Directors.
Appointment and Re-election of Directors
The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending
new appointments to the Board. In accordance with the
Company’s Articles of Association all directors appointed to
the Board, other than at the Annual General Meeting, are
required to retire at the following Annual General Meeting
when they may offer themselves for election; thereafter they
20 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The Board meets at least six times each year; one meeting is combined with a visit to an operating unit and the opportunity
to meet the local management team. The number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and attendance by
their members is given in the table below.
Nomination Remuneration
Board Committee Committee Audit Committee
Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number
meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended
Non-executive directors
J P Williams 6622 n/a n/a n/a n/a
M J B Green 66225533
S Rojahn 662255 n/a n/a
D J Wilbraham 66225533
P S Wood 6522 n/a n/a33
Executive directors
R J E Marsh 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P Hilton 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P J H Hole 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
H J Kloeze 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
C H Sworn 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
P R M Vervaat
(from 1 November 2007) 3 3 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a must submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no
more than three years. M J B Green and D J Wilbraham, who
have both completed nine years service as independent non-
executive directors, will submit themselves for annual re-
election in accordance with the Combined Code.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three
years (or less) but the Board may terminate their
appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to
effective performance and commitment, reappointment of
non-executive directors and setting their remuneration,
which consists solely of directors’ fees. A rigorous review of
performance, taking into account the need for progressively
refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive
director is proposed for reappointment on completion of two
terms of three years. Non-executive directors may not
normally serve longer than nine years but should
circumstances arise where a further appointment was
considered, as has been the case with M J B Green and 
D J Wilbraham, it will be subject to a review of the director’s
independence each year and annual re-election at the
Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving
executive directors’ service contracts. Details of these
contracts are given in the Remuneration Report. Copies of
executive directors’ service contracts and terms and
conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are
available for inspection at the Company’s registered office
and at the Annual General Meeting.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of the non-executive Chairman, J P Williams, and
the Chief Executive, R J E Marsh, are clearly defined and set
out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities
between the Chairman and Chief Executive approved by the
Board. The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and
effective running of the Board and setting its agenda. The
role includes leading the Board in determining strategy and
the achievement of the Group’s objectives, creating the
conditions for overall Board and individual director
effectiveness, ensuring directors receive accurate timely and
clear information and ensuring effective communication
with shareholders. The Chief Executive is responsible for
running the Group’s business, except for matters specifically
reserved for the Board.
The Chairman held informal meetings with the non-
executive directors during the year to discuss Board related
matters without the executive directors present.
Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director is M J B Green. The Senior
Independent Director is available to meet with major
shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice
any concerns that contact through the normal investor
communication channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or
Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive
directors held informal meetings during the year without the
Chairman present to appraise the Chairman’s performance
and on other occasions when considered appropriate.
Information and Professional Development
The Board is provided with relevant information on the
activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and
of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties. There is a
procedure established for directors to take independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense, where they
judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities. In
addition, all Board members have access to the advice and
services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for
ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable
rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the
Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company
Secretary’s role also includes ensuring good information
flows within the Board and Committees and between
executive and non-executive directors and facilitating
induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction
tailored to the needs of the Group following the guidance on
induction set out in the related guidance and good practice
suggestions appended to the Combined Code. On
appointment directors receive information about the Group
including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its
decision, the terms of reference and membership of the
Board’s Committees, the Group’s corporate governance
policies and procedures, the latest financial information
about the Group, and training on the duties and
responsibilities of directors of listed companies. This is
supplemented by visits to key locations with the opportunity
to meet local management. Throughout their period of office
directors are continually updated on the Group’s business,
the competitive and regulatory environments in which it
operates, corporate social responsibility matters and other
changes affecting the Group and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of
their duties at the Company’s expense. The Chairman is
responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills
and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to
date in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board
Committees. The Company Secretary briefs the Board on
corporate governance matters and relevant changes to
corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional
development by regularly circulating details and arranging
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 21 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
attendance at seminars. Executive directors also attend
seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Performance Evaluation
The Board has conducted a formal evaluation of its own
performance and that of its Committees and individual
directors during the year following the process described
below. No significant performance issues were identified but
objectives for further improvements for the Board and its
Committees were agreed.
The Board has a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the
annual evaluation. The Board considers that an internal
process using questionnaires specifically tailored for the
Group and direct personal assessment is the most
appropriate approach. The process adopted and contents of
the questionnaires are reviewed annually. Particular
attention is given to the performance evaluation of directors
who are due for reappointment or re-election.
The questionnaires follow the performance evaluation
guidance appended to the Combined Code and cover the
Board, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination
Committees, individual executive and non-executive
directors and the Chairman. Directors grade both the
importance of the evaluation criteria and performance, and
are encouraged to make comments and recommendations
for improvements. Each director completes a questionnaire
on the Board’s performance. Members of the Committees
and other directors who regularly attend Committee
meetings complete the relevant Committee questionnaires.
To ensure confidentiality, the completed questionnaires are
sent directly to the Company Secretary who consolidates the
results and produces a report for the Chairman, individual
Committees and the Board to consider.
The Chairman completes individual director questionnaires
using the same format described above and in consultation
with the Chief Executive and other directors where
appropriate. The results and any improvements or personal
objectives are discussed with the relevant directors on a one
to one basis. The non-executive directors, led by the Senior
Independent Director, perform an evaluation of the Chairman
using the same method taking into account the views of all
directors.
Relations with Shareholders
The Company is committed to maintaining an effective
dialogue with institutional and private investors. Directors,
normally the Chief Executive and Finance Director, hold
regular meetings with institutional investors at which the
Company’s past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers’ reports, surveys on
shareholders’ views and, at least on a six-monthly basis,
feedback from shareholder meetings. During the year the
Chairman has discussed the Company’s governance and
strategy with major shareholders, gained an understanding of
their issues and concerns and reported on these meetings to
the Board. Non-executive directors have the opportunity to
attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to
attend meetings at their request. Contact with institutional
investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is
controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper
disclosure of inside information in compliance with the
Transparency and Disclosure Rules, Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are
sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting. An individual resolution on each separate issue is
proposed at the Annual General Meeting including the
Annual Report and Accounts. Shareholders have the
opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to ask questions
about the Company’s activities and performance. It is the
Board’s policy that all directors attend the Annual General
Meeting if at all possible and therefore in normal
circumstances the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and
Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes
withheld are counted before the Annual General Meeting and
are made available at the meeting after shareholders have
voted on a show of hands.
Board Committees
There are three principal Board Committees all of which
operate under written terms of reference which are available
from the Company Secretary or the Company’s website. The
terms of reference, performance and membership of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees were
reviewed and updated during the year by the relevant
Committee and the Board. Only members of each
Committee are entitled to attend meetings but each
Committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers
to attend. The Company Secretary is secretary to all three
Committees. Sufficient resources are provided to enable the
Committees to undertake their duties and they have
authority to appoint independent professional advisers or
consultants when required. The Chairman of the relevant
Committee reports on the proceedings and any
recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee and its
Chairman throughout the year were:
J P Williams (Chairman)
M J B Green
S Rojahn
D J Wilbraham
P S Wood
22 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 The Committee meets at least twice each year and
thereafter as circumstances dictate. The number of meetings
held during the year and the attendance of members of the
Committee are shown in the table on page 20. The Chief
Executive attended meetings on invitation.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
● review and make recommendations to the Board on the
structure, size and composition of the Board;
● give full consideration to succession planning for directors
and other senior managers;
● evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
of the Board;
● prepare a description of the role and capabilities required
for a particular appointment;
● identify and nominate for the approval of the Board,
candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies
as and when they arise;
● annually review the time required from non-executive
directors and the performance and membership of Board
Committees; and
● recommend the reappointment of non-executive directors
and re-election of directors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Board
structure, size, composition and balance and the membership
of Board Committees. The Committee approved the
appointment of P R M Vervaat as an executive director in the
role of Finance Director following selection from a short-list
of suitable candidates identified by recruitment consultants
engaged for the purpose and in consultation with the Chief
Executive. The Committee also agreed that C H Sworn should
remain on the Board as Blow Moulding Cluster Manager
when he relinquished his role as Finance Director.
The Committee recommended the reappointment of 
D J Wilbraham for a fourth term of three years expiring on
13 July 2010, subject to an annual review of his
independence and annual re-election by shareholders. The
recommendation was made to the Board following a
rigorous performance review including consideration of the
need to progressively refresh the Board. The Committee
considered the independence of M J B Green and D J
Wilbraham who both completed nine years as independent
non-executive directors in March 2007 and July 2007
respectively. The Committee concluded that there were no
other relationships or circumstances that were likely to
affect or appear to affect the directors’ judgement and that,
notwithstanding their nine years in office, they both
continued to demonstrate independence of character and
judgement and brought valuable experience to the Board.
Consequently, the Committee also recommended that the
Board continue to consider M J B Green and D J Wilbraham
as independent. Both directors were absent from the
meeting while their independence was discussed. The Board
accepted the Committee’s recommendations.
The Committee also reviewed directors’ performance and
made recommendations to the Board on the re-election of
directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting
held in July 2007.
Other matters considered by the Committee were succession
planning for executive directors and senior managers,
performance of the Board, Committees and the individual
directors, the time required from non-executive directors and
revised its terms of reference.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee and its
Chairman throughout the year were as follows:
D J Wilbraham (Chairman)
M J B Green
S Rojahn
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each
year and thereafter as circumstances dictate. The number of
meetings held during the year and the attendance of
members of the Committee are shown in the table on 
page 20. The Chairman and Chief Executive are consulted on
proposals relating to the remuneration of other executive
directors and senior management and, when appropriate, are
invited by the Committee to attend meetings but are not
present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
● setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for
approval, the Group’s overall remuneration policy for the
Chairman, executive directors and senior management;
● reviewing and approving individual remuneration
packages for the Chairman, executive directors and
certain senior managers;
● reviewing and approving service contracts for executive
directors including notice periods and terms for cessation
of employment; and
● reviewing the rules, approving new grants and setting the
performance conditions of any Group share or cash based
incentive schemes and reviewing the design of all share
incentive plans for approval by the Board and
shareholders.
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 23 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
During the year the Committee approved the terms of the
service contract and remuneration package between the
Company’s new Finance Director, P R M Vervaat, a Dutch
national resident in the Netherlands, and the employing
company within the Group, RPC Packaging Europe BV. In its
review of the terms of the contract the Committee
considered the Company’s remuneration policy, comparison
with the market for the equivalent role in similar companies,
the level of remuneration and other terms that would be
sufficient to secure the appointment, Dutch employment
law and the relevant provisions of the Combined Code and
ABI guidelines. Consideration was also given to the
candidate’s existing remuneration package, including the loss
of incentives provided by his former employer, provision of
incentives that would align his interests with shareholders,
financial arrangements in respect of duties and
responsibilities performed in the UK and the lost opportunity
to participate in the grant of Executive Share Options made
to existing executive directors. Details of the elements of P R
M Vervaat’s remuneration package are included in the
relevant sections of the Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee has continued to give
particular consideration to the issue of performance related
remuneration. During the year, the Committee reviewed the
current long-term incentive arrangements for the Group’s
senior executives and independent remuneration
consultants, Towers Perrin, were engaged by the Committee
to advise on the design of a performance share plan. Towers
Perrin has no other connection with the Company. A
statement to this effect is available on request from the
Company Secretary. The Committee reviewed and
recommended approval of the Rules of the proposed RPC
Group 2008 Performance Share Plan. The Board approved the
Plan subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. A summary of the Rules of the Plan
is included in the explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual
General Meeting after the financial statements. The
Committee has also agreed the size of the initial awards and
the performance conditions that will apply. Further details
are given in the Remuneration Report.
During the year the Committee also reviewed the
remuneration for executive directors and senior managers
immediately below Board level, approved the grant of
Executive Share Options and the performance conditions to
be applied and updated its terms of reference.
A detailed report on remuneration policy, directors’
remuneration packages and contract terms, details of
directors’ shareholdings and share options movements,
grants of Executive Share Options during the year and details
of the proposed RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan are
given in the Remuneration Report.
Audit Committee
The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman
throughout the year were as follows:
M J B Green (Chairman)
D J Wilbraham
P S Wood
The Board is satisfied that M J B Green, a chartered
accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience. The
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales has
confirmed that M J B Green has demonstrated compliance
with its Continuous Professional Development requirements
for 2007. In addition, P S Wood, also a chartered accountant,
has extensive experience in senior finance roles. The
Committee meets at least three times each year and
thereafter as circumstances dictate. The number of meetings
held during the year and the attendance of members of the
Committee are shown in the table on page 20. The external
auditors attend meetings of the Committee, other than
when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Finance Director, Group Controller and other members
of the Board attend Audit Committee meetings as
appropriate. The Committee meets with the auditors without
any other directors or management present at least twice a
year.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:
● monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial
statements of the Company and review any significant
financial reporting issues and judgements which they
contain;
● review the consistency of and changes to accounting
policies, the methods used to account for significant and
unusual transactions and whether the Company has
followed appropriate accounting standards and made
appropriate estimates and judgements;
● approve the external auditors’ terms of engagement, audit
plan and scope of the audit and review with them the
results of their audit and any control issues raised;
● review the effectiveness of the external auditors and their
independence and objectivity;
● consider and make recommendations to the Board on the
external auditors’ remuneration and their appointment,
re-appointment or removal;
● review the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control
and risk management systems;
24 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 ● review the Group’s arrangements for its employees to
raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial and
other matters; and
● monitor and review the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal audit function, approve the appointment and
removal of internal auditors, review and approve their
remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review
internal audit reports and monitor management’s
response to recommendations.
The Audit Committee fulfilled its responsibilities during the
year outlined above and reviewed and updated its terms of
reference.
It has conducted a detailed assessment of the external
auditors including matters that might have a bearing on
their independence such as the level of fees for non-audit
services provided during the year. The Committee is satisfied
that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired
auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles
adopted in the Group policy on the engagement of the
external auditors to supply non-audit services. The auditors
may not be engaged to audit their own work, make
management decisions for the Group, have a mutual
financial interest with the Group or be put in the role of
advocate for the Group. Prior approval of the Audit
Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees
are likely to exceed specified limits both for individual
assignments and in the aggregate. Details of the amounts
payable to the external auditors during the year for audit
and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial
statements.
During the financial year under review the Committee has
agreed an internal audit programme and scope of the work
to be undertaken by the internal auditor, an independent
chartered accountant. The Committee has reviewed internal
audit reports, discussed recommendations and agreed
actions with the Board. In consultation with the Finance
Director it has also considered and is keeping under review
the effectiveness and future scope of the internal audit
function to ensure that it improves compliance with
established processes and adds value to the Group as a
whole.
Internal Control
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The
internal control systems are designed to meet the particular
needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives. Such systems
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this
Annual Report and Accounts there has been in place an
established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has
been regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the
Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on
Internal Control for Directors on the Combined Code (revised
October 2005).
The key procedures in the Group’s process for reviewing the
effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below:
● There is a clearly defined Group management
responsibility and reporting structure.
● The Group’s objectives are reviewed as part of the
strategic planning process and communicated throughout
the Group. Objectives are set for individual operating
units as part of the strategy review process.
● A three-year strategy review is prepared for the Board’s
consideration each year. This is appraised in the light of
the strategic and other relevant risks and issues faced by
the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
● Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral
part of the Group’s annual strategic planning cycle. The
Group has a detailed risk management process, which
identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting
entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and
controls required to manage these risks. The process is
reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the
business over time. The Board and Audit Committee
review this information as part of the internal control
review.
● The directors are required to approve yearly financial
budgets, including capital expenditure, for each of the
Group’s operating units. Performance against these targets
is monitored monthly and reported on at the bi-monthly
Board meetings. Reasons for divergences are discussed at
Board meetings.
● Managers are responsible for the identification and
evaluation of significant risks in their area of business
together with the design and operation of suitable
internal controls. These risks are assessed on a continual
basis.
● An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the
system of internal control including a detailed risk
assessment. The internal audit function undertakes work
to review the system of internal control at each operation
they visit and report findings to management.
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 25 Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
26 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
● Matters relating to internal control brought to the
attention of the management by internal and external
auditors are reviewed and any corrective actions to the
internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
● Written monthly reports, management accounts and key
performance indicators are submitted by operating units
and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered,
actions agreed and progress monitored at monthly
meetings with reporting entities and, where appropriate,
at Executive and Board meetings.
● Operating units produce plans to improve controls
relating to key risks and any significant weaknesses
identified by Group executives in addition to other
initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or
cluster level.
● An interim report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and
the Board to monitor the operating units’ progress against
their plans to improve controls to ensure that necessary
actions have been or are being taken to remedy any
significant failings or weaknesses identified. The report
also includes updates on significant risks and other
internal control issues.
The internal audit function has performed reviews covering
both local operations and shared activities at a significant
number of the Group’s sites during the year.
The Group has identified a number of categories of risk faced
by the business requiring particular attention to control and
monitoring. These fall into the following categories: strategic
business risks, treasury risks (which are explained in note 18),
including liquidity risk, safeguarding physical property,
polymer purchasing and electricity costs, major project
management including product development, customer
relations including contractual terms, service and quality, IT
systems, health and safety and the environment. Details of
the specific risks that are seen as particularly important at
the current time are given in the Business Review.
The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual
review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control
as it has operated throughout the year ended 31 March 2008
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and
Accounts. The directors also confirm that necessary actions
have been or are being taken to remedy any significant
failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
Directors’ Statement on Disclosure of Information
to Auditors
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
Company’s auditors are unaware; and each director has taken
all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to
make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
Going Concern
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company
have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
Group’s financial statements.
International Financial Reporting
Both the Company financial statements and the Group
financial statements have been prepared and approved by
the directors in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Financial Reporting
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report are
intended to provide a balanced and clear assessment of the
Group’s past performance, present position and future
prospects. A statement by the directors on their
responsibility for preparing the financial statements is given
on page 39 and a statement by the auditors on their
responsibilities is given on page 40.
STATEMENT ON THE GROUP’S CORPORATE
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY
While the Board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders, it takes into account the interests of
employees, customers and suppliers as well as the local
community and the environment in which the Group
operates. Social, environmental and ethical risks and controls
are included in the Group’s system of risk assessment and
internal control. The three main non-financial KPIs monitored
by the Group are given in the Business Review on page 14.
Ethics
The Board expects that all directors and employees conduct
business in an ethical manner according to the following
basic principles. Directors and employees should, inter alia:
● exercise honesty, objectivity and diligence in performing
their duties and undertaking their responsibilities;
● be loyal in all matters affecting the Group, including
matters relating to customers;
● not act in a manner which could discredit the Group;
● not enter into any activity which may result in a conflict
of interest with the Group; RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 27
● not accept gifts of value which could be described as an
inducement that could impair their judgement; and
● neither use confidential information for personal gain nor
should any law or relevant regulation be contravened.
Employees
The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both
effective communication with employees and achieving a
common awareness on the part of employees of the
financial performance and economic factors affecting the
performance of the Group. Both individual site and Group-
wide meetings are held at which employees and
management are present and at which the key aspects of the
Group’s activities, performance and other matters of interest
to employees are reviewed. An employee newsletter ‘RPC
Perspectives’ is issued regularly in five languages. Employees
are encouraged to make their views and ideas known to the
directors and senior management of the Group. The Group
established a European Works Council in 1998.
Employee participation is further encouraged through share
ownership and share option schemes which provide
employees with a direct stake in the growth and prosperity
of the business.
The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and
conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it
operates. It does not employ underage staff. Employees are
provided with training in order to give them the necessary
skills to perform their duties and where appropriate to
develop these skills and progress their career.
The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental
harassment of its employees. It promotes equal
opportunities for all present and potential employees and
does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin,
gender, age, religion, political or other opinion, disability or
sexual orientation.
The Group’s policy is to recruit disabled workers for those
vacancies they are able to fill. When existing employees
suffer disablement, every effort is made to retain them in
the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable. Disabled
staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far
as training, career development and promotion are
concerned.
Health and Safety
The Board is committed to providing a clean, healthy and
safe working environment. The Board as a whole is
responsible for health and safety management including the
measurement and monitoring of individual business units on
a regular basis, taking appropriate action where necessary,
and the annual review and approval of the RPC Group Health
and Safety Policy. Responsibility for the application of this
policy has been delegated to the Chief Executive and,
through him, to the General Managers of individual operating
units. P J H Hole has responsibility for reporting to the Board
on health and safety matters.
The Board recognises that not only is good health and safety
management a duty owed to the people involved in or
affected by the Group’s activities, but it also makes good
business sense. The Board is committed to high and
improving standards in relation to employees, customers,
suppliers, visitors and the general public. As a minimum, the
standards adopted are those required by law but the policy is
to seek to exceed these where there is a demonstrable
benefit.
The general approach to health and safety is based on the
identification and control of risks, continual improvement
and the development and maintenance of a positive safety
culture throughout the Group. The Group Health and Safety
Policy is displayed throughout the Group’s premises and on
the Group’s website.
The local management are required to maintain appropriate
systems which include:
● a clear statement of responsibilities;
● provision for the communication of health and safety
matters throughout the organisation;
● appropriate instruction, training and supervision;
● encouraging the involvement of employees in health and
safety issues;
● appointment of competent persons;
● plans to further improve standards, supported by
allocation of the necessary resources;
● measurement and monitoring of performance; and
● periodic audit and regular review.
An annual Group Health and Safety Review Report is
considered by the Board and recommendations for
improvements made. In addition, operating units are required
to include health and safety improvement initiatives in their
annual strategy and budgets and compliance with the Group
policy is monitored as part of the internal control system.
Health and Safety is treated as a priority item on the agenda
of routine management meetings with Group executives.
Standards for health and safety vary widely across the
European countries where the Group operates and there is an
ongoing process for improving health and safety 28 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Report of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
management and reporting in these countries. A Group-wide
annual audit of the health and safety management systems
in place at each plant is carried out to an independently set
standard. Two UK sites have accreditation to ISO 18001 for
Health and Safety Management Systems.
Customers and Suppliers
The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its relationships
with customers and suppliers, to provide customers with
standards of product and service that have been agreed and
to pay suppliers and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to the quality
management standard ISO 9001 and encourage operating
units to gain accreditation to any specific standards required
by the markets served or by customers such as the BRC/IOP
Food Packaging Standard.
Community
The Board supports initiatives by operating units to engage
with their local community. Operating units and their staff
participate in a variety of local activities including projects
with local schools, charity events and factory open days. The
Group policy on donations is to support local educational
and charitable causes, and in particular those where
employees or their families are involved in the fund raising.
Environment
The Board recognises its obligations to protect and preserve
the environment. It is committed to achieving a high
environmental standard across all the activities of the Group
and to minimising its environmental impact.
The full text of the Group Environmental Policy Statement is
published on the Company’s website. The Group is
committed to the introduction of environmental
management systems such as ISO 14001, at all
manufacturing sites, and to the continual improvement of its
performance. Six sites have achieved accreditation to ISO
14001; this provides an additional level of risk management
assurance above that provided by the Group’s internal
control and risk assessment system.
The most significant areas of environmental impact
associated with the Group’s operations are polymer and its
conversion, energy consumption, water consumption, the use
of outer packaging and transport.
Maximising the efficiency of polymer conversion is a
fundamental factor in the financial performance of the
Group and is one of the key indicators monitored against
budget targets on a monthly or more frequent basis for all
manufacturing operations. In designing a new product and
through material selection, the Group aims to optimise the
weight of the container and its potential for recycling while
meeting the required performance and customer needs. The
Group works with customers to reduce the weight of
existing products and monitors developments in alternative
materials and production techniques which may reduce the
environmental impact of its products. Where practicable,
suitable assured post consumer waste polymer is used in
place of virgin polymer, as is the case with some fruit juice
bottles made for sale in Marks and Spencer stores.
The Group seeks to comply with all environmental and
packaging waste legislation including REACH. Support of
initiatives to minimise the environmental impact of plastic
packaging through recovery and recycling continues through
direct sponsorship and membership of industry led bodies
such as the British Plastics Federation in the UK. RPC Tedeco-
Gizeh is a member of DSD in Germany, Disposables Benelux
Foundation and Save-a-Cup in the UK. A retired director of
the Group, B J Borgardt, chairs the packaging group within
the European Plastic Converters organisation which has a
leading role in assisting the European authorities in
formulating legislation to progressively increase the
valorisation of packaging waste. In order to meet the Group’s
obligations in the UK towards the national recycling scheme,
which requires subscription for credits, the Group
participates in the Valpak scheme.
The Group is a significant consumer of electricity and aims
to minimise the overall direct and indirect impact of its use.
Operating units are required to include a plan for improving
energy efficiency in their annual strategy and budget. In the
UK, the Group has been awarded Accreditation for
Achievements in Energy Efficiency by the Institute of Energy.
This Energy Efficiency Accreditation is administered by the
National Energy Foundation which appoints independent
assessors who evaluate and monitor the applicant’s
performance. To be successful requires an energy
management policy and reporting procedures, investment in
energy efficiency measures, and improvements in energy
efficiency over the previous three years. Accreditation is
reassessed every three years. In addition to monitoring
energy usage, the Group also monitors water consumption.
In partnership with customers and suppliers, the Group seeks
to develop packaging methods, specifications, recycling and
re-use to optimise the usage of outer packaging materials.
The Group aims to minimise the impact of the operation of
company vehicles and transport operations on the
environment through vehicle selection and delivery planning
to maximise vehicle utilisation.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
Rebecca K Joyce
Company Secretary
18 June 2008 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 29
Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008
This remuneration report sets out the Company’s policy on
the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors
together with details of directors’ remuneration packages
and service contracts for the financial year ended 31 March
2008.
The Board is responsible for both the general policy on
remuneration and its cost but has delegated prime
responsibility for the Chairman’s and executive directors’
remuneration to the Remuneration Committee. The
remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-
executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Company maintains contact with its shareholders about
remuneration in the same way as for other matters and, as
required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations
2002, this remuneration report will be put to an advisory
vote of the Company’s shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting on 23 July 2008.
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout
the year were D J Wilbraham (Chairman), M J B Green and
S Rojahn. All members of the Committee are independent
non-executive directors. The Chairman and Chief Executive
are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of
other executive directors and designated senior
management.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its
terms of reference which were revised following the annual
review and approved by the Board in March 2008. The
Committee’s principal responsibilities are given in the
Corporate Governance section of the Report of the Directors.
Remuneration Policy
The Board determines the remuneration of non-executive
directors based on the recommendation of the Chairman and
Chief Executive and comparison with other companies of a
similar size and sector. Non-executive directors receive
director’s fees only and do not participate in any bonus or
share-based incentives. The total value of directors’ fees that
may be paid is limited by the Company’s Articles of
Association. Director’s fees are not payable to executive
directors.
The Board conducted its triennial review of non-executive
directors’ fees in March 2008 taking into account relevant
published market data for companies of a similar size. The
Board approved an increase in fees from £28,000 to £32,000
per annum for all non-executive directors with effect from 
1 April 2008. In addition, fees of £5,000 per annum each
were awarded to the Chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees in recognition of their
responsibilities in these roles with effect from the same date.
Under normal circumstances non-executive directors’ and
Committee Chairmen’s fees will be fixed for three years. No
additional fees are payable for membership of a Committee.
The Remuneration Committee normally reviews the
Chairman’s fees every three years. The Chairman’s fees were
increased with effect from 12 July 2006 and have not been
reviewed subsequently.
The Remuneration Committee considers the need to attract,
retain and motivate executive directors and senior
management in determining appropriate remuneration
policies and packages. The Committee also takes into
account the internal pay and benefits practice both within
the Group as a whole and within the particular national
context. External comparisons examine equivalent roles in
similar companies, particularly within the packaging industry,
taking into account their size, business complexity,
international scope and relative performance.
During the year the Committee approved the terms of the
service contract with the Company’s new Finance Director,
P R M Vervaat, a Dutch national resident in the Netherlands.
Details of the individual elements of P R M Vervaat’s
remuneration package are set out in the relevant sections of
this report.
The Remuneration Committee has continued to give
particular consideration to the issue of performance related
remuneration and the provision set out in the Combined
Code that the performance related element should form a
significant proportion of the remuneration package of
executive directors. In 2005 it conducted a review of future
policy in respect of base salaries for executive directors and
share-based incentives with the assistance of advice from
remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin, in consultation with
the Chairman and Chief Executive. During the year under
review, the Remuneration Committee re-engaged Towers
Perrin to advise on the design of a Performance Share Plan.
Details of the proposed Plan are given under the
performance related remuneration heading in this report. The
adoption of this Plan will enable progress to be made
towards increasing performance related pay as a proportion
of executive directors’ total remuneration and compliance
with Combined Code provision B.1.1. A resolution to adopt
the RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan will be put to
shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be
held on 23 July 2008.
The Remuneration Committee shares the view of the Board
that the decentralised structure of the Group and the level
of responsibility for the profitability of individual business
units devolved to executives provide them with a high level
of motivation to perform. In addition, the Executive Share
Option Schemes have proved highly motivating for executive
directors, senior and other managers, and it aligns their
interests with those of shareholders. It forms part of the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
30 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
general practice within the Group for wider employee
participation and motivation through share option schemes.
Consequently, the Remuneration Committee has decided
that incentives in the form of equity based schemes will
continue to be provided. On 25 July 2007 a grant of
executive share options was made in line with dilution limits.
Further information is given below. The dilution limits, which
are in accordance with ABI guidelines, prevent a significant
further grant of executive share options from being made
until July 2011.
The key components of the Remuneration Committee’s
policy on the remuneration of executive directors for the
current and future financial years are set out below:
(a) Remuneration components
(i) Basic salary
Salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee, although
not necessarily increased. Salary increases are determined
after taking into account an individual’s responsibilities,
abilities, contribution and experience as well as both market
data on salary rates for similar positions in comparative
companies and the Group’s own salary structures in the
relevant countries as described above. The review by Towers
Perrin in 2005 indicated that UK executive directors’ salaries
were in the lower quartile compared with the market.
(ii) Allowances
In the UK directors may forego the use of a company car in
exchange for a non-pensionable salary supplement as
specified in the Company Car Policy. P R M Vervaat receives a
non-pensionable salary supplement for regularly working
outside the Netherlands and tax equalisation payments.
(iii) Benefits in kind
Benefits in kind provided for executive directors are
principally a fully expensed car, mobile telephone and private
health cover. Expatriate accommodation and travel expenses
are provided for P R M Vervaat. Benefits in kind are not
pensionable.
(iv) Performance related remuneration
Annual bonus
Executive directors are not eligible to participate in an
annual bonus plan.
RPC Group 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme
The RPC Group 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme
terminated on 21 May 2003. Under the rules of the Scheme,
executive share options are normally exercisable between
three and ten years after the date of grant provided
participants are still employed by the Group. The exercise
price is the mid-market price at the close of business on the
day before the date of grant. Performance conditions on the
exercise of options approved by the Remuneration
Committee were imposed only on those participants who
were executive directors of the Company at the date of
grant. The performance conditions are set out under the
table of options outstanding under the Scheme in this
Report.
RPC Group 2003 Approved and Unapproved Executive
Share Option Schemes
Under the Rules of the RPC Group 2003 Approved Executive
Share Option Scheme and the RPC Group 2003 Unapproved
Executive Share Option Scheme (the 2003 Schemes), options
are granted at an exercise price equal to the market price of
the Company’s shares at the close of business on the last
dealing day before the date of grant. Options are normally
exercisable between three and ten years after the date of
grant. The aggregate value of options granted to an
employee under the 2003 Schemes in any financial year will
not normally exceed their basic annual salary although this
limit may be exceeded where the Remuneration Committee
determine that special circumstances exist. Dilution limits in
accordance with ABI guidelines apply.
Performance conditions on the exercise of options are
imposed by the Remuneration Committee on those
participants who are executive directors at the date of grant.
The purpose of the performance conditions is to align the
interests of the executive directors with those of
shareholders.
The 2007 Remuneration Report set out amendments to the
Schemes’ Rules in the event of an executive leaving the
Company under specific circumstances and defined as ‘good
leavers’ (cessation of employment for reasons such as
retirement, redundancy or ill health). These amendments
also apply to grants made after 31 May 2007.
On 29 June 2005 options were granted to executive
directors and senior and middle managers under the 2003
Schemes. The performance required for executive directors
to achieve the maximum number of options granted is EPS
growth of 5% per annum in excess of RPI on average over a
three-year period from the date of grant. Half of the options
granted are exercisable where EPS growth reaches 3% per
annum in excess of RPI on average over the same period. A
straight-line sliding scale applies between the minimum and
maximum performance targets. The maximum number of
options exercisable, the exercise price and option valuation
are shown in the table on page 37.
On 25 July 2007 options were granted to executives,
including directors, under the 2003 Schemes. The
Remuneration Committee reviewed the relevance of the
performance test that applied to the vesting of options
under the 2003 Schemes. It concluded that the existing
performance test remained relevant and challenging in the
light of business goals and priorities and consequently, the
performance conditions that apply to awards made to executive directors in 2007 are the same as those applied
under the 2005 grant.
The maximum number of options exercisable, the exercise
price and option valuation for the 2007 grant are shown in
the table on page 37. The maximum number of options
exercisable by the Chief Executive is 80,000 and the face
value at the date of grant was 94% of his basic salary. The
maximum number of options exercisable by all other
executive directors is 40,000 each and their face value at the
date of grant averaged 81% of basic salary.
On 3 December 2007 a grant of 100,000 options was
awarded to P R M Vervaat subject to the same performance
and other conditions that applied to executive directors
under the grant on 25 July 2007. The number of options
granted reflects the total number of options exercisable by
each of the other directors excluding the Chief Executive
under the 2003 Schemes. The face value of the award at the
date of grant was 127% of basic salary. The exercise price
and option valuation are shown in the table on page 37.
For all grants under the 2003 Schemes, there will be no
retesting and any options granted to executive directors that
do not meet the performance test will lapse on the third
anniversary from the date of grant. New shares will be issued
to satisfy options exercised. The EPS targets will be adjusted
to maintain the level of performance required in the event of
any reduction in issued share capital. The Remuneration
Committee will not automatically waive the performance
conditions in the event of a change of control of the
Company or in the event of the early termination of
employment as defined in the Scheme Rules.
The actual benefit that will be received by the directors will
depend on future EPS and share price performance and
cannot be determined in advance.
The Board encourages executive directors to retain
ownership of their shares following exercise for a minimum
period of two years (less any shares sold to finance the cost
of acquisition and any associated tax liability).
RPC Group 2003 Sharesave Scheme
Executive directors are able to participate in invitations
under the RPC Group 2003 Sharesave Scheme on the same
terms as all other eligible employees. This Scheme provides a
savings and investment opportunity which encourages wider
ownership in the Company’s shares amongst employees. The
Scheme is HM Revenue and Customs approved for UK
participants and has unapproved appendices which allowed
overseas employees to participate on terms that are no
more beneficial than those for UK participants. Dilution
limits in accordance with ABI guidelines apply. Options are
granted at an exercise price equal to 80% of the market
price of the Company’s shares at the close of business on the
last dealing day, or the average of the last three dealing days,
before the invitation date. An invitation was made on 
28 December 2005 and options granted on 20 January 2006
at an exercise price of £2.25 per share. The related savings
contract is for three years and the options become
exercisable on 1 March 2009.
Individual Share Matching Agreement
On 26 September 2007 the Company and P R M Vervaat
signed a Share Matching Deed whereby P R M Vervaat agreed
to acquire 50,000 shares in RPC Group Plc and the Company
agreed to grant a single award of 50,000 shares at nil
consideration subject to the terms and conditions of the
Deed. The award will vest conditionally up on P R M Vervaat
retaining legal and beneficial ownership of the shares
acquired and remaining employed by a member of the Group
throughout a period of three years from the award date.
Provision is made for early vesting in the event of a change
of control or if employment ends for reasons such as death,
ill-health, disability and redundancy. No performance
conditions apply. The purpose of this one-time award is to
provide compensation for the loss of incentives provided by
his former employer. The face value of the matching shares
at 1 November 2007 was 76% of his annual basic salary.
Proposed RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan
During the year the Committee reviewed the current long-
term incentive arrangements in the light of corporate goals
and strategy, institutional investors’ guidelines and external
market practice for similar organisations in terms of size and
business complexity. As a result of this review shareholders
will be asked to approve a new Performance Share Plan at
the Annual General Meeting. A summary of the main
features of the Plan is included in the explanatory notes to
the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Committee gave careful consideration to alternative
performance measures for awards under the Executive Share
Option Schemes. The Committee continues to believe that it
would be impractical to operate a TSR based test as there is
no relevant external peer group that can be readily used to
compare relative TSR given the geographical spread and
focused nature of RPC’s business. The Committee considers
that sustained growth in EPS more accurately captures the
impact of management’s decisions and actions in areas such
as production efficiency, margin improvement and efficient
use of resources.
It is proposed that the performance condition for awards
under the new Performance Share Plan remain the same as
that used for the Executive Share Option Schemes, namely
reported adjusted basic earnings per share relative to an
index. The Committee remains of the view that in terms of
creating long-term shareholder value, sustained growth in
profitability means that EPS is the most appropriate
measure.
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 31 Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
Under the proposed plan the main characteristics of the new
Performance Share Plan would be:
● Participants will be eligible to be considered for awards
annually (compared with the current policy where awards
have been made on an irregular basis);
● Awards will vest over a three year performance period
contingent on the satisfaction of an average growth in
reported adjusted earnings per share growth relative to
CPI for the relevant period;
● Average growth will be measured on a point to point
basis;
● Threshold performance of 3% average earnings per share
growth over CPI will equate to 25% of the initial award
vesting. Full vesting of the initial award will occur where
average earnings per share growth is 6% or more above
CPI.Vesting between these two points will be on a
straight-line sliding scale basis;
● Failure to achieve the threshold level of performance will
result in the full award lapsing; there will be no retest
facility.
The table below illustrates the performance vesting schedule
of earnings per share relative to CPI.
EPS Growth Above CPI % of Award Vesting
Below 3% 0%
3% 25%
4% 50%
5% 75%
6% and above 100%
The maximum potential annual award for any participant
will equate to 200% of annual base salary. However, annual
awards will normally be limited to 100% of base salary with
the 200% maximum reserved for exceptional circumstances.
It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that the
initial awards will be 66% of salary for the Chief Executive
and approximately 50% of base salary for other eligible
executives, including other Main Board members.
To reinforce the linkage between senior executives and
shareholders the Remuneration Committee intends to
require participants in awards to adhere to shareholding
guidelines whereby a personal shareholding worth an
equivalent of a minimum 50% of prevailing base salary is
accumulated (and retained) over a number of years.
(v) Pension provisions
UK Pension Scheme
The four British executive directors, R J E Marsh, P Hilton,
P J H Hole and C H Sworn, are members of the RPC
Containers Limited Pension Scheme. This is a defined benefit
pension scheme which is a funded, final salary, HM Revenue
and Customs Registered Scheme.
The Scheme provides a pension of one 60th of final
pensionable earnings for each year of pensionable service,
death in service benefits, widow’s and dependants pensions
and ill health pensions. In addition, the above directors and a
restricted number of senior managers have been granted a
pension supplement uplifting pension benefits from all
sources including the RPC Scheme up to two-thirds
pensionable earnings which is accrued uniformly over a
period from between 1 May 1989 and 1 October 1991 until
normal pension age of 65 years provided at least 20 years
service is completed.
The amount of any retirement pension or other relevant
benefit will be reduced as necessary to comply with any
restrictions now or subsequently imposed by law or
HM Revenue and Customs. The Remuneration Committee has
decided not to introduce alternative pension arrangements
or compensation for executive directors in respect of the
Lifetime Allowance applicable from April 2006. As a result,
the above directors are responsible for meeting any tax
charges arising (if any) from pension benefits in excess of the
Annual Allowance and Lifetime Allowance.
Further information about the UK Pension Scheme,
employee contributions and the introduction of a pension
salary sacrifice arrangement during the year is given in note
24 to the financial statements.
Other directors’ retirement benefits
The pension provisions for the Dutch directors are consistent
with national practice.
P R M Vervaat has an individual defined benefit pension
policy with a Dutch insurance company, Nationale-
Nederlanden. The plan provides pension benefits of 2.25%
p.a. of pensionable salary and a spouse’s pension of 70% of
his pension on death. The employee contribution rate was
8.5% of basic salary during the year. Employer contributions
are capped at 60,000 Euros per annum.
H J Kloeze was a member of the defined benefit pension plan
for RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Deventer in the Netherlands. During
the year this plan was closed with effect from 1 January
2007 and all its members joined the Dutch Plastics Industry
Pension Plan. This is a funded, defined benefit, career
weighted average salary scheme. All his accrued past service
benefits, including a spouse’s pension of 70% of his pension
on death, were transferred to the Industry Pension Plan. This
Plan provides pension benefits of 2.15% p.a. of pensionable
salary. The employee contribution rate is 6.6% of
pensionable salary.
32 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 The Committee approves the pension arrangements and
contributions made by the Group on behalf of the executive
directors. The Company does not contribute to any pension
arrangements for non-executive directors.
(b) Service contracts
The Committee determines the terms of the service contract
for each executive director. The service contracts contain
provision for early termination. Notice periods given by the
employing company are normally limited to 12 months or
determined by local employment legislation. However, in
exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee
will consider limited extension of the notice period up to
two years in respect of an executive director recruited from
outside the Group in order to secure an appointment as has
been the case for P R M Vervaat (see below).
A director’s service contract may be terminated without
notice and without any further payment or compensation,
except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on
the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct. If
the employing company terminates the employment of a UK
executive director in breach of contract, compensation is
limited to salary due for any unexpired notice period and any
amount assessed by the Remuneration Committee as 
representing the value of other contractual benefits which
would have been received during the period. Payments in lieu
of notice are not pensionable.
Any entitlement to exercise share options granted to an
executive director will be determined at the discretion of the
Remuneration Committee in accordance with the relevant
schemes’ rules. A participant’s options lapse if he resigns or is
dismissed.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, with the
exception of P R M Vervaat (see below), the notice period
and compensation for breach of contract for executive
directors is unchanged from the provisions described above.
If there is a change of control, executive directors are able to
exercise their options or exchange them for options in the
acquiring company in accordance with any performance or
other conditions and the rules of the Company’s employee
share option schemes.
Executive directors of the Company have no additional
entitlement to compensation for loss of their office as
directors. The following table shows details of executive
directors’ service contracts:
RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 33
Name Commencement Date Notice Period Term
R J E Marsh 17 May 1993 12 months Rolling
P Hilton 10 February 1997 12 months Rolling
P J H Hole 12 March 1991 12 months Rolling
H J Kloeze 25 October 1971 4 months* Rolling
C H Sworn 17 May 1993 12 months Rolling
P R M Vervaat 1 November 2007 12 months** Rolling
* This should be regarded as the minimum, except in the event of gross misconduct, as under Dutch law the actual notice
period on termination by an employer is determined by the Court based on the circumstances at the time.
** In the event of a change of control, the notice period is extended to 24 months if the employing Group company gives
notice during a period of one year following such change of control. Thereafter the notice period reverts to 12 months. There is
no reversion to a 12 month notice period on change of control after an initial period of employment with the Group. This does
not comply fully with provision B.1.6 of the Combined Code. However, it was concluded that, given the quality of the
candidate and the benefits to the Company from securing the appointment, the term should be accepted. Dutch employment
law governs the notice period given in the event of dismissal as a result of a disciplinary procedure.
Non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office, but are
appointed for fixed terms of three years renewable for further three-year terms if both parties agree. The following table
shows details of the non-executive directors’ terms of appointment:
Name Commencement Date Notice Period Date Term Expires
J P Williams 12 July 2006 None 11 July 2009
M J B Green 26 March 2007 None 25 March 2010
S Rojahn 25 January 2006 None 24 January 2009
D J Wilbraham 14 July 2007 None 13 July 2010
P S Wood 22 March 2006 None 21 March 2009 Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
34 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Five Y ear Performance Graph
The graph below shows the total shareholder return on a holding of RPC shares compared with a holding of the same amount
in shares of the basket of companies which make up the FTSE small cap index. This index has been chosen as this is considered
to be the most relevant yardstick against which the Company’s share price performance may be measured, there being no
other appropriate peer group of companies.
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remaining sections of this Remuneration Report.
Directors’ Emoluments
Pension Total Excluding
Basic Salary Salary Benefits Pension 
and Fees Allowances Sacrifice in Kind Contributions
2008 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executives
R J E Marsh 250 – (20) 19 249 253
P Hilton 160 – (13) 12 159 166
P J H Hole 114 11 (9) 1 117 122
H J Kloeze 138––– 138 135
C H Sworn 170 14 (14) 1 171 173
P R M Vervaat
(from 1 November 2007) 76 10 – 18 104 –
908 35 (56) 51 938 849
Non-executives
M J B Green 28––– 28 28
D J Wilbraham 28––– 28 28
J P Williams 90––– 90 84
S Rojahn 28––– 28 28
P S Wood 28––– 28 28
202––– 202 196
1,110 35 (56) 51 1,140 1,045
Retirement benefits accrued to all six (2007: five) executive directors under defined benefit schemes.
300
280
260
240
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
RPC GROUP PLC – TOTAL RETURN INDEX
FTSE SMALL CAP – TOTAL RETURN INDEX Source: Thomson Datastream
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Total shareholder return 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2008 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 35
Directors’ Pension Entitlements
The pension entitlements accruing during the year for the members of defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:
Transfer value
of increase
Increase Increase in accrued Increase Increase
in accrued in accrued pension in transfer in transfer
Accrued pension pension at 31 March Transfer value value Transfer
pension at over year over year 2008 value at excluding including value at
31 March excluding including less member 31 March member member 31 March
2008 inflation inflation contributions 2007 contributions contributions 2008
£p.a. £p.a. £p.a.£££££
UK Pension
Scheme:
P Hilton 84,362 3,353 6,429 40,787 1,040,096 316,284 320,171 1,360,267
P J H Hole 67,852 3,232 5,686 45,517 984,682 177,776 180,500 1,165,182
R J E Marsh 149,282 10,941 16,195 150,399 1,799,592 705,987 712,124 2,511,716
C H Sworn 96,966 6,419 9,858 97,234 1,361,855 327,762 331,899 1,693,754
Nationale-
Nederlanden 
Pension Plan:
P R M Vervaat 1,850 1,850 1,850 4,047 – 11,343 4,047 11,343
Dutch Plastics
Industry 
Pension Plan:
H J Kloeze 73,147 3,080 4,454 12,970 801,258 (58,717) (69,583) 742,541
Pension entitlements denominated in Euros have been translated at the closing exchange rate.
UK Pension Scheme
The year end accrued pensions are those which would be paid on retirement based on service and final pensionable earnings at
the year end. Directors may pay additional voluntary contributions; neither these contributions nor the resulting benefits are
included in the above table. The directors own contributions included above are those contributions made before the 
introduction of a pension salary sacrifice arrangement on 1 July 2007. Contributions made by the employer under the pension
salary sacrifice arrangement equate to the amounts deducted from salaries shown in the Directors’ Emoluments table.
The increase in transfer values is affected by a range of factors including salary increases, age, length of service and market 
value adjustment factors. In addition, during the year, the transfer value calculation basis was amended for all members of the
Scheme by the Trustee after receiving advice from the Scheme Actuary. As a result, the transfer values calculated as at 
31 March 2008 allow for the change. The magnitude of the increase in the transfer values depends on the age of the director.
The table below sets out the impact of the change:
Transfer value at Increase in
31 March 2008 transfer value
on previous attributable to the
calculation basis change in basis
££
P Hilton 1,187,732 172,535
P J H Hole 1,121,700 43,482
R J E Marsh 2,070,197 441,519
C H Sworn 1,536,674 157,080
Nationale-Nederlanden Pension Plan
The year-end accrued pension for P R M Vervaat is that which would be paid on retirement based on service from 1 November
2007, the date employment with the Group began, and career revalued earnings at the year end. Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
Dutch Plastics Industry Pension Plan
During the year the RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Netherlands Pension Plan was closed with effect from 1 January 2007 and accrued
pension benefits transferred to the Dutch Plastics Industry Pension Plan. The accrued pension is based on past service benefits
transferred and service from 1 January 2007 and revalued salary at the year-end under the Industry Pension Plan. The
calculation of transfer values uses the statutory basis for such calculations that is applicable in the Netherlands and, as a
consequence of a change in this basis, the transfer value has fallen. For comparison, if the old basis had been used, the transfer
value would have been £135,916 higher.
Directors’ Shareholdings and Options
31 March 2008 31 March 2007
Number Number
Shareholdings of shares of shares
J P Williams 2,040,000 2,040,000
R J E Marsh 1,871,203 1,855,923
M J B Green 7,500 7,500
P Hilton 334,490 326,404
P J H Hole 316,806 316,806
H J Kloeze 13,603 13,603
C H Sworn
Beneficial 503,229 503,229
Non-beneficial 352,733 352,733
P R M Vervaat (from 1 November 2007) 50,000 –
D J Wilbraham 30,000 30,000
On 7 April 2008, 30,000 shares were allotted to C H Sworn on exercise of options granted on 23 July 2001. There have been no
other changes in the interests set out above between 31 March 2008 and 16 June 2008.
Share Options
The following tables show details of the options held by the directors under the Company’s share option schemes at 31 March
2008:
RPC Group 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme (UK Approved and International Unapproved)
Year of Options at Granted Exercised Options at Exercise Market Notional
Grant 1 April during during 31 March price price on gain
2007 the year the year 2008 date of
exercise
R J E Marsh 1997 53,103 – 53,103 – £1.37 £2.66 £68,503
R J E Marsh 2001 50,000 – – 50,000 £1.455 – –
P Hilton 1997 28,103 – 28,103 – £1.37 £2.66 £36,253
P Hilton 2001 30,000 – – 30,000 £1.455 – –
P J H Hole 1997 28,103 – 28,103 – £1.37 £2.8625 £41,944
P J H Hole 2001 30,000 – – 30,000 £1.455 – –
H J Kloeze 2001 30,000 – – 30,000 £1.455 – –
C H Sworn 2001 30,000 – – 30,000 £1.455 – –
The options granted to executive directors on 11 July 1997 were subject to an EPS growth target of an average of 2% per
annum over the increase in the RPI over the three year period from the date of grant. The performance conditions were met
on 11 July 2000. The options were exercisable between 11 July 2000 and 10 July 2007.
The options granted to executive directors on 23 July 2001 were subject to EPS growth of an average of 3% per annum or
more above the increase in RPI over the three years from the date of grant. The performance conditions were met on 23 July
2004 and the options are exercisable between 23 July 2004 and 22 July 2011.
36 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 37
The directors who have exercised options during the year have retained ownership of those shares not sold to finance the cost
of purchase and income tax and social security liabilities on exercise, with the exception of P J H Hole whose 1997 options
were granted before his appointment to the Board and were not subject to conditions applied to directors.
RPC Group 2003 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes
Year of Options at Granted Exercised Options at Exercise Option Market
Grant 1 April during during 31 March price Value price on
2007 the year the year 2008 date of
exercise
R J E Marsh 2005 90,000 – – 90,000 £2.47 £0.46 –
R J E Marsh 2007 – 80,000 – 80,000 £2.94 £0.67 –
P Hilton 2005 55,000 – – 55,000 £2.47 £0.46 –
P Hilton 2007 – 40,000 – 40,000 £2.94 £0.67 –
P J H Hole 2005 55,000 – – 55,000 £2.47 £0.46 –
P J H Hole 2007 – 40,000 – 40,000 £2.94 £0.67 –
H J Kloeze 2005 55,000 – – 55,000 £2.47 £0.46 –
H J Kloeze 2007 – 40,000 – 40,000 £2.94 £0.67 –
C H Sworn 2005 55,000 – – 55,000 £2.47 £0.46 –
C H Sworn 2007 – 40,000 – 40,000 £2.94 £0.67 –
P R M Vervaat 2007 – 100,000 – 100,000 £2.33 £0.52 –
The options shown above are the maximum number that may be exercised between the dates set out below provided that the
performance conditions given on pages 30 to 31 are met.
Date of grant First exercise date Last exercise date
29 June 2005 29 June 2008 28 June 2015
25 July 2007 25 July 2010 24 July 2017
3 December 2007 (P R M Vervaat only) 3 December 2010 2 December 2017
The value of an option is calculated according to the Black Scholes model. Information on the assumptions made in the option
valuation is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
RPC Group 2003 Sharesave Scheme (UK Approved and International Unapproved)
Year of Options at Granted Exercised Options at Exercise Market 
Grant 1 April during during 31 March price price on
2007 the year the year 2008 date of
exercise
P Hilton 2006 4,155 – – 4,155 £2.25 –
P J H Hole 2006 4,155 – – 4,155 £2.25 –
H J Kloeze 2006 4,145 – – 4,145 £2.25 –
C H Sworn 2006 4,155 – – 4,155 £2.25 –
The share options granted on 20 January 2006 are exercisable between 1 March and 31 August 2009. The value of an option
calculated according to the Black Scholes model is £0.73.
Apart from 30,000 options (granted 23 July 2001) exercised on 7 April 2008 by C H Sworn, there have been no other changes
in share options between 31 March 2008 and 16 June 2008. 38 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
Share Matching Award
Under a share matching deed dated 26 September 2007, a conditional award to acquire 50,000 shares for nil consideration
was granted to P R M Vervaat. The award is subject to the terms and conditions summarised on page 31. Provided the
conditions are met, the shares will vest on 25 October 2010 and will be transferred within 30 days of the vesting date or
following the end of a close period if later. The market value of the shares on 1 November 2007 was £2.79.
The market price of an RPC Group Plc 5p ordinary share at 31 March 2008 was £2.0375 and the range of prices during the
year was £1.72 to £3.07.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 18 June 2008 and has been signed on its behalf by:
D J Wilbraham
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
18 June 2008 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 39
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report
and Accounts and the Group and Company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and
Company financial statements for each financial year. Under
that law they are required to prepare the Group financial
statements in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and have
elected to prepare the Company financial statements on the
same basis.
The Group and Company financial statements are required
by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the
financial position of the Group and the Company and the
performance for that period; the Companies Act 1985
provides in relation to such financial statements that
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial
statements giving a true and fair view are references to their
achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial
statements, the directors are required to:
● select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
● make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent;
● state whether they have been prepared in accordance
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
● prepare the financial statements on the going concern
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group
and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that its financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They have general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and
integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
● the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in
the consolidation taken as a whole; and
● the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the
position of the Company and the undertakings included in
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that
they face.
By order of the Board
J P Williams R J E Marsh
Chairman Chief Executive
18 June 2008 18 June 2008
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts 40 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
We have audited the Group and Company financial
statements (the financial statements) of RPC Group Plc for
the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the
consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated and
Company Balance Sheets, the consolidated and Company
Cash Flow Statements, the consolidated and Company
Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the
related notes. These financial statements have been prepared
under the accounting policies set out therein. We have also
audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act
1985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the Company’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and
auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report
and Accounts, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as
adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities on page 39.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK
and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial
statements. The information given within the Report of the
Directors includes that specific information presented in the
Statements by the Chairman and Chief Executive that is
cross referenced from the Review of Business and Future
Developments section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition, we report to you, if in our opinion, the Company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not
received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not
disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement
reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions
of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we
report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all
risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of
the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and
control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report
and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the
audited financial statements. We consider the implications
for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other
information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
● the Group financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the
state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its
profit for the year then ended;
● the Company financial statements give a true and fair
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as
applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Company’s affairs
as at 31 March 2008;
● the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and,
as regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
● the information given in the Report of the Directors is
consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
Leicester
LE1 6LP
18 June 2008
Independent auditors’ report to the members of RPC Group Plc RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 41
2008 2007
£m £m
Note 2 Revenue 695.2 645.7
Note 3 Operating costs (673.9) (619.6)
Note 2 Operating profit 21.3 26.1
Analysed as:
Operating profit before: 40.6 38.1
Note 4 Restructuring and disruption costs (16.2) (5.8)
Note 4 Impairment losses (3.5) (6.2)
Note 4 Negative goodwill released to income 0.4 –
Operating profit 21.3 26.1
Note 6 Financial income 0.5 2.2
Note 6 Financial expenses (12.0) (9.4)
Net financing costs (11.5) (7.2)
Note 2 Profit before taxation 9.8 18.9
Note 7 Taxation (5.4) (5.8)
Note 20 Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 4.4 13.1
Note 10 Basic earnings per ordinary share 4.4p 13.2p
Note 10 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 4.4p 13.1p
Note 10 Adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share 21.5p 20.6p
Note 10 Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share 21.4p 20.5p
Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense for the year ended 31 March 2008
Note 20 Foreign exchange translation differences 19.6 (2.2)
Note 20 Effective portion of movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (0.4) 0.8
Note 20 Deferred tax on above 0.1 (0.2)
Note 24 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plans 7.4 2.0
Note 20 Deferred tax on actuarial gains (2.6) (0.7)
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 24.1 (0.3)
Profit for the period 4.4 13.1
Total recognised income and expense for the period attributable to
equity shareholders of the parent 28.5 12.8
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2008 42 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current assets
Note 11 Goodwill 22.2 17.0
Note 11 Other intangible assets 2.8 1.5
Note 12 Property, plant and equipment 259.1 234.5
Note 18 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 1.3
Note 19 Deferred tax assets 4.7 6.9
Total non-current assets 289.3 261.2
Current assets
Note 14 Inventories 110.3 94.2
Note 15 Trade and other receivables 139.9 128.2
Cash and cash equivalents 31.7 12.3
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 –
Total current assets 282.2 234.7
Current liabilities
Note 16 Bank loans and overdrafts (3.1) (3.9)
Note 16 Trade and other payables (157.7) (130.8)
Current tax liabilities (6.3) (8.6)
Note 24 Employee benefits (1.8) (0.4)
Note 19 Provisions (3.6) (0.5)
Total current liabilities (172.5) (144.2)
Net current assets 109.7 90.5
Total assets less current liabilities 399.0 351.7
Non-current liabilities
Note 17 Bank loans and other borrowings (178.0) (145.5)
Note 24 Employee benefits (26.3) (33.0)
Note 19 Deferred tax liabilities (13.7) (14.6)
Note 18 Derivative financial instruments (1.3) (0.1)
Total non-current liabilities (219.3) (193.2)
Net assets 179.7 158.5
Equity
Note 21 Called up share capital 5.0 4.9
Note 20 Share premium account 3.2 2.7
Note 20 Capital redemption reserve 0.9 0.9
Note 20 Retained earnings 147.6 146.3
Note 20 Cash flow hedging reserve 0.4 0.7
Note 20 Cumulative translation differences reserve 22.6 3.0
Note 20 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 179.7 158.5
The financial statements on pages 41 to 83 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 June 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
J P Williams, Chairman P R M Vervaat, Finance Director
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2008 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 43
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2008
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 9.8 18.9
Financing costs 11.5 7.2
Profit from operations 21.3 26.1
Adjustments for:
Note 11 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.3 0.1
Note 12 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 3.5 6.2
Note 12Depreciation 30.734.0
Note 22 Negative goodwill taken to income (0.4) –
Note 5 Share-based payment expense 0.7 0.5
Note 3 (Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.6) 0.2
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 1.7 (2.0)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 56.2 65.1
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1.4) (4.9)
Decrease/(increase) in receivables 9.2 (7.4)
(Decrease)/increase in payables (0.5) (11.9)
Cash generated by operations 63.5 40.9
Taxes paid (10.9) (7.5)
Interest paid (10.6) (8.4)
Net cash from operating activities 42.0 25.0
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received 0.3 0.2
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6.3 2.3
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (33.4) (35.5)
Note 11 Acquisition of intangible assets (1.3) (1.0)
Note 22 Acquisition of subsidiaries (5.6) (8.1)
Net cash flows from investing activities (33.7) (42.1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Note 8 Dividends paid (8.5) (7.9)
Note 20 Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.5 0.9
Repayments of borrowings (4.0) (43.8)
New bank loans raised 14.2 56.1
Payment of finance costs (0.1) (0.1)
Net cash flows from financing activities 2.1 5.2
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10.4 (11.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 12.3 24.5
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.9 (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 28.6 12.3
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash at bank 31.7 12.3
Bank overdrafts (3.1) –
28.6 12.3 44 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Company statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 March 2008
2008 2007
£m £m
Note 20 Foreign exchange translation differences – (0.4)
Note 20 Effective portion of movement in fair value of interest rate swaps (0.3) 0.8
Net income recognised directly in equity (0.3) 0.4
Note 20 Loss for the period (5.4) (4.4)
Total recognised income and expense for the period
attributable to equity shareholders (5.7) (4.0) RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 45
2008 2007
£m £m
Non-current assets
Note 13 Investment in subsidiaries 134.7 134.0
Note 18 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 1.3
Total non-current assets 135.2 135.3
Current assets
Note 15 Trade and other receivables 202.1 168.4
Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 –
Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.9
Total current assets 203.7 169.3
Current liabilities
Note 16 Trade and other payables (146.0) (132.1)
Current tax liabilities (0.6) (0.6)
Total current liabilities (146.6) (132.7)
Net current assets 57.1 36.6
Total assets less current liabilities 192.3 171.9
Non-current liabilities
Note 17 Bank loans and other borrowings (174.1) (141.9)
Note 19 Deferred tax liabilities (0.1) (0.2)
Note 18 Derivative financial instruments (1.3) (0.1)
Total non-current liabilities (175.5) (142.2)
Net assets 16.8 29.7
Equity
Note 21 Called up share capital 5.0 4.9
Note 20 Share premium account 3.2 2.7
Note 20 Capital redemption reserve 0.9 0.9
Note 20 Retained earnings 8.0 21.2
Note 20 Cash flow hedging reserve 0.4 0.7
Note 20 Cumulative translation differences reserve (0.7) (0.7)
Note 20 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 16.8 29.7
The financial statements on pages 41 to 83 were approved by the Board of Directors on 18 June 2008 and were signed on its behalf by:
J P Williams, Chairman P R M Vervaat, Finance Director
Company balance sheet at 31 March 2008 46 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Company cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2008
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Loss before tax and dividends received (12.0) (7.2)
Financing costs 10.4 6.0
Loss from operations (1.6) (1.2)
Increase in receivables (30.5) (14.4)
Increase in payables 37.0 18.6
Cash generated by operations 4.9 3.0
Tax group relief receipts (3.1) 2.1
Interest paid (9.3) (7.0)
Net cash from operating activities (7.5) (1.9)
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received – 0.1
Dividends received 3.5 0.6
Net cash flows from investing activities 3.5 0.7
Cash flows from financing activities
Note 8 Dividends paid (8.5) (7.9)
Note 20 Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.5 0.9
Movement in borrowings 14.2 8.2
Payment of finance costs – (0.1)
Net cash flows from financing activities 6.2 1.1
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2.2 (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 0.9 1.1
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.8) (0.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 1.3 0.9
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash at bank 1.3 0.9 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 47
1 Principal Accounting Policies
RPC Group Plc (the Company) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Both the Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). On publishing
the Company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage of the
exemption in section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual Income Statement and related notes that
form part of these approved financial statements.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year in
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Group’s financial statements.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention except for derivative financial
instruments which are stated at their fair value.
The preparation of the financial statements requires the directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect
the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under
the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The key estimates and
judgements used in the financial statements are as follows:
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
Intangible assets are tested at least annually for impairment and the Group’s assets other than inventories, financial assets
within the scope of International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39 and deferred tax assets are tested when there is an indication
of impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out below and in note 4 to the financial statements. The
recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations require the
use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash-generating unit and discount rates based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with individual cash-generating units.
Retirement benefit obligations
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend upon such factors as life expectancy of the
members, wage rate increases of current employees, the returns that the Schemes’ assets generate and the discount rate used
to calculate the present value of the pension liabilities. The Group uses estimates based on past experience and actuarial
advice in determining these future cash flows and in determining the discount rate. The accounting policy is set out below and
details of the assumptions used are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
Taxation
There are many transactions whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain. The Group makes provision for anticipated tax issues
based on the likelihood of whether additional taxes may arise. The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on
estimates of future taxable income and recoverability. If these estimates do not materialise or change, or there are changes in
tax rates or to the period over which losses might be recognised, then the value of the deferred tax asset or liability will need
to be revised in a future period. The accounting policy for taxation is set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidation includes the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 31 March 2008. Where
subsidiaries are acquired during the year, their results are included in the Group’s financial statements from the date of
control. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an
entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Intra-group sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisition less
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
48 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment on a straight-
line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned, as follows:
Freehold buildings 50 years
Long leasehold property 50 years
Plant and equipment 5 to 10 years
Moulds 3 to 5 years
Motor vehicles 4 years
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In determining the cost of raw materials, consumables and
goods for resale, the average purchase price is used. For finished goods, cost is taken as production cost which includes the
cost of the raw materials and an appropriate proportion of overheads. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow
moving and defective stocks.
Financial assets
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the
asset and are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence (such as the probability of insolvency or significant
financial difficulties of the debtor) that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of
the invoice. The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account. Balances are written off
when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised
where:
•
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
•
the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred substantially all the
risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset,
but has transferred control of the asset.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of
the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of
cash flows.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a
past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is
material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments are stated at the fair value of the consideration given when initially acquired adjusted for capital contributions in
respect of share options granted to employees of its subsidiaries and reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 49
Foreign currencies
Trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling when the
transaction was entered into. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange on the date of
the balance sheet. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
the balance sheet and the results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Since converting to IAS and as permitted by IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, the
Group has reported the differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of foreign operations,
the effective portion of foreign currency borrowings used in a net investment hedge, and the translation of the results of those
companies at the average rate within the translation reserve and has reported the transactions in the Statement of Recognised
Income and Expense. Prior to 2005, these items were recognised in retained reserves.
All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
Bank borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges,
including premiums paid on settlement or redemption of direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income
statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they
are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward
foreign exchange contracts. The fair values are determined by reference to the market prices available from the market on which
the instruments involved are traded.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified
as follows:
•
Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
•
Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated
with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
•
Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value, due to fluctuations in exchange rates, of the Group’s
interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the
Income Statement. Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount
of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the Income Statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to
be an effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, is recognised in equity,
directly in the cash flow hedge reserve or the translation reserve, respectively, with any ineffective portion recognised in the
Income Statement. Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to be effective and periodically
throughout their duration to assess continuing effectiveness. When the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-
financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement
of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the
Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the Income Statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised
in the Income Statement.
Where a group company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the
Group, the Group considers these to be insurance arrangements for them as such. In this respect, the Group treats the guarantee
contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Group will be required to make a payment
under the guarantee. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
50 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
During the year the Group has adopted IFRS 7, which gives further disclosure surrounding the Group’s financial instruments. The
new disclosures are included throughout the financial statements. While there has been no effect on the financial position or
results, comparative information has been added where necessary.
Revenue
Revenue, which excludes value added tax and trade discount, represents the invoiced value of goods supplied. Revenue is
recognised in the Income Statement when rigid plastic packaging products and associated equipment are supplied to external
customers in line with contractual arrangements. In these instances, significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to
third parties, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the Group.
Government grants
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are capitalised and released to the Income Statement over the life
of the related assets. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the Income Statement in the year in which the grant is received.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Employee benefits
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The liability recognised in the Balance Sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the present value of the defined
benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date. The obligation is calculated by external actuaries
using the projected unit credit method. The Group has adopted IAS 19 revised and hence actuarial gains and losses arising
from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and recognised in full in
the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense in the period in which they occur.
The cost of providing accrued service benefits, return on scheme assets and interest on scheme liabilities are charged to
operating expenses.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when they fall due.
Termination benefits
The Group recognises the present value of a liability to pay termination benefits when it has a demonstrable commitment to
terminating employment before retirement. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 51
In Germany, the Group has contractual obligations under a part-time employment scheme for older employees (Altersteilzeit).
In addition to half salary, the employee may receive a fixed incentive payment. The Group provides for the incentive payment
as a termination benefit. The number of employees who will take up this arrangement is an estimate based on historical
experience and any agreed cap on the number of participants. Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs are recognised
immediately in the Income Statement.
Other employee benefits
The Group provides for the present value of its obligations in respect of other long-term employee benefits using actuarial
valuations. These include deferred salaries due to German Altersteilzeit employees and long service awards. The Group provides
for long service awards as they accrue. The number of employees who will receive long service awards is estimated based on
historical experience. Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
The costs of short-term employee benefits are charged to the Income Statement when they fall due.
Leasing
Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the
lease is treated as a ‘finance lease’. The asset is recorded in the Balance Sheet as property, plant and equipment and is
depreciated over its estimated useful life or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter. Future instalments under such leases,
net of finance charges, are included within creditors. Rentals payable are apportioned between the finance element, which is
charged to the Income Statement, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments.
All other leases are accounted for as ‘operating leases’ and the rental charges are charged to the Income Statement on a
straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Research and development expenditure
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Where the expenditure meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’, development costs are capitalised
and amortised over their useful economic lives.The intangible assets are assessed for indications of impairment annually.
Goodwill
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration given over the
Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating units
and is tested at least annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and cannot be reversed
subsequently.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the
amount recorded under previous GAAP.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on
disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 which has not been reinstated and is not
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the Income Statement in the year of acquisition.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation
begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their
estimated useful lives as follows:
Patents remaining life of patent
Product development costs over the life of the project
Computer software and IT systems development costs 4-5 years
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately
acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of
preparing the asset for use. Computer software costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business
systems are capitalised as intangible assets. 52 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of the Group’s assets, other than inventories, financial
assets within the scope of IAS 39 and deferred tax assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have
suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to
determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible
assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication
that the asset may be impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is
reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Equity settled share-based payments
The Group operates an employee savings related share option scheme and executive share option schemes. As permitted by
IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’, the Group has chosen to adopt IFRS 2 ‘Share-based
Payments’ for share options granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. On this basis, the fair value
of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date using an appropriate option pricing model. The resulting cost is
charged to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. At each
balance sheet date, the Group revises its service and non-market estimates of the number of options that are expected to
become exercisable and the charge to the Income Statement is adjusted accordingly.
Where the Company grants share options to employees of its subsidiaries, the amount equal to the amount which would
otherwise have been charged in the Income Statement in respect of those options is accounted for as a capital contribution and
the Company’s cost of investment in its subsidiary is increased accordingly.
Related party disclosures
Transactions between the Group and any related parties which require disclosure under IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ are
given in note 25.
IFRSs and IFRICs applied this year for the first time
In these financial statements, the Group has adopted the following standards for the first time:
•
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure’
•
Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements – Capital Disclosures’
•
IFRIC 8 ‘Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments’
•
IFRIC 9 ‘Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives’
•
IFRIC 10 ‘Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment’
•
IFRIC 11 ‘IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions’
None of these standards has had an effect on the Balance Sheets or Income Statements but the new requirements of IFRS 7
and IAS 1 have led to amendments in disclosures about financial assets and liabilities.
Adopted IFRSs and IFRICs not yet applied
Only IFRS 8 ‘Segmental Reporting’ has been adopted by the EU but has not yet been implemented by the Group. It requires that
the Group discloses information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the
business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates. This will require amendment to the
disclosure of the Group’s segments but will not impact on the measurement of any item. Consequently, IFRS 8 will have no
material effect on the financial statements and it will be adopted for the year ended 31 March 2009. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 53
2 Segmental Analysis
Primary segments - Geographical
The Group operates in two principal geographic regions – ‘UK’ and ‘Mainland ‘Europe’. Mainland Europe also includes our
operation in the USA whose sales are predominantly manufactured in Germany. These two regions are the basis on which the
Group reports its primary segment information. Segment information about these regions is presented below.
Segmental information by geographic segment
UK Mainland Europe Other*/eliminations Consolidated
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
External sales 218.2 216.5 477.0 429.2 – – 695.2 645.7
Inter-segment sales – – 5.0 3.2 (5.0) (3.2) – –
Total revenue 218.2 216.5 482.0 432.4 (5.0) (3.2) 695.2 645.7
Operating profit/(loss) (1.2) (2.1) 24.3 27.0 (1.8) 1.2 21.3 26.1
Net financing costs (11.5) (7.2)
Profit before taxation 9.8 18.9
Segment assets 138.9 144.5 390.7 324.0 9.7 15.1 539.3 483.6
Segment liabilities (50.0) (52.0) (136.0) (108.2) (24.2) (27.8) (210.2) (188.0)
Net segment assets 329.1 295.6
Net borrowings (149.4) (137.1)
Net assets per 
Balance Sheet 179.7 158.5
Capital expenditure 13.3 16.1 21.5 17.0 0.3 0.3 35.1 33.4
Depreciation and 
amortisation 10.1 11.3 20.7 22.6 0.2 0.2 31.0 34.1
Impairment loss 2.8 5.3 0.7 0.9 – – 3.5 6.2
Inter-segment transfers are measured on an arm’s length basis.
Secondary segments – Business Process
The Group comprises the following principal secondary segments whose activities are the manufacture, by their specific
process, and sale of rigid plastic packaging and associated equipment.
Segmental information by business segment
Revenue Segment assets Capital expenditure
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Blow Moulding 152.4 147.7 117.8 97.9 10.6 10.7
Injection Moulding 295.9 281.0 231.4 215.9 15.0 13.6
Thermoforming 246.9 217.0 180.3 151.8 9.2 8.7
Other* – – 9.8 18.0 0.3 0.4
695.2 645.7 539.3 483.6 35.1 33.4
*Other includes Head Office, current and deferred tax balances. 54 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
Geographical analysis of revenue by destination
UK Mainland Europe Consolidated
and USA
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 222.1 209.8 473.1 435.9 695.2 645.7
3 Operating Costs
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw material and consumables 358.6 307.0
Own work capitalised (0.5) (2.2)
Changes in stock of finished goods and work in progress (5.8) (1.4)
Other external charges 80.0 82.6
Carriage 32.5 30.2
Staff costs (note 5) 177.6 165.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.7 34.0
Amortisation of intangibles 0.3 0.1
Negative goodwill released to income (0.4) –
Impairment losses 3.5 6.2
Other operating income (2.6) (2.5)
673.9 619.6
2008 2007
£m £m
Other external charges include the following:
Operating lease rentals:
Hire of plant and machinery 3.7 2.3
Other operating leases 3.2 3.2
Research and development 0.1 0.1
Foreign exchange (gains) / losses (1.7) 0.6
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.2
Other operating income includes:
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.6) –
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and their associates for other services to the Group:
– the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6
– other services pursuant to legislation – 0.1
– tax services 0.5 0.4
– corporate finance transaction services – 0.1
Fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed
because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 55
4 Restructuring and Disruption Costs
2008 2007
£m £m
Closure costs 14.3 4.2
Restructuring of operations 1.9 1.2
Disruption costs caused by fire – 0.4
16.2 5.8
2008
During the year, the Group has closed and restructured operations in five of its seven clusters leading to the closure of sites in
Piaseczno and L
/
askarzew in Poland and Thornaby and Hereford in the UK. Closure of these sites is expected to be completed by
the end of the second quarter of 2008/09. Costs of £14.3m were incurred in closing these sites. Of these costs, £9.4m was
spent on staff redundancy and other closure costs while £4.9m of charges were incurred in relation to asset write downs
(including inventory write downs of £4.4m). The Group’s restructuring led to a further £1.9m of costs being incurred in relation
to employment termination costs and other restructuring activities.
2007
During the previous year the decision was taken to close our factory in Bristol, UK after an appraisal of the ongoing viability of
the site. The operation ceased on 31 March 2007 and the closure costs amounted to £2.0m. Costs of £2.2m (2006: £2.4m) were
incurred at the Woburn Sands site leading up to the planned closure on 31 October 2006.
Other restructuring costs of £1.2m principally relate to the restructuring of an existing operation within the Tedeco-Gizeh
cluster. The costs relate to redundancy arising from a radical re-assessment of working practices following the loss of a major
contract.
Our Halstead operation in the UK suffered a fire in February 2007. The cost of writing off fire damaged stock and the clean up
operation amounted to £0.4m.
Impairment losses
2008 2007
£m £m
Impairment loss recognised in respect of assets 3.5 6.2
During the year, the Group incurred a £3.5m charge in relation to writing down property, plant and equipment at the sites that
were closed or were in the process of being closed. In the previous year, the Group incurred a charge of £5.3m in relation to
the beauté cluster and £0.9m in respect of our operation in Spain. The decision to impair certain assets of the beauté cluster
followed on from the initial findings of an exercise to address the cost base of the cluster. The poor performance of our
operation in Spain had resulted in an appraisal of its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit
was measured by determining the value in use of the assets.
Goodwill is tested at least annually and property, plant and equipment is tested where there is an indication of impairment.
Cash-generating units have been determined as individual sites within the Group.
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units are determined from value in use calculations. The cash flow projections
used in these calculations cover a five year period and are based on the 2008 budget and the outline plans for 2009 and 2010
approved by the Board. Cash flows beyond this three year period have been extrapolated using a zero growth rate.
The key assumptions used in the recoverable amount calculations include:
(i) Sales. Forecasts are based on cluster level analysis of sales, markets, competitors and prices for the budget period.
Consideration was given to past experience, knowledge of future contracts and expectations of future potential changes in
the markets.
(ii) Polymer and electricity costs. Forecasts for polymer costs were based on prices at the time the budget was prepared.
Forecasts for electricity costs are based on contractual arrangements taking into account supply and demand factors. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
56 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The pre-tax discount rates used for the cash-generating units vary depending upon the risks faced by each individual cash-
generating unit. These range from 6.6% to 10% using the weighted average cost of capital for the Group, adjusted for risks
specific to the cash-generating units.
Negative goodwill released to income
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group released £0.4m (2007: £nil) of negative goodwill related to the acquisition of
MOB – see note 22.
5 Staff Costs
Number of personnel
The average number of personnel (including executive directors) employed by the Group during the year was:
2008 2007
Number Number
Production 5,889 5,772
Selling 307 304
Administration 720 584
6,916 6,660
Staff costs
Staff costs for the above personnel were:
2008 2007
£m £m
Wages and salaries 141.7 135.0
Restructuring costs 3.5 0.7
Termination benefits 0.9 0.3
Social security costs 27.1 24.8
Share options granted to directors and employees (note 21) 0.7 0.5
Pension costs – defined contribution plans 2.2 1.2
Pension costs – defined benefit plans (note 24) 1.5 3.1
177.6 165.6
Emoluments of the directors
Disclosures of directors’ emoluments, share options and pension costs are given in the Remuneration Report.
The Company had no employees.
6 Financial Income and Expenses
2008 2007
£m £m
Interest receivable on cash at bank (0.3) (0.2)
Exchange differences on bonds (0.2) (2.0)
Total financial income (0.5) (2.2)
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 8.1 6.5
Interest payable on bonds 2.5 2.2
Mark to market loss on foreign currency hedging instruments 1.3 0.5
Other interest payable and similar charges 0.1 0.2
Total financial expenses 12.0 9.4
Net financial expense 11.5 7.2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 57
7 Taxation
2008 2007
£m £m
United Kingdom corporation tax at 30% (2007: 30%):
Current year – (0.3)
Overseas taxation:
Current year 7.5 6.8
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.3 0.2
Total current tax 7.8 6.7
Deferred tax (note 19):
United Kingdom 
Current year (1.6) (0.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (0.3) (0.3)
Overseas
Current year (0.6) 0.1
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1
Total tax expense in Income Statement 5.4 5.8
Tax reconciliation:
2008 2007
£m £m
Profit before taxation 9.8 18.9
Current tax at 30% (2007: 30%) 2.9 5.7
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 1.4
Net deferred tax not provided 1.0 0.5
Current year tax losses not recognised 2.1 1.5
Tax rate differential (1.7) (3.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 –
Total tax expense in Income Statement 5.4 5.8
8 Dividends 
2008 2007
£m £m
Dividends on ordinary shares:
Interim for 2007/08 paid of 2.9p per share 2.9 –
Final for 2006/07 paid of 5.7p per share 5.6 –
Interim for 2006/07 paid of 2.7p per share – 2.7
Final for 2005/06 paid of 5.25p per share – 5.2
8.5 7.9
The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 6.1p per share has not been included as a liability as at 
31 March 2008.
9 Profit for the Financial Year
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the holding Company’s Income Statement has not been included
in these financial statements. The profit after taxation within these financial statements includes a loss of £5.4m 
(2007: loss £4.4m) by the Company. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
58 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
10 Earnings per Share
Basic
The earnings per share have been computed on the basis of earnings of £4.4m (2007: £13.1m), and on the weighted average
number of shares in issue during the year of 98,904,009 (2007: 98,352,849). The number of shares in issue at 31 March 2008
was 99,000,695 (2007: 98,693,711).
Diluted
Diluted earnings per share is the earnings per share after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares
of the weighted average number of options outstanding during the year of 632,647 (2007: 636,433). The number of shares
used for the diluted calculation for the year was 99,536,656 (2007: 98,989,282).
Adjusted
The directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share assists with the understanding of
the underlying performance of the Group. For this purpose we have excluded the restructuring and disruption costs,
impairment losses and negative goodwill released to income identified separately on the face of the consolidated Income
Statement, together with the debit or credit for the foreign currency hedging instruments less the tax thereon.
A reconciliation from profit after tax as reported in the consolidated Income Statement to the adjusted profit after tax is set
out below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Profit after tax as reported in the consolidated Income Statement 4.4 13.1
Restructuring and disruption costs and impairment losses 19.7 12.0
Foreign currency hedging instruments 1.1 (1.5)
Negative goodwill released to income (0.4) –
Tax effect thereon (3.5) (3.3)
Adjusted profit after tax 21.3 20.3
Adjusted basic earnings per share
The weighted average number of shares used in the adjusted basic earnings per share calculation is as follows:
2008 2007
Weighted average number of shares 98,904,009 98,352,849
Adjusted basic earnings per share 21.5p 20.6p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
The weighted average number of shares used in the adjusted diluted earnings per share calculation is as follows:
Number Number
Weighted average number of shares 98,904,009 98,352,849
Effect of share options in issue 632,647 636,433
99,536,656 98,989,282
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21.4p 20.5p RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 59
11 Intangible Assets
Other
intangible
Goodwill assets Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 15.0 0.8 15.8
Additions external 5.2 0.1 5.3
Additions internally developed – 0.9 0.9
Exchange differences (0.4) (0.1) (0.5)
At 31 March 2007 19.8 1.7 21.5
At 1 April 2007 19.8 1.7 21.5
Additions external 2.5 – 2.5
Additions internally developed – 1.3 1.3
Exchange differences 3.1 0.4 3.5
At 31 March 2008 25.4 3.4 28.8
Amortisation
At 1 April 2006 2.8 0.1 2.9
Charge for the year – 0.1 0.1
At 31 March 2007 2.8 0.2 3.0
At 1 April 2007 2.8 0.2 3.0
Charge for the year – 0.3 0.3
Exchange differences 0.4 0.1 0.5
At 31 March 2008 3.2 0.6 3.8
Net book value at 31 March 2008 22.2 2.8 25.0
Net book value at 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 17.0 1.5 18.5
Net book value at 1 April 2006 12.2 0.7 12.9
The Company had no intangible assets during the year.
Goodwill
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from that
acquisition.
The Group tests at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The cash-generating units are tested by cluster as follows:
UK Injection Moulding
Blow Moulding
Bramlage-Wiko
beauté
Bebo
Cobelplast
Tedeco-Gizeh Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
60 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Cash-generating units which are considered to be significant in relation to the total goodwill are UK Injection Moulding,
Bramlage-Wiko, Bebo and Cobelplast which have carrying values of £4.9m, £3.4m, £4.2m and £5.8m respectively 
(2007: £4.9m, £0.2m, £3.4m and £4.9m).
The directors have determined that no impairment was required as at 31 March 2008 as the recoverable amounts are
significantly in excess of the carrying value. More information is given on the calculation of impairment in note 4.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets include patents at a net book value of £0.5m (2007: £0.5m) and development costs with a net book
value of £2.2m (2007: £1.0m).
12 Property, Plant and Equipment
The movements in the property, plant and equipment of the Group were as follows:
Long Plant,
Freehold leasehold equipment,
land and land and moulds and
buildings buildings vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2006 147.2 1.0 429.2 577.4
In respect of acquisitions 1.0 0.6 3.6 5.2
Exchange differences (2.7) – (8.1) (10.8)
Additions 3.9 – 29.5 33.4
Disposals (1.9) – (27.3) (29.2)
Reclassification 0.4 – (0.4) –
At 31 March 2007 147.9 1.6 426.5 576.0
At 1 April 2007 147.9 1.6 426.5 576.0
In respect of acquisitions 3.4 – 1.1 4.5
Exchange differences 19.6 0.1 56.9 76.6
Additions 4.7 0.1 30.3 35.1
Disposals (2.1) – (15.8) (17.9)
Reclassification 2.0 (0.7) (1.3) –
At 31 March 2008 175.5 1.1 497.7 674.3 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 61
Long Plant,
Freehold leasehold equipment,
land and land and moulds and
buildings buildings vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation
At 1 April 2006 32.2 0.1 302.0 334.3
Exchange differences (0.5) – (5.8) (6.3)
Charge for the year 2.4 0.1 31.5 34.0
Impairment charge 0.8 – 5.4 6.2
Disposals (0.6) – (26.1) (26.7)
Reclassification (0.1) – 0.1 –
At 31 March 2007 34.2 0.2 307.1 341.5
At 1 April 2007 34.2 0.2 307.1 341.5
Exchange differences 5.6 – 46.7 52.3
Charge for the year 2.5 – 28.2 30.7
Impairment charge – – 3.5 3.5
Disposals (0.3) – (12.5) (12.8)
Reclassification 1.1 (0.1) (1.0) –
At 31 March 2008 43.1 0.1 372.0 415.2
Net book value at 31 March 2008 132.4 1.0 125.7 259.1
Net book value at 31 March 2007 and 1 April 2007 113.7 1.4 119.4 234.5
Net book value at 1 April 2006 115.0 0.9 127.2 243.1
The value relating to land not depreciated is £26.5m (2007: £23.7m).
The Company had no property, plant and equipment during the year.
The impairment charge of £3.5m relates to charges taken in association with sites that have been or are being closed.
£6.2m in the year ended 31 March 2007 relates to a £5.3m write down of assets in respect of the beauté cluster following an
exercise to address the cost base of that cluster and a £0.9m write down of assets in Spain following an assessment of the
value in use of those assets. More information is given on the impairments and their calculation in note 4.
13 Investment in Subsidiaries
These comprise investments in RPC Containers Limited and RPC Packaging Holdings Limited. Both companies are registered in
Great Britain (numbers 2786492 and 3284112) and are wholly owned by RPC Group Plc. The nature of the business carried on
by RPC Containers Limited is the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic packaging. RPC Packaging Holdings Limited is a holding
company through which the shares in subsidiaries in Mainland Europe and the USA are owned. These subsidiaries are
principally involved in the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic packaging and are listed on page 8.
Company
2008 2007
£m £m
At 1 April 134.0 133.5
Cost of share options (note 21) 0.7 0.5
At 31 March 134.7 134.0 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
62 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
14 Inventories
The amounts attributable to the different categories are as follows:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Raw materials and consumables 41.0 36.7 – –
Finished goods and goods for resale 69.3 57.5 – –
110.3 94.2 – –
15 Trade and Other Receivables
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Trade receivables 126.2 117.6 0.1 –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings – – 202.0 168.4
Other debtors 10.5 5.4 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 3.2 5.2 – –
139.9 128.2 202.1 168.4
All receivables due from Group undertakings have been classified as due within one year as there are no formal terms for their
repayment.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
2008 2007
£m £m
Euros 86.1 70.1
Sterling 34.6 37.5
Others 5.5 10.0
126.2 117.6
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing on normal commercial terms of credit and are shown net of any impairment
provision required to reflect the estimated recoverable value. Movements in the provision for the impairment of receivables
were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
As at 1 April (3.7) (3.9)
Charge for the year (2.5) (2.2)
Amounts written off 1.5 1.5
Unused amounts reversed 1.1 0.8
Acquired in the period (0.1) –
Exchange differences (0.5) 0.1
At 31 March (4.2) (3.7) RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 63
As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows:
Neither 
past due Less than 31-60 61-120 More than
Total nor impaired 30 days days days 120 days
£m £m £m £m £m £m
31 March 2008 126.2 99.5 18.4 4.2 1.6 2.5
31 March 2007 117.6 92.8 15.2 4.9 1.7 3.0
The Group uses a variety of indicators to assess the credit worthiness of our customers and recoverability of amounts due.These
include using credit scoring to assess whether a customer should be accepted. Subsequently, formal reviews are undertaken using
credit scores or other relevant data to determine whether the carrying value of the receivables has become impaired. At some
sites, a formal review process is undertaken annually, irrespective of the factors that may impact on specific customer balances.
16 Trade and Other Payables
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts (note 17) 3.1 3.9 – –
Payments received on account 3.8 0.4 – –
Trade payables 110.4 91.6 1.7 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – – 144.3 130.5
Other payables 17.6 18.7 – –
Accruals 25.9 20.1 – 1.6
157.7 130.8 146.0 132.1
17 Non-current Liabilities
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans and other borrowings (see below) 178.0 145.5 174.1 141.9
The maturity of bank loans, overdrafts and other borrowings is set out below:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Repayable as follows:
In one year or less 3.1 3.9 – –
Between one and two years 2.7–––
Between two and five years 175.3 101.3 174.1 97.7
Greater than five years – 44.2 – 44.2
181.1 149.4 174.1 141.9
These unsecured facilities comprise:
i) A revolving credit facility of up to £200.0m available in Sterling, US Dollars or Euros at normal commercial interest rates.
Of this sum, £28.0m will fall due on 16 June 2011 with the remaining £172.0m available until 16 June 2012.
ii) Uncommitted overdraft facilities of £10.0m, €27.0m and other small local facilities.
iii) Seven year floating loan notes totalling €35.0m and US$40.0m maturing in February 2012 at a normal commercial margin
over Euribor and Libor. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
64 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The currency and interest rate profile of the Group’s net debt is as follows:
Fixed Floating Cash at Fixed Floating Cash at
rate rate bank Total rate rate bank Total
2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – 50.9 (22.9) 28.0 – 34.8 (4.8) 30.0
Euro 2.9 104.3 (3.7) 103.5 2.5 86.7 (3.2) 86.0
US dollar 1.0 21.5 (2.3) 20.2 1.2 24.2 (2.2) 23.2
Other – 0.5 (2.8) (2.3) – – (2.1) (2.1)
3.9 177.2 (31.7) 149.4 3.7 145.7 (12.3) 137.1
18 Derivative Financial Instruments
The Group’s principal financial instruments other than derivatives are borrowings for the purpose of financing operating
activities. Other financial instruments comprise cash at bank and trade receivables and payables.
The Group’s financial derivatives in the Group and Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2008 comprise the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
£m £m £m
Interest rate swaps 0.8 (0.3) 0.5
Foreign currency swaps – (1.0) (1.0)
0.8 (1.3) (0.5)
During the year the Group had in place derivative transactions in the form of a maximum of 13 interest rate swaps for the
purposes of managing interest rate risks on borrowings.
Policies and risks associated with derivatives and financial instruments
The Group’s policies and the risks associated with derivatives and financial instruments are as follows:
a) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will affect the
Group’s net income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to
manage and control market risk exposures within parameters that are deemed to be acceptable, while optimising return.
Generally, the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedge arrangements designed to manage a proportion of the Group’s
overall exposure.
b) Interest rate risk
The Group has borrowed in Euros and Sterling and has issued bonds in Euros and US Dollars; interest rate swaps are used to
reduce the exposure of the Group to fluctuations in interest rates. The majority of borrowings during the year have been kept
on short-term variable interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings at the year end is given in note 17. An increase of 1% in the interest rate
charged during the year on borrowings not fixed by interest rate swaps would have reduced profits before tax by
approximately £0.6m (2007: £0.9m) before accounting for exchange differences.
c) Liquidity risk
In order to improve liquidity and ensure continuity of funding, the Group has a credit agreement with a consortium of 
12 recognised international banks providing a £200.0m revolving credit facility £172.0m of which matures in June 2012 with
the remaining £28.0m maturing in June 2011.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through additional Sterling and Euro overdraft facilities. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 65
d) Foreign currency risk
Approximately 70.2% (2007: 66.8%) of the Group’s net assets before borrowings are in currencies linked with the Euro and
generated by subsidiaries located in Mainland Europe.
The Company issued seven year bonds totalling €35.0m and US$40.0m in February 2005; exchange rate swaps have been
entered into for US$30.0m to sell Euros and buy US Dollars in 2012, when the US Dollar bonds mature.
Exposure to foreign currency exchange risks on normal trading sales and purchases is minimised by trading in the subsidiaries’
local currencies wherever possible or by intra-group hedges. Where appropriate, exchange risks on foreign currency fixed asset
purchases are eliminated through forward exchange contracts.
The Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates on the translation of profits earned by its subsidiaries in Mainland
Europe. These profits are translated at average exchange rates for the year which has a smoothing effect on short-term
currency movements. The estimated impact of the change in the average exchange rates between 2007 and 2008 on the profit
before tax is a net reduction of approximately £0.8m (2006 to 2007: net reduction of £0.2m). The main currency that drives
this change is the Euro. Movements in US Dollar and other exchange rates were immaterial.
e) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counter-party fails to meet its contractual obligations and
arises principally from amounts receivable from customers and deposits of cash made to financial institutions. The Group only
uses financial institutions as counter-parties that have an investment grade rating.
The methods used to evaluate customers’ credit worthiness are described in more detail in note 15.
Capital management
The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to
sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the type and geographic spread of shareholders,
as well as the return on capital employed and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages wide employee participation and motivation through equity based incentive schemes. Details of the
current Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes and a proposed new Performance Share Plan, together with
shareholding guidelines, are given in the Remuneration Report.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and
the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. The Group’s target is to achieve a return on capital employed
of 15%; in 2008 the return was 10.7% (2007: 10.9%).
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets and liabilities
Group
The interest rate profile of the Group’s net debt is shown in note 17.
All floating rate loans bear interest based on Libor or Euribor. The floating rate borrowings are typically rolled over for a period
of 6 months or less based on the appropriate Libor rate. During the year, the Group had in place interest rate swaps for Euros,
US Dollars and Sterling. At the year end, 13 swaps remained in place for a total nominal value of £93.2m (2007: £84.0m) with
maturity dates ranging from June 2008 to December 2010 and at fixed rates between 2.95% and 5.295% pre margin.
An increase of 1% in the interest rate charged during the year on borrowings not fixed by interest rate swaps would have
reduced profit before tax by approximately £0.6m (2007: £0.9m) before accounting for exchange differences. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
66 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The range of interest rates applicable to financial liabilities (net of derivatives) by principal currency is as follows:
2008 2007
Sterling Euro Dollar Other Sterling Euro Dollar Other
%%%%%%%%
Fixed interest rate n/a 2.29-3.89 2.5 n/a n/a 2.29-3.89 2.5 n/a
Floating rate interest 
margin above:
– Euribor n/a 0.5 n/a n/a n/a 0.5-0.9 n/a n/a
– Libor 0.5-0.51 n/a 0.9 n/a 0.5 n/a 0.75-0.9 n/a
– Ibor n/a n/a n/a 0.75-0.85 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Interest received on cash balances is at normal commercial floating rates.
The Group received a loan from the Italian Government of €3.4m at an interest rate of 0.89%, which is expected to be
repayable over 5 years. The fair value of the loan is €3.1m. Interest has been charged to the Income Statement reflecting the
Group’s average rate of borrowings in Euros.
Currency exposures
The Group uses foreign currency borrowings to provide a hedge against foreign net investments. The exchange gains or losses
on these borrowings are included in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense. A movement of 1% in the value of
Sterling against other foreign currencies (mainly the Euro) would result in a translational impact in the Group’s profit before tax
of approximately £0.3m (2007: £0.3m).
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the Group’s undrawn borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met at
31 March 2008 is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Expiring in more than two years 130.1 102.3
The maturity of bank loans and overdrafts is set out in note 17.
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of the book values and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group
and Company at 31 March 2008:
Group
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 31.7 31.7 12.3 12.3
Trade and other receivables 139.9 139.9 128.2 128.2
Bank loans and overdrafts (3.1) (3.1) (3.9) (3.9)
Trade and other payables (157.7) (157.7) (130.9) (130.9)
Primary financial instruments held to finance the Group’s operations:
Long-term borrowings (178.0) (178.0) (145.5) (145.5)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the 
interest rate profile:
Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.0
Derivative financial instruments held to manage 
foreign currency exposures:
Foreign currency swaps (1.1) (1.1) 0.2 0.2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 67
Company
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.3 0.9 0.9
Trade and other receivables 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Trade and other payables (1.6) (1.6) (1.5) (1.5)
Primary financial instruments held to finance the Group’s operations:
Long-term borrowings (174.1) (174.1) (141.9) (141.9)
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the 
interest rate profile:
Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.0
Derivative financial instruments held to manage 
foreign currency exposures:
Foreign currency swaps (1.1) (1.1) 0.2 0.2
The fair value of long-term borrowings has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The fair values
of the interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps have been determined by reference to the market price available from the
market on which the instruments are traded.
The movement on the fair value of the interest rate swaps are debited or credited to equity via the consolidated Statement of
Recognised Income and Expense.
The fair value movement on the foreign currency swaps are debited or credited to the Income Statement.
Gains and losses on hedges
The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate profile. Changes in the fair value of the financial instruments
used as hedges are recognised in the financial statements. During the period the net losses from financial instruments entered
into totalled £0.8m (2007: loss £0.2m). A gain of £0.4m (2007: gain £0.2m) will arise in the year ending 31 March 2009.
19 Provisions
Deferred tax 
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the
current and prior reporting period:
Accelerated Other Accelerated Other 
capital Employee temporary capital Employee temporary
allowances benefits differences Total allowances benefits differences Total 
2008 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 13.0 (5.7) 0.4 7.7 15.6 (6.9) (0.8) 7.9
(Credit)/charge to income (3.1) 0.8 (0.1) (2.4) (2.4) 0.5 1.0 (0.9)
(Credit)/charge to equity 0.8 2.5 (0.9) 2.4 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.9
Exchange differences 1.5 (0.2) – 1.3 (0.3) 0.1 – (0.2)
At 31 March 12.2 (2.6) (0.6) 9.0 13.0 (5.7) 0.4 7.7
Deferred tax liabilities 12.2 – 1.5 13.7 13.2 – 1.4 14.6
Deferred tax assets – (2.6) (2.1) (4.7) (0.2) (5.7) (1.0) (6.9)
12.2 (2.6) (0.6) 9.0 13.0 (5.7) 0.4 7.7
Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and where the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the
same tax jurisdictions.
The Group did not provide deferred tax assets of £4.9m (2007: £3.9m) in respect of surplus tax losses. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
68 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon during the
current and prior reporting period:
Other Other
temporary temporary
differences differences 
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities at 1 April 0.2 –
(Credit)/charge to equity (0.1) 0.2
Deferred tax liabilities at 31 March 0.1 0.2
Other temporary differences relate to hedging movements.
Provision for termination and restructuring of operations
£m
At 1 April 2007 0.5
Utilised in the year (0.5)
Arising in the year 3.6
At 31 March 2008 3.6
The provisions relate to the closure and restructuring of certain activities described in note 4. It is expected that the provisions
outstanding will be utilised within the next 12 months.
20 Capital and Reserves
Share Share Capital Translation Cash flow Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve hedging earnings equity
account reserve reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 April 2006 4.9 24.0 0.9 5.2 0.1 117.1 152.2
Issue of shares – 0.9–––– 0.9
Share premium transfer – (22.2) – – – 22.2 –
Profit for year ended 31 March 2007 ––––– 13.1 13.1
Equity-settled share based payments ––––– 0.5 0.5
Actuarial gains ––––– 2.0 2.0
Deferred tax on actuarial gains ––––– (0.7) (0.7)
Exchange differences on foreign currencies – – – (2.2) – – (2.2)
Movement in fair value of swaps –––– 0.8– 0.8
Deferred tax on hedging movements –––– (0.2) – (0.2)
Dividends paid ––––– (7.9) (7.9)
At 31 March 2007 4.9 2.7 0.9 3.0 0.7 146.3 158.5 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 69
Share Share Capital Translation Cash flow Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve hedging earnings equity
account reserve reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 April 2007 4.9 2.7 0.9 3.0 0.7 146.3 158.5
Issue of shares 0.1 0.5–––– 0.6
Profit for year ended 31 March 2008 ––––– 4.4 4.4
Equity-settled share based payments ––––– 0.7 0.7
Actuarial gains ––––– 7.4 7.4
Deferred tax on actuarial gains ––––– (2.6) (2.6)
Exchange differences on 
foreign currencies – – – 19.6 – (0.1) 19.5
Movement in fair value of swaps –––– (0.4) – (0.4)
Deferred tax on hedging movements –––– 0.1– 0.1
Dividends paid ––––– (8.5) (8.5)
At 31 March 2008 5.0 3.2 0.9 22.6 0.4 147.6 179.7
Share Share Capital Translation Cash flow Retained Total
capital premium redemption reserve hedging earnings equity
account reserve reserve
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Company
At 1 April 2006 4.9 24.0 0.9 (0.3) 0.1 10.8 40.4
Issue of shares – 0.9–––– 0.9
Share premium transfer – (22.2) – – – 22.2 –
Loss for year ended 31 March 2007 ––––– (4.4) (4.4)
Equity-settled share based payments ––––– 0.5 0.5
Exchange differences on 
foreign currencies – – – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Movement in fair value of swaps –––– 0.8– 0.8
Deferred tax on hedging movements –––– (0.2) – (0.2)
Dividends paid ––––– (7.9) (7.9)
At 31 March 2007 4.9 2.7 0.9 (0.7) 0.7 21.2 29.7
At 1 April 2007 4.9 2.7 0.9 (0.7) 0.7 21.2 29.7
Issue of shares 0.1 0.5–––– 0.6
Loss for year ended 31 March 2008 ––––– (5.4) (5.4)
Equity-settled share based payments ––––– 0.7 0.7
Movement in fair value of swaps –––– (0.4) – (0.4)
Deferred tax on hedging movements –––– 0.1– 0.1
Dividends paid ––––– (8.5) (8.5)
At 31 March 2008 5.0 3.2 0.9 (0.7) 0.4 8.0 16.8
The capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary and preference shares in previous
years.
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow
hedging instruments.
The translation reserve comprises the effective portion of all foreign exchange differences arising from the retranslation of
financial statements of foreign operations, as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in
foreign operations. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
70 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
A special resolution by the Company to reduce its share premium account by £22.2m and transfer this sum to retained
earnings was confirmed by an order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division dated 3 May 2006.
21 Share Capital 
Group and Company 
2008 2007
££
Authorised
130,000,000 (2007: 130,000,000) ordinary shares of 5p each 6,500,000 6,500,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
99,000,695 (2007: 98,693,711) ordinary shares of 5p each 4,950,035 4,934,686
The authorised share capital was increased by 10,000,000 ordinary 5p shares at the Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2006.
The movement in the number of ordinary shares of 5p each issued by the Company is as follows:
2008 2007
Number Number
In issue at 1 April 98,693,711 98,072,180
Exercise of employee share options 306,984 621,531
In issue at 31 March 99,000,695 98,693,711
The Company has one class of ordinary 5p shares. The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares and provisions
relating to the transfer of ordinary shares are set out in the Company’s Articles of Association and governed by statute. All
ordinary shares rank equally regarding dividends, votes and return of capital. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive
shareholder notices and other documents and information and to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or
by proxy, at general meetings of the Company. The directors may refuse to register a transfer of ordinary shares where the
required proof of title has not been provided or transfer documents have not been lodged in an acceptable manner or form.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of holders of ordinary shares and there are no agreements that are known to the
Company between shareholders which may result in such restrictions.
The options granted under the Company’s share option schemes are satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares. Therefore,
employees do not hold any voting rights until the shares are allotted on exercise of their options.
The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 71
Share options
The Group operates a number of employee share option schemes. Invitations under the savings related share option scheme
(Sharesave scheme) are made to eligible employees in the UK and participating Mainland European countries. The exercise
price of the options granted is the market price of the shares at the close of business on the day preceding the date of grant
less 20%. Options are normally exercisable for a period of 6 months starting three years after the related savings contract
begins provided a participant remains an employee of the Group and completes the three year savings contract.
Executive share options are granted to executive directors and managers at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee of
the Group’s Board of Directors. The exercise price is normally the market price at the close of business on the day preceding
the date of grant. Options are exercisable between three and ten years after the date of grant provided the participant remains
an employee of the Group and, for executive directors, targets for earnings per share growth are met. Further information on
these schemes is given in the Remuneration Report.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle employee share options in cash.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
2008 2007
Average Number Average Number
exercise of exercise of
price options price options
At 1 April 218p 3,813,027 208p 4,687,254
Granted 290p 1,820,000 – –
Forfeited 238p (127,068) 202p (161,231)
Exercised 163p (306,984) 142p (621,531)
Lapsed 225p (53,800) 169p (22,699)
Cancelled 225p (83,353) 225p (68,766)
At 31 March 247p 5,061,822 218p 3,813,027
Options exercisable at 31 March 153p 632,647 149p 885,074
The share options outstanding at the end of the year were as follows:
Date Earliest Latest Number Number
of exercise exercise Exercise of options of options 
grant date date price 2008 2007
RPC Group 2003 Sharesave Scheme 20.1.2006 1.3.2009 31.8.2009 225.0p 864,144 1,035,953
RPC Group 1993 Executive Share
Option Scheme 11.7.1997 11.7.2000 10.7.2007 137.0p – 231,309
7.8.1998 7.8.2001 6.8.2008 172.5p 82,609 82,609
26.7.1999 26.7.2002 25.7.2009 210.5p 40,000 40,000
23.7.2001 23.7.2004 22.7.2011 145.5p 510,038 531,156
RPC Group 2003 Approved and
Unapproved Executive Share
Option Schemes 29.6.2005 29.6.2008 28.6.2015 247.0p 1,776,000 1,892,000
25.7.2007 25.7.2010 24.7.2017 294.0p 1,664,031 –
3.12.2007 3.12.2010 2.12.2017 233.0p 100,000 –
17.12.2007 17.12.2010 16.12.2017 218.0p 25,000 –
Options outstanding at 31 March 5,061,822 3,813,027
Under IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’ an expense is recognised for all equity settled share options granted after 7 November
2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. Consequently, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not
been applied to the executive share options granted under the RPC Group 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
72 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The fair value of options and the significant inputs using the Black Scholes valuation model were as follows:
RPC Group RPC Group RPC Group RPC Group
2003 2003 2003 2003
RPC Group Executive Executive Executive Executive
2003 Share Share Share Share
Sharesave Option Option Option Option
Scheme Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes
Date of grant 20.1.2006 29.6.2005 25.7.2007 3.12.2007 17.12.2007
Share price at date of grant 284p 247p 294p 233p 210p
Exercise price 225p 247p 294p 233p 218p
Fair value of options 73p 44p 64p 52p 38p
Expected volatility 22% 20% 20% 20% 20%
Dividend yield 3.3% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 3.5%
Annual risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.5% 6.3% 5.4% 5.4%
Option life (allowing for the vesting period 
and time to exercise) 3.1 years 6.2 years 6.1 years 7.0 years 6.0 years
The volatility, measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns, is based on statistical analysis of the
Company’s historical share price. There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
The fair value of 50,000 matching shares awarded during the year was 252p per share based on a market value at 1 November
2007 of 279p and discounted at a dividend yield of 3.5% over the three-year vesting period. Further information on the share
matching award is given in the Remuneration Report.
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
Year of 2008 2007
grant £m £m
RPC Group 2003 Executive Share Option Schemes 2005 0.3 0.3
RPC Group 2003 Sharesave Scheme 2006 0.2 0.2
RPC Group 2003 Executive Share Option Schemes 2007 0.2 –
Total included in staff costs (note 5) 0.7 0.5 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 73
22 Acquisitions
All acquisitions in this and the prior year were acquired for cash and accounted for using the acquisition method of
accounting.
2008
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the following businesses:
Company Date acquired
DM Plast 1 June 2007
Raytec BV 8 October 2007
MOB 23 November 2007
The book and fair values of these businesses were as follows:
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 2.2 4.7
Intangible assets 0.5 –
Inventories 2.6 2.5
Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.2
Cash at bank and in hand 0.8 0.8
Trade and other payables (2.1) (2.6)
Provision for onerous contracts – (1.6)
Employee benefits and related costs – (0.4)
Dilapidation provision – (0.2)
5.2 4.4
Positive goodwill 2.4
Negative goodwill taken to income (0.4)
Goodwill 2.0
Cash paid 6.2
Acquisition expenses 0.2
Cash consideration 6.4
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 6.4
Cash at bank and in hand (0.8)
5.6
The acquired businesses generated revenue of £11.7m and a profit before interest and tax of £0.4m in the period between the
date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2007, Group revenues for
the year would have increased by £12.2m to £707.4m and Group operating profit would have increased by a further £0.2m to
£21.5m.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions are attributable to the anticipated profitability of the acquired businesses and the
anticipated future operating synergies of combining these businesses with our existing activities. Negative goodwill has been
released to the Income Statement. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
74 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
2007
Crown Risdon
At the beginning of July 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Marolles Beauté SAS and the trade and
assets of Crown Risdon Italia S.R.L. for cash.
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 5.8 4.5
Inventories 4.2 4.0
Trade and other receivables 5.2 5.1
Deferred tax asset – 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.8
Trade and other payables (8.0) (8.3)
Employee benefits (1.3) (1.5)
Reorganisation provision (0.7) (0.4)
Provision for onerous contracts – (1.2)
Dilapidation provisions – (0.2)
Deferred tax liability – (0.3)
6.0 2.8
Goodwill 1.3
Cash paid 3.9
Acquisition expenses 0.2
Cash consideration 4.1
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 4.1
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.8)
3.3
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the acquired business and the
anticipated future operating synergies of combining these businesses with our existing business at Thornaby to create the
beauté cluster.
The fair value of property, plant and equipment reflects the net movement from an upward revaluation of property and a
reduction in plant and equipment reflecting the alignment of accounting policies.
Prior to acquisition the businesses were part of Crown European Holdings S.A. However, only certain parts of that business
were acquired. The centralised nature of their structure and accounting function means that it is not practicable to provide
further details of the results of the acquired business prior to acquisition.
The acquired business generated revenue of £20.5m and a loss before interest and tax of £0.2m in the period between the
date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 75
Barplas Limited
On 31 October 2006 the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Barplas Limited for cash.
Book value Fair value
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5
Inventories 0.2 0.2
Trade and other receivables 1.6 1.5
Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.1
Trade and other payables (0.9) (1.0)
Current tax liabilities – (0.3)
1.5 1.0
Goodwill 3.4
Cash paid 4.3
Acquisition expenses 0.1
Cash consideration 4.4
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition
Cash consideration 4.4
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.1)
4.3
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the anticipated profitability of the business and the anticipated
synergistic benefits that will result from being part of the Group’s UK Injection Moulding cluster.
Barplas Limited contributed £2.5m of revenue and £0.5m to the Group’s profit before interest and tax for the period between
the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date.
If the acquisition of Barplas Limited had been completed on 1 April 2006, Group revenues for the year would have been
£649.3m and Group operating profit would have been £26.8m.
4 Y ou Sigal
In August 2006, the Group acquired certain trade and assets from 4 You Sigal for cash of £0.6m giving rise to goodwill of
£0.3m.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the synergies that the acquisition will bring to our Polish operations.
The activities of 4 You Sigal have been subsumed within the existing RPC operations and it is not practicable therefore to
provide further details on the operation. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
76 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
23 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
2008 2007
£m £m
Capital expenditure
Expenditure contracted for but not provided 7.0 3.7
Financial commitments
The Group had total minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Within one year 5.1 4.6
Between one and five years 11.8 6.8
After five years 3.1 3.6
20.0 15.0
The Company had no commitments at either year end.
Contingent liabilities
There were no significant contingent liabilities at either 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007 for the Group.
The Company has guaranteed overdraft and credit facilities provided to the following subsidiaries:
Maximum amount Overdraft 
guaranteed outstanding
2008 2007
£m £m
RPC Packaging Holdings BV €27.0m 1.3 6.7
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Polska Sp. z o.o. 5m Zloty 0.5 –
RPC Bramlage Antwerpen NV €0.8m – –
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh Troyes SASU €0.5m – –
1.8 6.7
The Company has given a guarantee to the trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme in respect of RPC Containers
Limited and RPC Tedeco-Gizeh (UK) Limited up to a maximum underfunded amount. The underfunded amount is 105% of the
Scheme’s liabilities, calculated according to section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, less the value of the Scheme’s assets. As at
31 March 2006, the date of the last valuation, the underfunded amount was £27.2m.
24 Employee Benefits 
2008 2007
£m £m
Retirement benefit obligations 20.4 28.5
Termination benefits 3.5 2.8
Other long-term employee benefit liabilities 2.4 1.7
Employee benefits due after one year 26.3 33.0
Restructuring termination cost provision due within one year 1.8 0.4
Total employee benefits 28.1 33.4
There are no employee benefit costs in respect of the Company. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 77
Retirement benefit obligations
The liability recognised in the Balance Sheet for retirement benefit obligations is:
As at 31 March 2008
Other
Mainland 
UKNetherlands Germany France Europe Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded obligations 59.6 8.3––– 67.9
Fair value of plan assets (54.5) (6.0) – – – (60.5)
5.1 2.3––– 7.4
Present value of unfunded obligations – – 10.4 1.5 1.5 13.4
Unrecognised past service cost – (0.4) – – – (0.4)
Liability in the Balance Sheet 5.1 1.9 10.4 1.5 1.5 20.4
As at 31 March 2007
Other
Mainland 
UKNetherlands Germany France Europe Group
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of funded obligations 67.7 18.6––– 86.3
Fair value of plan assets (56.6) (14.6) – – – (71.2)
11.1 4.0––– 15.1
Present value of unfunded obligations – – 10.6 1.3 1.6 13.5
Unrecognised past service cost – – (0.1) – – (0.1)
Liability in the Balance Sheet 11.1 4.0 10.5 1.3 1.6 28.5
The history of retirement benefit obligations recognised in the Balance Sheet is as follows:
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Fair value of plan assets (60.5) (71.2) (65.2) (50.7)
Present value of defined benefit obligations 80.9 99.7 94.9 83.2
Balance Sheet liability 20.4 28.5 29.7 32.5
The amounts recognised in the Income Statement are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Current service cost 2.9 2.7
Interest cost 4.8 4.7
Expected return on plan assets (4.3) (4.2)
Settlement (2.0) –
Curtailment – (0.3)
Amortisation of unrecognised past service costs 0.1 0.2
Total included in staff costs (note 5) 1.5 3.1 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
78 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The amounts recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense are:
2008 2007
£m £m
At 1 April (2.8) (0.8)
Actuarial gains recognised during the year (7.4) (2.0)
At 31 March (10.2) (2.8)
The actuarial (gains)/losses recognised during the year were:
2008 2007
£m £m
Experience losses on plan assets 9.7 0.7
Experience losses on liabilities – 2.1
Gains on change of assumptions (17.1) (4.8)
(7.4) (2.0)
The history of experience (gains)/losses arising on defined benefit obligations is:
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Experience losses / (gains) on plan assets 9.7 0.7 (7.6) (1.6)
Percentage of fair value of plan assets 16% 1% (12%) (3%)
Experience losses / (gains) on liabilities – 2.1 0.1 (0.1)
Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations 0% 2% 0% 0%
Changes to the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Defined benefit obligations at 1 April 99.7 95.0
Obligations acquired on acquisition 0.6 1.5
Current service cost 2.9 2.7
Interest cost 4.8 4.7
Contributions by participants 0.8 1.8
Actuarial gains on liabilities (17.1) (2.7)
Net benefits paid (2.7) (2.4)
Past service cost 0.1 –
Amendments 0.4 –
Curtailments and settlements (11.8) (0.1)
Exchange differences 3.6 (0.7)
Defined benefit obligations at 31 March 81.3 99.8
Unrecognised past service cost (0.4) (0.1)
Defined benefit obligations recognised in the Balance Sheet 80.9 99.7 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 79
Changes to the fair value of plan assets during the year are:
2008 2007
£m £m
Fair value of assets at 1 April 71.2 65.2
Assets acquired on acquisition 0.5 –
Expected return on assets 4.3 4.2
Actuarial losses on assets (9.7) (0.7)
Contributions by employer 4.7 3.3
Contributions by participants 0.8 1.8
Net benefits paid (2.7) (2.4)
Settlements (9.8) –
Exchange differences 1.2 (0.2)
Fair value of assets at 31 March 60.5 71.2
The actual return on plan assets was £(5.4)m (2007: £3.5m).
The movement in the liability recognised in the Balance Sheet is:
2008 2007
£m £m
Liability at 1 April 28.5 29.7
Net liabilities acquired on acquisition 0.1 1.5
Total expense charged to the Income Statement 1.5 3.1
Actuarial gains recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense (7.4) (2.0)
Contributions and benefits paid (4.7) (3.3)
Exchange differences 2.4 (0.5)
Liability at 31 March 20.4 28.5
The fair value of the funded plan assets invested at the balance sheet date as a percentage of total plan assets is set out
below:
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
UK Netherlands Group UK Netherlands Group
Equities 75% 0% 67% 76% 17% 64%
Property 4% 0% 4% 5% 0% 4%
Government and Corporate Bonds 21% 15% 21% 19% 51% 25%
Other (including insurance policies) 0% 85% 8% 0% 32% 7%
The expected returns on plan assets at the balance sheet date are:
2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007
UK Netherlands Group UK Netherlands Group
Equities 8.4% – 8.4% 8.4% 7.9% 8.4%
Property 7.2% – 7.2% 7.2% – 7.2%
Bonds 5.3% 4.5% 5.2% 4.9% 4.4% 4.7%
Other 6.0% 6.0% 6.0% 5.5% 4.6% 4.6%
The Company employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets. Historical
markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted
capital market principles. The overall expected rate of return on assets is derived by aggregating the expected return for each
asset class over the actual asset allocation for the funded plans at 31 March 2008. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
80 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were:
2008 2007
Mainland Mainland
UK Europe UK Europe
Discount rate 7.1% 6.10% 5.6% 4.75%
Inflation rate 3.5% 1.86% 3.0% 1.75%
Increase in benefits in payment 3.5% 1.86% 3.0% 1.75%
Salary increases 3.5% 2.28% 3.0% 2.25%
Expected return on assets 7.7% 5.25% 7.7% 5.05%
The mortality assumptions used in valuing the defined benefit obligations are based on standard mortality tables used by the
actuarial profession in the relevant countries adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect the circumstances of the relevant
scheme’s membership. In the UK the mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables PA00 (with a scaling factor of
119%) as adopted by the Institute of Actuaries with allowance for Medium Cohort future mortality improvements
underpinned by 1% per annum for males and 0.5% per annum for females. The life expectancies from the age of 65 of scheme
members assumed at the balance sheet date in years were as follows:
2008 2007
UK UK
Current age:
Aged 65:
Male 21 20
Female 23 23
Aged 45:
Male 23 22
Female 24 24
The most sensitive assumption used to determine the defined benefit obligations of the Group is the discount rate. An increase
or decrease of 0.1% in the discount rate would result in a decrease or increase in the Group’s defined benefit obligations of
1.8%.
IFRIC 14 is an interpretation of IAS 19 on accounting for employee benefits and, if it is adopted by the EU, will apply to the
Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009. An assessment has been made of the application of IFRIC 14
to the recognition of a surplus and allowance for minimum funding requirements on the Group’s retirement benefit obligations
and it was concluded that there will be no impact following its introduction.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes. In the UK and the Netherlands these are contributory with
funds held separately from the finances of the Group either by trustee-administered funds or by insurance contracts.
Funded retirement benefit obligations
UK – The Group provides retirement benefits to some of its former employees and approximately 39% (2007: 42%) of current
employees through a defined benefit pension scheme, called the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme. This provides
members with benefits based on pensionable salary in the last three years of employment and total pensionable service. The
assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term liabilities to past and present
employees. The corporate trustee, which is independent from the Group, has a duty to act in the best interest of the scheme’s
beneficiaries. The appointment of trustee directors is determined by the scheme’s corporate and trust documentation and by
statute. All trustee directors are members of the pension scheme and one-third are nominated by current members.
Subject to statute, the principal employer, RPC Containers Limited, on the advice of the scheme actuary and in consultation
with the trustee, determines the contributions to the scheme. In addition, in the event that any of the members’ employing
companies are unable to pay their contributions, the trustee may call upon a guarantee provided by RPC Group Plc in respect
of certain present and future liabilities of the members’ employing companies in the UK. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 81
The last triennial valuation performed by an independent actuary for the trustee of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March
2006. The valuation, which is calculated on an ongoing funding basis which is different from that prescribed by IAS 19 on
accounting for employee benefits, showed a deficit of £21.7m. The employing companies aim to eliminate the deficit over
10.6 years from the balance sheet date. The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost
and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit method based on the last actuarial valuation for IAS 19
purposes allowing for IAS 19 financial assumptions and any further improvements in life expectancy.
The UK pension scheme has separate sections with accrual rates of 1/60th per year of service and 1/80th per year of service.
On 1 December 2006 the 60ths section was closed to new entrants. With effect from 1 July 2007, the indexation of pensions
in payment accrued from this date was limited to the lower of inflation and 2.5% (previously 5%). In addition, member
contributions were increased by 1% and 0.6% of pensionable salary to 11% and 6.6% for the respective sections and the
overall employer contribution increased from 12.1% to 14.5% of pensionable salaries. At the same time a pension salary
sacrifice arrangement was established whereby scheme members sacrifice an amount of their gross salary in exchange for the
employer paying the employee pension contributions. Approximately 95% of members participate in this arrangement.
Although the current service cost and employer contributions are increased, there is no net impact on the operating profit,
balance sheet liability or cash flow other than a small saving in National Insurance contributions. The additional current
service cost and employer contributions paid to the UK pension scheme during the year under this arrangement were £1.0m
with a corresponding saving in wages and salaries.
The Netherlands – In the Netherlands there are a number of defined benefit retirement plans. These are funded by
contributions to insurance policies or a separately administered fund. There are four pension plans in the Netherlands
providing career average salary pensions and disability benefits under insurance contracts with Swiss Life, Aegon and
Winterthur. Members pay a fixed amount of their salary in contributions and the employing company’s contributions are
adjusted annually by the insurance company based on the funding level. The IAS 19 liability and service cost are calculated by
local actuaries by rolling forward the latest data available from the insurance companies and current salary data from the
relevant RPC subsidiary.
In December 2007, agreement was reached with employees at RPC Tedeco-Gizeh, Deventer and the Dutch Plastics Industry
Pension Plan to close the Deventer Pension Plan and transfer all accrued past service benefits to the industry scheme with
effect from 1 January 2007. All benefits from the effective date are provided by the Dutch Plastics Industry Pension Plan which
is a multi-employer, funded, defined benefit, career weighted average salary scheme providing benefits at the rate of 2.15%
per annum of pensionable earnings. The employer contribution is 9.9% of pensionable earnings. A settlement gain of £2.0m
has been recognised in the Income Statement in respect of this change. As part of the arrangements, RPC Group Plc agreed to
guarantee the payment of 0.5m Euros to the industry scheme spread over a period of just over 5 years by members (40%) and
the employer (60%) to make up a past service funding shortfall.
It is not possible to separately identify the assets and liabilities in the Dutch Plastics Industry Pension Plan which relate to RPC
Group employees. Consequently, it is not possible to apply defined benefit accounting. In the event that RPC ceased to
participate in the future, it would not be required to make up for any shortfall in funding on exit. At the last available
valuation as at 31 December 2006, there was a surplus in the industry scheme of 10.2%. The expense recognised in the
Income Statement in staff costs is equal to the contributions due for the year and is not included in the above retirement
benefit obligations. The cost for the year of £0.2m was included in defined contribution plan charges in staff costs (note 5).
There were 102 current employees participating in this plan at 31 March 2008.
The industry scheme also agreed to the transfer of certain early retirement benefits provided to Deventer employees. RPC has
agreed to make additional contributions to make up the deficit until they expire in 2016/17. These separately identifiable
liabilities continue to be accounted for as defined benefit liabilities under IAS 19 and are included in the retirement benefit
obligations above. The deficit at 31 March 2008 was £0.6m.
Unfunded retirement benefit obligations
Most of the Group’s German operations provide non-contributory pension plans financed by balance sheet provisions
calculated by a local actuary on an annual basis according to local requirements. There is no external funding for these plans
although they are secured by insolvency insurance. In general, the plans provide a fixed retirement benefit not related to
salaries and are closed to new entrants. Pension increases are granted every three years based on price inflation. The IAS 19
liability and service cost are based on the annual valuation provided by the local actuary using the projected unit method. Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 continued
82 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
In France all operations provide unfunded retirement indemnities according to the applicable collective agreement. The benefit
takes the form of a lump sum payable on reaching retirement age. RPC’s Italian businesses are required to provide termination
benefits payable on leaving service including retirement. This amounts to one month’s deferred pay per year of service
revalued each year. Following the introduction of new regulations on 1 January 2007, the equivalent amount previously
accrued as an unfunded balance sheet provision must be paid into a defined contribution plan or a state fund from 1 July 2007
and applied retrospectively from 1 January 2007. This resulted in a small curtailment credit to the Group’s operating profit in
2006/07. The revalued past service liability continues to be accounted for as a defined benefit obligation. Contributions
payable for the year ended 31 March 2008 of £0.3m are included in defined contribution plan charges in staff costs (note 5).
The Group’s operations in Poland are required to provide for a retirement indemnity of one month’s salary for employees who
have worked for at least 25 years for any employer. Mandatory death benefits are also provided.
The Group expects to contribute approximately £5.3m (2007: £3.8m) to its defined benefit plans in the next financial year.
This includes £1.6m in respect of employer contributions under the pension salary sacrifice arrangement in the UK.
Multi-employer plans
In addition to the Plastics Industry Pension Plan described above, certain Group employees in the Netherlands participate in
multi-employer or industry-wide defined benefit pension plans. The names of the plans are Stichting Beheer
Personeelsvoorziening OWASE and Stichting Bedrijfspensioenfond voor de Houtverwerkende Industrie (Wood Industry
Scheme). The Group has 185 (2007: 188) and 64 (2007: 62) current employees in these plans respectively and is not a
significant participant in either.
The OWASE plan is a multi-employer plan whose core participating companies comprise the former owner of RPC Bebo
Nederland, Goor prior to its acquisition by RPC. The plan provides career weighted average salary pension benefits accrued at
the rate of 2.15% of annual pensionable salary. The employer contributes 22.5% of pensionable salary. Employer contributions
are fixed and there is no contractual agreement between this multi-employer plan and their participants that would determine
how any surpluses or deficits will be distributed or funded. Therefore, it is not possible to apply defined benefit accounting. The
latest information available on the funding status of the OWASE plan on the local funding valuation basis according to Dutch
law indicates that the plan is in surplus. Therefore, contributions for RPC are expected to remain at the current level.
It is not possible to separately identify within the Wood Industry Scheme the assets and liabilities which relate to RPC Group
employees. Therefore, it is not possible to apply defined benefit accounting. Furthermore, there is no contractual agreement
between this multi-employer plan and their participants that would determine how any surpluses or deficits will be
distributed or funded. Consequently, it is not possible to determine the possible impact on the Group of any surplus or deficit
in this plan. The latest information available on the funding status of the Wood Industry Scheme on the local funding valuation
basis according to Dutch law indicates that the plan is in surplus. Therefore, contributions for RPC are expected to remain at
the current level.
The latest published funding level and date on which this was measured is as follows:
2008 2007
Date Funding Level Date Funding Level
OWASE 1 April 2006 132.5% 1 April 2006 132.5%
Wood Industry Scheme 31 December 2006 110.4% 31 December 2005 111.4%
The expense recognised in the Income Statement for both of these multi-employer plans in staff costs is equal to the
contributions due for the year and is not included in the above retirement benefit obligations. The cost for the year was £0.6m
(2007: £0.7m) included in defined contribution plan charges in staff costs (note 5).
Termination benefits
Termination benefit provisions consist of German Altersteilzeit employee incentives (described in note 1) and Belgian and
Dutch contractual pre-retirement termination benefits.
Other long-term employee benefit liabilities
These consist of deferred salaries for German Altersteilzeit employees and provision for long-service awards. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 83
25 Related Parties 
Group
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see page 8) and with its directors. Transactions between the
Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation for the Group.
Transactions with key management personnel
Disclosures relating to directors are set out in the Remuneration Report. The remuneration of the key management personnel
of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 1.1 1.0
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.1 –
1.3 1.1
Company
The amounts due to and from the Company in respect of its subsidiaries are set out in notes 15 and 16. Transactions between
the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash received in respect of receivable balances with Group undertakings 60.3 36.1
Cash paid to Group undertakings (64.9) (30.0)
Dividends received 3.5 0.6
Net interest (payable)/receivable (0.1) 0.1 84 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 695.2 645.7 611.5 513.3 430.2 407.1 374.9 356.2 295.7 269.3
Operating profit 40.6 38.1 36.8 31.0 28.4 27.7 26.8 23.0 23.0 20.8
Profit before taxation 9.8 18.9 26.4 25.5 23.2 21.5 20.1 5.1 19.8 18.2
Profit after taxation 4.4 13.1 19.3 19.5 16.7 15.1 14.1 2.9 13.3 13.7
Net assets employed 179.7 158.5 152.2 133.9 118.3 110.7 88.3 79.8 71.4 72.1
Capital expenditure 35.1 33.4 51.0 34.7 29.9 36.8 32.0 28.7 26.4 23.5
Cash generated by
operations 63.5 40.9 64.5 53.3 45.9 44.8 48.3 30.6 34.6 37.7
Basic earnings per
share (p) 4.4 13.2 19.9 22.2 19.1 17.3 16.3 3.4 15.4 16.1
Adjusted basic earnings
per share (p) 21.5 20.6 22.1 20.3 18.6 17.3 16.3 13.9 15.4 16.1
Dividend per share (p) 9.0 8.4 7.75 7.1 6.6 6.3 6.0 5.7 5.6 5.1
Average number of
employees 6,916 6,660 6,571 6,229 5,535 5,682 5,562 5,453 4,671 3,974
The figures for 2001 are adjusted to take account of the restatement required following the adoption of FRS 19. The figures for
2000 have been restated by adjusting for the deferred tax previously unprovided for ease of comparison.
The figures for 2004 and earlier periods are disclosed on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts
for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRSs.
The operating profit shown for 2005 and subsequent years reflects the adjusted profit of the Group before non-recurring items
identified separately on the face of the Income Statement. For 2004 and prior years, operating profit is stated before
exceptional items under UK GAAP.
The cash generated by operations shown for 2005 and subsequent years reflects amounts reported under IAS. In previous years,
the figures refer to operating cash flow measured under UK GAAP.
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting 23 July 2008
Payment of Final Dividend 5 September 2008
Announcement of Half Year Results 28 November 2008
Payment of Interim Dividend 27 January 2009
Announcement of Final Results June 2009
Ten year financial record RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 85
Notice of annual general meeting
This document is important and requires your immediate attention. If you have any doubts about what action you need to take, you
should contact your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised
pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in RPC Group Plc please forward this Notice, together with the accompanying
document(s), as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the
sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
RPC Group Plc
Registered Number 2578443
Notice is hereby given that the Sixteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 30 Gresham Street, London
EC2P 2XY on 23 July 2008 at 12.00 noon for the purpose of transacting the following business:–
Ordinary Business
1. To receive and adopt the financial statements and the reports of the directors and auditors for the financial year ended
31 March 2008.
2. To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
3. To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares of 6.1p per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2008.
4. To re-elect Mr M J B Green, who retires annually, as a director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Dr D J Wilbraham, who retires by rotation, as a director of the Company.
6. To re-elect Dr P Hilton, who retires by rotation, as a director of the Company.
7. To elect Mr P R M Vervaat, who was appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, as a director of the
Company.
8. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
9. To authorise the directors to fix the auditors’ remuneration.
Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which numbers 10 and 11 will be proposed as ordinary
resolutions and numbers 12 to 14 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions:
10. That the RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan (the “Plan”), a copy of the Rules of which is produced to the Meeting
and for the purpose of identification initialled by the Chairman, be approved and established and the directors of the
Company be authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary or desirable to bring the Plan into
effect.
11. That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant
securities (within the meaning of section 80(2) of the Companies Act 1985 (the “Act”)) up to an aggregate nominal
amount of £1,548,100 provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in 2009 or on 23 October 2009, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such
expiry date make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry
and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred
hereby had not expired.
12. 12.1 That the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of
identification as New Articles ‘A’ be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to
the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
12.2 That with effect from 00.01 a.m. on 1 October 2008, the new Articles of Association adopted pursuant to paragraph
12.1 be amended by the insertion of new article 101.8, such amendment being produced to the Meeting and
initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification as New Articles ‘B’. 86 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Notice of annual general meeting continued
13. That the directors be and hereby are empowered pursuant to section 95(1) of the Act to:
(a) allot for cash and make offers or agreements to allot equity securities (as defined in section 94(2) of the Act)
pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 above as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such
allotment, and
(b) sell relevant shares (as defined in section 94(5) of the Act) in the Company if, immediately before the sale such
shares are held by the Company as treasury shares (as defined in section 162A(3) of the Act) (treasury shares) for
cash (as defined in section 162D(2) of the Act), as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such sale,
provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares:
(i) in connection with issues to holders of ordinary shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the
interests of such holders are proportionate (as nearly as may be practicable) to the respective numbers of ordinary
shares held by them on the record date for such allotment, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements
as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record
dates or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory, or the requirements of
any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever; and
(ii) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £247,500;
such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 or on 
23 October 2009, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or
agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such
expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer or agreement
as if the power conferred thereby had not expired.
14. That the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make
market purchases (within the meaning of section 163(3) of the Act) on the London Stock Exchange of any of its ordinary
shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company (the ordinary shares) subject to the following restrictions and provisions:
a) the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 9,903,100;
b) the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5p;
c) the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the
middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for
the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased;
d) unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting of the Company held in 2009 or on 23 July 2009, whichever is the earlier; and
e) the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such
authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make such a
purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board
Rebecca K Joyce
Company Secretary
18 June 2008
Registered Office:
Lakeside House
Higham Ferrers
Northants
NN10 8RP RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 87
Notice of annual general meeting continued
Notes
1. Proxies
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend to speak and to vote at the meeting. A
member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or
shares held by him/her. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. Forms of proxy, and the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is
signed, must be deposited at the Company’s Registrars, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZX, not later than 48 hours before the
time of the meeting. Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
A “Vote Withheld” option is provided on the form of proxy which enables a member to abstain on any particular resolution. It should be noted that a “Vote
Withheld” is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes “For” or “Against” a resolution.
2. Right to attend and vote
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting
(and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast), a person must be entered on the register of members of
the Company at 6.00 p.m. on 21 July 2008 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00 p.m. on the date which is two days before the day of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3. Corporate members
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a corporate shareholder has
appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other
corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the
Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the
same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a
designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate
representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives - http://www.icsa.org.uk - for further details of this procedure. The guidance
includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above.
4. Nominated persons
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights (a “Nominated
Person”) may have a right, under an agreement between him/her and the member by whom he/she was nominated, to be appointed (or to have someone else
appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he/she may have a right, under
such agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons. Those rights can only be
exercised by shareholders of the Company.
5. Documents on display
Copies of executive directors’ service agreements, copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors, the draft Rules of the RPC Group
2008 Performance Share Plan being proposed in resolution 10 and a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company and a copy of the existing
Articles of Association, marked-up to show the changes being proposed in resolution 12, are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal
business hours from the date of this notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted) and will be available for
inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
6. Total number of shares and voting rights
As at 16 June 2008 (being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice) the Company’s issued share capital consists of 99,031,258 ordinary shares,
carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 99,031,258.
7. Communication
You may not use any electronic address (within the meaning of section 333(4) of the Companies Act 2006) provided in this Notice of Meeting (or in any related
documents including the proxy form) to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated. 88 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Explanatory notes
Resolution 1: To Receive and Adopt the Report and
Accounts
The business of the Annual General Meeting will begin with a
resolution to receive the financial statements, together with
the reports of the directors and auditors, in respect of the
year ended 31 March 2008.
Resolution 2: To Approve the Remuneration Report
In accordance with section 241A of the Act, the shareholders
are required to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report
for the year ended 31 March 2008. The Remuneration Report
is set out in full on pages 29 to 38 of the Annual Report and
Accounts. Alternatively, the Remuneration Report is
obtainable on request from the company secretary at the
registered office of the Company, or from the Company’s
website.
Resolution 3: To Declare a Final Dividend
The Company paid an interim dividend of 2.9p per ordinary
share on 25 January 2008. The directors recommend a final
dividend of 6.1p per ordinary share bringing the total
dividend for the year to 9.0p per ordinary share.
If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders the final dividend
for the year ended 31 March 2008 will be paid on 
5 September 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the
register of members at the close of business on 8 August
2008.
Resolution 4: To Re-elect Mr M J B Green as a Director of
the Company
Under the provisions of the Combined Code and the terms of
his reappointment, M J B Green, who completed nine years
as an independent non-executive director in March 2007, is
subject to annual re-election. Brief biographical details for 
M J B Green, who is recommended for re-election as a
director at this year’s Annual General Meeting, can be found
on page 9 of the Annual Report and Accounts. His terms of
appointment can be found in the Remuneration Report on
page 33.
A detailed performance evaluation was conducted during the
year taking into account the need for progressive refreshing
of the Board. The performance evaluation procedure is 
set out in the Report of the Directors on page 22 of the
Annual Report and Accounts. The Board also considered 
M J B Green’s independence. Although M J B Green had
served as an independent non-executive director for ten
years, there were no other relationships or circumstances
that were likely to affect or appear to affect the director’s
judgement. The Board concluded that M J B Green continued
to demonstrate independence of character and judgement,
brought valuable experience to the Board and continued to
be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that M J B Green be re-
elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 5: To Re-elect Dr D J Wilbraham as a Director
of the Company
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, directors are
subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three
years. D J Wilbraham, having served three years since his last
re-election, retires by rotation this year in accordance with
the Articles of Association. Brief biographical details for 
D J Wilbraham, who is recommended for re-election as a
director at this year’s Annual General Meeting, can be found
on page 9 of the Annual Report and Accounts. His terms of
appointment can be found in the Remuneration Report on
page 33.
Prior to the reappointment of D J Wilbraham, a detailed
performance evaluation was conducted taking into account
the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. The
performance evaluation procedure is set out in the Report of
the Directors on page 22 of the Annual Report and
Accounts. The Board also considered D J Wilbraham’s
independence. D J Wilbraham completed nine years as an
independent non-executive director in July 2007 but there
were no other relationships or circumstances that were likely
to affect or appear to affect the director’s judgement. The
Board concluded that D J Wilbraham continued to
demonstrate independence of character and judgement,
brought valuable experience to the Board and continued to
be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board approved the reappointment of D J Wilbraham as
an independent non-executive director for a further term of
three years subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that D J Wilbraham be
re-elected as a director of the Company.
Resolution 6: To Re-elect Dr P Hilton as a Director of the
Company
Under the Company’s Articles of Association, directors are
subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three
years. P Hilton, having served three years since his last 
re-election, retires by rotation this year in accordance with
the Articles of Association. Brief biographical details for P
Hilton, who is recommended for re-election as a director at
this year’s Annual General Meeting, can be found on page 9
of the Annual Report and Accounts. His service contract
details can be found in the Remuneration Report on
page 33.
P Hilton’s performance has been reviewed during the year as
described in the evaluation procedure set out in the Report
of the Directors on page 22 of the Annual Report and
Accounts and as a result the Board recommends his re-
election as a director.
Resolution 7: To Elect Mr P R M Vervaat as a Director of
the Company
The Company’s Articles of Association permit any director
appointed by the Board since the date of the last Annual RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 89
Explanatory notes continued
General Meeting to hold office only until the date of the
next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
P R M Vervaat was appointed by the Board as a director, on 
1 November 2007. Brief biographical details for P R M
Vervaat, who is recommended for election as a director at
this year’s Annual General Meeting, can be found on page 9
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the process followed for P R M Vervaat’s selection
can be found in the Nomination Committee section of the
Directors’ Report on page 23 and information regarding his
service contract is set out in the Remuneration Report. P R M
Vervaat has made a significant contribution to the Group in
his role as finance director since his appointment.
Accordingly, the Board recommends his election as a director
of the Company.
Resolution 8: To Re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the
Company’s Auditors
Auditors must be appointed at every Annual General Meeting
at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc has advised its willingness to stand for 
re-appointment as the auditors of the Company. The Board
recommends their re-appointment following
recommendation by the Audit Committee which has
conducted an evaluation of the auditors’ effectiveness,
independence and objectivity.
Resolution 9: To Authorise the Directors to fix the
Auditors’ Remuneration
Shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the directors
of the Company to determine the auditors’ remuneration.
Resolution 10: To Adopt the RPC Group 2008 Performance
Share Plan
Over the course of the past year the Remuneration
Committee of the Board (the “Remuneration Committee”)
undertook a review of the share based pay arrangements for
the Group’s senior executives. In summary, the Remuneration
Committee determined that the current Executive Share
Option Schemes should no longer form the main long-term
incentive vehicle for senior executives and that a new
performance share plan would provide a more meaningful
alignment between shareholders and participating
executives. The directors are seeking your approval for the
introduction of the RPC Group 2008 Performance Share Plan
(the “Plan”).Your directors believe that the Plan and its terms
reflect current best practice and that its adoption is in the
best interests of the Company. They therefore recommend
that you vote in favour of Resolution 10. Further information
on the operation of the Plan is given in the Remuneration
Report on pages 31 and 32.
The main features of the new RPC Group 2008 Performance
Share Plan are summarised below.
1. Eligibility
Any employee (including a director) of the Company or
any member of the Group who is required to devote
substantially the whole of his working time to his
employment or office will be eligible to participate in
the Plan. The Remuneration Committee will be
responsible for selecting eligible employees for grants
of awards.
2. Awards under the Plan
Awards under the Plan will normally be made in the
form of a conditional award of a specified number of
ordinary shares in the Company (an “Allocation”). Where
it is impractical or inequitable in certain countries (due
to tax or social security regulations for example) to
make an Allocation, an award of an Option to acquire
shares may be made instead. Where an Option is
awarded the ‘expected value’ of such an award will be
broadly similar to that which would have been provided
in the form of an Allocation.
Participants may be granted any combination of
awards, whether in a single award or a series of awards.
No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Initial Allocations will have a face value of 66% of base
salary for the Chief Executive and around 50% of salary
for other eligible executives.
Awards may normally only be granted within 42 days
after the approval of the Plan by the Company in
general meeting or within 42 days after the
announcement of the Company’s results for any period.
Awards may also be granted at any other time at which
the Remuneration Committee determines that there are
exceptional circumstances which justify the grant of an
award. No award may be granted later than ten years
after the date on which the Plan is approved by the
Company in general meeting nor at any time at which
dealing would not be permitted under the Model Code.
Subject to the limit set out in paragraph 5 below,
awards may be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary
shares or by the transfer of existing shares, either from
treasury or out of shares held by any employee benefit
trust established by the Company.
3. Conditions on vesting or exercise
An Allocation or Option may be granted subject to such
performance condition or conditions as the
Remuneration Committee in its discretion sees fit (the
“Performance Condition(s)”) which must be satisfied
before an award may be exercised or vest. Performance
will be measured over a period determined by the
Remuneration Committee (the “Performance Period”);
the intention of the Remuneration Committee is for the 90 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Explanatory notes continued
Performance Period to be a period of three years
commencing on 1 April of the calendar year in which an
award is granted. There will be no provision for re-
testing.
If an event occurs which causes the Remuneration
Committee to determine that the Performance
Condition(s) have ceased to be appropriate, it may in its
discretion vary or waive those condition(s) provided
that any new condition(s) imposed (or any variation)
are in its opinion fair, reasonable and no more difficult
to satisfy than the previous condition(s).
Performance under the initial awards will be assessed
against a sliding scale that measures average EPS
growth over CPI.Vesting will be on a straight-line basis
between threshold and maximum levels of performance
as shown below. The calculation will be performed on a
point to point basis.
EPS Growth Above CPI % of Award Vesting
Below 3% 0%
3% 25%
4% 50%
5% 75%
6% and above 100%
The Remuneration Committee will regularly monitor
the continuing suitability of the Performance
Condition(s) and may impose different conditions on
awards granted in subsequent years having regard to
prevailing market conditions; such conditions would be
at least as challenging as the Performance Condition(s)
which apply to the first cycle of awards made under the
Plan.
4. Individual limit
No award will be granted to any individual if the
aggregate market value of the shares subject to that
award together with the aggregate market value of any
shares committed to be issued or transferred pursuant
to any other award made to him in the same financial
year of the Company under the Plan would exceed a
sum equal to 200% of base salary.
5. Overall dilution limit
In any 10 year period, not more than 10% of the issued
ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or
committed to be issued under the Performance Share
Plan, Executive Share Option Schemes and all other
employee share plans operated by the Company. In
addition, in any 10 year period no more than 5% of the
issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be
issued or committed to be issued under the Company’s
discretionary share plans. In line with ABI guidelines,
shares transferred from treasury to satisfy awards will
be counted towards the dilution limits.
6. Exercise/vesting of award
In normal circumstances, an Allocation may not vest
nor an Option become exercisable unless the
Performance Condition(s) have been satisfied at the end
of the Performance Period.
Awards will also normally lapse where participants
leave the Group before their awards vest or become
exercisable unless employment ceases due to ill health,
injury or disability, retirement, redundancy or death.
In these circumstances performance will continue to be
assessed over the full Performance Period and the
vesting of any award will be determined on a pro-rata
basis according to the time elapsed since the date of
grant to the leaving date when compared with the
original vesting period. The Remuneration Committee
has discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, to waive
pro-rating if appropriate.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee has
discretion to determine within one month of cessation
of employment that an award will vest on or become
exercisable from the date of its determination. In these
cases performance will be assessed over the reduced
Performance Period and the proportion of an award that
vests will be pro-rated according to the length of the
reduced Performance Period. The Remuneration
Committee has the discretion to review the size of the
award that this calculation produces and may, acting
fairly and reasonably, determine that a higher
proportion of vesting is appropriate.
If a participant ceases to be employed within the Group
for one of the reasons set out above on or after the
commencement of the option period, a subsisting
Option may be exercised for a period of six months (or
12 months in the case of death) to the extent that the
Performance Condition(s) have been fulfilled.
An award will, in any event, lapse on the tenth
anniversary of its date of grant, if not previously vested
or exercised.
7. Takeover, scheme of arrangement and liquidation
In the event of a takeover or scheme of arrangement or
the voluntary winding-up of the Company occurring
before the normal vesting date or, as the case may be,
the commencement of the option period, an Allocation
will vest and an Option will become exercisable and
remain exercisable for a period of one month or until
the expiry of any compulsory acquisition period, if
earlier. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 91
Explanatory notes continued
Unless the Remuneration Committee, acting fairly and
reasonably, determines that a higher figure is
appropriate, the number of shares which vest or over
which Options are exercisable will, in these
circumstances, be determined on the same pro-rating
principles both in relation to the assessment of
performance and reduced performance period described
above.
If such an event takes place on or after the
commencement of the option period, a subsisting
Option may be exercised for a period of one month to
the extent that the Performance Condition(s) have been
fulfilled.
If such an event occurs, an award may also be released
in exchange for an equivalent new award to be granted
by any acquiring company, if the participant so wishes
and the acquiring company agrees.
Where any such event occurs as part of an internal
reorganisation of the Company, subsisting awards will
be exchanged for new awards granted by the acquiring
company unless such an offer is not forthcoming from
the acquiring company in which case vesting or exercise
as set out above will be permitted.
8. Variation of share capital
In the event of any variation in the ordinary share
capital of the Company, such adjustments to the
number of shares subject to awards and the price at
which they may be acquired may be made by the
Remuneration Committee as it may, having taken
appropriate professional advice, determine to be
appropriate.
9. Voting, dividend and other rights
Until Options or Allocations are exercised or vest,
participants have no voting or other rights in respect of
the Shares subject to those awards. Awards are not
assignable or transferable.
Shares issued or transferred pursuant to the Plan will
rank pari passu in all respects with shares already in
issue except that they will not rank for any dividend or
other distribution paid or made by reference to a record
date falling prior to the date of exercise or vesting of
the relevant award.
Benefits obtained under the Plan shall not be
pensionable.
10. Administration and amendment
The operation of the Plan will be supervised by the
Remuneration Committee which may amend the Plan
by resolution provided that:
a) prior approval of the Company in general meeting
will be required for any amendment to the
advantage of participants to those provisions of
the Plan relating to eligibility, the limitations on
the number of shares, cash or other benefits
subject to the Plan, a participant’s maximum
entitlement or to the basis for determining a
participant’s entitlement under the Plan and the
adjustment thereof in the event of a variation in
capital, except in the case of minor amendments
to benefit the administration of the Plan and
amendments to take account of changes in
legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax,
exchange control or regulatory treatment for
participants or for any member of the Group; and
b) no amendment may be made which would alter to
the disadvantage of participants any rights already
acquired by them under the Plan without the prior
approval of a majority of the affected participants.
11. Overseas plans
The Board may from time to time and without further
formality establish further plans in overseas territories,
any such plan to be similar to the Plan but modified to
take account of local tax, exchange control or securities
laws, regulation or practice. Shares made available
under any such plan would count against any limits on
overall or individual participation in the Plan save that
only newly issued shares or shares transferred from
treasury would count against the overall dilution limits.
12. Termination
The Plan may be terminated at any time by resolution
of the Board or of the Company in general meeting and
in any event no awards may be granted on or after the
tenth anniversary of the date on which the Plan is
approved by the Company in general meeting.
Termination will not affect the outstanding rights of
participants.
Resolution 11: Authority to Allot Shares
Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to
grant a new authority to allot unissued share capital up to
an aggregate nominal value of £1,548,100, representing
31.3%, a little under one third, of the total issued share
capital of the Company as at 16 June 2008.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this
authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary
shares to fulfil the Company’s obligations under its various
employee share option schemes. This renewed authority will
replace the existing authority in respect of ordinary shares
and will expire no later than 23 October 2009. 92 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Explanatory notes continued
Resolution 12: Adoption of new Articles of Association
It is proposed in resolution 12 to adopt new Articles of
Association (the “New Articles”) in order to update the
Company’s current Articles of Association (the “Current
Articles”) primarily to take account of changes in English
company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are
summarised below. Other changes, which are of a minor,
technical or clarifying nature and also some more changes
which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act
2006 have not been noted below. The New Articles showing
all of the changes to the Current Articles are available for
inspection, as noted on page 87 of this document.
1. Articles which duplicate statutory provisions
Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate
provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 (the
“2006 Act”) are in the main amended to bring them
into line with the 2006 Act. Certain examples of such
provisions include provisions as to the variation of class
rights and provisions regarding the period of notice
required to convene general meetings. The main
changes made to reflect this approach are detailed
below.
2. Form of resolution
The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for
any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special
or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that,
where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special
resolution is also effective. This provision is being
amended, as the concept of extraordinary resolutions
has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written
resolution. Under the Companies Act 2006 public
companies can no longer pass written resolutions. These
provisions have therefore been removed in the New
Articles.
3. Variation of class rights
The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the
variation of class rights. The proceedings and specific
quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary
class rights are contained in the 2006 Act. The relevant
provisions have therefore been amended in the New
Articles.
4. Convening extraordinary and annual general
meetings
The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the
convening of general meetings and the length of notice
required to convene general meetings are being
amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act.
In particular, an extraordinary general meeting to
consider a special resolution can be convened by the
Company on 14 days’ notice whereas previously 21
days’ notice was required.
5. Votes of members
Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a
show of hands whereas under the Current Articles
proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll. The 2006 Act
also entities proxies to speak. Multiple proxies may be
appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to
exercise the rights attached to a different share held by
the shareholder. Multiple corporate representatives may
be appointed. The New Articles reflect these new
provisions.
6. Age of directors on appointment
The Current Articles contain a provision limiting the age
at which a director can be appointed. Such provision
could now fall foul of the Employment Equality (Age)
Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the
New Articles.
7. Electronic and web communications
Provisions of the 2006 Act which came into force in
January 2007 enable companies to communicate with
shareholders by electronic and/or website
communications. The New Articles continue to allow
communications to shareholders in electronic form and,
in addition, they also permit the Company to take
advantage of the new provisions relating to website
communications. Before the Company can
communicate with a shareholder by means of website
communication, the relevant shareholder must be asked
individually by the Company to agree that the Company
may send or supply documents or information to him
by means of a website, and the Company must either
have received a positive response or have received no
response within the period of 28 days beginning with
the date on which the request was sent. The Company
will notify the shareholder (either in writing, or by
other permitted means) when a relevant document or
information is placed on the website and a shareholder
can always request a hard copy version of the
document or information.
8. Directors’ indemnities and loans to fund expenditure
The 2006 Act has in some areas widened the scope of
the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to
fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain
actions against directors. In particular, the existing
exemption allowing a company to provide money for
the purpose of funding a director’s defence in court
proceedings now expressly covers regulatory
proceedings and applies to associated companies. RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008 93
Explanatory notes continued
9. Joint holders
In order to make the flow of information more efficient
between the Company and our joint shareholders, the
Articles are being amended so that where there are
joint shareholders, anything agreed or specified with
the Company by any one joint shareholder will have
been deemed to have been agreed or specified with the
Company by all the joint shareholders.
Provisions coming into effect on 1 October 2008
10. Conflicts of interest
The 2006 Act sets out directors’ general duties which
largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
The provisions relating to conflicts of interest come
into effect on 1 October 2008 and it is not possible to
reflect them in the Company’s Articles of Association
until the new legislation is in force. Under the 2006 Act,
from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation
where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest
that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the
company’s interests. The requirement is very broad and
could apply, for example, if a director becomes a
director of another company or a trustee of another
organisation. The 2006 Act allows directors of public
companies to authorise conflicts and potential
conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of
Association contain a provision to this effect. The 2006
Act also allows the Articles of Association to contain
other provisions for dealing with directors’ conflicts of
interest to avoid a breach of duty. The additional Article
proposed, effective from 1 October 2008, gives the
directors authority to approve such situations and to
include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to
be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors
decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential
conflict. First, only directors who have no interest in the
matter being considered will be able to take the
relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision
the directors must act in a way they consider, in good
faith, will be most likely to promote the Company’s
success. The directors will be able to impose limits or
conditions when giving authorisation if they think this
is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain
provisions relating to confidential information,
attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board
papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest
arises. These provisions will only apply where the
position giving rise to the potential conflict has
previously been authorised by the directors. It is the
Board’s intention to report annually on the Company’s
procedures for ensuring that the Board’s powers of
authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and
that the procedures have been followed.
Resolution 13: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights
The directors of the Company also require additional
authority from the shareholders to allot shares or grant
rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose
to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders
pro-rata to their holdings. Resolution 13 seeks to renew the
authority granted to the directors, at the Annual General
Meeting held on 25 July 2007, to allot securities of the
Company up to a specified amount in connection with a
rights issue without having to obtain prior approval from
shareholders on each occasion, and also to allot a smaller
number of these for cash or to sell treasury shares without
first being required to offer such shares to existing
shareholders. Resolution 13 will be proposed as a special
resolution to grant such authority. In accordance with
Financial Services Authority regulations and Investment
Protection Committee guidelines, the number of shares
which may be issued for cash under the latter authority will
not exceed an aggregate nominal amount of £247,500, being
approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the
Company as at 16 June 2008.
If given, the authority to disapply pre-emption rights will
terminate not later than 23 October 2009.
Resolution 14: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares
The directors consider that there may be circumstances in
which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its
own shares in the market. Although the directors have no
plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to
act if circumstances arose in which they considered such
purchases to be desirable. Under Article 5 of the Company’s
Articles of Association, authority is granted to the Company
to purchase its own shares subject to the provision of the
Companies Act 1985. Resolution 14 proposes that the
Company’s authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued
share capital of the Company be renewed by special
resolution. The authority will terminate not later than 
23 July 2009.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 9,903,100
shares (which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the
issued share capital of the Company as at 16 June 2008)
with a minimum purchase price of 5p per share and a
maximum price which will not be more than 5% above the
average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary
share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily
Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding
the day on which the ordinary share is purchased.
The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous
for the Company to have this flexibility to make market
purchases of its own shares. In the event that shares are 94 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2008
Explanatory notes continued
purchased, they would either be cancelled (and the number
of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly) or, subject
to the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury
Shares) Regulations 2003 (the “Regulations”) which came
into force on 1 December 2003, retained as treasury shares.
The Regulations enable companies to hold shares
repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-
sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares
pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 14 as
treasury shares. This would give the Company the ability to
re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and
would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the
management of its capital base. Any issues of treasury shares
for the purposes of the Company’s employee share schemes
will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the
Association of British Insurers.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this
authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a
purchase would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share
targets would be adjusted for any reduction in issued share
capital. Contents
Financial highlights 1
Statement by the Chairman 2
Statement by the Chief Executive 3
Geographic locations 7
Principal subsidiaries 8
Directors’ biographies 9
Business review 10
Report of the directors 17
Remuneration report 29
Statement of directors’ responsibilities 39
Independent auditors’ report 40
Consolidated income statement 41
Consolidated statement of recognised income and 
expense 41
Consolidated balance sheet 42
Consolidated cash flow statement 43
Company statement of 
recognised income and expense 44
Company balance sheet 45
Company cash flow statement 46
Notes to the financial statements 47
Ten year financial record 84
Financial calendar 84
Notice of annual general meeting 85
Explanatory notes 88
Registered office
Lakeside House
Higham Ferrers
Northants NN10 8RP
Website
www.rpc-group.com
Registered Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
1 Waterloo Way
Leicester LE1 6LP
Solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House
5 Appold Street
London EC2A 2HA
Joint Financial Advisers
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited
New Court
St Swithin's Lane
London EC4P 4DU
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Principal Bankers
Commerzbank AG
60 Gracechurch Street
London EC3V 0HR
Royal Bank of Scotland
135 Bishopsgate
London EC2M 3UR
Joint Stockbrokers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate
London EC2R 6DA
Panmure Gordon & Co
Moorgate Hall
155 Moorgate
London EC2M 6XB
This Report and Accounts, including the Business
Review and Statements by the Chairman and Chief
Executive, has been prepared solely for RPC Group Plc’s
shareholders as a body. The Company, its directors,
employees, agents or advisers do not accept
responsibility to any other person and any such
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Business Review and other Statements within the
Report and Accounts contain forward-looking
statements, which
– have been made by the directors in good faith based
on the information available to them up to the time
of their approval of the Report and Accounts; and
– should be treated with caution due to the inherent
uncertainties, including both economic and business
risk factors, underlying such forward-looking
information.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update these
forward-looking statements and nothing in the Report
and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
RPC Group Plc
RPC Group is Europe’s leading manufacturer of rigid
plastic packaging and is unusual in that it is able to offer
products made by all three conversion processes, blow
moulding, injection moulding and thermoforming. It has
50 operations in 13 countries and employs over 6,900
people. RPC services a comprehensive range of customers
– from the largest European manufacturers of consumer
products to the smallest national businesses. It has
particularly strong positions in the beauty and personal
care sector, the vending and drinking cup market, the
margarine industry, and in multi-layer sheet and packs for
oxygen sensitive food products. Our objectives are to
further strengthen RPC’s position in these and other
sectors of the European market where we can have a
significant presence in the market, be in the forefront in
product design and development, and have sufficient size
to enable us to optimise our production process. This
strategy, we believe, will produce a satisfactory return for
our shareholders and the best possible security for our
employees, suppliers and customers.
Directors
J P Williams MA BComm
Non-Executive Chairman
R J E Marsh BA
Chief Executive
M J B Green FCA
Senior Independent Director
P Hilton MA PhD
P J H Hole BSc
Drs H J Kloeze
S Rojahn Dipl-Ing MSIE
Independent Non-Executive Director
C H Sworn MA PhD FCA
Drs P R M Vervaat RC
(appointed 1 November 2007)
Finance Director
D J Wilbraham BSc PhD
Independent Non-Executive Director
P S Wood FCA
Independent Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary
Rebecca K Joyce BA ACA ACIS Europe’s Leader in
Rigid Plastic Packaging
RPC Group Plc
Lakeside House
Higham Ferrers
Northants NN10 8RP
Tel: +44 (0) 1933 410064
Fax: +44 (0) 1933 410083
www.rpc-group.com
Typeset and printed by
Park Communications, London
Report and Accounts 2008
RPC Group Plc Report & Accounts 2008
