 The power 
to deliver.
ScottishPower annual report & accounts 2002/03 Contents
Report of the Directors
1 Financial Highlights
2 Chairman’s Statement
3 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Business Review
30 Summary of Key Operating Statistics
33 Financial Review
54 Board of Directors&Executive Team
57 Corporate Governance
61 Remuneration Report 
of the Directors
Annual Accounts
70 Accounting Policies and Deﬁnitions
74 Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
78 Notes to the Group Proﬁt and 
Loss Account
84 Group Cash Flow Statement
85 Notes to the Group Cash Flow
Statement
88 Group Balance Sheet
89 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
127 Company Balance Sheet
128 Notes to the Company 
Balance Sheet
130 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and
Other Investments
131 Independent Auditors’ Report
132 Five Year Summary
133 Glossary of Financial Terms and 
US Equivalents
Investor Information
134 Historical Share Prices
135 Exchange Rates
135 Dividends
137 Taxation of Dividends
140 Financial Calendar
141 Shareholder Services
142 Index
143 Glossary of Terms ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
1
Financial Highlights
99
39.7
00
38.0
01
27.9
02
26.1
03
33.7
Earnings per share pence
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
39.6
00
63.7
01
16.8
02
(53.7)
03
26.2
Earnings/(loss) per share pence
99
804
00
961
01
970
02
944
03
1,085
Operating proﬁt £m
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
803
00
662
01
722
02
777
03
946
Operating proﬁt £m
99
22.50
00
24.80
01
26.04
02*
27.34
03
28.71
Dividends per share pence
*Cash dividends excluding
‘dividend in specie’ 
on demerger of Thus
99
0.46
00
0.33
01
(2.84)
02
(15.88)
03
13.90
% Change in total shareholder return
Percentage change in total shareholder return
index in each ﬁnancial year
Source: Datastream
2003 2002
Turnover £5,274m £6,314m
Operating proﬁt £946m £777m
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill and exceptionals £1,085m £944m
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax £697m £(939)m
Proﬁt before tax excluding goodwill and exceptionals £836m £567m
Earnings/(loss) per share 26.17p (53.71)p
Earnings per share excluding goodwill and exceptionals 33.71p 26.12p
Dividends per share* 28.71p 27.34p
*Cash dividends excluding ‘dividend in specie’ on demerger of Thus
99
0.46
00
0.79
01
(2.07)
02
(17.63)
03
(6.18)
Total shareholder return pence
Capital appreciation plus dividend reinvestment
for £1 invested on 1 April 1998 
Source: Datastream All four ScottishPower businesses produced good
results during 2002/03, sustaining the recovery
that began in the latter months of last year. This
ﬁnancial and commercial progress is especially
pleasing after the challenges the energy markets
have presented in both the US and the UK.
Earnings per share* rose by 29% to 33.71 pence.
Our regulated businesses in the US and UK both
performed well. PaciﬁCorp’s drive to increase
operational efﬁciency and improve customer
service resulted in a substantial boost to
proﬁtability and remains on track to achieve its
targeted return on equity. Our UK Infrastructure
business delivered another strong performance,
increasing sales and meeting demanding cost
savings objectives. 
In the competitive sectors, the UK Division has
continued to face tough conditions but succeeded
in increasing sales, maintaining proﬁts and
growing customer numbers. Our newest business,
PPM, reported an operating proﬁt of £28 million
and has good opportunities to grow its successful
gas storage and renewables ventures.
With proﬁts and earnings up, debt and interest
charges down, and satisfactory cash ﬂow,
ScottishPower ended the year in a sound ﬁnancial
position. We have announced our intention to
declare three quarterly dividend payments of 4.75
pence from April 2003 and will set the fourth
quarter payment to represent the balance of the
dividend for the year to 31 March 2004. After
March 2004, we shall aim to grow dividends in line
with earnings.
The last weeks of 2001/02 saw ScottishPower
refocused on energy, and these results prove
clearly that this was the correct strategy. The
testing period we have endured has had a positive
effect on the group’s culture. Today ScottishPower
has an international leadership team of growing
stature and a programme of development
initiatives designed to raise our skills and
competencies further.
We have had to sharpen existing skills and develop
others that will be of lasting value. The California
energy crisis that followed so soon after our
merger with PaciﬁCorp has given us a heightened
awareness of risk and better techniques for
managing it. We are now applying this experience
in the UK wholesale market with success. Our
grasp and handling of detailed regulatory issues
has improved, boding well for the next UK price
review in 2005. We are developing a growing
portfolio of renewable energy assets and have
successfully renegotiated the Nuclear Energy
Agreement with British Energy.
Against our peer groups, ScottishPower remains at
or near the top of the environmental and social
impact rankings, and PaciﬁCorp is gaining ground
in the equivalent US benchmarks. Surveys among
our employees, who have borne the brunt of all
the change and upheaval within the businesses,
show morale improving.
Pensions have been much in the news during the
year and neither our US nor UK pension funds
have escaped the downturn in equity markets. We
have resumed contributions to our UK pension
funds and will make the recovery of increased
pension costs through regulatory processes one of
our priorities in both the US and the UK.
Now turning to the Board, there are a number of
changes to report. Nick Rose, Finance Director of
Diageo, joined the Board as a non-executive
director in February 2003. Ewen Macpherson will
retire as a non-executive director after the AGM.
We thank him for his advice and wish him well. I
am grateful that Sir Peter Gregson, who had
planned to retire this year, has agreed to extend
his term of ofﬁce for another year.
This has been an eventful but ultimately
successful year during which all our employees in
both the US and the UK have given strong support
on a daily basis. On behalf of the Board, I want to
thank them for their efforts and goodwill.
The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive,
with additional improvements in performance
expected from our business and good
opportunities for further growth.
Charles Miller Smith Chairman
7 May 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
2
Chairman’s Statement
“Today ScottishPower has an international
leadership team of growing stature.”
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman * excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items I am pleased to report that in the past year we
delivered a good set of results, with proﬁts up
substantially and earnings per share* for the
year up 29%. The recovery at PaciﬁCorp was
particularly pleasing, with operating proﬁt** up
by some 60% in the year. Our dividend for the
year was 28.71 pence per share, an increase of
5%. We also delivered a total return of 13.9% for
shareholders during the year. The sale of
Southern Water at the beginning of the year
enabled us to reduce our net debt by £2 billion,
thus strengthening our balance sheet and
ﬁnancial ratios.  
We manage regulated and competitive
businesses in the UK and US to serve gas and
electricity customers. We invested over £800
million in our businesses during the year, of
which some £345 million (42%) was in areas of
growth, such as additions to our electricity
networks, new generation especially renewables,
and gas storage. Investment of this sort is at the
heart of our strategy to become a leading
international energy company. We invest only in
businesses where we can deploy proven skills
and strong market knowledge. 
The safety and well-being of our workforce and
the public is our number one priority. Sadly the
year saw two of our colleagues killed at work;
one fatal accident in the UK and one in the US.
Tragedies such as these reinforce my conviction
that we should put nothing ahead of safety and
that we all have a role and responsibility to
ensure that the highest standards are
maintained at all times. 
During the past year we have made good
progress in further enhancing the underlying
quality of our business. As Business in the
Community’s Company of the Year 2002 we
have continued to contribute signiﬁcantly to the
Corporate Social Responsibility agenda in both
the UK and the US and are publishing our ﬁrst
combined Environmental and Social Impact
Report in July 2003. Our robust risk
management policies and procedures were
recognised by the international ﬁnance
magazine, Risk, with the prestigious award of
Corporate Risk Manager of the Year. We have
also placed great emphasis on the talent and
performance management of our people: our
top international cadre of 250 managers now
has clear incentive based performance
agreements linked directly to our strategic
objectives. 
PaciﬁCorp 
PaciﬁCorp is our regulated US business, with a
portfolio of over 8,000 MW of power from coal,
gas, renewable and hydro resources, 15,000
miles of transmission lines and a distribution
system serving 1.5 million customers in six
states. PaciﬁCorp is a leading regional integrated
utility and is a key player in western energy
markets. The strategic priorities of PaciﬁCorp set
at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
–Transition Plan
• Manage risk and reward balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
Operating proﬁt for PaciﬁCorp increased by
£233 million to £463 million for the year to 31
March 2003. Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation for PaciﬁCorp for the year grew by
£225 million to £597 million, as a result of
regulatory rate increases and recoveries of
excess power costs of £80 million, signiﬁcantly
lower net power costs of £257 million and
continued progress in the delivery of Transition
Plan beneﬁts of £64 million in the year. These
improvements were partly offset by lower
transmission revenues of £19 million from
reduced use of the transmission system by third
parties, higher depreciation charges of £25
million, risk mitigation and project costs of £41
million, insurance, pensions, and healthcare
costs of £46 million and one-off gains in the
previous year and foreign exchange of £45 million.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
3
Chief Executive’s Review
“This has been a year of delivery based on
our consistent focus on performance.”
Ian Russell, Chief Executive * excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
** excluding goodwill amortisation Net capital expenditure for the year decreased
by £1 million to £368 million, with £111 million
invested in network growth and new generation
assets, £211 million on network and generation
refurbishment, and £46 million on other capital
projects including information technology.  
Net capital expenditure is expected to increase
in 2003/04 as a result of higher generation and
mining overhauls and refurbishment spend,
environmental initiatives and continued
investment in expanding the network. All
expenditure prudently incurred is expected to
earn its regulatory rate of return, and contribute
to an increased rate base for PaciﬁCorp.
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
–Transition Plan
PaciﬁCorp remains on track towards its target of
$1 billion EBIT by 2004/05 through a
combination of general rate cases and beneﬁts
derived from the Transition Plan.
General rate increases of approximately $160
million per year have been awarded to
PaciﬁCorp from 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2003,
with $31 million awarded during the year ended
31 March 2003. PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory strategy
includes ﬁling regular rate cases to increase
revenues to recover increasing operational costs
and capital expenditure, while realising our full
allowed return on investment. In line with this
plan, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled a general rate case in
Oregon in March 2003, for $58 million,
representing a 7% rate increase, primarily as a
result of increased costs related to insurance
premiums, healthcare, pensions and other costs
that are similarly affecting many other US
companies. In California, testimony and hearings
in PaciﬁCorp’s $16 million general rate case
request have been scheduled to take place
through May and June of 2003. PaciﬁCorp also
plans to ﬁle in the next few weeks for general
rate cases in Wyoming and Utah.
During March 2003, PaciﬁCorp was denied
recovery of $91 million in net excess power costs
in Wyoming and is currently seeking a re-hearing
of this decision. Additionally, PaciﬁCorp
continues seeking to defer and recover
approximately $16 million in net excess power
costs in Washington state. An order on this case
is expected by early summer 2003. 
Among the legislative measures approved in
PaciﬁCorp’s service territory, Senate Bill 61 in Utah
will go into effect in early summer 2003. This
legislation provides an option for the Utah Public
Service Commission to use a future test-year period
in utility rate cases that more appropriately reﬂects
the cost of providing service, which is necessary to
reduce the period between capital investment and
recovery in rates – referred to as “regulatory lag”.
Reducing regulatory lag should encourage needed,
cost-effective investments in utility infrastructure by
companies such as PaciﬁCorp.
The PaciﬁCorp Transition Plan continues to
progress on track as a key driver towards
increasing proﬁtability and supporting
PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory objectives. Cumulative
Transition Plan beneﬁts total approximately $217
million, slightly ahead of this year’s target of
$204 million and we are now two-thirds of the
way towards our goal of $300 million by
2004/05. These included new call centre
technology and other process changes that
helped increase employee productivity and
improve customer service. In distribution,
operational efﬁciency improvements were
delivered such as Home Start, which allows
overhead line crews to respond more effectively
to faults. Additionally, continuing procurement
cost savings and royalties from the sale of a
synthetic fuel operation last year contributed to
PaciﬁCorp’s continued delivery of the Transition
Plan in 2002/03.
• Manage risk and reward balance
PaciﬁCorp successfully managed power demand
during the challenging summer of 2002 and
winter of 2002/03 through a robust
combination of existing physical resources, a
weather-related hedge and peaking generation
facilities. During the winter, PaciﬁCorp’s base of
coal-ﬁred generating resources and forward gas
purchase strategy minimised the risks of natural
gas price volatility. PaciﬁCorp remains well-
positioned and is fundamentally balanced for
the summer of 2003. 
Our long-term Integrated Resource Plan (IRP),
which seeks to identify new resource
requirements to implement plans to deliver safe,
reliable low-cost power to customers over the
next 20 years, was ﬁled with state regulatory
commissions in January 2003. The IRP is
progressing with the development of the Request
for Proposals (RFP) process, under which
PaciﬁCorp will seek bids for future generation
needs. RFPs will be issued for both short- and
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
4
Chief Executive’s Review
continued long-term electricity requirements, including
renewable energy needs. The RFP process is
expected to extend until spring 2004.  
The IRP and the resulting RFP process have
been created to identify PacifiCorp’s future
resource mix in a coordinated process with the
six states in which PacifiCorp operates. As part
of these processes, PacifiCorp is expecting to
add the equivalent of approximately 4,000 MW
of capacity through a combination of sources
over the next decade. These include the
addition of base load construction capacity or
purchases (approximately 2,100 MW), peaking
resources (approximately 1,200 MW) and
purchased “shaped” power (approximately 700
MW). In addition, PacifiCorp also plans to
implement demand side management
programmes (up to 450 MW on average) and
acquire renewable energy (approximately 1,400
MW). Among the steps involved in the IRP
process will be an evaluation of potential future
generation sources such as an additional
generating unit at the Hunter station in Utah.
The air quality permitting process has begun to
enable PacifiCorp to develop this option.
Prudently incurred costs of such investments
are expected to be included in PacifiCorp’s
future rate base.
• Deliver excellent customer service
During 2002/03, PaciﬁCorp continued to enhance
its customer service commitments, while
maintaining retail rates that are among the lowest
in the western US. Improvements include
enhancing PaciﬁCorp’s outage communications
technology to provide customers with the ability
to report outages directly, thus helping to speed
repairs or pinpoint potential problem areas.
PaciﬁCorp was recognised by TQS Research of
Atlanta, Georgia, for improvements with large
commercial and industrial customers. Overall
customer satisfaction metrics show positive
results, including improved accuracy and
timeliness of customer billing. In addition,
PaciﬁCorp successfully tested a handheld meter
reading system that will improve system
functionality and accuracy. The new system is
expected to be implemented by the summer of
2003, with further productivity improvements to
follow over the next 12 months that will enhance
PaciﬁCorp’s scheduling technology.
Based on a recent report, PaciﬁCorp was rated
third in the US by the Department of Energy as a
marketer of green energy under PaciﬁCorp’s
Blue Sky programme. In excess of 21,000
customers have signed up for Blue Sky or other
renewable products. PaciﬁCorp’s green pricing
programme is one of the most progressive and
successful in the US.  
To improve customer service and reliability,
PaciﬁCorp continues its infrastructure
improvement projects in targeted areas,
particularly along Utah’s Wasatch Front where
there is rapidly growing demand for electricity.
The scope of this $200 million investment
through 2005 includes transmission line
upgrades, new distribution substations, upgrades
to existing distribution substations and other
system enhancements. These projects will
provide additional capacity to meet future load
demands throughout PaciﬁCorp’s network,
especially in high-growth areas.
Infrastructure Division
Infrastructure Division, our regulated UK wires
business, is the UK’s third largest distribution
company and comprises the distribution and
transmission networks in our Scottish service
area, and the distribution network in Manweb,
over 110,000 circuit km in total. The strategic
priorities of the Infrastructure Division set at the
beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from capex
• Achieve high standards of customer service
• Invest consistently to add value
For the year to 31 March 2003, the
Infrastructure Division reported operating proﬁt
of £368 million, an increase of £13 million on
last year. Higher regulated income of £9 million
and net cost reductions of £18 million were
partly offset by higher depreciation, operational
rates, insurance and pension costs of £14
million. 
The Infrastructure Division invested net capital
expenditure of £230 million during the year, an
increase of £32 million compared to the year to
31 March 2002. Of this, £141 million was
invested in network refurbishment, £68 million
on network expansion and £21 million on other
capital projects.  
Net capital expenditure in 2003/04 is expected
to increase modestly, with investment
concentrated on the regulatory asset base,
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
5 delivering the regulated rate of return. In
particular, further investment will be undertaken
in our overhead network modernisation
programme.   
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from 
capex
In line with our strategic priorities, we expect to
be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier for
the next price review period beginning in April
2005. As previously stated, targeted cash cost
savings of £75 million due by March 2003 were
achieved ahead of schedule by September 2002,
reﬂecting our increased commercial focus in the
division. As a result, a further target of £33
million of net cost reductions was identiﬁed for
completion by 2003/04, with net cost reductions
of £18 million being achieved in 2002/03
through the initiatives set out below.
We are achieving better outputs from capital
expenditure by ensuring that costs are
appropriately allocated to capital projects
through our asset manager/service provider
model and have seen procurement savings of
over 10% in a number of key purchase areas
such as distribution transformers, overhead lines
and cables. Additionally we have conducted a
benchmark review of call centre services, are
making more efﬁcient use of contractors,
achieving improved staff ﬂexibility using site
start arrangements and adopting a ﬂexible day
working system.
• Achieve high standards of customer service
We continue to focus on delivering high
standards of customer service. Our network
performance as measured by Customer
Interruptions and Customer Minutes Lost
indicates that we are on track to be able to
participate in Ofgem’s Information and
Incentives Programme (IIP) when the reward
mechanism for outperforming the regulatory
targets is put in place by 2004/05. 
Our performance against Ofgem’s standard for
responding to customers’ written correspondence
has improved signiﬁcantly. In addition, our
performance relative to the industry as measured
by Ofgem’s customer satisfaction survey has
ensured we are placed in the incentive reward
band under the terms of the IIP. Further, a recent
Government report recognised our good
performance during a gale-force storm in the
Mersey and North Wales area on 27 October 2002.
We received speciﬁc praise for our performance
in emergency preparation, telephone response
and regular and realistic feedback to customers
on estimated times of reconnection.
• Invest consistently to add value
Capital expenditure to date contributes to
maintaining the value of our asset base. Progress
in the Berwick and Borders Investment Programme,
which represents an investment of £11 million,
continues to be made with 65% of the 33kV circuits
included in the programme being completed.
Additionally 63% of the 11kV circuits included in
the programme have been completed or are
under construction. This part of the overhead
line build programme has been accelerated and
is on target for completion by March 2004. 
Reinforcement of the transmission network will
improve both the performance and resilience of
our network, with high proﬁle projects at Gretna
and Chapelcross representing a £13 million
investment. Beneﬁts of these projects include the
strengthening of the network to deal with the
Chapelcross power station closure. These projects
are being delivered on time and to budget.
The Government target of 10% of supply from
renewable sources by 2010 is an opportunity for
Infrastructure Division to invest in network
capacity. Our transmission business has
participated in a recent network study that
explored the existing Scottish and Northern
England networks’ potential to support increased
volumes of new renewable generation. The study
identiﬁed three progressive steps required to
upgrade our transmission network and we believe
the associated investment to be valued at roughly
£300 million – £400 million over 10 years
dependent on renewable progress. We are
currently working to develop detailed plans in
relation to this opportunity. In addition, we
believe our distribution networks in Scotland and
Manweb are well positioned to develop network
investment opportunities in support of renewable
generation, should Government targets be met.
The formal price control reviews of SP
Transmission, SP Distribution and SP Manweb
will continue during the forthcoming year. We
have been working with Ofgem and the rest of
the industry to develop the framework of price
controls applying to all network monopoly
companies and lay the foundations for the
formal distribution Price Control Reviews.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
6
Chief Executive’s Review
continued We believe a key issue for the reviews is the
provision of a sufﬁcient and stable return to
allow companies to attract and retain funding
from capital markets. A further issue relates to
ﬁnding ways to facilitate renewable energy in line
with Government targets. Both have implications
for the working of the regulatory regime and for
the long-term safety and integrity of the UK
electricity infrastructure.  
The outcome from the Price Control Review
should take account of guidance from the
Government on social and environmental
objectives, and recognise any additional
expenditure arising from such objectives. Our
performance in the recent asset risk
management survey demonstrated our ability to
invest efﬁciently and effectively, and our cost and
storm response performances provide us with
the credibility to inﬂuence this important debate. 
We should not lose sight of the fact that the
industry is entering a new phase where simple
cost-cutting and moderate investment leading to
price cuts for customers will no longer sustain
future performance, and price increases will be
required. We are committed to working with Ofgem
and the rest of the industry throughout the Price
Control Review process to deliver a successful
outcome that balances the interests of
shareholders, customers and all other stakeholders. 
UK Division
The UK Division is our competitive, integrated
generation and supply business. The Division
manages activities across the energy value chain,
maximising value from a diverse energy portfolio
of some 5,000 MW of coal, gas, hydro and wind
powered plants through to our national
customer base of over 3.6 million customers, via
an energy management function that acts to
balance and hedge energy needs. The strategic
priorities of the UK Division set at the beginning
of 2002/03 were:
• Enhance margins through our integrated 
operations
• Grow customer numbers and improve 
customer service
• Make selective investments using proven 
knowledge and skills
Operating proﬁt for the UK Division increased by
£18 million to £73 million for the year to 31
March 2003, mainly due to last year’s results
including a £19 million exceptional
reorganisation charge. Operating proﬁt,
excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, was £78 million for the year, £1 million
lower compared to the previous year. Net energy
margins have performed strongly, increasing by
£15 million before higher depreciation, costs to
capture and investment in energy efﬁciency
schemes of £12 million and increased pension
costs of £4 million. The impact of lower
wholesale electricity prices has been mitigated
by our integrated approach to managing the
energy value chain whereby our own electricity
production is extensively matched to our
customer demand across Great Britain. The
renegotiation of the Nuclear Energy Agreement
(NEA) with British Energy (BE) at a market
related price has delivered a beneﬁt of
approximately £25 million in the current year
and provides a hedge against revenues which
have been impacted by lower wholesale prices. 
During the year the UK Division invested £68
million in capital projects, a £41 million
reduction on the previous year. £29 million was
invested in new generation and gas storage
assets, £19 million in generation plant overhaul
and refurbishment and £20 million on other
projects including business transformation and
information technology.
In 2003/04, subject to obtaining planning
permission, net capital expenditure for the UK
Division could increase substantially as a result
of our commitment to increase our windfarm
capacity. In addition, we plan to invest in gas
storage development and upgrades to generation
assets required to maintain our generating
capacity. All investments are projected to have
returns signiﬁcantly in excess of the cost of
capital and enhance earnings.
• Enhance margins through our integrated
operations
During the year we continued to beneﬁt from the
ﬂexibility of our plant portfolio. We have
maintained what we believe is a best in class
performance in the Balancing Mechanism, in
particular from our ﬂexible CCGT plant at Rye
House, and our pumped storage facility at
Cruachan which is being upgraded in capacity
by 10%. We continue to optimise the operating
regime across our plant portfolio, aiming to
deliver the lowest sustainable costs and to
position it to take maximum advantage of
commercial opportunities.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
7 The renegotiation of the NEA relieved the Division
of a signiﬁcant cost burden during the year, but
the future of the remaining restructuring
contracts is still unresolved. We continue to press
the Government strongly on this issue. Whilst we
expect wholesale electricity prices to remain
depressed for the next two years, there could be
upward price pressure emerging from tightening
of the capacity margin throughout Great Britain,
and as environmental measures such as carbon
trading and the Large Combustion Plants Directive
start to take effect. We may see some price
volatility before a new equilibrium is reached.
Retail sales revenues increased during the year,
in part following an increase in prices to
customers outside our service territories in
November 2002. Prices to the majority of
electricity customers in our Scottish and Manweb
territories were increased effective 1 April 2003,
although in both instances we have preserved our
competitive dual fuel prices and provided nearly
all customers affected by the April 2003 price
increase with the opportunity of mitigating the
increase by changing to a more economical
product package.
Our business transformation programme, which
is underpinned by 6 Sigma methodology,
continues to deliver signiﬁcant savings to the
business. In the year to 31 March 2003, we have
delivered revenue and cost beneﬁts of £14
million across our business processes including
sales and marketing, billing and debt. The
utilisation of 6 Sigma methodology is now being
extended throughout the UK Division.
• Grow customer numbers and improve
customer service
We continue to be successful in growing our
customer base. Customer numbers now stand at
3.65 million, up by approximately 150,000 in the
year to 31 March 2003. As well as gaining new
customers, we have successfully reduced overall
churn by 4 percentage points compared with the
prior year.
Customer retention and win-back continues to be
an important part of our marketing activities and
we have deployed TV advertising to good effect,
emphasising that our dual fuel customers can
beneﬁt from a competitive price by joining
ScottishPower.
In response to customer research we introduced
a new bill design, to provide clearer and more
concise communication of charges and have
improved the level of service provided by our call
centres during the year. 
ScottishPower was amongst the pioneers of the
industry’s EnergySure accreditation scheme for
sales staff, which will be governed by an external
code administrator. All ScottishPower’s domestic
sales teams have now been accredited to this
customer service and quality standard and we
are now rolling out the scheme to cover all the
relevant sales and marketing channels.
In addition we have introduced three new energy
products during the year, including Capped Price
and No Standing Charge offers, which have
further enhanced the range available to customers.
• Make selective investments using proven
knowledge and skills
The Renewables Obligation has created a market
framework that allows developers to capitalise
on the UK’s rich resource of wind energy with
eligible developments attracting Renewables
Obligation Certiﬁcates (ROCs) currently worth
approximately £45 for every MWh produced.
With our strong track record in site identiﬁcation
and development, we are well placed to deliver
investments with an attractive return and
enhanced earnings, and to market effectively
the energy produced from renewable sources.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, we have
made planning applications for 279 MW of
windfarm capacity and we now have in excess of
546 MW awaiting planning consent. We have
also begun environmental assessments on
around 300 MW of capacity at additional
potential sites. Progress towards planning
consent for our Whitelee 240 MW and Black
Law 134 MW developments has been slowed by
issues related to radar at Glasgow and
Edinburgh airports respectively. A technical
solution to this problem is being progressed and
we are conﬁdent that the issue will be resolved.
With 546 MW of windfarm capacity awaiting
planning consent and the 300 MW pipeline of
projects under assessment, we are making
excellent progress towards alignment with the
Government target of 10% of supply from
renewable sources by 2010.
We are upgrading ﬁve of our smaller hydro
generating stations, totalling 45 MW, to qualify
for ROCs. As part of this, the upgrade to the 11
MW station at Bonnington was completed in
2002/03 with the other four stations to be
upgraded over the next 15 months.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
8
Chief Executive’s Review
continued Our 60 million therm gas storage planning
application at Byley in Cheshire is presently
awaiting the result of a public inquiry, expected
to be determined in 2003/04.
PPM
PPM is our competitive US energy company,
focused on providing environmentally
responsible energy products to wholesale
customers. Its principal assets are thermal and
renewable generation resources and gas storage
assets primarily serving western US and
Canadian markets. The strategic priorities of
PPM set at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio 
and gas storage/hub services
• Optimise returns through the integration of 
assets and commercial activities
PPM reported an operating proﬁt of £28 million
for the year, compared to a loss of £5 million last
year. The growth in operating proﬁt for the year
was due to the increased contribution from long-
term sales contracts and gas storage activities
and optimisation beneﬁts of £53 million, partly
offset by higher depreciation charges and other
operating costs of £17 million to support
business growth and the beneﬁt from settlement
of a £3 million contract in the prior year. 
PPM’s net capital expenditure for the year was
£36 million, a decrease of £170 million on last
year, which included investment to complete the
Klamath Falls and West Valley generation
projects. In the current year, the business
invested £30 million in new generation and £6
million in other projects. In addition, we acquired
the Katy gas storage facility for £101 million.
In 2003/04, PPM’s net capital spend is expected
to increase, primarily as a result of the
construction of new windfarms and development
opportunities including Moraine and Flying
Cloud, which are expected to deliver favourable
rates of return and enhance earnings.
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio
and gas storage/hub services
PPM continues to grow its renewable energy
business and has recently announced the
development of the 44 MW Flying Cloud Wind
Project in Iowa, which includes a 15 year
agreement to sell power to Interstate Power &
Light, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy. In addition,
construction of the 51 MW Moraine Wind Project
in Minnesota has commenced. The Moraine
project is fully contracted with a 15 year
agreement to sell power to the Northern States
Power Company. This will bring PPM’s total wind
power under contract to more than 560 MW,
and total thermal/renewable resource under
PPM’s ownership or control to approximately
1,350 MW.
In addition to its renewable generation portfolio,
PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic feet (BCF) of
gas storage capacity under ownership, up from
14 BCF the prior year. This includes the 21 BCF
acquired at the Katy gas storage facility in
December 2002 and a 2 BCF expansion of the
Alberta Hub gas storage facility during the year.
PPM has successfully integrated the Katy assets
and is on target to deliver expected results. PPM
intends to add to its 40% ownership in the
Alberta Hub gas storage facility with the
purchase of an additional ownership interest this
spring. 
• Optimise returns through integration of
assets and commercial activities
Integration of plant operations, contract dispatch
and energy management added $7 million in
the year. The optimisation beneﬁts come from
displacing plant operations with low-priced
power purchases, selling the displaced gas or
placing it in storage, as well as using
transmission and contract delivery ﬂexibility to
manage locational price differences in both gas
and power. 
PPM has new and expanded terms for energy
supply to the Sacramento Municipal Utility
District, one of PPM’s largest customers.
Arrangements include revisions to original long-
term contracts executed in 2002/03, as well as
sales of up to half the output of the 150 MW
High Winds Energy Center in northern California
and 100 MW of summer peaking power supply
from PPM’s portfolio.  
In 2002/03, PPM placed 319 MW under long-
term contract. In addition, PPM has effectively
managed its commodity exposure, having sold
its positions forward for 5-25 years. Fluctuating
commodity prices have little impact on PPM’s
portfolio value, except where increased volatility
gives PPM an opportunity to take advantage of
plant options, delivery ﬂexibility, gas storage and
other tactics to maximise value. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
9 Regulatory and Government Policy Issues
Multi-State Process (MSP)
PaciﬁCorp continues work on the MSP, which is
designed to resolve how prudently incurred costs
are allocated among the six states in which
PaciﬁCorp operates. A collaborative process is
underway to identify possible solutions, conduct
technical conferences with participants and meet
with key parties to examine speciﬁc issues.
PaciﬁCorp intends to ﬁle a ﬁnal, detailed
regulatory proposal with each state utility
commission this summer.  
RTO West
PaciﬁCorp and nine other utilities received initial
approval of their RTO West proposal in
September 2002 from the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC). Under the
proposal, which the FERC called “Best in Class”
among all the RTO ﬁlings in terms of the
proposed design, structure and thoroughness of
approach, the ﬁling utilities will retain ownership
of their transmission assets, but transfer
operational control of their system to RTO West.
As proposed, RTO West will help stabilise
electricity transmission and guard against
market manipulation in the western part of the
United States and Canada, while providing a
reasonable level of return for future transmission
investments. The RTO West members are
currently planning to ﬁle with the FERC this
summer and expect a response from the FERC
by the end of 2003.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
The FERC continues its various investigations
into western US market manipulation related to
the 2000/01 energy crisis. As a regulated utility
that participated in these markets primarily to
meet the company’s own power requirements,
PaciﬁCorp has responded to various data
requests from the FERC and other market
participants. These cases involve trading
practices connected with the California power
crisis, as well as spot market refund cases, and
complaints brought by PaciﬁCorp against
wholesale power marketers to seek refunds for
high-priced power purchased in 2001.
PaciﬁCorp continues to press for economic
recovery, while fully responding to requests for
information.
British Electricity Trading and Transmission
Arrangements (BETTA) 
The recently announced delay by the
Department of Trade and Industry to the
introduction of BETTA will not have a material
effect on ScottishPower in 2003/04. The
ﬁnancial impact of the BETTA Bill is broadly
neutral for ScottishPower, but zonal charges for
transmission access and losses would have a
negative impact on the generation business in
the UK Division. We were pleased to see that the
Trade and Industry Select Committee, in its Fifth
Report, recommended delay in the
implementation of transmission access reform
until the costs and beneﬁts are able to be
assessed on a Great Britain-wide basis.
ScottishPower, together with a number of other
companies, has ﬁled for a judicial review of
Ofgem’s decision to implement zonal
transmission losses in England and Wales.
Energy White Paper
The recently published White Paper on energy
sets out to achieve a lower carbon energy
system, proposing signiﬁcant investment in
renewable energy, energy efﬁciency and in
networks. The UK Division is well placed to take
early mover advantage on renewable generation
and the Infrastructure Division should beneﬁt
from the Government’s commitment to investing
in networks. We are pleased that Ofgem
recognises the need to plan and develop
networks to facilitate the transmission of
renewable energy from Scotland to centres of
demand in the rest of Great Britain.
Looking ahead
During 2002/03, we reported each quarter our
progress in delivering the key strategic priorities
for each of our four businesses. Some of those
priorities have now been achieved and further
new priorities have been identiﬁed. Accordingly,
looking ahead our strategic priorities are as
follows:
PaciﬁCorp
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 
2004/05
• Manage energy risk and supply/demand 
balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
• Invest to grow the regulatory asset base, 
including delivery of the integrated resource plan
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
10
Chief Executive’s Review
continued Infrastructure Division
• Invest consistently to add future value, 
including supporting renewables
• Optimise our position through the 2005 price 
control reviews and the introduction of BETTA
• Deliver cost-effective, high quality customer 
service
UK Division
• Enhance margins through our integrated 
operations 
• Increase the value of our customer base 
through targeted sales growth and improved 
customer service
• Progress towards achieving 10% of electricity 
supply from renewable sources by 2010 
PPM
• Continue to be a leading provider of renewable
energy products 
• Grow natural gas storage and hub services 
business 
• Create additional value by optimising the returns
from our capability across gas and power
Conclusion
Our consistent focus on performance last year
enabled us to deliver a good set of results. We
will continue to place a premium on leading
operational performance, to secure further
improvements in the results of our businesses.
There are substantial opportunities to expand
ScottishPower through incremental investments
in each of our businesses, particularly in
networks, generation including renewables and
gas storage. With as much as 40% of our capital
investment in new assets in these areas, we
believe we are well positioned to continue to
grow. The outlook for ScottishPower remains
positive, with further improvements expected
from our businesses. We also believe that our
continued focus will enable us to take advantage
of the opportunities to create shareholder value
that will, over time, arise from the changing
structure of our industry in the UK, the rest of
Europe and the US.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
11
Ian Russell Chief Executive
7 May 2003 Description of business
Scottish Power plc (“ScottishPower”) is an
international energy business listed on both
the New York and London Stock Exchanges.
Through its operating subsidiaries, the
company serves in excess of 5 million
homes and businesses in the western US
and across the UK. It provides electricity
generation, transmission, distribution and
supply services in both countries. The
company’s US activities extend to coal
mining and gas storage, including a gas
facility in western Canada. In Great Britain,
ScottishPower also stores and supplies gas.
In the year to 31 March 2003, the sales
revenues of the continuing business of the
group were £5.2 ($8.3) billion.
Following its creation upon privatisation in
1991, ScottishPower developed by organic
growth in the British electricity, gas and
telephony markets, through strategic
acquisitions in the UK and by the merger
with PaciﬁCorp in the US. During 2001/02,
the group exited non-strategic businesses in
the US and UK, demerged the UK
telecommunications and internet business,
Thus, to the company’s shareholders and, in
April 2002, sold the UK water and
wastewater company, Southern Water,
thereby concluding the process of redeﬁning
ScottishPower as an international energy
business. In 2002/03, ScottishPower has
focused on its strategic aim of becoming a
leading international energy company.
Strategic context
ScottishPower’s strategy is to become a
leading international energy company,
managing both regulated and competitive
businesses in the US and the UK to serve
electricity and gas customers. The regulated
businesses provide a base for steady growth
through consistent investment and proven
skills in operational and regulatory
management. In competitive activities in
which the group has local market
knowledge and skill advantages, it seeks to
enhance margins through the integration of
generation, energy management and
customer services, again underpinned by
best-in-class operational performance. The
aim is to deliver steady growth in earnings
per share by capitalising on the
opportunities afforded by strong positions in
both the US and UK markets, organising the
skills and resources deployed in these
different marketplaces to achieve (or, where
the regulatory process permits, to better)
allowed returns from regulated businesses,
build sustainable value in competitive
energy markets and actively manage risk,
both operational and ﬁnancial.
The strategy is delivered through four
businesses, each clearly focused on its
strategic priorities:
•
PaciﬁCorp
•
Infrastructure Division
•
UK Division
•
PPM Energy, Inc.
In each of the US and the UK, there is one
business operating under regulation and
one in competitive market conditions.
In the US, PaciﬁCorp operates as a
regulated electricity business with signiﬁcant
mining subsidiaries – and the competitive
energy business is PPM Energy, Inc.
(“PPM”). Both are subsidiaries of PaciﬁCorp
Holdings, Inc. (“PHI”) a non-operating, US
holding company, itself an indirect wholly-
owned subsidiary of ScottishPower. PHI is
also the parent company of PaciﬁCorp
Group Holdings which owns the shares of
subsidiaries not regulated as domestic
electricity providers, including PaciﬁCorp
Financial Services, Inc. (“PFS”), in order to
facilitate the further separation of the
company’s non-utility operations in the US
from the regulated US business, PaciﬁCorp.
In the UK, the regulated Infrastructure
Division operates electricity transmission
and distribution subsidiaries of the wholly-
owned UK holding company Scottish Power
UK plc (“SPUK”). Other subsidiaries
operating in the now competitive UK energy
markets comprise the group’s competitive
energy business, the UK Division, covering
its British Isles generation assets,
commercial and energy management
activities and energy supply business units.
PaciﬁCorp
In November 1999, PaciﬁCorp and
ScottishPower completed a merger under
which PaciﬁCorp became an indirect
subsidiary of ScottishPower. As a result of
the merger, PaciﬁCorp developed and
commenced its Transition Plan to
implement signiﬁcant organisational and
operational changes arising from the
strategic decision to focus on its electricity
businesses in the western US.
Principal business activities
PaciﬁCorp is a regulated electricity company
operating in portions of the states of Utah,
Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and
California. PaciﬁCorp conducts its retail
electricity utility business as Paciﬁc Power
and Utah Power, and engages in electricity
production and sales on a wholesale basis
under the name PaciﬁCorp. The subsidiaries
of PaciﬁCorp support its electricity utility
operations by providing coal mining facilities
and services, environmental remediation
and ﬁnancing.
The western US wholesale energy market
had substantially lower prices and was
relatively stable during 2002/03 compared
with the previous year. PaciﬁCorp took a
number of actions to maintain a balanced
net energy position through the summer
peak period and for the remainder of the
ﬁnancial year. A 120 megawatt (“MW”) gas-
ﬁred peaking plant in Utah came on-line in
August 2002 and, in May 2002, PaciﬁCorp
also entered into an operating lease
arrangement with PPM for the 200 MW
West Valley peaking plant, also in Utah.
These actions, as well as the use of other
ﬂexible physical and ﬁnancial hedging
instruments, assisted PaciﬁCorp in
maintaining a balanced energy position over
the ﬁnancial year.
Retail electricity sales
PaciﬁCorp serves approximately 1.5 million
retail customers in service territories
aggregating about 136,000 square miles in
portions of six western states. The
geographical distribution of PaciﬁCorp’s
retail electricity operating revenues for the
year ended 31 March 2003 was Utah, 39%;
Oregon, 32%; Wyoming, 13%; Washington,
8%; Idaho, 6%; and California, 2%. The
PaciﬁCorp service area’s diverse regional
economy mitigates exposure to economic
swings. In the eastern portion of the service
area, customer demand peaks in the
summer when irrigation and cooling
systems are heavily used mainly in Utah
and eastern Idaho. The principal industries
are mining and extracting coal, oil, natural
gas, uranium and oil shale. In the western
part of the service territory, mainly
consisting of Oregon and southeastern
Washington, customer demand peaks in the
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
12
Business Review – Description of Business winter months due to space heating
requirements and the economy generally
revolves around agriculture and
manufacturing, with pulp and paper, lumber
and wood products, food processing and
high technology being the principal
industries. During 2002/03, no single retail
customer accounted for more than 2% of
PaciﬁCorp’s retail electricity revenues and
the 20 largest retail customers accounted
for 13% of total retail electricity revenues.
Trends in energy sales by class of customer
are set out in Tables 3, 5 and 6 (page 31).
Retail energy sales for PaciﬁCorp have
grown at a compound annual rate of 0.9%
since 1997; however, for 2002/03,
megawatt hour (“MWh”) sales decreased
approximately 1.2%. Adjusting for the
impact of weather, the loads for both
2002/03 and 2001/02 were relatively ﬂat,
although patterns within individual states
and customer classes were different. While
residential and commercial loads reﬂected
an increase of 1.2% and 3.6% respectively,
as a result of increased customer numbers,
the industrial class showed a 3.2% decrease
as a result of a decrease in industrial
customers and the effects of the economic
downturn. The majority of the growth in
residential customers has been in the
eastern portion of PaciﬁCorp’s service
territories, whereas the western portion has
remained relatively ﬂat in terms of its
growth. For the period 2004 to 2008, the
underlying annual growth in retail MWh
sales in PaciﬁCorp’s franchise service
territories is estimated to be in the range of
1.8% to 3.6%, dependent upon factors such
as economic recovery and growth, customer
numbers, weather, the potential effects on
demand resulting from conservation efforts
and changes in price. If prices increase in
the region, demand growth over the region
may slow.
Power production and fuel supply
PaciﬁCorp owns or has interests in
generating plants with an aggregate
nameplate rating of 8,410 MW and plant net
capability of 7,925 MW, see Table 1 (page
30). During 2002/03, approximately 4%
and 58% of PaciﬁCorp’s energy
requirements were supplied by its hydro-
electric and thermal generation plants
respectively. The remaining 38% was
supplied by purchased power. With its
present generating facilities, under average
water conditions, PaciﬁCorp would expect
that approximately 60% and 5% of its
energy requirements for 2003/04 would be
supplied by its thermal and hydro-electric
plants, respectively, the remaining 35%
being obtained through purchase
arrangements. PaciﬁCorp will make use of
existing long-term purchase contracts, and
will choose appropriate cost-effective
resources to meet the balance of its
customer demand through short-term
purchase arrangements.
At 31 March 2003, PaciﬁCorp had 196
million tons of recoverable coal reserves that
are mined by PaciﬁCorp or its mining
afﬁliates and are dedicated to nearby
PaciﬁCorp-operated generation plants. See
Table 2 (page 30). During 2002/03, these
mines supplied approximately one-third of
PaciﬁCorp’s total coal requirements. Coal is
also acquired through long-term and short-
term contracts. Thirteen long-term coal
contracts accounted for 60% of the overall
2002/03 requirements. The contract terms
range from one to 20 years. The remaining
7% of PaciﬁCorp’s coal requirement was
supplied through short-term purchases.
PaciﬁCorp has also entered into long-term,
ﬁxed-price natural gas contracts to supply
its owned and leased gas-ﬁred generation
facilities. These long-term contracts meet
100% of the expected needs for natural gas
at these facilities until April 2005.
To manage future generation needs and
meet environmental objectives, PaciﬁCorp
has also completed an Integrated Resource
Plan (“IRP”) which was ﬁled in January
2003. This provides a framework and plan
for the prudent future actions required to
ensure that PaciﬁCorp continues to provide
reliable and cost-effective electricity service
to its customers. Projected growth rates and
the retirement of existing resources indicate
a need, subject to ongoing review, for about
4,000 additional MW of capacity between
2004 and 2014. The IRP and the resulting
Request for Proposals process have been
created to identify PaciﬁCorp's future
resource mix in a coordinated process with
stakeholders in the six states it serves. As
part of the IRP process, PaciﬁCorp expects
to select the optimal solution from a mix of
renewable, thermal, market purchase and
demand side management choices and to
guide speciﬁc “build or buy” decisions
made dependent on permitting, siting,
emissions, cost recovery and economic
conditions. Costs incurred by PaciﬁCorp to
provide a service to its customers are
expected to be included as allowable costs
for ratemaking purposes. However, there
can be no assurance that these costs will
be fully recovered through the regulatory
process.
Wholesale sales and purchased electricity
In addition to its base of thermal, renewable
and hydro-electric generation assets,
PaciﬁCorp uses a mix of long-term and
short-term ﬁrm purchases and non-ﬁrm
purchases to meet its load obligations and
to make sales to other energy providers.
PaciﬁCorp enters into wholesale purchase
and sale transactions to provide hedges
against periods of variable generation or
variable retail load. Generation varies with
the level of outages or transmission
constraints and retail load varies with the
weather, distribution system outages and
the level of economic activity. During the
year ended 31 March 2003, retail loads
were lower than in the previous year due to
milder weather and a generally weak
western US economy. PaciﬁCorp’s wholesale
transactions are integral to its retail
business, providing for a balanced and
economically hedged position and
enhancing the efﬁcient use of its generating
capacity over the long term. PaciﬁCorp’s
transmission system is available for
common use consistent with open access
regulatory requirements and connects with
market hubs in the Paciﬁc Northwest to
provide access to what is normally low-cost
hydro-electric generation and also to the
southwestern US, which provides access to
normally higher-cost fossil-fuel generation.
Under the requirements of the Public Utility
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, PaciﬁCorp
purchases the output of qualifying facilities
constructed and operated by entities that
are not public utilities. During 2002/03,
PaciﬁCorp purchased an average of 95 MW
from qualifying facilities, compared to an
average of 104 MW in 2001/02.
Proposed asset sale
In 1998, PaciﬁCorp announced its intention
to sell its California electricity service area,
including its electricity distribution assets,
and has since been working to complete the
sale of these properties to Nor-Cal Electric
Authority (“Nor-Cal”). Various factors have
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
13 impeded the proposed sale. In June 2002, a
validation action in the California Superior
Court challenged the authority of Nor-Cal to
enter into such a transaction and alleged
certain conﬂicts of interest among Nor-Cal
and its advisors. This action is ongoing and
the outcome for the proposed sale remains
uncertain.
Infrastructure Division
Three wholly-owned subsidiaries of SPUK –
SP Transmission Limited, SP Distribution
Limited and SP Manweb plc – are the
“owner companies” holding the regulated
assets and transmission and distribution
licences and acting as an integrated
business unit to concentrate divisional
expertise on regulatory issues and
investment strategy. A further wholly-
owned subsidiary of SPUK – SP Power
Systems Limited (“PowerSystems”) –
provides asset management expertise and
conducts the day-to-day operation of the
networks, implementing work programmes
commissioned by and agreed with the
asset-owner business. Strict commercial
disciplines are applied at the asset owner-
service provider interface, with
PowerSystems operating as a contractor to
the transmission and distribution business
unit. 
An integrated senior management team
within the Infrastructure Division applies
the beneﬁts of growing expertise in asset
ownership, ﬁnancing and operational
service provision to the management of the
group’s regulated networks businesses in
both the US and the UK.
Principal business activities – transmission
and distribution
ScottishPower owns and manages a
substantial UK electricity distribution and
transmission network which extends to over
116,000 km, with 66,800 km of
underground cables and 49,900 km of
overhead lines network, comprising both
the distribution system to customers in its
two authorised areas and, in Scotland, its
high voltage transmission system (132
kiloVolt (“kV”) and above, including those
parts of the England-Scotland
interconnector which are in its Scottish
authorised area). Table 9 (page 32) shows
key information with respect to the
division’s transmission and distribution
services in 2002/03. These networks are
operated under licences issued by the Gas
and Electricity Markets Authority (“the
Authority”) and held by the transmission
and distribution businesses, which are
entitled to charge for the use of the
systems on terms approved by the
Authority under various price control
formulae. The management focus of the
transmission and distribution business is to
outperform allowed regulatory returns from
the provision of efﬁcient, coordinated and
economical networks which are open to
licensed users on a non-discriminatory
basis (in order to facilitate competition in
generation and supply) and operated to
approved standards of safety and reliability.
The income derived from the distribution
business is dependent on the demand for
electricity by customers in the authorised
areas. Demand for electricity is affected by
such factors as growth and movements in
population, social trends, economic and
business growth or decline, changes in the
mix of energy sources used by customers,
weather conditions and energy efﬁciency
measures. Tables 10 and 11 (page 32) set
out the demand in gigawatthours (“GWh”)
by customer type within the broadly stable
levels of electricity transported over the
distribution systems in the ScottishPower
and Manweb home areas during the ﬁve
most recent ﬁnancial years.
Principal business activities – asset
management
Within the PowerSystems business unit, the
focus continues to be on reducing costs
and improving service. Its principal
business activities involve the construction
and refurbishment of the UK transmission
and distribution systems, their maintenance
and related fault repair. PowerSystems acts
as the major service provider to the
ScottishPower transmission and
distribution business and as the primary
customer contact agent for network-related
matters. PowerSystems continues to focus
strongly on the efﬁcient delivery of these
services under contract. Current
performance, as measured by the Ofﬁce of
Gas and Electricity Markets (“Ofgem”)
Customer Satisfaction Survey, is above
average, placing ScottishPower in the
“incentive” band within the Ofgem
Information and Incentives Programme.
PowerSystems aims to maintain this
position and to continue to deliver the
associated ﬁnancial beneﬁt. PowerSystems
has continued to maintain a joint venture
with Alfred McAlpine Utility Services
Limited, called Core Utility Solutions
Limited, to take advantage of the
opportunities presented by the requirement
for competitive provision of connections to
distribution networks.
UK Division
The UK Division operates in gas and
electricity markets which became fully
competitive with the ending of residual
price controls on residential electricity on
31 March 2002, although Ofgem continue
to enforce licence conditions and regulate
quality of service. The division comprises
ﬁve wholly-owned subsidiaries:
ScottishPower Generation Limited owns
and operates the power stations and other
generation assets in the British Isles and
holds the group’s generation licence;
ScottishPower Energy Trading Limited and
ScottishPower Energy Trading (Agency)
Limited deal in gas and electricity at the
wholesale level and in the commercial
instruments and agreements which
constitute the market balancing
mechanisms for the competitive energy
market in the UK; ScottishPower Energy
Retail Limited is the gas and electricity
supply company and holder of the group’s
supply licences, managing pricing, selling,
billing and receipting for gas and electricity
supply to both business and domestic
customers and dealing with enquiries
arising in the course of this business; and,
SP Dataserve Limited is the data
management and metering company,
managing the data processes which
underpin customer registration through to
billing and settlement in the competitive
energy market.
The divisional management team oversees
activities across the energy value chain,
maximising value from a diverse
generation portfolio through to a national
customer base of over 3.6 million, via an
integrated commercial and energy
management activity that acts to balance
and hedge energy needs. Throughout
2002/03, wholesale energy prices have
been low by historic standards and, in light
of the emphasis on a market-based
framework for energy policy set out by the
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
14
Business Review – Description of Business
continued UK Government in February 2003,
wholesale energy markets face the
prospect of continuing structural and
contractual changes. As an active market
participant, the division engages fully in
regulatory and contractual debate and in
the consultation processes surrounding the
Government’s review of energy policy. In the
meantime, the division aims to leverage the
beneﬁts of its ﬂexible generation asset base
and commercial operations to deliver
sustained earnings through improved
business processes and customer service.
Principal business activities
The group’s UK Division operates
ScottishPower’s generating stations in the
British Isles, manages the company’s
exposure to the wholesale electricity and
gas markets and is responsible for energy
supply: the sales and marketing of
electricity and gas to customers
throughout Great Britain, together with the
associated customer registration, billing
and receipting processes and handling
enquiries in respect of these services.
Power plant portfolio, fuel strategy and
generation sales
ScottishPower has access to some 5,000
MW of capacity, see Table 8 (page 32)
comprising coal, gas, hydro-electric and
wind power generation assets, giving the
division a particularly ﬂexible portfolio.
Acquisition of additional thermal
generation capacity is kept under
continuing review but purchases will only
be made at value-enhancing prices and the
current market is characterised by over-
capacity. In 2002/03, the windfarm
business continued to expand and now has
operational windfarms totalling 128 MW,
planning applications for a further 546 MW
and environmental assessments begun on
around 300 MW of further potential sites
to ensure that the company target of 10%
of supply from renewables by 2010 is met.
ScottishPower’s fuel purchasing strategy is
based upon the objective of achieving
competitive fuel prices while balancing the
need for security and ﬂexibility of supply.
The major components of the fuel portfolio
are coal and gas, both fuels being sourced
through a combination of long-term
contracts and shorter-term trading. The
division has four long-term contracts with
terms of greater than ﬁve years for supply
from major gas ﬁelds.
Generation output was managed in order to
hedge risk and optimise the position in the
balancing market. Some 18 terawatthours
(“TWh”) were despatched, both to
contribute towards the approximately 34
TWh of retail and wholesale demand
provided by the division and to maintain
export volumes through the interconnectors
to England & Wales and to Northern Ireland.
Energy management and commercial
arrangements
In addition to its own generation capacity
and long-term bulk gas contracts
ScottishPower has access to additional
generation under contract. Through its
commercial and energy management
operations, the division uses medium and
short-term contractual arrangements to
complete its energy purchase requirements
and to sell its generation output into the
electricity market in Scotland and, through
the interconnectors, to England & Wales and
to Northern Ireland. The draft bill intended
to introduce a Great Britain-wide market
through the British Electricity Trading and
Transmission Arrangements (“BETTA”) was
published in January 2003, although the
new arrangements are not now expected to
become effective until October 2004 at the
earliest. BETTA is expected to have only a
very modest impact on end-user prices and
the UK Government is now in consultation
on transmission losses in a Great Britain-
wide market, since these could impose
higher costs on all types of generation in
Scotland, particularly renewables.
Through its activities in the electricity, gas and
coal markets, ScottishPower’s energy
management business secures competitive
advantage for the UK Division through
hedging and optimising its position across
the energy value chain, continuously
evaluating and managing risk exposure.
ScottishPower’s Hatﬁeld Moors gas storage
site enhances the ﬂexibility of the division’s
energy management position, both in meeting
peak demands of supply customers and
responding to the volatility of gas prices
between midweek and weekends. In
addition, the bulk gas contracts allow the gas
to be sold out or used in the division’s power
stations, giving yet more ﬂexibility. A
planning application for a 60 million therm,
gas storage facility was subject to a public
inquiry in late 2002, with a decision
anticipated later in 2003/04.
The New Electricity Trading Arrangements,
introduced into England & Wales in March
2001, encourage all generators to ﬁnd
buyers for their output, by offering them
competitive prices, and all suppliers to 
contract with generators to purchase
sufﬁcient electricity to meet their customers’
demand. Imbalances between actual and
contracted positions are settled through the
balancing mechanism. The pay-as-bid and
balancing process exposes market
participants to the costs and consequences
of their actions, and thus leads to more
cost-reﬂective prices and more effective
management of risk. Wholesale electricity
prices have remained low, down by
approximately 10% year-on-year, although
above ScottishPower’s marginal cost of
generation. The UK market is characterised
by over-capacity, with plant being
mothballed and some companies
withdrawing from the market. Low wholesale
prices improve the proﬁtability of the
ScottishPower energy supply business to
the extent that the group’s own generation
and market purchases are used to meet
customer demand but short-term sales
contracts with large industrial and
commercial customers quickly reﬂect
movements in the wholesale market,
restricting supply margins in this sector.
Under the Nuclear Energy Agreement
(“NEA”) of 1990, ScottishPower and Scottish
& Southern were contracted, until 2005, to
purchase the entire output from British
Energy’s nuclear plants in Scotland on the
basis of a pricing formula not reﬂective of
recent market conditions. Amendments to
the NEA agreed in July 2002 were cleared
by the UK and European Union authorities
by November 2002 and the full effect of the
revised terms has now been applied
throughout 2002/03 providing a beneﬁt of
some £25 million.
Energy supply
Since September 1998, when competition
was extended to residential electricity
customers, the strategic focus of the
ScottishPower energy supply business has
been the defence of its core markets,
residential and small business customers in
the ScottishPower and Manweb home areas,
whilst seeking proﬁtable additional business
outside these historical regional boundaries.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
15 Retention of home area residential
customers stands at 61% whilst targeted
sales efforts, strategic marketing alliances,
such as NESTMakers, the partnership with
Sainsbury’s and the use of e-commerce
channels have helped develop a Britain-wide
customer base which now stands at 3.65
million energy accounts. Customer service
performance improved on the prior year
and there have been further system
improvements in the call centres. The
business improvement programme
introduced in 2001 continues to drive
improvements across the retail supply
business and has delivered revenue and
cost beneﬁts of £14 million in the year to 31
March 2003 in areas such as billing, debt
and customer registration business
processes.
Metering and data management
In the competitive energy market SP
Dataserve Limited operates end-to-end
process and data management in order to
maximise efﬁciencies in the provision and
control of registration and metering data.
Data management covers the
establishment of new customers,
maintenance of existing customers and
accuracy of energy settlement. To effectively
manage gas and electricity customers, SP
Dataserve has been improving billing
performance and the management of the
agents, who provide much of the data.
PPM
PPM, the group’s competitive US energy
business, commenced substantive
operations in 2001 as PaciﬁCorp Power
Marketing, Inc. and is growing prudently
through selective expansion in renewables
and gas storage services. In order to express
better the range of its activities, PPM
changed its name in January 2003 to PPM
Energy, Inc. Its principal assets are thermal
and renewable generation resources and
natural gas storage facilities, including a gas
storage asset in western Canada. PPM has
more than 1,100 MW currently under its
ownership or control and, of that, PPM has
full economic interest in 861 MW, see Table
7 (page 31).  PPM also has approximately
250 MW under construction.  This will bring
PPM’s total to more than 1,350 MW upon
completion of construction.  In its electricity
business, PPM serves a wide variety of
wholesale energy customers including
municipal agencies, public utility districts
and investor-owned utilities. These
customers are primarily located in
wholesale energy markets served by the 1.8
million square mile Western Electricity
Coordinating Council service territories in
the western US. In addition to its active
engagement in the west, PPM is currently
developing wind generation projects in the
mid-western US. PPM’s two major gas
storage facilities are in Alberta, Canada, and
Texas and are each connected into
substantial pipeline networks serving well-
diversiﬁed customer bases under ﬁrm, long-
term as well as short-term contract
arrangements.
In order to meet growing customer demand
for renewables, which is supported by public
policy at the federal and certain state levels,
PPM continues to grow its renewable energy
business. In October 2002, PPM purchased
the output of the 150 MW High Winds
windfarm in northern California and, as it
did with the Stateline Wind Energy Center
along the Oregon/Washington border, has
placed much of this high-quality renewable
energy output under long-term contracts.
PPM is also developing the 51 MW Moraine
Wind Power Project in southwest Minnesota
in conjunction with a long-term power sales
agreement signed with the regional
regulated utility, Northern States Power
Company. PPM continues to grow its
renewable energy business and has recently
announced the development of the 44 MW
Flying Cloud Wind Project in Iowa, which
includes a 15 year agreement to sell power
to Interstate Power & Light, a subsidiary of
Alliant Energy. All of these projects will be
on-line by the end of calendar year 2003.
PPM has grown its operating wind power
portfolio from 263 MW in 2002 to 324 MW
in 2003. With approximately another 250
MW under construction and expected to
come on-line in 2003/04, this will bring
PPM’s total wind power under ownership or
contract to more than 560 MW. In addition,
PPM continues to develop wind power
generation and supply arrangements and
has under consideration many strategically
sited windfarm opportunities. It is a western
US leader in the supply of renewable energy
and is committed to sustainable and clean
energy development for the future, as
demanded by the market. 
In addition to its renewable generation
portfolio, PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic
feet (“BCF”) of gas storage capacity under
ownership, up from 14 BCF the prior year.
This includes the 21 BCF acquired in
December 2002 at the Katy gas storage
facility in Texas and a 2 BCF expansion of
the Alberta Hub gas storage facility during
the year. PPM intends to add to its 40%
ownership in the Alberta Hub gas storage
facility with the purchase of an additional
ownership interest this spring. PPM has a
number of development opportunities
underway to grow its gas storage business at
selective locations over the next several years. 
PPM creates value by securing quality assets
at strategic locations and by locking in value
with long-term contracts with creditworthy
customers. Integration of plant operations,
contract dispatch and energy management
add additional value. The optimisation
beneﬁts come from displacing plant
operations with low-priced power purchases,
selling the displaced gas or placing it in
storage, as well as using transmission and
contract delivery ﬂexibility to manage
locational price differences in both gas and
power. PPM aims to leverage the beneﬁts of
its ﬂexible asset base and contracts to
extract value across gas and power. 
Discontinued activities
UK water and wastewater services –
Southern Water
The sale of Southern Water to First Aqua
Limited, a company speciﬁcally formed to
undertake the acquisition, was announced
on 8 March 2002 and concluded on 23
April 2002. Net cash inﬂows from the
disposal were used primarily to reduce
group net debt.
Group employees
US businesses
PHI and its subsidiaries had 6,291
employees at 31 March 2003. Of these,
6,130 were employed by PaciﬁCorp and its
mining subsidiaries and 161 by PPM. 
Approximately 59% of the employees of
PaciﬁCorp and its mining subsidiaries are
covered by union contracts, principally with
the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers, the Utility Workers Union of
America and the United Mine Workers of
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
16
Business Review – Description of Business
continued America. In the company’s judgement,
employee relations in the US businesses are
satisfactory.
UK businesses
ScottishPower and its continuing UK
subsidiaries had 7,534 employees, at 31
March 2003. Of these, 3,215 were
employed in the Infrastructure Division and
4,319 in the UK Division. Approximately
64% of employees in the UK are union
members, and 84% are covered by
collective bargaining arrangements. There
are a number of different collective
agreements in place throughout the group,
reﬂecting differing market conditions in
which the group’s businesses operate. In
the company’s judgement, employee
relations in the UK businesses are
satisfactory.
Human resources strategy
During 2002, the group reviewed its
human resources strategy, assessing the
mutual needs of the businesses and their
employees. Following a “gap analysis” a
new human resources strategy was
developed and approved by the Board in
July 2002. In 2003/04, plans will be
developed and implemented aiming to
ensure that, by 2005 and wherever they
work across the group, employees share a
consistent, positive experience of working
for ScottishPower which encourages and
supports high personal performance.
During 2002/03, health and safety
arrangements were also reviewed,
stimulated by an external audit of
business processes. A new health and
safety governance process was approved
by the Executive Team in November 2002
and, following extensive discussion and
communication, a new group health and
safety strategy was developed for
implementation in 2003/04.
Further details of group workplace policy
and performance can be found in the
ScottishPower Environmental and Social
Impact Report and the ScottishPower
Workplace Performance Report. Both will
be available on the ScottishPower website.
Group environmental policy
ScottishPower recognises the need for a
responsible business to embrace a wider
role in society and to engage fully with
shareholders, staff, communities,
customers and other opinion formers. It
aims to do this transparently, through an
international framework, to ensure that key
principles are translated into action. This
framework comprises overall international
visionary goals, and speciﬁc goals for the
US and UK. Performance towards meeting
these goals is tracked through carefully
chosen Key Performance Indicators,
closely related to business unit objectives.
ScottishPower’s strategy is to become one
of the world’s leading international energy
companies. Hence, it must strive to achieve
a balance between various needs including
securing energy supply now and into the
future, keeping energy affordable and
minimising its impact on the environment.
Policy frameworks in the US and UK have
common elements: moves to place a value
on carbon dioxide (“CO
2
”) for trading,
tightening emission controls using market
instruments and supporting renewables
and energy efﬁciency measures. In the US,
President Bush’s Clear Skies initiative
appears to have a high Government
priority, against a background of pressure
to move it towards a multi-pollutant basis,
including carbon. Although efforts to adopt
a Renewable Portfolio Standard at the
federal level have slowed, efforts continue
to create viable markets for renewable
generation at the state level, most notably
in California. The European Union (“EU”)
agreed the content of an Emission Trading
Directive early in December 2002 which
will bring into force a mandatory emission
trading regime, as soon as 2005. The UK
Energy White Paper, published in February
2003, doubled the UK renewables target of
10% by 2010 to 20%, to be achieved by
2020. Energy saving and energy services
received a boost, while resources were
identiﬁed to support new clean-coal. In
Scotland, consultations have begun on a
demanding target of 40% renewables by
2020. This is being carried out at a time
when operators and the UK regulator,
Ofgem, are engaging in discussions which
recognise the need to set network
upgrades in the context of future network
development for renewables and
embedded generation.
The group continues to develop speciﬁc
policies to respond to these regulatory
challenges, aiming to grow its business
sustainably in new energy markets, to
invest in renewables and clean-coal
technology and to ensure that customers
beneﬁt from innovations in energy
efﬁciency. It also aims to manage existing
coal-ﬁred assets responsibly, applying
appropriate abatement technologies to
reduce its environmental footprint whilst
supporting security of supply and
affordability of power for its customers.
The lines of accountability for
environmental policy have been
strengthened by forming the policy making
Energy and Environment Committee,
chaired by the Chief Executive and with
direct reporting lines to ScottishPower’s
Executive Team.
The work of Environment Forums in the US
and UK continues to provide ScottishPower
with independent opinion on key
environmental policies and practices.
Environmental Management Systems
(“EMS”) in the UK, many of which are
certiﬁed, are based on the ISO14001
standard. These systems continue to
provide appropriate controls, and are
increasingly linked to business risk
management processes. In the US,
PaciﬁCorp’s coal-ﬁred stations and one
gas-ﬁred station are all certiﬁed to
ISO14001 and other parts of PaciﬁCorp
continue to roll out EMS programmes.
PaciﬁCorp’s hydro resources business unit
has completed the Lewis River Basin EMS,
which has acted as the template for
completion of the Rogue and Klamath
EMSs and subsequent EMS development
at the Umpqua and Bear River basins.
PaciﬁCorp’s power transmission and
distribution business unit has embedded
EMS controls at four key “hub” facilities
and has strong procedures covering bird
protection, oil spills and waste
management, including a well established
contaminant removal programme.
Research and development
ScottishPower supports research into
development of the generation,
transmission, distribution and supply of
electricity. It also continues to contribute,
on an industry-wide basis, towards the
cost of research into electricity utilisation
and distribution developments. In
financial years 2002/03, 2001/02 and
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
17 2000/01, expenditure on research and
development in the group’s businesses
was £0.7 million, £3.1 million and £4.2
million, respectively.
Charitable donations
During 2002/03, donations made for
charitable purposes by ScottishPower
companies totalled £3.2 million. In addition,
some £5.3 million of community support
activity comprising community investment
and commercial initiatives given in cash,
through staff time and in-kind donations
was undertaken by the company’s US and
UK operations.
Description of the company’s
property
US businesses
The US properties consist primarily of
generating facilities, electricity transmission
and distribution facilities, coal mines and a
number of ofﬁce facilities. Substantially all
of PaciﬁCorp’s electricity plants are subject
to the lien of PaciﬁCorp’s Mortgage and
Deed of Trust.
PaciﬁCorp owns or has an interest in 53
hydro-electric generating plants. These have
an aggregate nameplate rating of 1,067 MW
and plant net capability of 1,116 MW. It also
owns or has interests in 17 thermal-
electricity generating plants with an
aggregate nameplate rating of 7,310 MW
and plant net capability of 6,777 MW.
PaciﬁCorp also jointly owns one wind power
generating plant with an aggregate
nameplate rating of 33 MW and plant net
capability of 33 MW. Table 1 (page 30) sets
out key aspects of PaciﬁCorp’s existing
generating facilities. These generating
facilities are interconnected through
PaciﬁCorp’s own transmission lines or by
contract through the lines of others.
Substantially all of PaciﬁCorp’s generating
facilities and reservoirs are managed on a
coordinated basis to obtain maximum load
carrying capability and efﬁciency. Portions
of PaciﬁCorp’s 72,000 miles of transmission
and distribution networks are located, by
franchise or permit, upon public lands,
roads and streets and, by easement or
licence, upon the lands of other third
parties. Table 4 (page 31) sets out further
information regarding the PaciﬁCorp
networks.
PaciﬁCorp’s coal reserves are described in
Table 2 (page 30). Most are held pursuant
to leases from the federal government
through the Bureau of Land Management
and from certain states and private parties.
The leases generally have multi-year terms
that may be renewed or extended and
require payment of rentals and royalties. In
addition, federal and state regulations
require that comprehensive environmental
protection and reclamation standards be
met during the course of mining operations
and upon completion of mining activities.
PPM has more than 1,100 MW currently
under its ownership or control and, of that,
PPM has full economic interest in 861 MW,
see Table 7 (page 31). PPM also has
approximately 250 MW under construction.
This will bring PPM’s total to more than
1,350 MW upon completion of construction.
The majority of PPM’s capacity, 300 MW
contracted for a period of 25 years and 237
MW of thermal power contracted for a
period of 30 years, comes from long-term
agreements while 324 MW comes from
outright ownership of one wind plant and
two thermal plants. PPM also owns major
gas storage facilities in Alberta, Canada and
Texas for a total of 37 BCF of gas storage
capacity under ownership, up from 14 BCF
the prior year.
UK businesses
The UK properties consist of generating
stations, transmission and distribution
facilities and certain non-operational
properties in which the company holds
freehold or leasehold interests.
ScottishPower owns seven power stations in
Scotland, ﬁve of which are operational and
two in England. It also owns three
windfarms in Northern Ireland, four in
Scotland, and one in the Republic of Ireland.
In addition, the company has joint venture
interests in one power station in England
and three windfarms, two of which are in
England and one in Wales. All generation
plant is owned by the group, with the
exception of the non-operational Methil
power station, which is held on a ground
lease that expires in 2012 and the
windfarms which are generally held on
ground leases of at least 25 years’ duration.
See Table 8 (page 32) for further details of
operational generation assets.
At 31 March 2003, the UK transmission
facilities included approximately 4,150
circuit km of overhead lines and
underground cable operated at 400 kV, 275
kV and 132 kV. In addition, the distribution
facilities included over 110,000 circuit km of
overhead lines and underground cable at
voltages operating from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
The group holds either permanent rights or
wayleaves which entitle it to run these lines
and cables through private land. See Table 9
(page 32) for further details.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
18
Business Review – Description of Business
continued As a public limited company (“plc”),
Scottish Power plc is subject to the UK
Companies Acts and is also registered as a
holding company under the US federal
Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935, which is administered by the US
federal Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). Hence, Scottish
Power plc, PaciﬁCorp and other
subsidiaries are subject to regulation
unless speciﬁc subsidiaries or transactions
are otherwise exempt by SEC rules or
orders. SPUK and its subsidiaries are
exempt because SPUK is an exempt foreign
utility as deﬁned in the 1935 Act. Whereas
US federal and state regulatory
commissions generally have jurisdiction
over mergers, acquisitions and the sale of
utility assets, the UK Government, as a way
to maintain control over ScottishPower and
certain of its subsidiaries, required the
issuance of a ScottishPower “Special
Share”. The Special Share only affects the
corporate control transactions at the overall
group holding company level and has no
effect on PaciﬁCorp.
ScottishPower’s UK operations are subject
to such EU Directives as the UK
Government brings into effect, speciﬁcally,
the EU (energy) Liberalisation Directive and
EU prohibitions on anti-competitive
agreements and the abuse of a dominant
position (implemented through the
Competition Act 1998, which came into
effect from 1 March 2000) and also to the
provisions of the Utilities Act 2000
(“Utilities Act”). The Utilities Act introduced
a legal framework for energy company
licences based on standard, UK-wide
conditions and, taken together with
requirements of the Department of Trade
and Industry (“DTI”) and licence changes
introduced by the Regulators, deﬁnes the
regulatory framework within which SPUK
and its subsidiaries must operate.
A summary of the more speciﬁc legislative
and regulatory background to the
operations of the group’s businesses is set
out below.
US business regulation
PaciﬁCorp is subject to the jurisdiction of
the public utility regulatory authorities of
each of the states in which it conducts
retail electricity operations as to prices,
services, accounting, issuance of securities
and other matters. Commissioners are
appointed by the individual state’s
governor for varying terms. PaciﬁCorp is a
“licensee” and a “public utility” as those
terms are used in the Federal Power Act
(“FPA”) and is, therefore, subject to
regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (“FERC”) as to accounting
policies and practices, certain prices and
other matters.
Because PPM does not conduct retail
electricity operations, it is not subject to the
same state public utility commission
regulation as PaciﬁCorp. However, certain
of its wholesale activities are regulated by
the FERC and the state commissions
impose certain limitations on afﬁliate
transactions. In addition, PPM's Texan and
Canadian gas storage activities are subject
to regulation by the Texas Railroad
Commission and the Alberta Energy and
Utilities Board, respectively.
Multi-State Process (“MSP”)
PaciﬁCorp continues its active involvement
in a collaborative process with stakeholders
in the six states it serves to develop
mutually acceptable solutions to the
problems faced by PaciﬁCorp and the states
as a result of the operations of a multi-state
utility. MSP seeks to clarify roles and
responsibilities, including cost allocations
for future generation resources, to provide
states with the ability independently to
implement state energy policy objectives
and to achieve a permanent consensus on
each state’s responsibility for the costs and
entitlement to the beneﬁts of PaciﬁCorp’s
existing assets. Between April and
December 2002, PaciﬁCorp and key parties
from the states it serves (or, in the case of
California, a key monitoring contact)
analysed over 50 options which were
narrowed to two possibilities. A second
phase of the collaborative process is under
way in which the parties will further assess
the two proposals with the goal of agreeing
a single proposal by the summer of 2003.
Any proposal resulting from the MSP would
be subject to approval by the utility
commissions in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming,
Washington, Idaho and California, and may
also require approvals from the FERC and
the SEC. Additional state proceedings to
approve speciﬁc contracts and tariffs would
follow, probably during 2003/04.
Regional Transmission Organization
(“RTO”)
On 31 July 2002, the FERC issued a Notice
of Proposed Rulemaking proposing a new
Standard Market Design (“SMD”) for
wholesale electricity markets, relating to
open access transmission service and
standard electricity market design. The SMD
proposed a number of remedies aimed at
removing barriers to efﬁcient competitive
wholesale markets perceived by the FERC. 
PaciﬁCorp is one of 10 parties involved in an
effort to form an RTO, named RTO West, in
response to FERC Order 2000. The ten
members of RTO West would be Avista
Corporation, British Columbia Hydro and
Power Authority, Bonneville Power
Administration, Idaho Power Company,
Northwestern Energy L.L.C. (formerly
Montana Power Company), Nevada Power
Company, PaciﬁCorp, Portland General
Electric Company, Puget Sound Energy, Inc.
and Sierra Paciﬁc Power Company. Creation
of RTO West is subject to regulatory
approvals from the FERC and some of the
states served by these members may also
assert jurisdiction over certain matters
relating to the formation of RTO West. RTO
West plans to operate all transmission
facilities needed for bulk power transfers
and to control the majority of the 60,000
miles of transmission line owned by the
members. On 18 September 2002, the
FERC voted that, with some modiﬁcation
and further development of certain details,
the RTO West proposal satisﬁes the
requirements of the FERC Order 2000. It
also recognised the proposal as providing a
basic framework for a SMD for the western
US. On 28 April 2003, the FERC released a
White Paper on its wholesale electricity SMD,
proposed in July 2002, which reﬂected a
willingness to defer to regional solutions and
not adopt overly-prescriptive rules. The
White Paper indicates that the FERC will
refocus its forthcoming ﬁnal SMD rule
around the formation of RTOs and ensure
that those entities have sound market rules.
Additionally, the FERC afﬁrmed that it would
permit phased-in implementation and
sequencing tailored to each region, and
allow modiﬁcations that would beneﬁt
customers within each region. The FERC has
now instituted an open-ended public
comment period, speciﬁcally inviting
reaction to certain aspects of the paper. It is
expected that the ﬁnal order will be delayed
past the initial July 2003 target release date. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
19
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background FERC Issues
On 26 April 2001, the FERC imposed a
price mitigation plan limiting prices on spot
market sales in California 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. On 19 June 2001, the
FERC issued an order that extended the
California price limits to all wholesale spot
market sales in the entire 11-state western
region. The 19 June 2001 order also
required that all public utility sellers and 
buyers (the “Party” or “Parties”) in the
California Independent System Operators’
(“Cal ISO”) markets participate in
settlement discussions to complete the
task of settling past accounts and
structuring the new arrangements for
California's energy future. As a result
thereof, on 12 July 2001, an Administrative
Law Judge (“ALJ”) issued a
recommendation to the FERC based upon
the settlement conference, proposing a
methodology to calculate refunds for spot
sales to the Cal ISO and the California
Power Exchange (“CPX”) between 2
October 2000 and 20 June 2001. The
FERC agreed with the ALJ-proposed
methodology. On 12 December 2002, a
second ALJ issued a Certiﬁcation of
Proposed Findings on California Refund
Liability in which the ALJ preliminarily
determined that $1.2 billion was still owed
to suppliers by the Cal ISO and the CPX,
which was calculated by offsetting a $1.8
billion refund from the $3.0 billion owed to
suppliers. On 26 March 2003, the FERC
staff issued a ﬁnal report on price
manipulation in western markets (“Staff’s
Final Report”). Following issuance of the
Staff’s Final Report, the FERC issued an
Order on Proposed Findings on Refund
Liability adopting many of the ALJ’s 12
December 2002 Proposed Findings and
clarifying the method for calculating
refunds for purchases made in the Cal ISO
and CPX spot markets. In its order, the
FERC adopted recommendations from the
Staff’s Final Report, including a new proxy
for gas prices, which could increase the
amount of refunds, if any, owed by all
Parties. The FERC expects that refunds will
be distributed by the end of the summer of
2003. PaciﬁCorp’s level of exposure to
refunds is dependent upon any ﬁnal order
issued by the FERC in response to the
outcome of these proceedings.
The FERC has also established a second
proceeding to consider the possibility of
requiring refunds for wholesale spot market
bilateral sales in the Paciﬁc Northwest
between 25 December 2000 and 20 June
2001. PaciﬁCorp's obligation to make
refunds, if any, will be dependent upon any
ﬁnal order issued by the FERC in response
to the outcome of these proceedings and
cannot be determined at this time.
Relicensing of hydro-electric projects
PaciﬁCorp's hydro-electric portfolio
consists of 53 plants with a plant net
capability of 1,116 MW, about 13% of
PaciﬁCorp's total generating capacity. The
majority of the hydro-electric generating
portfolio is operated under licences from
the FERC, granted for periods of 30 to 50
years. There is a complex regulatory
process to apply for new licences which
begins ﬁve and a half years before the
expiration of an existing licence and
involves a number of federal and state
agencies, as well as other stakeholders.
Some state and federal agencies have
authority to require certain terms and
conditions to be included in the FERC
licence. Often existing licences expire prior
to the FERC’s issuing a new licence. In
these cases, the FERC has historically
issued annual operating licences so that
the project can continue to operate while
alternatives are evaluated: the FERC is
expected to continue this practice. 
Many of PaciﬁCorp's long-term operating
licences have expired or will expire in the
next few years, leaving the plants to operate
under annual licences granted by the FERC
but containing conditions requiring
PaciﬁCorp to implement certain protection,
mitigation and enhancement measures,
primarily to address environmental
concerns relating to ﬁsheries, water quality,
wildlife, recreation, land use, cultural
resources and erosion. It is difﬁcult to
determine the economic impact of these
measures, but capital expenditures and
operating costs are expected to increase
and in-stream ﬂow requirements and other
constraints on operations may result in
lower generating output and reductions in
operational ﬂexibility. PaciﬁCorp has
entered into settlement agreements with
stakeholders in the licensing processes
regarding measures to be included in the
new licences for the North Umpqua, Bear
River and Big Fork hydro-electric projects
and has incorporated the terms of these
settlement agreements into the licence
applications to the FERC. PaciﬁCorp has
also analysed the costs and beneﬁts of
relicensing the Condit, Powerdale and
American Fork hydro-electric projects and
as a result entered into a settlement
agreement to remove or decommission
these projects, rather than continuing to
pursue new licences.
Most of the commitments under these
settlement agreements are contingent on
ultimately receiving acceptable licences
from the FERC. The costs of the measures,
together with the costs for hydro-electric
relicensing, are expected to be included in
rates and, as such, not to have a material
adverse impact on the group's consolidated
results or ﬁnancial position. 
Regulatory established returns
The regulatory commissions in the various
states where PaciﬁCorp operates approve
an appropriate level of cost recovery for
debt, preferred equity and common equity
which results in an allowed return on rate
base costs (“ROR”), including an allowed
return on equity (“ROE”) representing the
return on shareholder investment.
Determination of these returns, and the
composition of the investment costs
included in the rate base, is made by the
commissions in hearings on general rate
cases. Rates are then set to allow
PaciﬁCorp the opportunity, with no
guarantees, to meet its expenses, recover
its investments and earn the allowed ROE
for its shareholders. In recent rate cases,
the Utah, Oregon and Wyoming
commissions have approved RORs of 8.9%,
8.6% and 8.4% and ROEs of 11.0%, 10.8%
and 10.8%, respectively. Rate cases are
underway in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming and
California: in each case, PaciﬁCorp is
targeting an ROE of 11.5%. Commissions in
all states served by PaciﬁCorp monitor
PaciﬁCorp’s achieved ROR for
appropriateness in current market
conditions. PaciﬁCorp continues to reﬁne
its internal procedures and to work with the
commissions to ensure that all prudently
incurred costs are reﬂected in its rates and
that actual rates achieve allowable ROE
levels. General rate adjustments reﬂecting
changes in the regulated cost base granted
in 2002/03 have an annualised value of
approximately $31 million.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
20
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background
continued Recovery of excess power costs
PaciﬁCorp has made progress towards
recovering the deferred power costs
incurred during the period of extreme
volatility and unprecedented high price
levels beginning in the summer of 2000
and extending through the summer of
2001. These costs are being recovered
through rate orders amounting to $147.0
million in Utah, $131.0 million plus
ongoing carrying charges in Oregon and
$25.0 million in Idaho. A ﬁnal decision on a
similar request for $15.9 million in
Washington is expected in early June of
2003. In Wyoming, PaciﬁCorp’s request for
deferred power cost recovery was denied
(although, on 4 April 2003, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled
for a rehearing which is expected to move
to a decision following oral arguments on 8
May 2003) and the Oregon rate order is the
subject of an appeal by intervening parties
which, if successful, would require some
refunds. Under UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), all
PaciﬁCorp’s net power costs are charged to
the proﬁt and loss account when incurred.
There is, therefore, a time lag between the
recognition of allowable excess power costs
under UK GAAP compared to US GAAP,
which continues to beneﬁt future UK GAAP
reported earnings. 
Demand Side Management (“DSM”)
PaciﬁCorp continues to offer its Energy
Exchange programme in Utah, Oregon,
Wyoming, Washington and Idaho. This
programme is an optional, supplemental
service which allows participating
customers an opportunity voluntarily to
reduce electricity usage in exchange for a
payment at times and prices determined
by PaciﬁCorp. The programme is designed
to help all customers of one MW and
greater to address periods of high
wholesale prices and peaks in demand
when they occur.
In Utah, PaciﬁCorp is working on several
programmes, including an incentive
programme to reduce summer peak loads
by encouraging installation of either
evaporative cooling or high efﬁciency (also
known as unitary) air conditioning
equipment, which was approved by the
Utah Public Service Commission (“UPSC”)
on 24 March 2003. In April and May 2003,
PaciﬁCorp ﬁled an air conditioning load
control services programme to help
manage the growth of weather-driven peak
loads and a refrigerator recycling
programme intended to encourage
customers to remove and recycle
secondary refrigerators and/or to upgrade
primary refrigerators to more energy
efﬁcient models. PaciﬁCorp has also ﬁled
for a DSM tariff in Utah. This tariff would
allow PaciﬁCorp to recover DSM
expenditures through a surcharge to
customer bills. Several technical
conferences have been held with interested
parties and hearings have been scheduled
for mid-August 2003.
On 17 March 2003, the Idaho Public
Utilities Commission (“IPUC”) approved an
irrigation load control credit programme
allowing participants to opt for billing
credits in exchange for pre-scheduled load
control events during the summer
irrigation season of 1 June to 15
September.
Competition and deregulation
During 2002/03, PaciﬁCorp continued to
operate its electricity distribution and retail
business under state regulation. Certain
industrial customers in Oregon can choose
alternative electricity suppliers. However,
deregulation of the retail market has not
developed widely and, whilst customer
demand for choice in each state may
eventually lead to retail competition in
some form, individual state legislatures
have as yet brought forward few speciﬁc
proposals for retail competition in
electricity supply. In Oregon, where Senate
Bill 1149 (“SB1149”) required rate
unbundling and the offer of alternatives,
only 26 customers, representing less than
3 average MW of load, elected to take an
alternative plan for calendar year 2003.
PaciﬁCorp is recovering approximately $24
million of SB1149 implementation costs
over a ﬁve-year period through retail rates.
A summary of the outcomes and the most
signiﬁcant further regulatory and legislative
developments in the states concerned is
set out below.
Utah
On 1 May 2002, the UPSC issued an order
approving a stipulation agreement
regarding the recovery of deferred and
non-deferred net power costs in Utah. The
order allows for the consolidation of a
number of individual issues into an overall
programme under which PaciﬁCorp will
recover a total of $147 million of deferred
power costs and commit not to ﬁle a
general rate case that would take effect
prior to 1 January 2004, with certain
exceptions. One party has opposed the rate
spread provisions of the stipulation
agreement and ﬁled a petition for review of
the order. PaciﬁCorp intends to make a
compliance ﬁling in Utah that prepares the
way for a general rate case to be ﬁled in
July 2003. The compliance ﬁling will
establish a cap of $125 million on the
increase that will be deﬁned in more detail
when PaciﬁCorp ﬁles its revenue
requirement testimony on or before 31 July
2003. As part of this ﬁling PaciﬁCorp will
ﬁle its ROE testimony and supporting
exhibits. Hearings are expected to be held
in January and February of 2004. If
approved, rate changes would become
effective on 1 January 2004.
Oregon
On 20 May 2002, the Oregon Public Utility
Commission (“OPUC”) approved a one-
year $15.4 million overall rate increase
effective from 1 June 2002 and intended to
cover increases in power costs. Limited
reconsideration of some $1.2 million of the
increase was the subject of briefs ﬁled in
mid-April 2003. An order is anticipated in
the summer of 2003. On 18 March 2003,
PaciﬁCorp ﬁled a general rate case to
recover rising costs for insurance, pension
funding and healthcare, among others. If
approved, the increase of $57.9 million, or
7.4% in base rates, would take effect from
January 2004.
Deferred accounting ﬁlings encompassing
power costs that varied from the levels in
Oregon rates are the subject of continuing
hearings, although partial recovery of the
deferred costs has continued under rate
increases authorised by the OPUC for
implementation in February 2001, August
2002 and January 2003. The various
actions and hearings have addressed two
issues: whether deferred power costs can
be amortised at 3% or 6% and the total
amount of deferred power costs to be
recovered. A stipulation agreement
recognising the 6% amortisation rate was
approved by the OPUC in December 2002:
appeals against OPUC rulings on the
amount of the recovery have been
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
21 consolidated into an action in the Oregon
Court of Appeals.
Wyoming
On 6 March 2003, the Wyoming Public
Service Commission granted PaciﬁCorp a
general rate increase of $8.7 million,
approximately 2.8%, but denied recovery of
all deferred power costs. PaciﬁCorp has
ﬁled a request for a rehearing: oral
arguments on 8 May 2003 are expected to
lead to a decision on the rehearing in the
near future. Separately, PaciﬁCorp
anticipates ﬁling a general rate case in
Wyoming in late May 2003.
Washington
On 18 October 2002, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled with
the Washington Utilities & Transportation
Commission to defer and recover $17.5
million of excess net power costs: the
deferral and recovery request was
subsequently reduced to $15.9 million
based on power cost data through
December 2002.
Idaho
On 7 January 2002, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled with
the Idaho Public Utilities Commission to
recover deferred power costs: the matter
was resolved in October 2002 by a $25
million package of two-year rate surcharges
and the retirement of merger credits.
California
In June 2002, the California Public Utilities
Commission granted an interim rate
increase amounting to approximately $4.7
million, or 8.8%, annually, subject to refund
pending the outcome of the general rate
case submitted in December 2001. The
discovery process between PaciﬁCorp and
the Ofﬁce of Ratepayer Advocates is
ongoing, with evidentiary hearings
scheduled for late June 2003.
Regulation of the electricity and gas
industries in the UK
The UK electricity and gas industries are
regulated under the provisions of the
Electricity Act, the Gas Acts and the Utilities
Act. The Electricity and Gas Acts provided
for the privatisation and restructuring of
the industries in the late 1980s and the
1990s, including the introduction of price
regulation for electricity transmission and
distribution and gas transportation; and of
competition in electricity generation, gas
storage and the supply of both gas and
electricity. The Acts established the
licensing of industry participants and
created regulatory bodies for each of the
electricity and gas industries. In 2000, the
Utilities Act enabled the electricity and gas
regulators to be merged as the Authority,
established new independent consumer
councils and provided powers for
Government Ministers to give statutory
guidance on social and environmental
issues and to set energy efﬁciency targets
and renewables obligations.
The Utilities Act transferred the functions of
the previous electricity and gas industry
regulators to the Authority and provided for
the appointment of a Chairman and other
members of the Authority by the Secretary
of State for Trade and Industry (“Secretary
of State”). The Chairman of the Authority
holds ofﬁce for renewable periods of ﬁve
years and is the Managing Director of
Ofgem which provides administrative
support to the Authority. Under the Utilities
Act, the principal objective of the Secretary
of State and the Authority is to protect the
interest of customers, wherever appropriate
by promoting effective competition. In
carrying out those functions, they are
required to have regard to the need to
secure that all reasonable demands for
electricity and gas are met; the need to
ensure that licence holders are able to
ﬁnance their functions; the interests of
individuals who are disabled or chronically
sick, of pensionable age, with low incomes
or residing in rural areas. The Authority
exercises, concurrently with the Director
General of Fair Trading, certain functions
relating to monopoly situations under the
Fair Trading Act 1973 and to anti-
competitive conduct under the Competition
Act 1980 and the Competition Act 1998.
The Authority also manages UK compliance
with the European Community
Liberalisation Directive, which is concerned
to introduce competition in generation and
supply and non-discriminatory access to gas
transportation and electricity transmission
and distribution across the EU.
The licensing regime
The Authority is responsible for granting
new licences or licence extensions for each
of the following separate activities:
Electricity generation – the production of
electricity at power stations, hydro-electric
plants, windfarms and some industrial
plants. Through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, ScottishPower Generation
Limited, the group is licensed to operate
some 5,400 MW of UK generating capacity
and, by contracting in the wholesale
market, has access to capacity operated by
other licensed generators.
Electricity transmission – the bulk transfer
of electricity across a high voltage network
of overhead lines, underground cables and
associated equipment typically operating at
or above 132 kV. Through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, SP Transmission Limited, the
group owns and is licensed to operate the
transmission system in central and
southern Scotland. ScottishPower’s
transmission system is connected to that of
Scottish & Southern in the north of
Scotland and is linked to the National Grid
in England & Wales and to the Northern
Ireland transmission system by
interconnectors which enable the export
and import of electricity within the UK. The
Authority is currently conducting a review
of BETTA and a draft bill has been
published to facilitate revised
arrangements in respect of the
interconnector between Scotland and
England; these are now expected to be in
place by 2005.
Electricity distribution – the transfer of
electricity from the high voltage
transmission system and its delivery to
customers, across a network of overhead
lines and underground cables operating at
voltages ranging from 33 kV to 0.23 kV. The
Utilities Act required separate licensing of
the 14 regional distribution businesses
introduced under electricity privatisation.
Each Public Electricity Distributor (“PED”)
licensee is required, among other duties, to
develop and maintain an efﬁcient, co-
ordinated and economical system of
electricity distribution and to offer terms
for connection to, and use of, its
distribution system on a non-
discriminatory basis, in order to ensure
competition in the supply and generation
of electricity. Through its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, SP Distribution Limited and
SP Manweb plc, the group is licensed to
distribute electricity within its two
distribution services areas for all suppliers
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
22
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background
continued whose customers are within the areas.
Charges for distribution are made to the
various suppliers as appropriate. The
Authority has granted a derogation, which
will lapse only in certain limited
circumstances, allowing the distribution
businesses in the ScottishPower and
Manweb PED licence areas to be managed
and operated jointly.
Gas transportation and storage – the
onshore transportation system, most of
which is owned and operated by Transco,
the transportation arm of National Grid
Transco plc, and the rest by other gas
transporters, conveys gas from the beach
terminals to consumers and is
interconnected with the gas transportation
systems of continental Europe, Northern
Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. Storage
capacities are largely used to balance
supply and demand over time. Major
facilities are used to balance seasonal
variations in demand while diurnal storage
capacities provide ﬂexibility in meeting
changing gas demand on a daily basis.
Competition in storage has been
introduced progressively since 1998
through the auction of major storage
capacity owned by Transco and the
provision of new capacity by independent
operators, including ScottishPower.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, SP
Gas Limited, the group is licensed as a gas
transporter.
Gas shipping – gas shippers contract with
gas transporters to have gas transported
between the beach terminal and the point
of supply. Gas shippers can also access
storage facilities. The group is licensed as a
gas shipper.
Supply of gas and electricity –the bulk
purchase of gas and electricity by suppliers
and its sale to customers, with the
associated customer service activities,
including customer registration, meter
reading, sales and marketing, billing and
revenue collection. Large industrial and
commercial customers have been able to
choose their energy suppliers for a number
of years and the residential market was
opened to competition progressively,
commencing in April 1996, with residual
controls on residential electricity prices
ending in March 2002. Any electricity
supplier wishing to supply electricity to
domestic customers must obtain
authorisation from the Authority and be
subject to additional domestic supply
obligations in its licence, including having
its codes of practice (statements of intent
about how the supplier will interact with
customers) approved by the Authority.
Broadly comparable arrangements allow
British Gas Trading to supply mains gas to
any connected customer in competition
with licensed gas suppliers. Customers may
continue to take supplies from the pre-
privatisation monopoly supplier for the
area or may choose an alternative licensed
supplier. Once customers have changed a
gas or electricity supplier, they are able to
change supplier again subject to the
contractual terms offered by licensed
suppliers and approved by the Authority.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary,
ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited, the
group is licensed as a gas supplier and an
electricity supplier.
Modiﬁcation of licences – The Authority is
responsible for monitoring compliance with
the conditions of licences and, where
necessary, enforcing them through
procedures laid down in the Electricity and
Gas Acts. Under these Acts, as amended by
the Utilities Act, licences consist of
standard licence conditions, which apply to
all classes of licences, and special
conditions particular to that licence. The
Authority may modify standard licence
conditions collectively through making
proposals to all relevant licence holders. If
some licence holders object, the
modiﬁcation may be carried out only if the
number of objectors is below a speciﬁed
minority. The Authority may modify a
special licence condition with the
agreement of the licence holder after due
notice, public consultation, and
consideration of any representations or
objections. In the absence of agreement for
a special licence condition or if objections
are above the speciﬁed minority threshold
for a standard licence condition, the only
means by which the Authority can secure a
modiﬁcation is following a modiﬁcation
reference to the Competition Commission
and in the circumstances set out below. A
modiﬁcation reference requires the
Competition Commission to investigate
(having regard to the matters in relation to
which duties are imposed on the Secretary
of State and the Authority) and report on
whether matters speciﬁed in the reference
in pursuance of a licence operate, or may
be expected to operate, against the public
interest; and, if so, whether the adverse
public interest effect of these factors could
be remedied or prevented by modiﬁcation
of the conditions of the licence. If the
Competition Commission so concludes, the
Authority must then make such
modiﬁcations to the licence as appear to it
requisite for the purpose of remedying or
preventing the adverse effects speciﬁed in
the report, after giving due notice and
consideration to any representations and
objections. The Secretary of State has the
power to veto any modiﬁcation.
Modiﬁcations to licence conditions may
also be made in consequence of a
monopoly or merger reference under the
Fair Trading Act 1973 or a reference under
the Competition Act. ScottishPower’s
acquisition of Manweb in 1995 and of
Southern Water in 1996 and its merger
with PaciﬁCorp in 1999 all involved
ScottishPower’s giving of undertakings to
the Secretary of State to agree to
modiﬁcations to the licences under which
the group operates in the UK. Broadly,
these modiﬁcations were designed to ring-
fence various UK regulated businesses, to
require that the group had sufﬁcient
management and ﬁnancial resources to
fulﬁl its UK obligations and to ensure that
UK regulators would continue to have
access to the information needed to carry
out their duties.
Term and revocation of licences – Licences
under the Electricity Act, as modiﬁed by the
Utilities Act, may be terminated by not less
than 25 years’ notice given by the
Secretary of State and may be revoked in
certain circumstances speciﬁed in the
licence. These include the insolvency of the
licensee, the licensee’s failure to comply
with an enforcement order made by the
Authority and the licensee’s failure to carry
on the activities authorised by the licence.
Price controls
It is recognised that the development of
competitive markets is not appropriate in
some areas: the transmission and
distribution of electricity and the operation
of the gas transportation system. In these
areas, regulatory controls are deemed
necessary to protect customers in
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
23 monopoly markets (by determining
inﬂation-limited price caps) and to
encourage efﬁciency. The group’s UK
transmission and distribution businesses
are subject to price controls (or revenue
controls in the case of the transmission
business) which restrict the average
amount, or total amount, charged for a
bundle of services. The price caps are
expressed in terms of an “RPI – X”
constraint on charges, where “RPI”
represents the annual percentage change
in the UK’s retail price index, and X may be
any number determined by the Authority.
The X factor is used to reﬂect expected
efﬁciency gains and investment
requirements. For example, where RPI is
running at 3% and X is 2%, a company
would be able to increase the average
charge for a bundle of services by 1% per
annum. The Authority from time to time
reviews the price cap formulae. Through
participation in, and the submission of
evidence to, these price control reviews
and, where necessary, through the
Competition Commission modiﬁcation
process described above, companies have
the opportunity to comment on and seek to
inﬂuence the ﬁnal outcome of any price
control review.
Transmission price control – The revised
transmission price control for
ScottishPower took effect for the ﬁve years
from 1 April 2000. The BETTA review, which
proposes a Great Britain-wide wholesale
market for electricity and revised
arrangements in respect of the
interconnector between Scotland and
England, requires primary legislation. The
draft bill published in January 2003 is
expected to facilitate implementation by
2005.
Distribution price control – The maximum
distribution revenue is calculated from a
formula that is based on customer
numbers as well as units distributed.
Distribution price controls for the
ScottishPower and Manweb areas, which
took effect for the ﬁve years from 1 April
2000, have been subject to a review by the
Authority aimed at ensuring that revenues
and outputs of the business are more
closely matched and meet customers’
expectations. This has involved an
examination of the appropriate information
and incentives, and has led to a reﬁnement
of the price controls to place less emphasis
on periodic reviews and more emphasis on
continuous performance. Following
completion of the review, in April 2002,
companies’ future revenues can be
adjusted by up to 2% to reﬂect better or
worse than target performance and Ofgem
will seek to promote the visibility of asset
risk management as a core competence in
the price review process.
Environmental regulation
Throughout its operations, ScottishPower
will meet, or better, relevant legislative and
regulatory environmental requirements and
codes of practice. ScottishPower will
publish its 2002/03 Environmental and
Social Impact Report in July 2003. Copies
will be available on request from the
Company Secretary.
US environmental regulation
Federal, state and local authorities regulate
many of PaciﬁCorp’s activities pursuant to
laws designed to restore, protect and
enhance the quality of the environment.
These laws have increased the cost of
providing electricity service and give rise to
identiﬁable contingencies, principally in
respect of Clean Air Act matters, which are
subjects of discussions with the US
Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”)
and state regulatory authorities. PaciﬁCorp
expects that future costs relating to these
matters may be signiﬁcant and consist
primarily of capital expenditure. PaciﬁCorp
expects these costs to be included in rates
and, as such, not to have a material
adverse impact on the group’s
consolidated results or ﬁnancial position.
Air quality
PaciﬁCorp’s fossil fuel-ﬁred electricity
generation plants are subject to regulation
under federal, state and local requirements.
Emission controls, low-sulphur coal,
environmentally conscious plant operating
practices and continuous emissions
monitoring are all used to enable coal-
burning plants to comply with emission
and opacity limits, visibility and other air
quality requirements. The EPA has initiated
a regional haze programme intended to
improve visibility at speciﬁc federally-
protected areas some of which are located
near PaciﬁCorp plants. PaciﬁCorp is
anticipating climate change challenges with
additions of renewable generation,
conservation and thermal resources as
outlined in the IRP. CO
2
emissions risk has
been anticipated in PaciﬁCorp’s IRP
through the use of a “carbon adder”.
PaciﬁCorp also supports development of
trading and other market mechanisms, as
well as offset strategies, where feasible, to
reduce future compliance costs to
customers. The US Congress is currently
considering several proposed bills that
would create enforceable limits on
electricity plant emission of CO
2
, sulphur
dioxide (SO
2
), oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and
mercury. It is not presently possible to
determine with certainty the level of capital
expenditure related to air quality and CO
2
emissions. It is believed these amounts
could be signiﬁcant but will be spread over
a number of years. PaciﬁCorp also expects
that the impact will be mitigated by
recovery through regulatory ratemaking.
In 1999, the EPA commenced enforcement
actions alleging violations of New Source
Review requirements by the owners of
certain coal-ﬁred generating plants in the
eastern and mid-western US. PaciﬁCorp is
not part of those actions. However, in
December 2000, the EPA notiﬁed
PaciﬁCorp that it is investigating
PaciﬁCorp’s Carbon, Dave Johnston,
Huntington and Naughton coal-ﬁred plants
and required it to provide information
about their operation, maintenance,
emissions, utilisation and other aspects of
these plants. In early May 2003, the EPA
notiﬁed PaciﬁCorp that it is investigating
similar issues at the Bridger, Hunter and
Wyodak plants. PaciﬁCorp is cooperating
with these investigations by providing
requested information to the EPA. No legal
proceeding has been commenced.
Endangered species
Protection of the habitat of threatened and
endangered species makes it difﬁcult and
more costly to perform some of the core
activities of PaciﬁCorp, including the siting,
construction, maintenance and operation of
new and existing transmission and
distribution facilities, as well as hydro,
thermal and wind generation plants. In
addition, endangered species issues impact
the relicensing of existing hydro-electric
generating projects, generally raising the
price PaciﬁCorp must pay to purchase
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
24
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background
continued wholesale electricity from hydro-electric
facilities owned by others and increasing
the costs of operating PaciﬁCorp’s own
hydro-electric resources. 
Environmental clean-ups
Under the Federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act and similar state statutes, entities
that accidentally or intentionally disposed of,
or arranged for the disposal of, hazardous
materials may be liable for clean-up of the
contaminated property. In addition, the
current or former owners or operators of
affected sites also may be liable. PaciﬁCorp
has been identiﬁed as a potentially
responsible party in connection with a
number of clean-up sites because of current
or past ownership or operation of the
property or because PaciﬁCorp sent
hazardous waste or other hazardous
materials to the property in the past.
PaciﬁCorp has completed several clean-up
actions and is actively participating in
investigations and remedial actions at other
sites. The costs associated with those actions
are not expected to be material to the group’s
consolidated results or ﬁnancial position.
Mining
The federal Surface Mining and
Reclamation Act of 1977 and similar state
statutes establish operational, reclamation
and closure standards that must be met
during the operation and upon completion
of mining activities. These obligations
stipulate that mine property be restored
consistent with speciﬁc standards and the
approved reclamation plan. Signiﬁcant
expenditures are expected to be required
as individual PaciﬁCorp mining operations
are closed and reclamation occurs. The
costs associated with reclamation are
subject to the regulatory process.
PaciﬁCorp expects to be allowed to recover
these costs.
Water quality
The federal Clean Water Act and individual
state clean water regulations require a
permit for the discharge of wastewater,
including storm water runoff from the
electricity plants and coal storage areas,
into surface waters. PaciﬁCorp believes that
it has management systems in place to
monitor performance, identify problems
and take action to assure compliance with
permit requirements.
UK environmental regulation
The group’s UK businesses are subject to
numerous regulatory requirements with
respect to the protection of the
environment, including environmental laws
which regulate the construction, operation
and decommissioning of power stations,
pursuant to legislation implementing
environmental directives adopted by the EU
and protocols agreed under the auspices of
international bodies such as the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe
(“UNECE”). The group believes that it has
taken and continues to take measures to
comply with applicable laws and
regulations for the protection of the
environment. Applicable regulations and
requirements pertaining to the
environment change frequently, however,
with the result that continued compliance
may require material investments, or that
the group’s costs and results of operation
are less favourable than anticipated.
Electricity generation, transmission,
distribution and supply
The Electricity Act obligates the Secretary
of State to take into account the effect of
electricity generation, transmission,
distribution and supply activities upon the
physical environment in approving
applications for the construction of
generating facilities and the location of
overhead power lines. The Electricity Act
requires the group to take into account the
conservation of natural features of beauty
and other items of particular interest and,
in terms of the Environmental Impact
Assessment Regulations, to carry out an
environmental assessment when it intends
to construct signiﬁcant overhead
transmission systems or power stations of
greater capacity than 50 MW. The group
also prepares formal statements on the
‘Preservation of Amenity and Fisheries’ in
line with the requirements of the Electricity
Act.
The Utilities Act provided for environmental
guidance to be given by the Secretary of
State to the energy regulator, Ofgem, and
for regulations to be drawn up which
require licensed electricity suppliers to
secure a certain percentage of their
supplies from renewable energy sources,
compliance being demonstrated by
tradable ‘Renewables Obligation
Certiﬁcates’. The current objective is that
10% of UK energy should come from
renewable sources by 2010 and a target of
20% by 2020 was included in the February
2003 Government White Paper on energy.
ScottishPower continues to develop its
windfarm business and expects to meet the
company target of 10% generation from
renewables by 2010. The Utilities Act also
provided for energy efﬁciency targets to be
set for licensed suppliers to be
implemented by an ‘Energy Efﬁciency
Commitment’ and the emphasis remained
clearly on energy saving in the Energy
White Paper.
The Environmental Protection Act of 1990
(“EPA 1990”) requires that potentially
polluting activities such as the operation of
combustion processes (which includes
power plant) requires prior authorisation.
The Act also provides for the licensing of
waste management and imposes certain
obligations and duties on companies which
produce, handle, and dispose of waste.
Waste generated as a result of the group’s
electricity activities is managed to ensure
compliance with legislation and waste
minimisation is undertaken where possible.
Generation activities
The principal emissions from fossil-fuelled
electricity generation are SO
2
, NOx, CO
2
and
particulate matter, such as dust, with the
main waste being ash, namely pulverised
fuel ash and furnace bottom ash. The
primary focus of current environmental
legislation is to reduce emissions of SO
2
,
NOx and particulates, the ﬁrst two of which
contribute to acid rain. A number of other
power station emissions and discharges are
subject to environmental regulation.
EPA 1990 is the primary UK statute
governing the environmental regulation of
power stations. In April 1991, it introduced
a system of Integrated Pollution Control
(“IPC”) for large scale industrial processes,
including power stations, now enforced
with respect to emissions to atmosphere in
England & Wales by the Environment
Agency (“EA”) and in Scotland by the
Scottish Environment Protection Agency
(“SEPA”). Each of ScottishPower’s power
stations is required to have its own IPC
authorisation, issued by the EA or SEPA,
regulating emissions of certain pollutants,
seeking to minimise pollution of the
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
25 environment and containing an
improvement programme. Each IPC
authorisation requires that a power station
uses the Best Available Techniques Not
Entailing Excessive Cost (“BATNEEC”) to
prevent the emissions described above or,
to the extent this is not practicable, to
minimise and render harmless any such
emissions. ScottishPower’s IPC
authorisations do not have an expiry date,
but the EA or SEPA is required to review the
conditions contained within them at least
once every four years and may impose new
conditions to prevent or reduce emissions
of pollutants, subject to the application of
BATNEEC.
The EU has agreed a Directive on
Integrated Pollution Prevention and
Control, which introduces a system of
licensing for industrial processes such as
power stations. This Directive is being
implemented via the Pollution Prevention
and Control Regulations (“PPC
Regulations”) which will bring
modiﬁcations to the IPC regime into effect,
on a staged basis. The EU Directive will
eventually require that all emission and
pollution control measures are placed onto
a “Best Available Techniques” basis to
control impact on the environment.
The EU has adopted a framework directive
on ambient air quality assessment and
management and, under the auspices of
UNECE, protocols regarding reductions in
the emissions of SO
2
and NOx have been
agreed. These are currently implemented in
the EU by means of the Large Combustion
Plants Directive (“LCPD”). The EU is
currently ﬁnalising a “Ceilings Directive”
which will implement the SO
2
and NOx
targets agreed in the UNECE Gothenburg
Protocol. In the UK, uncertainty remains
surrounding implementation of the LCPD
and the EU has now provided guidelines on
outstanding issues, including whether
compliance will be by emission limit values
or will continue to be implemented in the
UK by means of the National Air Quality
Strategy published in 1997, and reviewed
in 2000. The group has identiﬁed options
that, given the appropriate commercial
conditions, would enable it to continue the
environmental improvements required by
potential future limits arising from this
review, without materially constraining
operational and commercial ﬂexibility. In
particular, gas-reburn technology, as used
at Longannet, offers greater potential to
reduce emissions than other technology in
use elsewhere in the UK.
Contaminated sites
While the nature of developments in
environmental regulation and control
cannot be predicted, the group anticipates
that the direction of future changes will be
towards tightening controls. In view of the
age and history of many sites owned by the
group, the group may incur liability in
respect of sites which are found to be
contaminated, together with increased
costs of managing or cleaning up such
sites. Site values could be affected and
potential liability and clean-up costs may
make disposal of potentially contaminated
sites more difﬁcult. The Contaminated Land
Regulations, which implement provisions of
the Environment Act 1995 (“EA1995”),
require local authorities to identify sites
where signiﬁcant harm is being caused and
to take appropriate steps. In order for harm
to be demonstrated it must be shown that
a source of pollution, a receptor and a
pathway are present. Harm may be
eliminated by clean-up or by breaking the
source to receptor pathway. Clean-up is
only required to ‘ﬁt for subsequent use’
standards, so that environmental
compliance is consistent with the intended
use of the site.
Other proposals which may impose strict
liability for environmental damage are also
under consideration by the EU and a
directive may be brought forward.
ScottishPower is not currently aware of any
liability which it may have under EA1995 or
proposed EU directives which will have a
materially adverse impact on its operations.
Employment regulation
Numerous laws and related codes of
practice – international, European, UK and
US – ensure that companies offer equal
opportunities to all individuals, regardless
of gender, race, disability and age.
Similarly, both the US and the UK have
extensive legislation covering health and
safety at work.  ScottishPower has well-
deﬁned policies in place throughout its
businesses to ensure that there are equal
opportunities in employment. These
policies cover a range of speciﬁc issues,
such as adoption, caring and development
breaks, disability, disciplinary and
grievance procedures, equal pay,
harassment, maternity and paternity,
fertility treatment, race and sex
discrimination, ill health and stress. 
A more extensive description of how the
businesses discharge their wider
responsibilities to protect the welfare,
health and safety of the public and their
employees, can be found in the
ScottishPower Environmental and Social
Impact Report and the ScottishPower
Workplace Performance Report. Both will
be available on the ScottishPower website.
A brief overview of the two most extensively
regulated aspects of employee relations
follows.
Equal opportunity
US businesses
In the US, equal employment opportunities
are provided without regard to race, colour,
sex, religion, creed, age, sexual orientation,
national origin and physical or mental
disability. The group provides equal
opportunity for qualiﬁed applicants and
employees and maintains a programme of
afﬁrmative action, pursuant to legal
requirements, in order effectively to employ
minorities and women and to encourage
workforce diversity. The programme also
covers disabled persons and veterans.
Afﬁrmative action programmes establish
speciﬁc, results-oriented procedures;
determine whether effective utilisation of
minorities and women is achieved;
establish numerical goals for the hiring and
promotion of minorities and women;
incorporate equal employment principles
in supervisory training; embed diversity
objectives in performance reviews; and
promote effective community outreach
efforts for women and minority applicants.
During 2002/03, the Washington state
Family Medical Leave Act Regulation was
revised and both Washington and Oregon
states increased their minimum wage. The
Jobs for Veterans Act updates previous
legislation and the new regulations will be
published in December 2003. PaciﬁCorp
reported data will comply with new
regulations for 2004 reporting, and, in
response, PaciﬁCorp will update the
information it provides on the VETS-100
Report.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
26
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background
continued UK businesses
The UK businesses work with both outside
organisations and an internal equality
forum to consider policies for racial
equality, family issues, disabled people and
other key areas. ScottishPower is afﬁliated
with a number of organisations including
the Equal Opportunities Commission,
Employer’s Forum on Age, Employer’s
Forum on Disability, Commission for Racial
Equality and Parents at Work. Internal
human resources staffs work with these
organisations to ﬁnd ways to incorporate
their expertise into group and business unit
policies. 
The Employment Act 2002 brought in
requirements for ﬂexible working, adoption,
maternity and paternity leave, tribunal
reform and trade union learning
representatives. The UK businesses are in
the process of reviewing and updating
policies on these issues to ensure they
meet any new requirements. They have
also issued guidelines, reviewed procedures
and carried out staff training to meet the
requirements of the key areas of focus
including equal access, data protection and
working time regulations and are working
to harmonise terms and conditions relating
to maternity and paternity leave, working
time and family policies. 
Health and safety
US businesses
The US businesses have well developed
annual safety and health operational plans
with monthly reporting of safety
performance against key performance
indicators, which set accident metrics for
continuing improvement year-on-year. All
safety rules and policies in place across the
businesses are subject to periodic review
and update. Professional safety and health
departments are staffed in PaciﬁCorp’s
power delivery, generation and mining
businesses with an additional corporate
safety department providing policy input
and senior management support for both
employee safety and health and for public
safety. The group’s US Health and Safety
Committee provides executive oversight
and leadership in PaciﬁCorp and PPM, is
comprised of senior executives, and meets
on a regular basis. Major initiatives are
under way in PaciﬁCorp’s power delivery,
generation and mining business units and
in PPM to reduce and prevent accidents. 
In the US, health and safety in mining
operations is regulated by the Mine Safety
and Health Administration (“MSHA”)
electricity utility operations are regulated
by the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (“OSHA”) and the gas
storage business is regulated by both
OSHA and the Ofﬁce of Pipeline Safety as
these apply. PaciﬁCorp and PPM have
safety policies and procedures in place to
comply with MHSA, OSHA and the Ofﬁce of
Pipeline Safety regulatory requirements.
Safety Management Systems similar to the
criteria to qualify for OSHA’s Voluntary
Protection Program are also being
implemented in many of the businesses.  
The US businesses participate with other
industry stakeholders in the regulatory
process on signiﬁcant OSHA and MSHA
regulatory proposals affecting the utility
and mining industries.
UK businesses
The UK businesses have implemented
Health and Safety Executive guidance on
successful health and safety management
(HSG 65) and, where appropriate, have
adopted the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Accidents’ Quality Safety
Audit system to drive continuous
improvement in safety performance.
Occupational health provision in the UK
businesses includes compliance,
rehabilitation and health promotion.
Monitored and audited by in-house
medical staff, advice on health risk
management and early intervention has
contributed to a reduction in sickness
absence. Managers are encouraged to deal
effectively with health issues in the
workplace and employees are encouraged
to make lifestyle decisions that maintain
and improve their health.  
In the UK, the Reporting of Injuries,
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences
Regulations set out the requirements for
reporting of all work-related accidents. As
UK regulators and enforcement authorities
increasingly seek to raise the priority and
importance that companies give to health
and safety issues, they are likely to take
action for any non-compliance.
Recent changes in UK health and safety
legislation include asbestos legislation,
electrical safety and quality regulations,
new directives covering vibration, noise and
control of substances hazardous to health.
All events that have scope for damage to
plant or people are investigated, the major
ones being reviewed by investigating
panels, normally chaired by a member of
the senior management team. The results
of these investigations are communicated
and, where applicable, recommendations
are completed. There is also increasing
focus on the issue of occupational road
risk, to ensure that safe driving at work and
work on the road is addressed as part of
mainstream health and safety
management and enforcement, with
publication of new Health and Safety
Executive guidance in 2002. Road risk
policies have been introduced within the
UK generation, strategic transactions and
energy management business units.
Employees have been offered defensive
driving training and a monthly Well Aware
campaign on driving was held to raise the
proﬁle and employees’ understanding of
this important issue. 
Business risks
Operating risk
Operating risk is the risk that assets and
mechanical systems, as well as business
processes and procedures, might not
perform as expected, with the result that
the group may be unable to meet a portion
of its obligations without resorting to an
unanticipated market transaction.
Operating risk is primarily mitigated
through a combination of sound
maintenance practices, prudent and safe
operational processes and insurance
products, such as business interruption
insurance. 
Security risk
The emergence of terrorism threats, both
domestic and foreign, is a risk to the entire
utility industry, including ScottishPower.
Potential disruptions to operations or
destruction of facilities from terrorism are
not readily determinable. The group has
identiﬁed critical assets and developed
several levels of security to meet the
changed environment. A project is
underway in the US to implement a
security plan, starting with the most critical
assets, to mitigate terrorism risks and to
prepare contingency plans in case the
group’s facilities are targeted. Additionally,
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
27 in the US the FERC is promulgating
standards to which the group’s US
businesses will be subject.
In the UK, there is an established liaison
with the Security Services and police, to
ensure that our critical assets are protected
against potential threat of terrorism.
Pension risk
As a result of the decline in the equity
markets and low interest rates, the group
anticipates that pension expense and cash
contributions into the pension schemes will
increase in the near future. The investment
risk is being addressed as part of the
pensions review being undertaken by both
the group and its pension scheme trustees
by focusing on the asset allocation of the
schemes.
Regulatory risk
In the US the group is subject to the
jurisdiction of federal and state regulatory
authorities. The FERC establishes tariffs
under which PaciﬁCorp provides wheeling
services to the wholesale market and the
retail market for states allowing retail
competition, establishes both cost-based
and market-based tariffs under which
PaciﬁCorp sells power at wholesale and has
licensing authority over most of
PaciﬁCorp’s hydro-electric generation
facilities. The utility regulatory commissions
in each state independently determine the
rates PaciﬁCorp may charge its retail
customers in that state. Each state’s rate
setting process is based upon that
commission’s acceptance of an allocated
share of total PaciﬁCorp costs as its
“responsibility”. When different states
adopt different methods to address this
“interjurisdictional cost allocation” issue,
some costs may not be incorporated into
any rates in any state. Rate making is done
on the basis of “normalised” costs, so if in
a speciﬁc year, realised costs are higher
than normal, rates will not be high enough
to cover those costs. Likewise, if in a given
year costs are lower than normal or
revenues are higher, PaciﬁCorp retains the
resulting higher-than-normal proﬁt. Each
commission sets rates based on a “test
year” of its choosing. In states that use a
historical test year, rate adjustments can
follow cost increases, or decreases, by up to
two years. Regulatory lag results in a delay
in recovery of costs currently incurred but
not in rates, and also imposes a time-value-
of-money burden on PaciﬁCorp. Further,
each commission decides what levels of
expense and investment are “necessary,
reasonable and prudent” in providing
service. In the event that a commission
decides that part of PaciﬁCorp’s costs do
not meet this standard, such costs will be
“disallowed” and not recovered in rates. For
these reasons, the rates authorised by the
regulators may be less than the costs to
PaciﬁCorp to provide electricity service to
its customers in a given period.
Nearly all of PaciﬁCorp's hydro-electric
projects are in some stage of the FERC
relicensing under the FPA. The relicensing
process is a political and public regulatory
process that involves sensitive resource
issues. PaciﬁCorp is unable to predict the
requirements that may be imposed during
the relicensing process, the economic
impact of those requirements, whether new
licences will ultimately be issued or
whether PaciﬁCorp will be willing to meet
the relicensing requirements to continue
operating its hydro-electric projects.
Federal, state and local authorities regulate
many of PaciﬁCorp's activities pursuant to
laws designed to restore, protect and
enhance the quality of the environment.
PaciﬁCorp is unable to predict what
material impact, if any, future changes in
environmental laws and regulations may
have on the group's consolidated results or
ﬁnancial position.
In the UK, the electricity and gas industries
are regulated primarily through powers
assigned, under the Utilities Act 2000, to
the Authority which licenses industry
participants, enforces licence conditions,
regulates quality of service and sets pricing
formulae for electricity transmission and
distribution activities. In principle, it has
wide discretion in the exercise of its
obligation to act to protect the interests of
customers, wherever appropriate by
promoting effective competition, whilst the
need to ensure that licence holders are
able to ﬁnance their functions is only one of
a number of other factors to which the
Authority must have regard. However, the
Authority operates through a process of
extensive consultation and on pre-
determined timetables, making its activities
relatively predictable. Regulations designed
to restore, protect and enhance the quality
of the environment are similarly introduced
through a process of intensive – and
generally EU-wide – consultation with the
industry and other parties. Nonetheless,
there is a general tightening of
environmental regulation and it must be
recognised that the future impact of the
costs of such requirements cannot be
forecast with precision.
Political risk
In the US, PaciﬁCorp and PPM conduct
business in conformance with a multitude
of federal and state laws. The US Congress
at present is considering, signiﬁcant
changes in energy, air quality and tax
policy. Energy legislation recently passed
by the US House of Representatives would
make some changes in federal law affecting
PaciﬁCorp and PPM. The proposed
changes affect the hydro-electric licensing
process under the FPA and extension of the
renewable energy production tax credit,
which would be likely to beneﬁt PaciﬁCorp's
efforts to develop, acquire and maintain a
low-cost generation portfolio and PPM’s
efforts to continue developing its renewable
energy portfolio. Changes to the Clean Air
Act contemplated by the proposed Clear
Skies Act are being monitored closely in
that they may impact requirements for
several emissions from fossil-fuelled
generation plants.
The laws of the states in which PaciﬁCorp
operates affect PaciﬁCorp's generation,
transmission and distribution business. All
but two of the legislatures monitored by
PaciﬁCorp have concluded, or are close to
concluding, their business for their
legislative year. PaciﬁCorp is not aware of
any new laws positively or negatively
affecting PaciﬁCorp in any signiﬁcant
manner, based on a review of bills passed
by the Washington and Idaho legislatures
during their just completed legislative
sessions. Wyoming enacted an exemption
to the state sales tax for renewable energy
equipment, which may make development
of wind energy resources in the state more
economically viable. Wyoming also passed
legislation revamping the consumer
advocate staff role in commission
proceedings. Utah enacted legislation
authorising the UPSC to use a forward-
looking test year of up to 20 months in
setting rates. This mechanism, if properly
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
28
Business Review – Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background
continued implemented, should enable the UPSC to
set consistent rates that more accurately
reﬂect costs during the actual rate period.
California is expected to consider
legislation repealing or reforming many
elements of its 1996 restructuring law.
In the UK, energy policy has been set out in
a Government White Paper, published in
February 2003, which emphasises a
continuing intention to make maximum use
of market-based mechanisms whilst
seeking to reduce the use of carbon, boost
energy-saving and maintain efforts to
mitigate the impact of fuel costs on lower-
income households. There is particular
emphasis on the use of renewable energy
sources and developing discussion of the
network enhancements likely to be
required for the increased use of both
renewables and embedded generation. This
policy framework offers opportunities for
the group and has shaped a number of
current business plans. The White Paper
has received broad endorsement across the
UK political spectrum and appears to be
largely consistent with EU policy generally.
However, as the policy outlined extends well
into the future, it could be subject to
change and amendment by future
Governments.
Litigation
ScottishPower is not aware of any material
pending legal proceedings, other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business of the group, to which
ScottishPower or any of its subsidiaries is a
party, or any such proceedings known to be
contemplated by any governmental
authority.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
29 Table 1 – Summary of P a c i ﬁCorp generating f a c i l i t i e s
N a m e p l a t e Plant net
I n s t a l l a t i o n r a t i n g c a p a b i l i t y
L o c a t i o n Energy sour c e d a t e s ( M W ) ( M W )
H y d ro-electric plants
S w i f t C o u g a r, WA Lewis River 1 9 5 8 2 4 0 . 0 2 6 3 . 6
M e r w i n Ariel, WA Lewis River 1 9 3 2 - 1 9 5 8 1 3 5 . 0 1 4 4 . 0
Y a l e A m b o y, WA Lewis River 1 9 5 3 1 3 4 . 0 1 3 4 . 0
Five North Umpqua Plants T o ketee Falls, OR N. Umpqua River 1 9 4 9 - 1 9 5 6 1 3 3 . 5 1 36. 5
John C. Boyle Keno, OR Klamath River 1 9 5 8 8 0 . 0 8 4. 0
Copco Nos. 1 and 2 Plants H o r n b rook, CA Klamath River 1 9 1 8 - 1 9 2 5 4 7 . 0 5 4 . 5
C l e a r water Nos. 1 and 2 Plants T o ketee Falls, OR C l e a r water River 1 9 5 3 4 1 . 0 4 1 . 0
G ra c e G race, ID Bear River 1 9 1 4 - 1 9 2 3 3 3 . 0 3 3 . 0
P rospect No. 2 P rospect, OR Rogue River 1 9 2 8 3 2 . 0 34 . 0
C u t l e r Collingston, UT Bear River 1 9 2 7 3 0 . 0 2 9 . 1
O n e i d a P reston, ID Bear River 1 9 1 5 - 1 9 2 0 3 0 . 0 2 8 . 0
I ron Gate H o r n b rook, CA Klamath River 1 9 6 2 1 8 . 0 1 9 . 5
S o d a Soda Springs, ID Bear River 1 9 2 4 1 4 . 0 1 4 . 0
Fish Cr e e k T o ketee Falls, OR Fish Cr e e k 1 9 5 2 1 1 . 0 1 2 . 0
33 Minor Hydro-electric Plants V a r i o u s V a r i o u s 1 8 9 6 - 1 9 9 0 8 8 . 8* 8 8 . 6*
Subtotal (53 hydro-electric plants) 1 , 0 6 7 .3 1 , 1 15 . 8
T h e r m a l electric plants
Jim Bridger Rock Springs, WY C o a l - F i re d 1 9 7 4 - 1 9 7 9 1 , 5 4 1 . 1 * 1 , 4 1 3 . 4 *
H u n t i n g t o n Huntington, UT C o a l - F i re d 1 9 7 4 - 1 9 7 7 9 9 6 . 0 8 9 5 . 0
Dave Johnston G l e n rock, WY C o a l - F i re d 1 9 5 9 - 1 9 7 2 8 1 6 . 8 7 6 2 . 0
N a u g h t o n Ke m m e re r, WY C o a l - F i re d 1 9 6 3 - 1 9 7 1 7 0 7 . 2 7 0 0 . 0
Hunter 1 and 2 Castle Dale, UT C o a l - F i re d 1 9 7 8 - 1 9 8 0 7 2 7 . 9 * 6 6 2 . 5 *
Hunter 3 Castle Dale, UT C o a l - F i re d 1 9 8 3 4 9 5 . 6 4 6 0 . 0
Cholla Unit 4 Joseph City, AZ C o a l - F i re d 1 9 8 1 4 1 4 . 0 * 3 8 0 . 0 *
W y o d a k Gillette, WY C o a l - F i re d 1 9 7 8 2 8 9 . 7 * 2 6 8 . 0 *
C a r b o n Castle Gate, UT C o a l - F i re d 1 9 5 4 - 1 9 5 7 1 8 8 . 6 1 7 5 . 0
C raig 1 and 2 C raig, CO C o a l - F i re d 1 9 7 9 - 1 9 8 0 1 7 2 . 1 * 1 6 5 . 0 *
Colstrip 3 and 4 Colstrip, MT C o a l - F i re d 1 9 8 4 - 1 9 8 6 1 5 5 . 6 * 1 4 4 . 0 *
Hayden 1 and 2 Hayden, CO C o a l - F i re d 1 9 6 5 - 1 9 7 6 8 1 . 3 * 7 8 . 0 *
B l u n d e l l M i l f o rd, UT G e o t h e r m a l 1 9 8 4 2 6 . 1 2 3 . 0
G a d s b y Salt Lake City, UT G a s - F i re d 1 9 5 1 -2 0 0 2 3 9 2 . 6 3 4 9 . 0
Little Mountain Ogden, UT G a s - F i re d 1 9 7 1 1 6 . 0 1 4 . 0
H e r m i s t o n Hermiston, OR G a s - F i re d 1 9 9 6 2 3 7 . 0 * 2 3 6 . 0 *
James River Camas, WA Black Liquor 1 9 9 6 5 2 . 2 5 2 . 0
Subtotal (17 thermal electric plants) 7 , 3 0 9 . 8 6 , 7 7 6 . 9
Other plants
Foote Cr e e k Arlington, WY Wind T u r b i n e s 1 9 9 8 3 2 . 6 * 3 2 . 6 *
Subtotal (1 other plant) 3 2 . 6 3 2 . 6
Total hydro, thermal and other generating facilities (71) 8 , 40 9 . 7 7 , 9 25 . 3
N o t e s :
* Jointly owned plants; amount shown r e p resents P a c i ﬁCorp’s share only.
H y d ro-electric project locations are stated by locality and river w a t e r s h e d .
Table 2 – P a c i ﬁCorp r e c o v e rable coal reserves as at 31 March 2003
R e c o v e rable tons
L o c a t i o n Plant served (in millions) N o t e s
C raig, Color a d o C ra i g 4 9 ( 1 )
Emery County, Utah Huntington and Hunter 5 4 ( 2 )
Rock Springs, Wyoming Jim Bridger 9 3 ( 3 )
N o t e s :
1 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Trapper Mining, Inc., a Delaw a re non-stock corporation operated on a cooperative basis, in which P a c i ﬁCorp has an
ownership interest of approximately 20%.
2 These coal reserves are mined by P a c i ﬁCorp subsidiaries.
3 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Bridger Coal Company, a joint venture between P a c i ﬁc Minerals, Inc., a subsidiary of P a c i ﬁCorp, and a subsidiary of
Idaho Power Company. Pa c i ﬁc Minerals, Inc. has a two-thirds interest in the joint ventur e .
Coal reserve estimates are subject to adjustment as a result of the development of additional data, new mining technology and changes in regulation and economic
factors affecting the use of such r e s e r v e s .
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
30
Summary of Key Operating Statistics Table 3 – P a c i ﬁCorp electricity GWh energy sales by customer class
Electricity sales, by class of customer, for the years ended 31 March 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows:
2 0 0 3 % 2 0 0 2 % 2 0 0 1 % 2 0 0 0 %
G i g a watt hours sold
– Re s i d e n t i a l 1 3 , 2 8 7 1 7 1 3 , 3 9 5 1 9 1 3 , 4 5 5 1 8 1 3 , 0 2 8 1 6
– Commerc i a l 1 4 , 0 0 6 1 8 1 3 , 8 1 0 1 9 1 3 , 6 3 4 1 8 1 2 , 8 2 7 1 6
– Industrial 1 9 , 0 4 8 2 5 1 9 , 6 1 1 2 7 2 0 , 6 5 9 2 7 2 0 , 4 8 8 2 5
– Government, Municipal and Other 6 3 1 1 7 1 1 1 7 0 5 1 6 6 3 1
– Total Retail Sales 4 6 , 9 7 2 6 1 4 7 , 5 2 7 6 6 4 8 , 4 5 3 6 4 4 7 , 0 0 6 5 8
– Wholesale Sales and Market Tr a d i n g 3 0 ,4 8 5 3 9 2 4 ,2 6 4 3 4 2 7 , 5 0 2 3 6 3 4 , 3 2 7 4 2
Total GWh Sold 7 7 ,4 5 7 1 0 0 7 1 ,7 9 1 1 0 0 7 5 , 9 5 5 1 0 0 8 1 , 3 3 3 1 0 0
Table 4 – P a c i ﬁCorp t ra n s m i s s i o na n d d i s t r i b u t i o n systems key information 2002/03
P a c i ﬁc Powe r Utah Power T o t a l
F ranchise are a 7 3 , 6 4 7 sq miles 6 1 , 5 4 5 sq miles 1 3 5 , 1 9 2 sq miles
System maximum demand 3 , 9 6 8M W 4 , 5 8 1M W 8,549 MW
Transmission network (miles)
– Overhead 1 4 , 9 4 9
Distribution network (miles)
– Undergr o u n d 5 , 2 9 9 8 , 0 0 2 1 3 , 3 0 1
– Overhead 2 6 , 2 6 0 1 7 , 5 0 5 4 3 , 7 6 5
Table 5 – Total electricity units distributed in P a c i ﬁc Power service area (G W h )
Y e a r R e s i d e n t i a l % C o m m e rc i a l % I n d u s t r i a l % O t h e r % T o t a l
1 9 9 8 / 9 9 7 , 9 9 4 3 2 6 , 9 0 8 2 7 1 0 , 1 6 6 4 0 1 2 8 1 2 5 , 1 9 6
1 9 9 9 / 0 0 7 , 6 1 2 3 1 6 , 7 6 6 2 7 1 0 , 1 6 7 42 1 2 2 – 2 4 , 6 6 7
2 0 0 0 / 0 1 7 , 7 6 8 3 1 7 , 0 4 1 2 8 1 0 , 1 6 4 4 0 1 3 0 1 2 5 , 1 0 3
2 0 0 1 / 0 2 7 , 5 3 7 3 1 6 , 9 3 2 2 9 9 , 7 4 3 4 0 1 2 9 – 2 4 , 3 4 1
2 0 0 2 / 0 3 7 , 4 5 4 3 1 7 , 0 8 1 2 9 9 , 4 78 4 0 9 0 – 2 4 , 1 03
Table 6 – Total electricity units distributed in Utah Power service area (G W h )
Y e a r R e s i d e n t i a l % C o m m e rc i a l % I n d u s t r i a l % O t h e r % T o t a l
1 9 9 8 / 9 9 4 , 9 9 8 2 4 5 , 3 9 2 2 6 1 0 , 0 5 6 4 8 5 1 7 2 2 0 , 9 6 3
1 9 9 9 / 0 0 5 , 4 1 6 2 4 6 , 0 6 1 2 7 1 0 ,3 2 1 4 6 5 4 1 3 2 2 ,3 3 9
2 0 0 0 / 0 1 5 , 6 8 7 2 4 6 , 5 9 3 2 8 1 0 , 4 9 5 4 5 5 7 5 3 2 3 , 3 5 0
2 0 0 1 / 0 2 5 , 8 5 8 2 5 6 , 8 7 8 30 9 , 8 6 8 4 3 5 8 2 2 2 3 , 1 8 6
2 0 0 2 / 0 3 5 , 8 3 3 2 6 6 , 9 25 3 0 9 ,5 7 0 4 2 5 4 1 2 2 2 , 8 6 9
Table 7 – PPM ge n e rating f a c i l i t i e s
Plant net
I n s t a l l a t i o n c a p a b i l i t y
L o c a t i o n Energy sour c e d a t e M W
Thermal electric plants
Klamath Cogeneration Plant Klamath Falls, OR C o m b i n e dC y c l e 2 0 0 1 5 0 6
West Valley Generating Plant West Valley City, UT N a t u ral gas-ﬁred – single cycle 2 0 0 2 2 0 0
Klamath Expansion Pro j e c t Klamath Falls, OR N a t u ral gas-ﬁred – simple cycle 2 0 0 2 1 0 0
Sub-total (3 thermal electric plants) 8 0 6
R e n e wable electric plants
Stateline Wind Energy Center O regon/ W a s h i n g t o n Wind gener a t i o n 2 0 0 2 3 0 0
K l o n d i ke Wind Power Plant W a s c o, O R Wind gener a t i o n 2 0 0 1 2 4
Subtotal (2 re n e wable electric plants) 3 2 4
Total all plants (Owned or controlled plants) 1 , 1 3 0
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
31 Summary of Key Operating Statistics
c o n t i n u e d
Table 8 – Sources of ScottishPower owned generating capacity and output in the UK and the Republic of Ireland as at 31 March 2003
Number of Maximum 
g e n e rating sets and/or Net output capacity 
installed capacity c a p a c i t y a va i l a b l e
N o t e s M W M W M W
C o a l
L o n g a n n e t 4 x 600 2 , 3 0 4
C o c ke n z i e 4 x 300 1 , 1 5 2
1 3 , 4 5 6 2 , 8 8 0
Gas T u r b i n e
Rye House 1 x 715 7 1 5 7 1 5
B r i g h t o n 2 1 x 414 4 0 0 2 0 0
K n a p t o n 1 x 42 4 2 4 2
Pumped Stor a g e
C r u a c h a n 4 x 100 4 0 0 4 0 0
Conventional Hydro
G a l l o way Scheme 1 0 9 1 0 6 1 0 6
Lanark Scheme 1 7 1 7 1 7
W i n d fa r m s
B e i n n an T u i rc 46 x 0.66 3 0 3 0
B a r n e s m o re 25 x 0.6 1 5 1 5
Hagshaw Hill 26 x 0.6 1 6 1 6
P & L Windf a r m 3 103 x 0.3 3 1 1 5
Rigged Hill 10 x 0.5 5 5
C o r ke y 10 x 0.5 5 5
Elliots Hill 10 x 0.5 5 5
Coal Clough 4 24 x 0.4 1 0 4
Carland Cr o s s 4 15 x 0.4 6 3
Dun Law 26 x 0.66 1 7 1 7
H a re Hill 20 x 0.66 1 3 1 3
C H P 1 0 3 1 0 3 1 0 3
T o t a l 5, 3 9 2 4 , 5 9 1
N o t e s :
1 Scottish & Southern E n e r g y is entitled to a supply of electricity from part of the capacity of ScottishPower’s coal-ﬁred generating stations at Longannet and Cock e n z i e .
2 Brighton power station is owned by South Coast Power L i m i t e d, with ScottishPower Generation Limited and American Electric Power, Inc. each having a 50% ownership
i n t e re s t .
3 The P & L Windfarm is owned by CeltPower Limited, with ScottishPower Generation Limited and Tomen Power (Eur o p e) BV each having a 50% ownership inter e s t .
4 The windfarms at Coal Clough and Carland Cross are owned by a joint venture between ScottishPower Generation Limited, Western Power Distribution and
R e n e wable Energy Systems, with ScottishPower Generation Limited having a 45% ownership inter e s t .
Table 9 – UK t ra n s m i s s i o na n d d i s t r i b u t i o n systems key information 2002/03
S c o t t i s h P o w e r M a n w e b T o t a l
S e r v i c ea re a 22,950 km
2
12,200 km
2
35,150 km
2
System maximum demand 4 , 3 2 4M W 3 , 1 7 4M W 7 , 4 9 8M W
Transmission network (km)
U n d e r g ro u n d 2 4 9 – 2 4 9
O v e r h e a d 3 , 9 1 5 – 3 , 9 1 5
Distribution network (km)
U n d e r g ro u n d 4 1 , 1 3 7 2 5 , 4 4 9 6 6 , 5 8 6
O v e r h e a d 2 4 , 4 6 0 2 1 , 5 3 7 4 5 , 9 9 7
Table 1 0 – Total electricity units distributed in the ScottishPower service area (G W h )
Y e a r R e s i d e n t i a l % B u s i n e s s % T o t a l
1 9 9 8 / 9 9 8 , 3 4 5 3 7 1 4 , 0 2 3 6 3 2 2 , 3 6 8
1 9 9 9 / 0 0 8 , 3 8 5 3 8 1 3 , 9 9 6 6 2 2 2 , 3 8 1
2 0 0 0 / 0 1 8,505 3 8 14,189 6 2 2 2 , 6 9 4
2 0 0 1 / 0 2 8 , 6 9 8 3 9 1 3 , 8 6 4 6 1 2 2 , 5 6 2
2 0 0 2 / 0 3 8 , 6 4 3 3 9 1 3 , 6 8 9 6 1 2 2 , 3 3 2
Table 1 1 – Total electricity units distributed in the Manweb service area (G W h )
Y e a r R e s i d e n t i a l % B u s i n e s s % T o t a l
1 9 9 8 / 9 9 5 , 0 3 7 2 9 1 2 , 2 8 7 7 1 1 7 , 3 2 4
1 9 9 9 / 0 0 5 , 2 0 4 3 0 1 1 , 9 7 7 7 0 1 7 , 1 8 1
2 0 0 0 / 0 1 5,460 3 2 1 1 , 8 2 6 6 8 1 7 , 2 8 6
2 0 0 1 / 0 2 5 , 3 8 7 3 2 1 1 , 5 4 0 6 8 1 6 , 9 2 7
2 0 0 2 / 0 3 5 , 5 1 2 3 3 1 1 , 2 3 3 6 7 1 6 , 7 4 5
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
32 Overview of the Year to March 2003
Group turnover for the year to 31 March
2003 was £5,274 million, a reduction of
£1,040 million on the previous year. From
continuing operations, group turnover was
lower by £276 million at £5,247 million
including adverse translation movements of
£205 million from the weaker US dollar.
Sales were lower in PaciﬁCorp as a result of
reduced wholesale power prices in the
western US, although this was partially offset
by revenue growth from our other three
businesses. 
PaciﬁCorp’s turnover for the year was down
by £481 million to £2,499 million mainly as
a result of the lower wholesale prices
experienced for most of the year and a £189
million adverse translation impact of the
weaker US dollar. These reductions were
offset in part by higher wholesale volumes
and regulatory rate increases. Turnover for
Infrastructure Division increased by £66
million for the year to £314 million. This was
mainly due to increased regulated income
from higher sales to third party electricity
suppliers. The division also delivered non
regulated revenue growth of £28 million for
the year, principally due to increased new
connections from its Core Utility Solutions
joint venture. For the UK Division, turnover
increased in the year by £26 million to
£2,148 million. This was as a result of higher
sales to retail customers, increased
generation agency sales in Scotland and
exports to Northern Ireland which have
offset the impact of low wholesale electricity
prices. Turnover for PPM for the year
increased by £113 million to £286 million,
after a £16 million adverse US dollar
translation impact, as the business beneﬁted
from the ﬁrst full year of its long-term power
contracts and the growth of its gas storage
business. 
Discontinued operations’ turnover in the
year reduced from £791 million to £27
million compared to the prior year.
Cost of sales of £3,227 million were £1,184
million lower than last year, with £479
million of this movement due to
discontinued operations. Continuing
operations’ cost of sales decreased by £705
million to £3,215 million primarily due to
lower net power costs in PaciﬁCorp, offset in
part by increased business activity at PPM.
Transmission and distribution costs of £513
million were in line with the previous year,
with lower discontinued operations’ costs
offset by increased costs for continuing
operations due to higher insurance, rates
and depreciation, principally in PaciﬁCorp
and the Infrastructure Division. As a result of
the demerger of Thus from the group, UK
telephony and related expenses are now
incurred externally, contributing to the
increased costs. Administrative expenses
(including goodwill amortisation) as shown
in Table 12, were £81 million lower than the
previous year, which included exceptional
restructuring costs for the UK Division of
£19 million. Administrative expenses,
excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, were £52 million lower
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
33
Financial Review
David Nish, Finance Director
ScottishPower management assesses the underlying performance of its businesses by adjusting
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) statutory results to exclude items it
considers to be non-recurring or non-operational in nature. In the years presented, these items
are goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. Therefore, to provide more meaningful
information, ScottishPower has focused its discussion of business performance on the results
excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. In accordance with recent guidance from
the UK Auditing Practices Board, the UK Listing Authority, and the US Securities and Exchange
Commission, where non-GAAP ﬁgures are discussed comparable UK GAAP ﬁgures have also been
discussed and reconciled to the non-GAAP ﬁgures. The full statutory results are presented in the
“Proﬁt and Loss Account” and in Note 1 “Segmental information” on pages 74 to 76 and on page
78 respectively.
“Our improved operational performance
has contributed to a good set of results.”  Financial Review
continued
than last year, with discontinued operations
accounting for £139 million of this
movement. Continuing operations’
administrative expenses, excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, were
£474 million, an increase of £87 million
compared to last year. This increase was
attributable to higher pension and other
employee related costs throughout the
group; higher depreciation charges and one-
off gains in the previous year in PaciﬁCorp
and increased energy efﬁciency and
customer capture costs in the UK Division.
Depreciation for continuing operations
increased by £33 million to £442 million
reﬂecting the level of capital investment
made in the previous year. Depreciation for
discontinued operations reduced by £140
million to £6 million for the year.
As shown in Table 13, group operating proﬁt
increased by £169 million to £946 million
for the year to 31 March 2003. Group
operating proﬁt from continuing operations
was £932 million, £297 million higher than
the previous year. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, group
operating proﬁt from continuing operations
increased by £270 million to £1,071 million.
Our US operations delivered the majority of
the increase. PaciﬁCorp contributed
operating proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation of £597 million for the year, an
increase of £225 million on the previous
year. This was mainly due to lower net power
costs, rate increases, regulatory recoveries of
excess power costs and Transition Plan
beneﬁts. The Infrastructure Division’s
operating proﬁt of £368 million for the year
represented an increase of £13 million
mainly due to higher regulated revenues and
net cost savings. The UK Division’s operating
proﬁt, excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, of £78 million was
consistent with the prior year with the
impact of low wholesale prices mitigated by
our integrated approach to managing the
energy value chain and the beneﬁt from the
settlement of the Nuclear Energy Agreement
(“NEA”) with British Energy (“BE”). PPM
reported operating proﬁt of £28 million for
the year compared to a loss of £5 million in
the previous year, with the full year beneﬁt of
assets and contracts acquired in the prior
year and the continued progress made
during the year in growing its portfolio of
assets.
Operating proﬁt from discontinued
operations fell by £127 million to £14 million
for the year, compared to the prior year.
Goodwill amortisation of £139 million for
the year was £10 million lower than for the
previous year. This was due to the demerger
of Thus in March 2002 and movements in
US dollar exchange rates reducing the
goodwill charge for PaciﬁCorp. Operating
proﬁt for the year to 31 March 2002
included an exceptional reorganisation
charge of £19 million. This arose as a result
of restructuring in the UK Division and
included severance and related costs. There
were no exceptional operating items in the
year to 31 March 2003.
The net interest charge of £254 million for
the year was £156 million lower than the
charge for the previous year which included
exceptional interest charges of £31 million,
resulting from the restructuring of the debt
portfolio in advance of the disposal of
Southern Water. Excluding exceptional
interest, the charge was £125 million lower
primarily attributable to substantially lower
net debt following the sale of Southern
Water and our US dollar hedging strategy. 
Proﬁt before tax for the year as shown in
Table 14, of £697 million increased by
£1,636 million on last year’s loss before tax
of £939 million. This was primarily due to
the exceptional items charged to the proﬁt
and loss account in the prior ﬁnancial year,
relating to the disposal of Southern Water
and Appliance Retailing. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, group
proﬁt before tax for the year to 31 March
2003 increased by £269 million (47%) to
£836 million, whilst continuing operations’
proﬁt before tax, increased by £364 million
(79%) to £825 million as a result of
improved group operating proﬁt and lower
interest charges.
The tax charge for the year increased from
£83 million to £209 million on proﬁt before
tax of £697 million compared to a loss
before tax of £939 million in the previous
year. The tax charge represented an effective
rate of tax (on proﬁts excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items) of 25%.
This represents an increase from the prior
year rate of 21.5%, reﬂecting a higher
proportion of group proﬁts being derived
from our US operations, taxed at a rate
higher than in the UK. The effective tax rate
is calculated by dividing tax, excluding
exceptional tax credits, shown in Table 23,
by proﬁt before tax, excluding goodwill and
exceptional items, shown in Table 14,
expressed as a percentage. The effective tax
rate calculated on a basis including goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items was 30%
compared to (9)% in the previous year as a
signiﬁcant proportion of the exceptional
items in the prior year were non-taxable.
There were no exceptional items in the year.
Exceptional items in the previous ﬁnancial
year, including interest and tax, were £1,318
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
34
Table 12 – Administrative expenses (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
Administrative expenses 614.5 695.1
Goodwill amortisation (139.0) (149.0)
Exceptional items – (18.5)
Administrative expenses excluding goodwill & exceptionals 475.5 527.6
Table 13 – Group operating proﬁt (£m) Continuing operations Total operations
2002/03 2001/02 2002/03 2001/02
Operating proﬁt 931.9 635.4 945.9 776.6
Goodwill amortisation 139.0 146.6 139.0 149.0
Exceptional items – 18.5 – 18.5
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill & exceptionals 1,070.9 800.5 1,084.9 944.1
Table 14 – Proﬁt/(loss) before tax (£m) Continuing operations Total operations
2002/03 2001/02 2002/03 2001/02
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 685.8 276.5 696.8 (938.8)
Goodwill amortisation 139.0 146.6 139.0 149.0
Exceptional items before tax – 37.3 – 1,356.9
Proﬁt before tax excluding goodwill & exceptionals 824.8 460.4 835.8 567.1 million. Included within this total were
exceptional charges of £1,308 million
related to the disposal of Southern Water,
including the write back of goodwill
previously taken to reserves, and the disposal
of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing.
The other exceptional items in the previous
ﬁnancial year were reorganisation costs of
£19 million, interest of £31 million and a tax
credit on exceptional items of £39 million. 
Net debt reduced in the year by £1,887
million to £4,321 million. Operating cash
ﬂow for the year was £1,413 million, an
increase of £165 million. This was mainly as
a result of improved operational
performance in PaciﬁCorp. Group net capital
expenditure in the year was £717 million, a
decrease of £512 million, of which £180
million related to continuing operations and
£332 million related to discontinued
operations. Net inﬂows from acquisitions
and disposals of £1,899 million, including
net debt disposed of, mainly represented
proceeds from the sale of Southern Water
partially offset by PPM’s £101 million
acquisition of the Katy gas storage facility
from Aquila, Inc. Net debt also beneﬁted
from the weaker dollar which reduced the
sterling value of dollar debt by £290 million.
Gearing (net debt/shareholders’ funds)
decreased to 93% from 131% at 31 March
2002 and net debt/EBITDA excluding
exceptionals (earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, goodwill amortisation, deferred
income released to the proﬁt and loss
account and exceptional items), improved
from 4.1 times last year to 2.8 times. EBITDA
is a measure of performance often used in
bank facilities. EBITDA is shown in Table 15.
Group earnings per share as shown in Table
16 improved from a loss of 53.71 pence for
the year to 31 March 2002 to earnings of
26.17 pence for the year to 31 March 2003,
an increase of 79.88 pence. Excluding
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items,
group earnings per share for the year were
33.71 pence, an increase of 7.59 pence
(29%).
The full year dividends of 28.708 pence per
share, were consistent with our stated aim of
a 5% annual increase in dividends to 31
March 2003. As stated at the time of
announcing the proposed disposal of
Southern Water, with effect from the
ﬁnancial year commencing 1 April 2003,
ScottishPower intends to target dividend
cover, based on full year earnings excluding
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items,
in the range 1.5 – 2.0 times and ideally
towards the middle of that range.
ScottishPower will aim to grow dividends
broadly in line with earnings thereafter. 
To implement this policy, in the absence of
unforeseen circumstances, ScottishPower
intends to pay an identical dividend for each
of the ﬁrst three quarters of each year, with
the dividend for the fourth quarter
representing the balance of the total
dividend for each year. In respect of each of
the quarters ending 30 June 2003, 30
September 2003 and 31 December 2003,
ScottishPower aims to declare a dividend of
4.75 pence per share.
Pensions
As required by the transitional arrangements
of Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17,
we have disclosed, at 31 March 2003, a
deﬁcit of £231 million net of deferred tax for
our UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
and a deﬁcit of £214 million ($338 million)
net of deferred tax for our US schemes. With
the obligation to fund other post-retirement
beneﬁts in the US, we have also reported a
deﬁcit under FRS 17 at 31 March 2003 of
£122 million ($193 million), net of deferred
tax. As an indication of the volatility of these
valuations, the movement in asset market
values in April 2003 would have reduced the
deﬁcit for the UK schemes by 40%, and the
US schemes by 5%.
The charge in the year for these pension
schemes has increased from £7 million to
£16 million in the UK, and from £8 million
($11 million) to £26 million ($41 million) in
the US. Contribution payments to the UK
schemes have recommenced. Achieving
regulatory recovery of these costs is a
priority and we have a focus on ensuring
inclusion of any increased expense in US
rate cases and the regulatory Price Control
Reviews in the UK. 
Business Reviews
PaciﬁCorp
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 17.
PaciﬁCorp turnover was £2,499 million in
the year, a reduction of £481 million on the
prior year mainly due to lower wholesale
electricity prices experienced for most of the
year. Excluding the effect of foreign
exchange, wholesale revenues were £409
million lower than last year. There was a
63% decrease in average short-term and
spot market wholesale prices in the year
($83/MWh to $31/MWh) and lower long-
term volumes. This was partially offset by
higher short-term and spot volumes and
long-term prices. Factors contributing to the
lower market price included new generation
brought on-line in the western US, the
continuing effect of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) market
mitigation, and milder weather and
economic conditions affecting demand
growth. Residential and commercial
revenues increased by £9 million (1.4%)
and £10 million (2.1%) respectively, mainly
as a result of higher prices and growth in
customer numbers, offset by lower average
customer usage due to milder weather.
Industrial revenues were down by £4 million
(0.8%) in the year as the impact of lower
volumes, due to a weaker economy, more
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
35
Table 16 – Group earnings/(loss) per share (pence) Continuing operations Total operations
2002/03 2001/02 2002/03 2001/02
Earnings/(loss) per share (EPS) 25.76 11.65 26.17 (53.71)
EPS impact of goodwill amortisation 7.54 7.98 7.54 8.11
EPS impact of exceptional items – 1.41 – 71.72
EPS excluding goodwill & exceptionals 33.30 21.04 33.71 26.12
Table 15 – EBITDA excluding exceptionals (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
Proﬁt/(loss) before interest & tax 951.1 (528.6)
Depreciation & goodwill amortisation 586.2 717.0
Deferred income released to the proﬁt and loss account (18.6) (17.8)
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation (EBITDA) 1,518.7 170.6
Exceptional items excluding interest & tax – 1,326.1
EBITDA excluding exceptionals 1,518.7 1,496.7 Financial Review
continued
than offset higher prices and increased
irrigation revenues. Other revenue growth,
primarily as a result of excess power cost
recoveries in Utah and Oregon, were more
than offset by lower wheeling revenues and
unfavourable foreign exchange movements.
Operating proﬁt for PaciﬁCorp increased by
£233 million to £463 million for the year to
31 March 2003. Operating proﬁt excluding
goodwill amortisation for PaciﬁCorp for the
year grew by £225 million to £597 million,
as a result of regulatory rate increases and
recoveries of excess power costs of £80
million, signiﬁcantly lower net power costs
of £257 million and continued progress in
the delivery of Transition Plan beneﬁts of
£64 million in the year. These improvements
were partly offset by lower transmission
revenues of £19 million from reduced use
of the transmission system by third parties,
higher depreciation charges of £25 million,
risk mitigation and project costs of £41
million, insurance, pensions and healthcare
costs of £46 million, and one-off gains in the
previous year and foreign exchange of £45
million.
Infrastructure Division
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 18.
External turnover within the Infrastructure
Division increased by £66 million for the year
to £314 million. Infrastructure Division’s
sales are mainly internal to our UK Division
however, the impact of competition on our
home markets has resulted in an increase in
regulated income from third party electricity
suppliers of £38 million. Other revenue
growth of £28 million has also been delivered
from external non regulated sales, principally
due to increased new connections from its
Core Utility Solutions joint venture.
Infrastructure Division reported operating
proﬁt of £368 million for the year, an
increase of £13 million on last year. Higher
regulated income of £9 million and net
cost reductions of £18 million were partly
offset by higher depreciation, operational
rates, insurance and pension costs of £14
million.
UK Division
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 19.
UK Division turnover increased by £26
million to £2,148 million for the year.
Although wholesale market prices were
down in the year, agency turnover
increased by £17 million due to volume
growth from 4,656 GWh to 6,262 GWh
(34%) and exports to Northern Ireland
increased by £19 million, following the ﬁrst
full year of trading. Total sales in England
&Wales, including exports, decreased by
£13 million due to adverse prices, partly
offset by favourable volumes which
increased by 1,461 GWh to 11,840 GWh.
Wholesale gas volumes increased in the
year by 1.4 billion therms, however, lower
prices resulted in sales revenues dropping
by £10 million on last year. Retail supply
turnover grew by £11 million with higher
retail gas sales of £52 million and
increased turnover from out-of-area
customer gains of £53 million, partially
offset by loss of market share and lower
sales prices in our home areas which
reduced turnover by £94 million. Other
revenues increased by £2 million in the
year. Customer numbers have increased to
3.65 million in the year. Retention of home
area residential customers stands at 61%.
Operating proﬁt for the UK Division
increased by £18 million to £73 million for
the year to 31 March 2003, mainly due to
last year’s results including a £19 million
exceptional reorganisation charge. Operating
proﬁt, excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, was £78 million for the
year, £1 million lower compared to the
previous year. Net energy margins have
performed strongly, increasing by £15
million before higher depreciation, costs to
capture and investment in energy efﬁciency
schemes of £12 million and increased
pension costs of £4 million. The impact of
lower wholesale electricity prices has been
mitigated by our integrated approach to
managing the energy value chain whereby
our own electricity production is extensively
matched to our customer demand across
Great Britain. The renegotiation of the NEA
with BE at a market related price has
delivered a beneﬁt of approximately £25
million in the current year and provides a
hedge against revenues which have been
impacted by lower wholesale prices.
PPM
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 20.
Turnover for PPM for the year increased by
£113 million to £286 million, after a £16
million adverse US dollar translation impact,
as the business beneﬁted from the ﬁrst full
year of its Klamath and Stateline long-term
power contracts and growth of its gas
storage business, including the Katy gas
storage facility acquired in December 2002.
PPM reported an operating proﬁt of £28
million for the year, compared to a loss of £5
million last year. The growth in operating
proﬁt for the year was due to the increased
contribution from long-term sales contracts
and gas storage activities and optimisation
beneﬁts of £53 million, partly offset by higher
depreciation charges and other operating
costs of £17 million to support business
growth and the beneﬁt from settlement of a
£3 million contract in the prior year. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
36
Table 17 – PaciﬁCorp (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
External turnover 2,499.4 2,980.7
Operating proﬁt 462.8 229.9
Goodwill amortisation 133.9 141.7
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill 596.7 371.6
Table 18 – Infrastructure Division (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
External turnover 314.0 247.6
Operating proﬁt 367.8 354.9
Table 19 – UK Division (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
External turnover 2,147.8 2,121.4
Operating proﬁt 73.0 55.3
Goodwill amortisation 4.9 4.9
Exceptional items – 18.5
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill & exceptionals 77.9 78.7 Discontinued Operations
Discontinued operations consisted of
Southern Water, Appliance Retailing and
Thus for the year to 31 March 2002 and
Southern Water for the year to 31 March
2003. The disposal of Southern Water was
completed on 23 April 2002 and turnover
and operating proﬁt generated in the period
prior to disposal were £27 million and £14
million respectively. The disposal of and
withdrawal from Appliance Retailing was
completed by 31 March 2002 and the Thus
demerger was completed in March 2002.
In the year, discontinued operations’
turnover decreased from £791 million to
£27 million, compared to the prior year. Of
this reduction, £403 million was due to
Southern Water, £229 million to Thus and
£132 million to Appliance Retailing.
Discontinued operations’ operating proﬁt for
the year reduced by £127 million to £14
million, with Southern Water proﬁts
decreasing by £202 million, partly offset by
reduced losses in Thus and Appliance
Retailing of £66 million and £9 million
respectively.
Interest, Tax, Earnings and Dividends
Interest
The net interest charge for the year as shown
in Table 21 of £254 million was £156 million
lower than the charge for the previous year
which included exceptional interest of £31
million. The exceptional interest principally
related to the restructuring of the group debt
portfolio prior to the sale of Southern Water.
Excluding exceptional interest, the charge was
£125 million lower. This was attributable to
substantially lower net debt following the sale
of Southern Water, together with lower US
interest rates, a change in the ﬁxed/variable
debt proﬁle and favourable exchange
beneﬁts from the weaker US dollar. The
lower interest charge also included a beneﬁt
of £46 million associated with our dollar
hedging strategy. Underlying UK interest,
excluding the beneﬁt of our dollar hedging
strategy, was £104 million, a reduction of
£110 million on last year. The interest charge
for the US increased by £24 million to £196
million, principally as a result of higher
underlying debt. Pre-exceptional interest, 
adjusted for foreign exchange gains and
losses, as shown in Table 21, is covered by
proﬁt on ordinary activities, before interest,
excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items shown in Table 22, 4.3
times for the year to 31 March 2003,
improved from 2.5 times for the previous
year. Interest is covered by proﬁt on ordinary
activities 3.7 times, up from (1.3) times in
the previous year.
Tax
The tax charge as shown in Table 23 of
£209 million is £126 million higher than the
charge for the prior year. The main reasons
for the increase are the tax credit on
exceptional items of £39 million included in
the prior year charge, higher pre-tax proﬁts
in the current ﬁnancial year due to improved
operational performance and a higher
effective rate of tax. The effective tax rate
increased to 25%, from the prior year rate of
21.5% on proﬁts excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items. The
increase was due to a greater proportion of
group proﬁts being derived from our US
operations, which are subject to a higher
rate of tax. The effective tax rate beneﬁts
from prior period tax planning, following
agreement with the tax authorities on
treatment of speciﬁc items and the ﬁnancial
structure of the group. The tax charge was
£209 million on proﬁt before tax of £697
million, compared to a tax charge of £83
million on a loss before tax of £939 million
in the previous year. Going forward, the
effective tax rate is expected to increase in
the ﬁnancial year to 31 March 2004 due to
an increased proportion of US proﬁts and
lower beneﬁts from prior period tax
planning.
Earnings and Dividends
Key group earnings/(loss) per share and
proﬁt/(loss) after tax information is shown in
Table 16 and Table 24 respectively. 
Proﬁt after tax increased by £1,510 million
to £488 million. This increase was due to
exceptional items in the prior year of £1,318
million, improved operational performance
in our continuing operations in the current
ﬁnancial year and lower interest charges,
partly offset by the proﬁt reduction from our
discontinued operations. Excluding
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation,
proﬁt after tax increased by £182 million to
£627 million with proﬁt after tax for
continuing operations, improving by £226
million to £619 million. With a weighted
average 1,844 million shares in issue during
the year, earnings per share improved from a
loss of 53.71 pence for the year to 31 March
2002 to earnings of 26.17 pence in the year
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
37
Table 20 – PPM (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
External turnover 285.9 173.1
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 28.3 (4.7)
Goodwill amortisation 0.2 –
Operating proﬁt/(loss) excluding goodwill 28.5 (4.7)
Table 21 – Interest (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
Interest 254.3 410.2
Exceptional interest – (30.8)
Interest excluding exceptional interest 254.3 379.4
Foreign exchange (loss)/gain (0.5) 6.9
Interest excluding exceptional interest & foreign exchange (loss)/gain 253.8 386.3
Table 22 – Proﬁt/(loss) before interest (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
Proﬁt/(loss) before interest  951.1 (528.6)
Goodwill amortisation 139.0 149.0
Exceptional items (excluding interest & tax) – 1,326.1
Proﬁt before interest excluding goodwill & exceptionals 1,090.1 946.5
Table 23 – Tax (£m) 2002/03 2001/02
Tax 209.0 83.2
Exceptional tax credit – 38.8
Tax excluding exceptional tax credit 209.0 122.0 Financial Review
continued
to 31 March 2003, due to the reasons
mentioned above. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, group
earnings per share for the year were 33.71
pence, an increase of 7.59 pence and 33.30
pence for continuing operations, an increase
of 12.26 pence.   
Total cash dividends per share for the year of
28.708 pence were consistent with our
stated aim of a 5% annual increase in
dividends to 31 March 2003. Dividends in
the prior year included a ‘dividend in specie’
of £437 million arising on the demerger of
Thus on 19 March 2002. 
Group net assets reduced by 2% in the year,
from £4,818 million to £4,712 million with
our balance sheet hedging strategy
signiﬁcantly mitigating the adverse impact of
the weaker US dollar. The impact on net
assets of the Southern Water disposal in
April 2002 was offset by lower net debt
following receipt of the sale proceeds. 
Fixed assets of £11,600 million were
£2,977 million lower than the previous
year, mainly due to the disposal of
Southern Water.  Intangible assets, which
represent goodwill arising on acquisition,
reduced by £378 million, comprising £139
million amortised to the profit and loss
account and £252 million of exchange
movements on the translation of PaciﬁCorp
goodwill, offset by an increase of £12
million arising on the acquisition of the
Katy gas storage facility. Tangible assets
reduced by £2,624 million mainly due to
the disposal of Southern Water’s ﬁxed
assets of £2,475 million. Other movements
were due to gross capital expenditure of
£787 million and the acquisition of the
Katy gas storage facility, offset by
depreciation charged to the proﬁt and loss
account of £447 million and exchange
movements on the translation of US
balances. Investments increased by £25
million mainly due to the purchase of our
own shares, which are held in trust for
employee related share schemes.
Current assets, excluding short-term bank
and other deposits, increased by £333
million from 31 March 2002. Increases to
debtors were principally due to valuations of
forward contracts associated with our
balance sheet hedging strategy and growth
of our PPM business, partly offset by a
reduction as a result of the disposal of
Southern Water and exchange movements.
Creditors due within one year, excluding
loans and other borrowings, were £166
million lower than at 31 March 2002. The
disposal of Southern Water, prior period US
tax settlements, lower regulatory liabilities as
a consequence of the Utah settlement on
excess power costs and exchange
movements were the main reasons for the
reduction.  
Provisions for liabilities and charges were
£492 million lower in the year with deferred
tax £389 million lower, principally due to the
sale of Southern Water. Other provisions are
also lower due to utilisation during the year,
together with the effect of foreign exchange.
Deferred income, which principally
represents grants and customer
contributions in our US and UK regulated
businesses, increased by £8 million.    
Total Recognised Gains and Losses
The Statement of Total Recognised Gains
and Losses combines the proﬁt or loss for
the year together with other gains and losses
taken directly to reserves as required under
UK GAAP . Total recognised gains for the year
to 31 March 2003 were £424 million,
compared to losses for the prior year of
£1,006 million, which included £1,318
million of net exceptional charges (after
interest and tax). Excluding the net
exceptional charges, total recognised gains
increased by £112 million compared to last
year, as a result of £152 million growth in
proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year, offset by the net
impact of foreign exchange movements and
hedging of the group’s results and net
assets. The weaker dollar exchange rates
during the year resulted in unfavourable
exchange movements of £387 million, which
were largely mitigated by the beneﬁts of
£358 million, less tax of £29 million, arising
from our strategy to hedge foreign currency
net assets.
Capital Expenditure, Cash Flow and
Net Debt
Capital Expenditure
In the year to 31 March 2003, the group
invested £818 million in its asset base, with
42% invested for growth. Of this, £717
million related to net capital expenditure, a
decrease of £512 million, of which £180
million related to continuing operations and
£332 million related to discontinued
operations. In addition, £101 million was
invested on the acquisition of the Katy gas
storage facility.
PaciﬁCorp
Capital expenditure in PaciﬁCorp decreased
by £1 million to £368 million, with £111
million invested in network growth and new
generation assets, including the gas ﬁred
peaking plant at Gadsby. A further £211
million was invested in network and
generation refurbishment, and £46 million
on other projects, including information
technology. Net capital expenditure is
expected to increase in 2003/04 as a result
of upgrades to transmission and distribution
networks to improve system reliability,
increased generation overhauls and higher
mining expenditure. All expenditure
prudently incurred is expected to earn its
regulatory rate of return, and contribute to
an increased rate base for PaciﬁCorp. 
Infrastructure Division
The Infrastructure Division invested net
capital expenditure of £230 million during
the year, an increase of £32 million
compared to the year to 31 March 2002. Of
this, £141 million was invested in network
refurbishment, £68 million on network
expansion and £21 million on other capital
projects. Net capital expenditure in 2003/04
is expected to increase modestly, with
investment concentrated on the regulatory
asset base, delivering the regulated rate of
return. In particular, further investment will
be undertaken in our overhead network
modernisation programme. 
UK Division
During the year the UK Division invested
£68 million in capital projects, a £41 million
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
38
Table 24 – Proﬁt/(loss) after tax (£m) Continuing operations Total operations
2002/03 2001/02 2002/03 2001/02
Proﬁt/(loss) after tax 480.2 220.9 487.8 (1,022.0)
Goodwill amortisation 139.0 146.6 139.0 149.0
Exceptional items including interest & tax – 26.0 – 1,318.1
Proﬁt after tax excluding goodwill & exceptionals 619.2 393.5 626.8 445.1 reduction on the previous year. Of this, £10
million was invested in windfarms, and £19
million expanding our gas storage assets
and completing the Daldowie Private Finance
Initiative project, which manufactures waste
derived fuel. A further £19 million was invested
in generation plant overhaul and
refurbishment and £20 million on other
projects including business transformation and
information technology. In 2003/04, subject to
obtaining planning permission, net capital
expenditure for the UK Division could rise
substantially as a result of our commitment
to increase our windfarm capacity. In addition,
we plan to invest in gas storage development
and upgrades to generation assets required
to maintain our generating capacity. All
investments are projected to have returns
signiﬁcantly in excess of the cost of capital and
enhance earnings.
PPM
PPM’s net capital expenditure for the year
was £36 million, a decrease of £170 million
on last year, which included investment to
complete the Klamath Falls and West Valley
generation projects. In the year to 31 March
2003, the division invested £10 million
completing its thermal generation assets and
£20 million on wind power, including the
purchase of the operational Klondike
windfarm in eastern Oregon and
commencement of construction of the
Moraine windfarm in Minnesota. PPM also
invested £6 million in gas storage assets and
in information technology projects. In addition,
PPM acquired the Katy gas storage facility
for £101 million in December 2002. In
2003/04 PPM’s net capital spend is
expected to increase, primarily as a result of
the construction of new windfarms and
development opportunities including
Moraine and Flying Cloud, which are
expected to deliver favourable rates of return
and enhance earnings.
Discontinued Operations
During the year, Southern Water incurred
net capital expenditure of £15 million, prior
to its sale in April 2002.
Cash Flow and Net Debt
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities of
£1,413 million was £165 million higher than
the prior year, with improved operational
performance in PaciﬁCorp offsetting the
reduction in operating cash ﬂows from
discontinued operations. Capital expenditure
and ﬁnancial investment outﬂows reduced
by £443 million, reﬂecting the reduction in
capital expenditure due to our discontinued
operations and lower PPM capital spend.
Interest, tax and dividend payments in the
year amounted to £1,012 million, £52 million
higher than the prior year. Net receipts from
acquisitions and disposals of £1,899 million
including net debt disposed of, mainly
represented the proceeds from the sale of
Southern Water, partially offset by PPM’s
£101 million acquisition of the Katy gas
storage facility from Aquila, Inc. As a result,
net debt at 31 March 2003 was £4,321
million, £1,887 million lower than at 31 March
2002, with the beneﬁt of a weaker dollar also
reducing the sterling value of dollar debt. 
Overview of the Year to March 2002
Group turnover for the year to 31 March 2002
decreased by £35 million to £6,314 million,
compared to the year to 31 March 2001.
Continuing operations’ turnover increased by
£113 million to £5,523 million, with
PaciﬁCorp contributing revenues of £2,981
million, a fall of £126 million on 2000/01 due
to signiﬁcant reductions in wholesale market
prices, partly offset by rate increases and
foreign exchange beneﬁts. Infrastructure
Division turnover was £248 million, an
increase of £24 million on 2000/01 due to
higher regulatory sales volumes and prices.
Turnover in the UK Division rose by £58
million to £2,121 million as a result of higher
gas retail and wholesale revenues and
increased output from new generating plant,
partially offset by lower electricity retail sales
due to lower volumes and prices. PPM
turnover increased by £157 million to £173
million primarily due to new gas revenues. 
Turnover for discontinued operations fell by
£148 million to £791 million following our
exit from Appliance Retailing, which resulted
in lower group revenues year-on-year of
£185 million, offset in part by year-on-year
revenue growth from Southern Water of £7
million and from Thus of £30 million.
Cost of sales for 2001/02 fell by £59
million to £4,411 million compared to
2000/01, which included £62 million of
exceptional reorganisation costs incurred by
PaciﬁCorp. Cost of sales, excluding
exceptional items, were £3 million higher
than 2000/01 at £4,411 million, with
continuing operations’ costs increasing by
£83 million to £3,920 million. PaciﬁCorp’s
cost of sales excluding exceptional items,
were less than the year to 31 March 2001
as lower purchase volumes and prices were
partly offset by foreign exchange
movements. Costs within the UK Division
increased mainly due to gas purchase costs
for Rye House power station, which was
acquired in March 2001. The growth of
PPM also contributed to higher costs. Cost
of sales for discontinued operations fell by
£80 million to £491 million, mainly due to
our exit from Appliance Retailing.
Transmission and distribution costs of
£513 million were £54 million lower than
the year to 31 March 2001, which included
£45 million of exceptional reorganisation
costs incurred by PaciﬁCorp. Pre-
exceptional transmission and distribution
costs fell by £9 million as a result of lower
net operating costs in the Infrastructure
Division. Administrative expenses
(including goodwill amortisation) increased
by £53 million to £695 million, with £26
million of this increase attributable to
higher exceptional items and higher
goodwill amortisation in 2001/02.
Administrative expenses, excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items,
increased by £27 million, with increased
depreciation charges in both the UK and US
and foreign exchange movements partly
offset, by lower discontinued operations’
costs, due to our exit from Appliance
Retailing. Depreciation for continuing
operations increased by £46 million to
£409 million, reﬂecting investment in new
generation in the US and the acquisition of
Rye House in the UK. Depreciation for
discontinued operations increased from
£118 million to £146 million.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
39
Table 25 – Group operating costs (£m) Cost of sales Transmission and Administrative 
distribution costs expenses
2001/02 2000/01 2001/02 2000/01 2001/02 2000/01
Operating costs 4,410.8 4,469.5 512.6 566.7 695.1 641.6
Goodwill amortisation – – – – (149.0) (127.6)
Exceptional items – (62.1) – (45.1) (18.5) (13.5)
Operating costs excluding goodwill  
& exceptionals 4,410.8 4,407.4 512.6 521.6 527.6 500.5 Financial Review
continued
Table 25 provides key ﬁnancial information
on group operating costs.
Group operating proﬁt for the year to 31
March 2002 as shown in Table 26
improved by £55 million to £777 million as
a result of exceptional Transition Plan costs
incurred in the year to 31 March 2001,
partly offset by increased goodwill
amortisation charges and lower operational
proﬁts in the year to 31 March 2002.
Excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, group operating proﬁt
reduced by £26 million to £944 million,
with operating proﬁt from continuing
operations falling by £15 million to £801
million. The challenging conditions
experienced in the UK energy market and
the price premium borne under the NEA
resulted in a fall of £44 million in the UK
Division’s proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items.
However, this was substantially offset by
the beneﬁts derived from Infrastructure
Division’s operating cost saving
programme, where operating proﬁt
increased by £14 million, and by the
recovery in PaciﬁCorp’s operating
performance in the US. PaciﬁCorp reported
a year-on-year proﬁt improvement of £25
million, excluding goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, after incurring some
$300 million of additional excess net power
costs early in 2001/02, as a result of the
unprecedented fall in wholesale price levels
in the western US market. Operating proﬁt
for PPM reduced by £9 million to a loss of £5
million as a result of new costs associated
with the start-up of the business. 
Operating proﬁt for our discontinued
operations decreased by £11 million to
£141 million, as a result of a £5 million fall
in Southern Water’s proﬁt and a £6 million
increase in Thus’ losses for the period to
19 March 2002, the date of the demerger.
Exceptional items of £1,326 million (before
interest and tax) were recognised in the
year to 31 March 2002. These exceptional
items related to the disposal of Southern
Water, UK reorganisation costs, and a
charge of £120 million associated with our
disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance
Retailing. An exceptional charge of £121
million was incurred in 2000/01 in respect
of the costs of implementing the PaciﬁCorp
Transition Plan.
Business Reviews
PaciﬁCorp
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 27.
Turnover in PaciﬁCorp for 2001/02 fell by
£126 million to £2,981 million compared to
2000/01. Excluding the effect of foreign
exchange, residential and commercial revenues
increased by £35 million or 6% and £26 million
or 5% respectively, mainly as a result of price
increases and customer growth partly offset by
lower volumes due to weather and the impact
of demand side management programmes.
Industrial revenues were down by £18 million
as a result of a 5% decrease in volumes due to
lower irrigation usage and the impact of US
economic conditions. A 22% decrease in
average short-term ﬁrm and spot market
wholesale prices ($107/MWh to $83/MWh)
and lower long-term volumes signiﬁcantly
impacted wholesale revenues in the year.
Partially offsetting this was an increase in short-
term ﬁrm and spot volumes, leaving turnover
from wholesale activities down by £275 million
or 19% on the year ended 31 March 2001.
Other revenue growth mainly came from
increased wheeling revenues and favourable
foreign exchange movements. 
For the year to 31 March 2002, PaciﬁCorp’s
operating proﬁt increased by £129 million to
£230 million, despite the impact of
additional excess power costs of $300
million incurred in the ﬁrst six months.
Excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, PaciﬁCorp’s operating
proﬁt increased by £25 million to £372
million. Increases in regulatory rates charged
to customers and other revenues of £72
million and continued Transition Plan
savings of £24 million, were offset by higher
depreciation on regulated assets of £25
million, costs of strategic and risk initiatives
of £45 million and other movements of £1
million including higher net power costs and
foreign exchange movements. 
Infrastructure Division
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 28.
The Infrastructure Division reported external
turnover of £248 million for 2001/02, an
increase of £24 million compared to 2000/01,
due to higher regulated income. Although
the Infrastructure Division’s sales were still
mainly internal to the UK Division, customer
retention in our home markets had declined
due to competition and, as a result, external
sales increased as distribution and
transmission use of system charges were
recovered from third party suppliers. 
In the year to 31 March 2002, operating
proﬁt for the Infrastructure Division
improved by £14 million to £355 million, as
it continued to deliver ﬁnancial upsides from
its restructuring programme, with operating
cost reductions of £39 million achieved
during the year. These savings helped offset
the impact of regulatory price reductions
experienced in the ﬁrst half of 2001/02 and
a gain on business disposals reported within
the 2000/01 results of £18 million. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
40
Table 27 – PaciﬁCorp (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
External turnover 2,980.7 3,106.2
Operating proﬁt 229.9 101.3
Goodwill amortisation 141.7 124.8
Exceptional items – 120.7
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill & exceptionals 371.6 346.8
Table 28 – Infrastructure Division (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
External turnover 247.6 223.7
Operating proﬁt 354.9 341.3
Table 26 – Group operating proﬁt (£m) Continuing operations Total operations
2001/02 2000/01 2001/02 2000/01
Operating proﬁt 635.4 569.4 776.6 721.9
Goodwill amortisation 146.6 125.2 149.0 127.6
Exceptional items 18.5 120.7 18.5 120.7
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill & exceptionals 800.5 815.3 944.1 970.2 UK Division
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 29.
Turnover for the UK Division grew by £58
million to £2,121 million for the year to 31
March 2002. Turnover was £106 million
higher due to sales from Rye House power
station. As a result of the decrease in
wholesale market prices, agency turnover fell
by £7 million despite volume growth from
3,874 GWh to 4,656 GWh and export sales in
England & Wales reduced by £16 million,
with volumes 22 GWh lower at 4,539 GWh.
Sales from exports via the Northern Ireland
Interconnector of 356 GWh improved
turnover by £8 million in the year. Turnover
also increased due to higher wholesale gas
sales. Supply turnover was down by £60
million on the year to 31 March 2001, with
higher retail gas sales of £48 million and
increased turnover from out-of-area
customer gains of £54 million, offset by loss
of market share and lower prices in our home
areas which reduced turnover by £162 million.
Operating proﬁt in the UK Division fell by £67
million to £55 million, with £23 million of this
decline attributable to increased goodwill
amortisation of £4 million and exceptional
costs of £19 million incurred during
2001/02 following restructuring within the
division. Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items
decreased by £44 million to £79 million,
primarily due to the impact of falling
wholesale market prices and the burden of the
NEA. As a result of these market pressures,
generation margins were £63 million lower
than in 2000/01. Partially offsetting this was
an improvement in electricity and gas retail
margins of £29 million after the increased cost
of acquiring new customers. The results for
the year ended 31 March 2002 also included
the New Electricity Trading Arrangements
(“NETA”) system error of £10 million. 
PPM
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 30.
PPM’s turnover increased by £157 million to
£173 million for the year to 31 March 2002
due to new revenues from the start-up
operations of the Klamath and Stateline plants.
PPM reported an operating loss of £5 million
in year to 31 March 2002, compared with a
proﬁt of £4 million in the year to 31 March
2001 as a result of increased costs
associated with the start-up of the business. 
Discontinued Operations
The key ﬁnancial information is shown in
Table 31.
Southern Water
For the year to 31 March 2002, turnover from
Southern Water increased by £7 million to
£430 million, as a result of regulatory price
increases and customer growth, partly offset
by the move to measured supply and surface
water rebates. Southern Water’s operating
proﬁt of £216 million fell by £5 million
compared to the prior year, as a result of
new capital obligation costs and increased
depreciation charges, offset in part by cost
savings. The sale of Southern Water was
announced in March 2002 and was
completed in April 2002. 
Appliance Retailing
The decision to withdraw from Appliance
Retailing was announced in June 2001 and
resulted in an exceptional charge of £120
million being recognised in 2001/02. The
disposal of part of the business to
Powerhouse Retail was ﬁnalised in October
2001 and the closure of the remaining
operations was completed by the end of
2001/02. Appliance Retailing reported
turnover of £132 million, down £185 million
on 2000/01, and an operating loss of £9
million, consistent with the year to 31 March
2001. 
Thus
The demerger of Thus was completed on 19
March 2002. The ﬁnancial results of the
group included the results of Thus up to
this date. Turnover for Thus to 19 March
2002 was £30 million higher than the prior
year at £229 million mainly due to
increased data and telecoms revenues.
Thus incurred an operating loss of £66
million, an increase of £6 million on the
year to 31 March 2001. 
Interest, Tax, Earnings and Dividends 
Interest 
The net interest charge for the year to 31
March 2002, as shown in Table 32,
increased by £77 million to £410 million
and included an exceptional charge of £31
million, principally related to the
restructuring of the group debt portfolio as
a consequence of the decision to sell
Southern Water. Excluding exceptional
charges, net interest was £379 million, an
increase of £46 million on 2000/01,
primarily as a result of higher levels of debt
in both the UK and US. The UK interest
charge, excluding exceptional interest, rose
by £30 million to £214 million and the
charge for the US increased by £32 million
to £172 million. Also included within
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
41
Table 29 – UK Division (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
External turnover 2,121.4 2,063.8
Operating proﬁt 55.3 122.3
Goodwill amortisation 4.9 0.4
Exceptional items 18.5 –
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill & exceptionals 78.7 122.7
Table 30 – PPM (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
External turnover 173.1 16.1
Operating (loss)/proﬁt (4.7) 4.5
Table 31 – Southern Water, Appliance Retailing and Thus (£m)
Southern Water Appliance Retailing Thus
2001/02 2000/01 2001/02 2000/01 2001/02 2000/01
External turnover 429.9 422.4 132.3 317.7 229.1 199.4
Operating proﬁt/(loss) 216.3 221.6 (9.0) (8.7) (66.1) (60.4)
Table 32 – Interest (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
Interest  410.2 332.9
Exceptional interest (30.8) –
Interest excluding exceptional interest 379.4 332.9 Financial Review
continued
interest was a £7 million beneﬁt due to
foreign exchange hedging.  
Tax
The tax charge as shown in Table 33 for the
year to 31 March 2002 was £83 million, £12
million lower than in 2000/01. Excluding the
exceptional tax credit of £39 million, the tax
charge was £122 million, £19 million lower
than in 2000/01. The exceptional tax credit
in 2001/02 related to the exceptional
charges incurred during the year following
the disposal of and withdrawal from our
Appliance Retailing business and
restructuring of the debt portfolio following
the decision to sell Southern Water. The
group’s effective tax rate beneﬁted from the
release of provisions made in prior years
following agreement with the tax authorities
on the treatment of speciﬁc items. Although
corporate tax rates were higher in the US
than in the UK, the ﬁnancial structure of the
group resulted in a reduction in the amount
of overseas tax payable. The tax charge was
£83 million on a loss before tax of £939
million, compared to a tax charge of £95
million on proﬁt before tax of £380 million in
2000/01.
Earnings and Dividends
Key (loss)/proﬁt after tax and group
(loss)/earnings per share information is
shown in Table 34 and Table 35 respectively.
The loss after tax for the year to 31 March
2002 amounted to £1,022 million,
compared to a proﬁt of £285 million for
2000/01, with the fall in proﬁts mainly due
to higher exceptional charges associated
with the sale of Southern Water including a
£738 million write back of goodwill. A pre-
tax exceptional charge of £121 million was
included in the 2000/01 year’s results in
respect of PaciﬁCorp Transition Plan
implementation costs. Excluding the impact
of goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, proﬁt after tax decreased by £42
million to £445 million primarily as a result
of lower UK Division operating proﬁt and
increased interest charges. With a weighted
average 1,838 million shares in issue during
2001/02, the loss per share was 53.71
pence compared to earnings per share of
16.80 pence in the year to 31 March 2001.
Excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, earnings per share were
26.12 pence for the year compared to 27.86
pence in the year to 31 March 2001. 
The total cash dividends per share of 27.34
pence were 5% higher than the 2000/01
dividends of 26.04 pence. The increase was
consistent with our stated aim of growing
dividends by 5% per annum, for each of the
three ﬁnancial years to 31 March 2003.
Dividends for the year also included a
‘dividend in specie’ of £437 million arising
on the demerger of Thus on 19 March 2002. 
Total Recognised Gains and Losses
The statement of total recognised gains and
losses combines the proﬁt or loss for the
year together with other gains and losses
taken directly to reserves. Total recognised
losses for 2001/02 were £1,006 million,
compared to gains for 2000/01 of £801
million. The fall in recognised gains of
£1,807 million was primarily due to the net
exceptional charges (after interest and tax)
of £1,318 million in the year to 31 March
2002 and the strengthening in dollar
exchange rates from $1.60/£ at 31 March
2000 to $1.42/£ at 31 March 2001, which
resulted in exchange movements of £493
million being recognised in the year to 31
March 2001.
Treasury
The treasury focus during the year continued
to be to minimise interest payments and
manage risk. The group continues to ensure
that borrowings are ﬁnanced from a variety
of competitive sources and that committed
facilities are available both to cover
uncommitted borrowings and to meet the
ﬁnancing needs of the group in the future.
Cash requirements are subject to seasonal
variations. A further focus was to maximise
the return on investment of the proceeds
from the sale of Southern Water while
avoiding excessive credit risk.
Since the merger with PaciﬁCorp the
group’s external borrowings have been
sourced in two separate pools. In the UK,
Scottish Power UK plc (“SPUK”) continues
to be the ﬁnance vehicle for the majority of
the UK activities. In the US, predominantly
all of the debt is issued by PaciﬁCorp, the
regulated utility, and is entirely
denominated in US dollars. 
In both cases regulatory constraints apply
to ﬁnancing activities. Scottish Power plc
(“SP plc”) is not permitted to borrow from
its subsidiaries with the exception of
certain intermediate holding companies in
the US ownership chain and is currently
ﬁnanced by way of dividends and external
debt. During the year SP plc’s two £50
million bilateral 364 day committed
facilities were renewed. Both were un-
drawn at the year-end. PaciﬁCorp’s
principal debt limitations are a 60% debt
to deﬁned capitalisation test and an
interest coverage covenant
(EBITDA/interest) of 2 times contained in
its principal credit agreements. PaciﬁCorp
has been in compliance with these
covenants throughout the year to 31
March 2003. In addition, under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 there
are restrictions on the ability of group
companies to lend or borrow from one
another.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
42
Table 34 – (Loss)/proﬁt after tax (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
(Loss)/proﬁt after tax (1,022.0) 284.5
Goodwill amortisation 149.0 127.6
Exceptional items including interest & tax 1,318.1 74.8
Proﬁt after tax excluding goodwill & exceptionals 445.1 486.9
Table 35 – Group (loss)/earnings per share (pence) 2001/02 2000/01
(Loss)/earnings per share (EPS) (53.71) 16.80
EPS impact of goodwill amortisation 8.11 6.97
EPS impact of exceptional items 71.72 4.09
EPS excluding goodwill & exceptionals 26.12 27.86
Table 33 – Tax (£m) 2001/02 2000/01
Tax  83.2 95.2
Exceptional tax credit 38.8 45.9
Tax excluding exceptional tax credit 122.0 141.1 In the UK, ﬁnancing activities have been
heavily inﬂuenced by the disposal of
Southern Water. No new long-term ﬁnancing
was put in place during the year and all
short-term debt was repaid following receipt
of the sale proceeds.
There have been no new issues under
ScottishPower’s Euro-Medium Term Note
Programme, established in November 1997.
Cumulative issues outstanding under the
programme now total some $2,700 million
against a programme limit of $7,000 million.
SP plc and SPUK are the issuers under the
programme; no issues have been made
since SP plc was added as an issuer as part
of the annual update in 2001. 
Total borrowings from the European
Investment Bank (“EIB”) amount to £199
million, following the repayment of £129
million as a result of the sale of Southern
Water as agreed under the terms of the sale
and purchase agreement with First Aqua
Limited. 
During the year SPUK has not added to its
index-linked liabilities. The current total of
£275 million has been created through a
combination of issues of direct index-linked
debt and through swapping ﬁxed rate debt
into index-linked. This represents around
12% of the UK debt portfolio in recognition
of the fact that a large percentage of UK
revenues are linked to inﬂation.
SPUK cancelled its £1,000 million revolving
credit facility following receipt of the proceeds
of the sale of Southern Water in April 2002.
No facility has been required through the
rest of the year, as liquidity has been
provided by the funds received from the sale.
It is possible that SP plc will wish to raise new
bank ﬁnance during the ﬁnancial year to 31
March 2004. Borrowings under this facility
would be used for general corporate purposes.
The UK distribution, transmission and
generation subsidiaries have provided
upstream guarantees to support the
majority of SPUK’s debt that existed at 1
October 2001, following their incorporation
to comply with the Utilities Act 2000. As at
31 March 2003 the total amount of debt
guaranteed by the three companies
amounted to £2,210 million. New debt
issued by SPUK after 1 October 2001 is not
permitted to beneﬁt from the guarantee of
SPUK’s subsidiaries, SP Distribution Limited
and SP Transmission Limited. 
During the year to 31 March 2003,
PaciﬁCorp issued no new long-term debt.
Scheduled repayments of $144.6 million
were made during the year. PaciﬁCorp has
an effective shelf registration statement for
up to $1.1 billion of long-term debt of which
$800 million has been authorised to be
issued by the applicable regulatory
commissions, subject to certain conditions.
Any such issuance would be subject to
market conditions. PaciﬁCorp has debt
maturities out as far as 2037.
In June 2002 PaciﬁCorp extended its
expiring bank facilities and now has two
facilities: a $300 million three year facility
maturing in June 2005 and a $500 million
364 day facility maturing in June 2003.
Negotiations are currently underway to
replace the $500 million facility. These two
bank facilities are provided by a group of
core bank relationships that is regarded as
common to both SPUK and PaciﬁCorp. 
The group continues to manage its interest
rate exposure by maintaining a percentage
of its debt at ﬁxed rates of interest. This is
done either directly by means of ﬁxed rate
debt issues or by use of interest and cross-
currency swaps to convert variable rate debt
into ﬁxed rate debt and ﬁxed/variable non-
functional currency denominated debt into
ﬁxed rate functional currency debt. The use
of derivative ﬁnancial instruments relates
directly to underlying existing and anticipated
indebtedness. The group treasury operates
strictly within policies set out by the Board
and is subject to regular examination by
internal audit. The group’s policy is to
maintain at least 50% of its anticipated year-
end debt at ﬁxed interest rates.
In recognition of the long life of the group’s
assets and anticipated indebtedness and to
create ﬁnancial efﬁciencies, the group has
entered into borrowing agreements for
periods out to 2039. In addition, SPUK
entered into derivative contracts to a
notional value of £100 million, which may
result in ﬁxed interest rates of 4.25% for
periods out to 2030 on this notional
amount. At 31 March 2003, the interest rate
on some 71% (UK 60%, US 80%) of debt
was ﬁxed.
The weighted average period to maturity of
year-end ﬁxed debt and swaps was 12 years
(UK 11 years, US 13 years).
During 2002/03, the group maintained its
policy of hedging a substantial part of the
foreign currency value of its US business.
Notional US$ debt has been created by the
use of cross-currency interest rate swaps,
cross-currency basis swaps and foreign
currency forward contracts. The current
amount of these hedges is $5,000 million
representing approximately 84% of the
group’s US net assets.
Both SPUK and PaciﬁCorp have credit
ratings published by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Group, Moody’s Investors Service
and The Fitch Group. SPUK’s long-term
ratings for guaranteed debt, pre 1 October
2001, are now A-, A2 and A from the three
agencies respectively. SPUK’s long-term
ratings for unguaranteed debt are A-, A3 and
A from the three agencies respectively.
PaciﬁCorp’s senior secured debt is rated A,
A3 and A, and its unsecured debt is rated
BBB+, Baa1 and A-. Short-term ratings of 
A-2, P-2 and F-1 apply to both companies.
PacifiCorp Group Holdings, a subsidiary of
PaciﬁCorp Holdings Inc., has slightly lower
ratings although they remain investment
grade. Ratings from Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s are on negative outlook. These
security ratings are not recommendations to
buy, sell or hold securities. The ratings are
subject to change or withdrawal at any time
by the respective credit rating agencies.
Each credit rating should be evaluated
independently of any other rating.
Any adverse change to credit ratings of
group companies could negatively impact
on their ability to access capital markets and
on the rates of interest that they would be
charged for such access. The EIB debt within
SP Transmission Limited and SP Distribution
Limited contains credit downgrade
language, which does not constitute default,
but means that, should the ratings of SP
Transmission Limited or SP Distribution
Limited fall, the EIB will be entitled to ask for
additional security in the form of a
guarantee acceptable to the EIB. PaciﬁCorp
has no rating downgrade triggers within its
debt instruments, although interest rates on
loans under their bank facilities and
commitment fees on the facilities would
increase with a ratings downgrade. The EIB
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
43 Financial Review
continued
debt within SP Manweb plc contains
ﬁnancial covenants relating to interest cover
and gearing of SP Manweb plc. Following the
cancellation of SPUK’s £1,000 million
revolving credit facility there are no other
ﬁnancial covenants within the UK
businesses’ debt.
The proceeds of the sale of Southern Water
were partially utilised to repay SPUK’s short-
term borrowings and to redeem the EIB debt
of Southern Water as agreed under the sale
and purchase agreement with First Aqua
Limited. The remaining cash received has
been utilised on an ongoing basis to fund
the existing business and to repay debt as it
matures. The investment of surplus cash is
undertaken to maximise the return within
Board approved policies which govern the
ratings criteria, maximum investment and
the maturity with any one counterparty.
Counterparties are required to have a short-
term rating of at least A-1, P-1 or F-1 from
the three major rating agencies.
Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk
Market Rate Sensitive Instruments and
Risk Management
The following discussion about the group’s
risk management activities includes
“forward-looking” statements that involve
risk and uncertainties. Actual results could
differ materially from those projected in the
forward-looking statements. 
The Tables in Note 20 to the Accounts
(pages 93 to 98) summarise the ﬁnancial
instruments, including derivative instruments
and derivative commodity instruments, held
by the group at 31 March 2003, which are
sensitive to changes in interest rates, foreign
exchange rates and commodity prices. The
group uses interest rate swaps, forward
foreign exchange contracts and other
ﬁnancially settled derivative instruments to
manage the primary market exposures
associated with the underlying assets,
liabilities and committed transactions.
Financially settled "weather" derivatives are
used to manage risk created by adverse
weather circumstances affecting commodity
demand and operations. The group also uses
commodity derivatives (that can be settled
ﬁnancially or by delivery of the physical
commodity) to further manage its
commodity price and volumetric risks. These
instruments are employed to reduce risk by
creating offsetting ﬁnancial exposures or by
directly hedging such commodity exposures.
Such physically or ﬁnancially settled
instruments (as above) held by the group
match offsetting physical transactions and
are not held for ﬁnancial trading purposes in
the vast majority of instances. Similarly, such
weather derivatives are not held for ﬁnancial
trading purposes. Subject to risk
management controls, businesses may enter
into ﬁnancial transactions that are designed
to reduce earnings volatility and improve the
return on assets and are structured around
the physical assets of the group.
ScottishPower Energy Trading (Agency)
Limited is authorised by the UK Financial
Services Authority to undertake investment
activity in the energy markets as an Energy
Market Participant.
Risk Management
Overview
The main ﬁnancial risks faced by the group
are interest rate risk, inﬂation risk, insurance
risk, foreign exchange risk, liquidity risk, credit
risk, energy price risk and energy volumetric
risk (created by varying demand due to
weather and economic circumstances and
varying supply due to forced outages or other
physical supply and logistics limitations).
The Board has reviewed and agreed policies
for managing each of these risks as
summarised below. In order to mitigate the
ﬁnancial risks identiﬁed, the Board has
endorsed the use of derivative ﬁnancial
instruments including swaps, both interest
rate and cross-currency, swaptions, options,
forward-rate agreements, ﬁnancial and
commodity forward contracts, commodity
futures, commodity options and weather
derivatives.
Energy Risk Management
Energy risk is governed globally by the Group
Energy Risk Committee (“GERC”), chaired by
the Finance Director with membership from
the divisions and Independent Risk
Management. The GERC deﬁnes, and the
ScottishPower Board approves, the group
risk management policies and limits as well
as the UK and the US risk policies and limits.
These policies and limits, as well as the GERC
approved procedures, are designed to create
consistent risk measurement, monitoring
and management standards throughout the
group. The monitoring and management of
the level of exposure covered is handled by
the businesses, with full oversight by a
corporate risk management function,
reporting to the Finance Director
independent of the businesses. The
businesses with commodity exposure are
authorised to manage this exposure using
approved products, policies and limits.
These businesses report monthly to a local
risk committee, as well as the GERC.
Market exposures are quantiﬁed and
controlled using a number of different risk
measures. These include Value-at-Risk
(“VaR”) methods for earnings volatility
control. VaR is a statistically based measure
of the potential ﬁnancial loss on a price
exposure position over a deﬁned period to a
given level of conﬁdence. VaR computations
for the group’s energy commodity portfolios
are based on a historical simulation
technique. This technique utilises historical
price changes over a speciﬁed period to
simulate potential forward price curves in
the energy markets to estimate the potential
unfavourable impact of price changes in the
portfolio positions scheduled to settle within
the following 24 months. The quantiﬁcation
of market risk using VaR provides a
consistent measure of risk across the
group’s continually changing portfolio. VaR
represents an estimate of reasonably
possible changes in fair value that would be
measured on its portfolio assuming
hypothetical movements in future market
rates and is not necessarily indicative of
actual results that may occur. Changes in
markets inconsistent with historical trends
or assumptions used, could cause actual
results to exceed predicted limits.
The group’s VaR computations for its energy
commodity portfolio utilise several key
assumptions, including a 99% conﬁdence
level for the resultant price changes and a
holding period of ﬁve days. The calculation
includes short-term derivative commodity
instruments held for trading and balancing
purposes, the expected resource and
demand obligations from the group’s long-
term contracts, the expected generation
levels from the group’s generation assets
and the expected retail and wholesale load
levels. Optionality embedded within the
group’s long-term contracts, generation
assets and other derivative instruments with
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
44 option characteristics within the energy
portfolio are treated in the historical
simulation of VaR as static expected or delta
positions through the simulation process.
Expected positions and option deltas are
recalculated on a daily basis to determine
the portfolio position changes due to
changes in market prices.
Commodity price exposure is deﬁned as the
possibility that a change in the price of the
commodity will alter the proceeds of sales or
the costs of purchases. Commodity volume
risk is deﬁned as the possibility that a
change in the supply of or demand for the
commodity will create an unexpected
imbalance and change the requirements for
the commodity. Additional risk measures are
applied to quantify risks beyond the
conﬁdence intervals deﬁned in the VaR
methodology and determine volumetric
risks in physical positions.
Credit Risk Management
The role of the group’s credit function is to
set consistent standards for assessing and
quantifying (scoring) the credit risk induced
by contractual obligations of wholesale trading
partners and industrial and commercial
clients. A group credit committee provides
an umbrella oversight to ensure a consistent
approach to counterparty rating and limit
management is adopted across the group
and oversees the allocation of limits to those
entities that overlap both the US and the UK
markets. This group credit committee
ensures that each individual business is
subject to concentration rules that prevent
misallocation of credit risk amongst
counterparties. The UK and the US credit
committees provide local expertise to
understanding the credit environment in
each geographic location. All decisions are
supported by rigorous measurement and
reporting of credit exposures and the use of
credit rating models. Credit approvals are
subject to regular and/or event driven
reviews. Despite mitigation efforts, defaults
by counterparties occur from time to time. 
Treasury Management
The group treasury function is authorised to
conduct the day-to-day treasury activities of
the group within policies set out by the
Board. The group treasury function reports
regularly to the Board, through the monthly
group performance and risk report and is
subject to internal audit.
Interest Rate Risk Management 
The group continues to access funding
opportunities in the major global markets in
a range of currencies at both ﬁxed and
ﬂoating rates of interest, using derivatives
where appropriate, to convert the obligations
and payments into ﬁxed or ﬂoating rate
functional currency. 
The exposure to ﬂuctuating interest rates is
managed by either issuing ﬁxed or ﬂoating
rate debt or using a spectrum of ﬁnancial
instruments to create the desired
ﬁxed/ﬂoating mix. The group’s policy is to
maintain at least 50% of its anticipated
year-end debt at ﬁxed interest rates. At 31
March 2003, 71% (2002 66%) of the
group’s debt was either issued as ﬁxed or
converted to ﬁxed rates using interest rates
swaps. 
All treasury transactions are undertaken to
manage the risks arising from underlying
activities and no speculative trading is
undertaken. The counterparties to these
instruments generally consist of ﬁnancial
institutions and other bodies with good
credit ratings, that is “AA” rated by at least
one of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch.
Although the group is potentially exposed to
credit risk in the event of non-performance
by counterparties, such credit risk is
controlled through credit rating reviews of
the counterparties and by limiting the total
amount of exposure to any one party to
levels agreed by the Board. The group does
not believe that it is over exposed to any
material concentration of credit risk. 
Inﬂation Risk Management
In recognition of the fact that a large
percentage of UK revenues are linked to
inﬂation, SPUK maintains part of its debt
portfolio in index-linked liabilities. This is
done either through issues of debt or
through swapping ﬁxed rate debt into index-
linked. Currently index-linked liabilities total
£275 million, which represents around 12%
of the UK debt portfolio.
Insurance Risk Management
Where cost effective, the group maintains a
wide-ranging insurance programme
providing ﬁnancial protection, predominately
against catastrophic risks. In March 2002
the group experienced increases in the cost
of insurance and a loss of limited aspects of
coverage as a result of changes in the global
insurance market. There continues to be
upward pressure on insurance costs and a
comprehensive review of our insurance
strategy during the last twelve months has
helped to mitigate this pressure but some
classes of insurance continue to increase
signiﬁcantly in cost. These increases do not,
however, have a material impact on the
overall business performance.
Foreign Exchange Risk Management
Translation Risk 
The group has currently hedged $5,000
million, representing approximately 84% of
its US net assets, as a strategic hedge of the
investment. Liabilities have been created, for
periods out to 2011, by means of cross-
currency interest rate and basis swaps and
by means of forward foreign exchange
contracts. The resulting interest ﬂow in US
dollars acts as a natural partial hedge to the
translation of US proﬁts but these proﬁts are
further hedged, up to four years into the
future, by means of forward sales of US
dollars. All foreign currency derivative
contracts are subject to the same controls as
interest rate derivatives referred to above. 
Transaction Risk 
Transactions denominated in a foreign
currency are not numerous in the group.
Where they arise as a result of imports of
capital or other goods denominated in
foreign currencies the exposure is hedged as
soon as it arises.
Liquidity Risk Management
The group’s policy is to arrange that debt
maturities are spread over a wide range of
dates, thereby ensuring that the group is not
subject to excessive reﬁnancing risk in any
one year. The group had undrawn
committed revolving credit facilities totalling
£606 million, as at 31 March 2003, which
provide backstop liquidity should the need
arise. The majority of these facilities are at
PaciﬁCorp. Liquidity in the UK is currently
supported by the remaining cash held from
the proceeds of the Southern Water sale.
Energy Price Risk Management
UK Division
NETA was introduced in England & Wales on
27 March 2001, replacing the previous
‘Pool’ mechanism for the sale and purchase
of wholesale power in England & Wales.
NETA provides for a bilateral wholesale
market, with suppliers, traders and
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
45 Financial Review
continued
generators trading ﬁrm physical forward
contracts for bulk electricity supply. In
addition to trading to directly manage our
market price exposure in the England &
Wales market, the UK Division also manages
its price exposure arising from sales within the
Scottish market by trading forward contracts.
The balancing mechanism, operated from 1
hour ahead of real-time (gate closure) up to
real-time by the National Grid Company, is
used to manage the grid system on a
second-by-second basis. Market
participants can participate actively in this
market through the submission of bids and
offers to vary their output as a generator or
demand as a customer. The mechanism
also provides for calculation and settlement
of imbalance charges arising from the
differences between parties’ contract
positions and their actual physical energy
ﬂows.
The UK Division has procedures in place to
minimise exposure to uncertain balancing
mechanism prices, that is, the possibility
that the UK Division will face high charges
for shortfalls in physical energy or receive
low revenues for surplus physical energy.
These procedures involve the UK Division
entering into bilateral contracts for the sale
and purchase of energy across a range of
time periods to minimise exposure to the
balancing mechanism. In addition, our
portfolio of ﬂexible generating assets in
England and Scotland can be used up to
gate closure to minimise further this
exposure and also to attract premium
income from providing ﬂexible power to the
balancing mechanism. 
The UK Division has also entered into longer-
term (in excess of one year) arrangements to
protect against longer-term volatility of
power prices. The time periods covered by
these longer-term arrangements are
reviewed on a continuous basis to provide
the desired level of price stability.
The UK Division also has procedures in
place to minimise exposure to gas price
variations. In a similar manner to our
power price exposure management
strategy, gas price risk is managed through
a combination of longer-term contracts
and shorter-term trading contracts with
ﬂexible delivery proﬁles, certain derivative
ﬁnancial instruments and through the use
of ﬂexibility within our portfolio of power
generating and gas storage assets.
The UK Division mitigates its exposure to
coal price risk through the use of a
combination of ﬁnancial and physical
contracts.
Cover against volatile spot prices is built up
on a rolling basis through the year and, at
31 March 2003, a signiﬁcant proportion of
the UK Division’s exposure to power, gas and
coal price variations for the following
ﬁnancial year have been mitigated.
The UK Division measures the market risk in
its energy portfolio daily utilising
ScottishPower’s VaR approach (described
above), as well as other measurements of
net position, and monitors its portfolio
exposure to market risk in comparison to
established thresholds. The UK Division also
measures its open positions at price risk in
terms of volumes at each delivery location
for each forward time period.
As at 31 March 2003, the UK Division’s
estimated potential ﬁve-day unfavourable
impact on fair value of the energy commodity
portfolio over the next 24 months was £11.8
million, as measured by the VaR computations
described above, compared to £16.2 million
as at 31 March 2002. The average daily VaR
(ﬁve-day holding) for the year ended 31 March
2003 was £11.3 million. The maximum and
minimum VaR measured during the year
ended 31 March 2003 were £16.7 million
and £7.7 million, respectively. Changes in
markets inconsistent with historical trends
or assumptions used could cause actual
results to exceed predicted limits. Market
risks associated with derivative commodity
instruments held for purposes other than
hedging and balancing the UK Division’s
energy commodity portfolio were not
material as of 31 March 2003.
PaciﬁCorp
PaciﬁCorp’s market risk to commodity price
change is primarily related to its fuel and
electricity purchases and sales arising
principally from its electricity supply
obligation in the US. As in the UK this risk to
price change is subject to ﬂuctuations in
weather, economic growth and generation
resource availability which impacts supply and
demand. Risk limits are established to govern
energy purchases and sales. Price risk is
managed principally through the operation
of its generation and transmission system in
the western US and through its wholesale
energy purchase and sales activities.
Physically settled contracts are used to
hedge PaciﬁCorp’s excess or shortage of net
electricity for future months. 
While PaciﬁCorp plans for resources to
meet its current and expected retail and
wholesale load obligations, resource
availability, price volatility and volumetric
volatility around both load and resources
may materially impact the power costs to
PaciﬁCorp and proﬁts from surplus power
sales in the future. Prices paid by PaciﬁCorp
to provide certain load balancing resources
to supply its load may exceed the amounts
it receives through retail rates and
wholesale prices. Prices received by
PaciﬁCorp to dispose of resources made
excess by changes in retail and wholesale
load obligations may fall short of the
amounts PaciﬁCorp has paid for such
resources. In the 2000/01 power crisis,
regulatory approval of deferred accounting
treatment under US GAAP for these excess
costs mitigated a portion of this price risk to
the extent that recovery mechanisms were
implemented. Recovery of amounts allowed
by the commissions are scheduled to
continue through 2003/04 and for some
years beyond. However, such deferred
accounting treatment was granted in the
extraordinary circumstance of the power
crisis and subsequent use of this
mechanism is not automatic and is not
guaranteed for future use.
PaciﬁCorp continues to actively manage
commodity price volatility and reduce
exposure. These steps included adding to its
generation portfolio and entering into
transactions that help to shape PaciﬁCorp's
system resource portfolio, including physical
hedging products and ﬁnancially settled
weather (temperature-related) derivative
instruments that reduce volume and price
risk on days with weather extremes. In
addition, hydrogeneration hedges have been
put in place for the next three years to limit
volume and price risks associated with Paciﬁc
Northwest hydrogeneration availability.
PaciﬁCorp measures the market risk in its
natural gas and electricity portfolio daily 
utilising ScottishPower’s VaR approach
(described above), as well as other
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
46 measurements of net position, and monitors
its portfolio exposure to market risk in
comparison to established thresholds.
PaciﬁCorp also measures its open positions
at price risk in terms of volumes at each
delivery location for each forward time period.
At 31 March 2003, PaciﬁCorp’s estimated
potential ﬁve-day unfavourable impact on fair
value of the natural gas and electricity
commodity portfolio over the next 24 months
was £11.0 million, as measured by the VaR
computations described above, compared to
£11.4 million at 31 March 2002. The average
daily VaR (ﬁve-day holding) for the year
ended 31 March 2003 was £12.4 million. The
maximum and minimum VaR measured
during the year ended 31 March 2003 were
£22.3 million and £6.1 million, respectively.
Changes in markets inconsistent with
historical trends or assumptions used could
cause actual results to exceed predicted
limits. Market risks associated with derivative
commodity instruments held for purposes
other than hedging and balancing
PaciﬁCorp’s energy commodity portfolio were
not material at 31 March 2003.
PPM 
PPM Energy, Inc. (“PPM”) is ScottishPower’s
competitive US energy company, which is
primarily focused on providing
environmentally responsible energy
products to wholesale customers. The
strategic priorities of PPM are to grow its
renewable/thermal energy portfolio and gas
storage/hub services business and optimise
returns through the integration of assets,
trading and commercial activities. PPM’s
strategy is to match the output of PPM
assets and long-term sales obligations.
Imbalances between asset positions and
long-term sales are managed via wholesale
energy purchases and sales activities.
PPM owns the output from several wind
generation facilities located throughout the
US. Associated with the wind energy
production are Renewable Energy
Certiﬁcates (“RECs”) that represent the
environmental attributes of the renewable
energy. Consistent with its overall portfolio
strategy, PPM balances its wind asset
position with long-term forward sales and
some spot sales of both energy and
renewable attributes. Wind generation
resource availability and variability is subject
to price changes for that portion of the
output that is not committed to long-term
ﬁxed price bilateral contracts. Imbalances in
the REC portfolio are subject to price
changes in the REC market.
PPM owns or manages over 800 MW of
thermal capacity on its own behalf and on
the behalf of third parties. Substantially all of
this capacity is committed to long-term
contracts, with the imbalance being subject
to generation resource availability and the
relationship of fuel costs to electricity prices
(or “spark spread”). PPM manages short-
term and daily imbalance through real-time
markets. PPM’s risk in this business is
principally if counterparties fail to perform in
accordance with contracts and if PPM’s
generation assets fail to perform at
reasonable levels.
Finally, PPM also owns natural gas storage
facilities in Canada and Texas. PPM’s
strategy is to develop a natural gas
storage/hub services business that will own
and operate facilities across North America.
The business model employed by PPM is
designed to minimise commodity risk and
provide a service for a fee for both long-term
and short-term hub services. Hub services is
a generic term used to describe various fee-
based transactions carried out by the
storage operator such as parking and
loaning of gas. As a result, the hub services
business is subject to the risks associated
with the operations and marketing of the
storage facilities and services.
Subject to market risk limitations delegated
by ScottishPower and oversight by the
corporate risk management group, PPM will
occasionally maintain or create open
positions in response to (or in anticipation
of) long-term origination or development
transactions creating exposure to market
price movements. Therefore, PPM actively
participates in the wholesale power and gas
markets to manage its open positions. In
addition, PPM engages in point-of-view
energy management activities in accordance
with strict limits approved by the business
unit risk committee (chaired by the group
risk management function). Control and
performance metrics for such activities are
tracked daily. 
PPM measures the market risk in its natural
gas and electricity portfolio daily utilising
ScottishPower’s VaR approach (described
above), as well as other measurements of
net position, and monitors its portfolio
exposure to market risk in comparison to
established thresholds. PPM also measures
its open positions at price risk in terms of
volumes at each delivery location for each
forward time period.
At 31 March 2003, PPM’s estimated
potential ﬁve-day unfavourable impact on fair
value of the energy commodity portfolio over
the next 24 months was £2.4 million, as
measured by the VaR computations
described above, compared to £5.3 million
at 31 March 2002. The average daily VaR
(ﬁve-day holding) for the year ended 31
March 2003 was £2.4 million. The
maximum and minimum VaR measured
during the year ended 31 March 2003 were
£6.2 million and £0.9 million, respectively.
Changes in markets inconsistent with
historical trends or assumptions used could
cause actual results to exceed predicted
limits. Market risks associated with derivative
commodity instruments held for purposes
other than hedging and balancing PPM’s
energy commodity portfolio were not
material at 31 March 2003.
Contractual Obligations and
Commercial Commitments
The group enters into various ﬁnancial
obligations and commitments in the normal
course of business. Contractual ﬁnancial
obligations are considered to comprise
known future cash payments that the group
is required to make under contractual
arrangements in place at 31 March 2003.
Commercial commitments are deﬁned as
those obligations of the group which only
become payable if certain pre-deﬁned
events occur.
Table 36 details the group’s contractual
obligations at 31 March 2003.
The ‘Loans and other borrowings’ ﬁgures in
Table 36 are stated at book value at 31
March 2003. 
The group has commercial commitments in
respect of surety bonds in the US. At 31
March 2003 the total amount that may be
payable by the group in respect of these
commitments is estimated to be £32.7
million, of which £18.8 million would be
payable within one year, £13.3 million
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
47 Financial Review
continued
between one and three years, £0.4 million
between three and ﬁve years and £0.2
million after ﬁve years. 
The actual net capital expenditure incurred
by the group for the year ended 31 March
2003 was £717 million. The group’s
estimated net capital expenditure, which is
subject to continuing review and revision, for
the year ended 31 March 2004 is within the
range of £800 million – £900 million. 
Fair Value of Derivative Contracts
Table 37 details the changes in the fair value
of the group’s energy related and treasury
derivative contracts which are subject to the
requirements of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (“FAS”) No. 133
‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities’. FAS 133 requires, for the
purposes of US GAAP , all derivatives, as
deﬁned by the standard, to be marked to
market value, except for those which qualify
for speciﬁc exemption under the standard or
associated guidance, for example those
deﬁned as normal purchases and normal
sales. The derivatives which are marked to
market value in accordance with FAS 133
include only certain of the group’s
commercial contractual arrangements as
many of these arrangements fall outside the
scope of FAS 133. In addition, the effect of
changes in the fair value of certain long-term
contracts entered into to hedge PaciﬁCorp’s
future retail energy resource requirements,
which are being marked to market value in
accordance with FAS 133, are subject to
regulation in the US and are therefore
deferred as regulatory assets or liabilities
pursuant to FAS 71 ‘Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation’. The
FAS 133 liability relating to PaciﬁCorp of
£319.9 million, as set out in Table 37, is
offset under US GAAP by a US regulatory net
asset of £320.6 million.
The forward market price curve is derived
using daily market quotes from independent
energy brokers and reporting services, as well
as direct information received from third party
offers and actual transactions entered into
by the group. For certain contracts extending
past 2006, the forward prices are derived
using a fundamentals model (cost-to-build
approach) that is updated as warranted, at
least quarterly, to reﬂect changes in the
market. Short-term energy contracts, without
explicit or embedded optionality, are valued
based upon the relevant portion of the
forward market price curve or quoted market
prices. Energy contracts with explicit or
embedded optionality and long-term energy
contracts are valued by separating each
contract into its component physical and
ﬁnancial forward, swap and option legs.
Forward and swap legs are valued against the
appropriate market curve. The optionality is
valued using a modiﬁed Black-Scholes model
or a stochastic simulation (Monte Carlo)
approach. Each option component is
modelled and valued separately using the
appropriate forward market price curve.
Interest rate swaps and forward-rate
agreements are valued by calculating the
present value of future cash ﬂows estimated
using forward market curves. Interest rate
swaptions are valued using the market yield
curve and implied volatilities at the period end.
Cross-currency swaps are valued by adding
the present values of the two legs of each
swap: present values are calculated by
discounting the future cash ﬂows, estimated
using the appropriate forward market curve
for that currency, at the appropriate market
discount rates. Forward foreign exchange
contracts are valued using market forward
exchange rates at the period-end.
In Table 37, the cumulative effect of
accounting change represents the cumulative
effect on US GAAP earnings of adopting
revised FAS 133 guidance effective from 1
April 2002 issued by the Derivatives
Implementation Group (“DIG”) under
Revised Issue C15 ‘Normal Purchases and
Normal Sales Exception for Certain Option-
Type Contracts in Electricity’ and Issue C16
‘Applying the Normal Purchases and Normal
Sales Exception to Contracts that Combine a
Forward Contract and Purchased Option
Contract’. This new guidance had the effect of
including an increased number of the group’s
contracts within the scope of FAS 133.
Changes in fair values attributable to changes
in valuation techniques and assumptions
reﬂect changes in the fair value of mark-to-
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
48
Table 36 – Contractual obligations at 31 March 2003 (£m)
Within Between 1 Between 3 After  
1 year and 3 years and 5 years 5 years Total
Loans and other borrowings 
(including overdrafts) 208.4 525.0 347.2 3,887.5 4,968.1
Finance leases 0.1 0.2 0.6 16.6 17.5
Operating leases 10.9 16.0 5.8 17.8 50.5
Power purchase commitments 1,292.8 1,701.4 1,154.2 3,330.5 7,478.9
Capital commitments 99.3 5.2 2.8 20.1 127.4
Other ﬁrm commitments 53.1 95.9 88.7 29.4 267.1
Total contractual obligations 
at 31 March 2003 1,664.6 2,343.7 1,599.3 7,301.9 12,909.5
Within Between 1 Between 3 After  
1 year and 3 years and 5 years 5 years T otal
Prices actively quoted 14.3 57.0 35.5 13.2 120.0
Prices based on models and 
other valuation methods 93.4 76.6 59.0 (80.9) 148.1
Total 107.7133.694.5(67.7) 268.1
Table 37 – Fair value of energy related and treasury derivative contracts (£m)
PaciﬁCorp PPM UK Division T reasury T otal
Fair value of contracts outstanding at 1 April 2002 (355.3) (52.7) 62.5 31.3 (314.2)
Cumulative effect of accounting change (2.1) 230.7 - - 228.6
Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the year 70.1 (19.3) 4.3 (85.4) (30.3)
Changes in fair values attributable to changes in 
valuation techniques and assumptions 124.8 - (7.2) - 117.6
Other changes in fair value (192.8) 27.3 (19.0) 427.9 243.4
Foreign exchange movement 35.4 (12.4) - - 23.0
Fair value of contracts outstanding at 31 March 2003 (319.9) 173.6 40.6 373.8 268.1 market values as a result of applying
reﬁnements in valuation modelling
techniques.
Other changes in fair value reﬂect changes in
underlying economic fundamentals which
impact on the value of the derivative including
commodity price risk, which is inﬂuenced by
contract size, term, location and unique or
speciﬁc contract terms; movements in
foreign exchange rates which impact the
value of cross-currency swaps and
movements in interest rates which impact
on the value of interest rate swaps, forward-
rate agreements and cross-currency swaps.
Pension Arrangements
As required by the transitional arrangements
for FRS 17, we have disclosed, at 31 March
2003, a deﬁcit of £231 million net of
deferred tax for our UK deﬁned beneﬁt
pension schemes and a deﬁcit of £214
million ($338 million) net of deferred tax for
our US schemes. With the obligation to fund
other post-retirement beneﬁts in the US, we
have also reported a deﬁcit under FRS 17 at
31 March 2003 of £122 million ($193 million),
net of deferred tax. As an indication of the
volatility of these valuations, the movement
in asset market values in April 2003 would
have reduced the deﬁcit for the UK schemes
by 40%, and the US schemes by 5%.
FRS 17 prescribes detailed rules for the
calculation of scheme assets and liabilities
and indicates the net accounting surplus or
deﬁcit that would exist on an ongoing basis
using market conditions at the balance sheet
date. As noted above, ﬂuctuations in
investment conditions can result in
signiﬁcant volatility in funding levels.
Pension schemes are however, managed over
the long-term. Investment and liability
decisions are based on underlying actuarial
and economic circumstance with the intention
of making sure that the schemes have
sufﬁcient assets to meet liabilities as they fall
due, rather than meeting accounting
requirements.The company and the trustees
of the group’s schemes are currently reviewing
the investment strategy on the asset/liability
matching of the group’s schemes. 
The charge in the year for these pension
schemes has increased from £7 million to
£16 million in the UK, and from £8 million
($11 million) to £26 million ($41 million) in
the US. Contribution payments to the UK
schemes have recommenced. Achieving
regulatory recovery of these costs is a
priority and we have a focus on ensuring
inclusion of any increased expense in US
rate cases and the regulatory Price Control
Reviews in the UK.
Creditor Payment Policy and
Practice 
In the UK, the group’s current policy and
practice concerning the payment of its trade
creditors is to follow the Better Payment
Practice Code to which it is a signatory.
Copies of the Code may be obtained from
the Department of Trade and Industry or
from the website www.payontime.co.uk.
The group’s policy and practice is to settle
terms of payment when agreeing the terms
of the transaction, to include the terms in
contracts and to pay in accordance with its
contractual and legal obligations. The
group’s creditor days at 31 March 2003 for
its UK businesses and US business were 22
days and 40 days, respectively.
Going Concern
The directors conﬁrm that the company
remains a going concern on the basis of its
future cash ﬂow forecasts and has
sufﬁcient working capital for present
requirements.
Dividend Policy
As stated at the time of announcing the
proposed disposal of Southern Water, with
effect from the ﬁnancial year commencing
1 April 2003, ScottishPower intends to
target dividend cover, based on full year
earnings excluding goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, in the range 1.5 –
2.0 times and ideally towards the middle of
that range. ScottishPower will aim to grow
dividends broadly in line with earnings
thereafter. 
To implement this policy, in the absence of
unforeseen circumstances, ScottishPower
intends to pay an identical dividend for
each of the ﬁrst three quarters of each year,
with the dividend for the fourth quarter
representing the balance of the total
dividend for each year. In respect of each of
the quarters ending 30 June 2003, 30
September 2003 and 31 December 2003,
ScottishPower aims to declare a dividend of
4.75 pence per share.
Accounting Developments
The UK Accounting Standards Board (“ASB”)
did not issue any new standards during the
year ended 31 March 2003. FRS 17
‘Retirement beneﬁts’, issued in November
2000, requires certain disclosures relating to
pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁts
which have been included in this year’s
Accounts. In November 2002, the ASB
issued an amendment standard to defer the
mandatory application of the measurement
rules within FRS 17 until 2005/06. Had the
measurement rules within FRS 17 been
applied during the ﬁnancial year 2002/03,
the group’s operating proﬁt would have
increased by £5 million, ﬁnance costs would
have reduced by £31 million and proﬁt
before tax would have increased by £36
million. Net assets and reserves at 31 March
2003 would have been reduced by £479
million.
In January 2003, the ASB issued a non-
mandatory Statement on the Operating and
Financial Review. The group has complied
with the principles set out in this statement
as a matter of best practice.
The ASB issued a number of exposure drafts
during the past year. Most of those exposure
drafts have been issued simultaneously with
exposure drafts issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) on the
same topics. This is in line with the ASB’s
objective to highlight new international
proposals for UK companies and to facilitate
a smooth convergence of UK and
international standards. In June 2002, the
European Union (“EU”) adopted its
Regulation which requires that the group
accounts of listed companies in the EU
should, from 2005/06, be drawn up on the
basis of adopted International Accounting
Standards (“IAS”). IAS continue to evolve
and, at present, it is not possible to
determine precisely what impact the new
accounting regime will have on the group’s
reported results. However, it is likely that the
proposals would, if implemented, have a
material effect on how UK companies report
their ﬁnancial results. In particular, a greater
degree of volatility in reported proﬁts is likely
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
49 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
50
Financial Review
continued
to be one consequence of the proposed
rules, especially in relation to accounting for
ﬁnancial instruments, many of which are
likely to be marked to market value at each
balance sheet date, irrespective of the fact
that they may be held for commercial risk
mitigation purposes or to achieve a
balanced energy position. The IASB’s project
on reporting ﬁnancial performance is in its
early stages of development but has the
potential to alter radically the way in which
UK listed companies present their ﬁnancial
results. The group continues to monitor the
output of the relevant accounting regulatory
bodies in the UK, the US and internationally.
The Urgent Issues Task Force committee of
the ASB issued a number of accounting
pronouncements during the year. These
pronouncements had no material impact on
the group’s results and ﬁnancial position.
The group’s results are also presented in
accordance with US GAAP . The group’s
results under US GAAP have been impacted
materially by the implementation of revised
guidance relating to FAS 133. This guidance,
issued by the DIG, comprised Revised Issue
C15 ‘Normal Purchase and Normal Sales
Exception for Certain Option-Type Contracts
and Forward Contracts in Electricity’ and
Issue C16 ‘Applying the Normal Purchases
and Normal Sales Exception to Contracts
that Combine a Forward Contract and
Purchased Option Contract’. The cumulative
adjustment to proﬁt under US GAAP on
adoption of this guidance was an increase to
proﬁt of £141.1 million, net of tax. On 1 April
2002 the group also implemented FAS 142
‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’. This
standard prohibits the amortisation of
goodwill and requires that goodwill be tested
annually for impairment and in interim
periods if certain events occur which
indicate that the carrying value of the
goodwill may be impaired. The group
performed its annual goodwill impairment
review as of 1 October 2002 and
determined that goodwill recognised under
US GAAP is not impaired. During the year
the group implemented the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
Interpretation 45 (“FIN 45”) ‘Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others: an Interpretation of
FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and
rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34’.
The adoption of FIN 45 did not have a
material effect on the group’s results or
ﬁnancial position under US GAAP . The
group’s guarantees, as deﬁned in FIN 45, are
disclosed in Note 35 to the Accounts. FAS
146 ‘Accounting for Costs Associated with
Exit or Disposal Activities’ applies to exit or
disposal activities initiated after 31
December 2002 and did not have a material
effect on the group’s results or ﬁnancial
position under US GAAP . The FASB issued
FAS 148 ‘Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation – Transition and Disclosure’
which provides alternative methods of
transition for a change to the fair value
based method of accounting for stock-based
employee compensation. The group has
adopted the disclosure requirements of this
standard and these are set out in Note 35 to
the Accounts. In June 2002, the Emerging
Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the FASB
reached a partial consensus on Issue No.
02-3 ‘Accounting for Contracts Involved in
Energy Trading and Risk Management
Activities’. The partial consensus requires all
mark-to-market gains and losses arising
from energy trading activities (whether
realised or unrealised) accounted for under
EITF Issue No. 98-10 ‘Accounting for
Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and
Risk Management Activities’ be presented
on a net basis in the income statement and
that the gross transaction volume be
disclosed for those energy trading contracts
that are physically settled. EITF Issue No. 02-
3did not have a material effect on the
group’s results or ﬁnancial position under
US GAAP . The group adopted FAS 143
‘Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations’ on 1 April 2003. The group
estimates that the cumulative post-tax effect
of adopting FAS 143 will increase net
income under US GAAP by £1.7 million, 
which will be recorded primarily as a US net
regulatory liability if PaciﬁCorp receives
regulatory approval. The group adopted FAS
145 ‘Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4,
44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 13 and Technical Corrections’ on 1 April
2003. The adoption of this standard had no
impact on the group’s results and ﬁnancial
position under US GAAP . FAS 149
‘Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities’ amends
and clariﬁes ﬁnancial reporting for derivative
instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts
and for hedging activities and is effective for
contracts entered into or modiﬁed after 30
June 2003. The group is currently evaluating
the effect that FAS 149 will have on its
results and ﬁnancial position under US
GAAP . In January 2003 the FASB issued FIN
46 ‘Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities’ which requires existing
unconsolidated variable interest entities to
be consolidated by their primary
beneﬁciaries in certain circumstances. FIN
46 applies immediately to variable interest
entities created after 31 January 2003 and
applies to accounting periods beginning
after 15 June 2003 in respect of variable
interest entities created before 1 February
2003. The adoption of this interpretation is
not expected to have a material impact on
the group’s results and ﬁnancial position
under US GAAP .
Critical Accounting Policies – UK
GAAP
The group Accounts are prepared in
accordance with UK GAAP . This requires the
directors to adopt those accounting policies
which are most appropriate for the purpose
of the Accounts giving a true and fair view.
The group’s material accounting policies are
set out in full on pages 70 to 73. In preparing
the Accounts in conformity with UK GAAP , the
directors are required to make estimates and
assumptions that impact on the reported
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and
liabilities. Actual results may differ from
these estimates. Certain of the group’s
accounting policies have been identiﬁed as
critical accounting policies by considering
which policies involve particularly complex
or subjective decisions or assessments and
these are discussed below. The discussion
below should be read in conjunction with
the full statement of Accounting Policies.
The critical accounting policies have been
discussed with the group’s senior
management and the Audit Committee.
UK GAAP – Turnover
Income from the sale of energy includes an
estimate of the number and value of units
supplied to customers between the most
recent measurement and the year-end. This
is estimated based on the energy delivered
each month compared to the amounts billed
to customers. Estimates of unbilled units
and debt are reviewed regularly to ensure
that income is recognised only where there
is sufﬁcient reliability of the estimates. ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
51
UK GAAP – Provision for Doubtful Debts
The group estimates its provision for
doubtful debts relating to trade debtors by a
combination of two methods. Firstly, speciﬁc
amounts are evaluated where information is
available that a customer may be unable to
meet its ﬁnancial obligations. In these
circumstances, assessment is made based
on available information to record a speciﬁc
provision against the amount receivable
from that customer to adjust the carrying
value of the debtor to the amount expected
to be collected. In addition, a provision for
doubtful debts within the portfolio of other
debtors is made using historical experience
and ageing analysis to estimate the provision
required to reduce the carrying value of
trade debtors to their estimated recoverable
amounts. This process involves the use of
assumptions and estimates which may differ
from actual experience. Management of debt
recovery is a key priority for the group and
the estimates of provisions for doubtful
debts are reviewed regularly. 
UK GAAP – Depreciation, Amortisation and
Impairment
Tangible ﬁxed assets, other than land, are
generally depreciated on the straight line
method over their estimated operational
lives. Operational lives are estimated based
on a number of factors including the
expected usage of the asset, expected
physical deterioration and technological
obsolescence. Goodwill on acquisitions prior
to 31 March 1998 was written off to reserves.
Goodwill on subsequent acquisitions is
amortised on a straight line basis over its
estimated useful economic life. The
estimated useful economic life of the goodwill
on acquisition of PaciﬁCorp is 20 years. This
is based on an assessment of the long-term
nature of PaciﬁCorp’s electricity business
and the potential impact of change to the
regulatory regime for utility companies in
the US. In certain circumstances, accounting
standards require tangible ﬁxed assets and
goodwill to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for impairment is conducted,
the recoverable amount is assessed by
reference to the net present value of the
expected future cash ﬂows of the relevant
Income Generating Unit (“IGU”), or disposal
value if higher. The discount rate applied is
based on the group’s weighted average cost
of capital with appropriate adjustments for
the risks associated with the IGU. Estimates of
cash ﬂows are consistent with management’s
plans and forecasts. Estimation of future
cash ﬂows involves a signiﬁcant degree of
judgement.
UK GAAP – US Regulatory Assets
US regulatory assets are only recognised
where they comprise rights or other beneﬁts
which have arisen as a result of past
transactions or events which have created
an obligation to transfer economic beneﬁts
to a third party. The interpretation of these
principles requires assessment of regulatory
events to determine when an asset should
be recognised. The application of this policy
has generally led to US regulatory assets
only being recognised when reﬂected in
customers’ bills. 
UK GAAP – Environmental Provisions
Provision is made for liabilities relating to
environmental obligations when the related
environmental disturbance occurs, based on
the net present value of estimated future
costs. Estimates of environmental liabilities
are principally based on reports prepared by
external consultants. The ultimate cost of
environmental disturbance is uncertain and
there may be variances from these cost
estimates, which could affect future results.
At 31 March 2003, the group had provided
£85.2 million for environmental obligations.
UK GAAP – Decommissioning and Mine
Reclamation Provisions
Provision is made for the decommissioning
of major capital assets where the costs are
incurred at the end of the lives of the assets.
Similarly, closure and reclamation costs are
a normal consequence of mining with the
majority of the expenditure incurred at the end
of the life of the mine. Although the ultimate
cost to be incurred is uncertain, estimates
have been made of the respective costs based
on local conditions and requirements. At 31
March 2003, the group had provided £83.3
million for decommissioning costs and
£72.3 million for mine reclamation costs.
UK GAAP – Tax
The group’s tax charge is based on the
proﬁts for the year and tax rates in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an
assessment to be made of the potential tax
treatment of certain items which will only be
resolved once ﬁnally agreed with the relevant
tax authorities. In particular, the tax returns
of the group’s US businesses are examined
by the Internal Revenue Service and state
agencies on a several year lag. Assessment
of the likely outcome of the examinations is
based upon historical experience and the
current status of examination issues.
UK GAAP – Pensions and Other Post-
Retirement Beneﬁts
The group operates a number of deﬁned
beneﬁt schemes for its employees. In
addition, other post-retirement beneﬁts are
provided to employees within the group’s
US businesses. The group accounts for these
arrangements under UK GAAP in
accordance with Statement of Standard
Accounting Practice (“SSAP”) No. 24
‘Accounting for pension costs’. The impact
on the group's Accounts had the
measurement rules of FRS 17 ‘Retirement
beneﬁts' been implemented is summarised
in ‘Accounting Developments’ on page 49.
The expense and balance sheet items relating
to the group’s accounting for pension
schemes under SSAP 24 are based on
actuarial valuations. Inherent in these
valuations are key assumptions, including
discount rates, earnings increases and
pension increases in payment. These actuarial
assumptions are reviewed periodically and
modiﬁed as appropriate. The effect of
modiﬁcations is generally amortised over
future periods. The assumptions adopted
are based on prior experience, market
conditions and the advice of plan actuaries. 
Where, as in 2002/03, there are signiﬁcant
market changes in the interim period
between formal actuarial valuations, the effect
of such changes is recognised in calculating
pension costs. Where, as in 2001/02, the
impact of amortisation of pension surpluses
would imply a negative pension charge in
respect of a scheme, the costs relating to
that scheme is set to a minimum of £nil.
The group chooses a discount rate for each
scheme which reﬂects yields on high-quality
ﬁxed-income investments, which may be
increased for SSAP 24 purposes to allow for
higher returns expected over the longer-term
from the schemes’ equity holdings. The
pension liability and future pension expense
both increase as the discount rate is reduced. 
If the SSAP 24 expense for the year ended
31 March 2003 had been based on a
discount rate 0.5% p.a. higher or lower than
those actually used, the expense would have ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
52
Financial Review
continued
Table 38 – Discount rates
Discount rate- Discount rate-
Pension fund UK GAAP US GAAP
ScottishPower 6.0% 5.4%
Manweb 6.8%* 5.4%
PaciﬁCorp 7.5% 6.75%
* 4.8% post-retiral
reduced or increased, respectively, by £10.6
million in respect of the group’s UK pension
schemes and £4.4 million in respect of the
group’s US pension schemes.
The discount rates used for the purposes of
UK GAAP for the group’s principal pension
schemes are set out in Table 38.
UK GAAP – Derivative Financial
Instruments
The group uses derivative instruments in the
normal course of business to offset
ﬂuctuations in earnings, cash ﬂows and
equity associated with movements in
exchange rates, interest rates and
commodity prices. Derivative ﬁnancial
instruments entered into for hedging
purposes are recognised in the group’s
Accounts when the hedged item is
recognised. Certain derivatives may therefore
be included at cost in the group’s balance
sheet. This amount may be signiﬁcantly
different from the market value of the
derivative. In limited circumstances the
group holds derivative ﬁnancial instruments
for trading purposes. These derivatives are
marked to market and unrealised gains and
losses are recognised in the group’s proﬁt
and loss account. The net unrealised gains
on ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held for
trading at 31 March 2003 was £0.4 million.
Critical Accounting Policies – US
GAAP
In addition to preparing the group Accounts
in accordance with UK GAAP , the directors
are also required to prepare a reconciliation
of the group’s proﬁt or loss and
shareholders’ funds between UK GAAP and
US GAAP . The adjustments required to
reconcile the group’s proﬁt or loss and
shareholders’ funds from UK GAAP to US
GAAP are explained in Note 35 to the
Accounts. Certain of the group’s US GAAP
accounting policies have been identiﬁed as
critical US GAAP accounting policies and
these are discussed below. The discussion
below should be read in conjunction with
the full discussion of the differences
between the group’s UK and US GAAP
accounting policies set out in Note 35.
US GAAP – US Regulatory Assets
The group prepares its US GAAP ﬁnancial
information in accordance with FAS 71
‘Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types
of Regulation’ in respect of its regulated US
business, PaciﬁCorp. 
In order to apply FAS 71, certain conditions
must be satisﬁed, including the following: an
independent regulator must set rates; the
regulator must set the rates to cover the
speciﬁc costs of delivering service; and the
service territory must lack competitive
pressures to reduce rates below the rates set
by the regulator. FAS 71 requires the group to
reﬂect the impact of regulatory decisions and
requires that certain costs be deferred on the
balance sheet under US GAAP until matching
revenue can be recognised. FAS 71 provides
that regulatory assets may be capitalised,
under US GAAP , if it is probable that future
revenues, in an amount at least equal to the
capitalised costs, will result from the inclusion
of that cost in allowable costs for rate-making
purposes. In addition the rate actions should
permit recovery of the speciﬁc previously
incurred costs rate rather than to provide for
expected levels of similar future costs. An
entity applying FAS 71 does not need
absolute assurance prior to capitalising a cost,
only reasonable assurance. Based on the
group’s US regulatory net asset balance
under US GAAP at 31 March 2003, if the
group stopped applying FAS 71 to its
remaining regulated US operations, it would
have recorded an extraordinary loss after tax,
of £580.8 million under US GAAP . PaciﬁCorp
intends to seek recovery of all of its prudent
costs, including stranded costs, in the event of
deregulation. However, due to the current lack
of deﬁnitive legislation, it is not possible to
predict whether PaciﬁCorp will be successful.
Because of potential regulatory and/or
legislative actions in the various states in
which PaciﬁCorp operates, the group may
have regulatory asset write offs and charges
for impairment of regulatory assets, under US
GAAP , in future periods. Such impairment
reviews would involve estimates of future cash
flows including estimated future prices, cash
costs of operations, sales and load growth
forecasts and the nature of any legislative or
regulatory cost recovery mechanism.
US GAAP – Derivative Financial Instruments
The group accounts for its derivative
ﬁnancial instruments under US GAAP in
compliance with FAS 133. Certain of the
group’s derivatives are treated as normal
purchases and normal sales and are
therefore excluded from the requirements of
FAS 133. Derivatives falling within the scope
of FAS 133 are required to be recorded in
the balance sheet under US GAAP at fair
value. Changes in the fair values of
derivatives that are not designated as hedges
are adjusted through earnings under US
GAAP with the exception of long-term energy
contracts that were in existence on 1 April
2001 and are included in PaciﬁCorp’s rate-
making base. For these long-term energy
contracts PaciﬁCorp received regulatory
accounting orders to adjust the fair value
through regulatory assets or liabilities,
reversing recorded amounts as the contracts
settle. For derivatives designated as effective
cash ﬂow hedges, the changes in fair values
are recognised under US GAAP in
accumulated other comprehensive income
until the hedged items are recognised in
earnings. For derivatives designated as
effective fair value hedges, the changes in
fair values are recognised under US GAAP in
the income statement, offset to the extent
that they are effective, by fair value
movements on the designated risk of the
item being hedged. The group’s future
results under US GAAP could be impacted
by changes in market conditions to the
extent that changes in contract values are
not offset by regulatory or hedge accounting.
US GAAP – Pensions and Other Post-
Retirement Beneﬁts
The group accounts for its pension schemes
under US GAAP in accordance with FAS 87
‘Employers’ Accounting for Pensions’. Under
FAS 87, the group’s pension schemes
generally had assets with a fair value at 31
March 2003 that was less than the
accumulated beneﬁt obligation under the
schemes at the same date, primarily due to
declines in equity markets. As a result, at 31
March 2003 the group recognised a ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts
|
53
requires recognition and disclosure of
certain guarantees. To the extent they are not
required to be recognised, guarantees are
regarded as off balance sheet arrangements
under US GAAP . Full details of the
guarantees required to be disclosed under
FIN 45, principally relating to disposal of
certain of the group’s former operations, are
set out in Note 35 to the Accounts. The
directors believe that it is extremely unlikely
that these guarantees will give rise to a
material ﬁnancial exposure for the group.
UK GAAP to US GAAP Reconciliation
The consolidated Accounts of the group are
prepared in accordance with UK GAAP
which differ in signiﬁcant respects from US
GAAP . Reconciliations of proﬁt/(loss) and
equity shareholders’ funds between UK
GAAP and US GAAP are set out in Note 35 to
the Accounts. Under US GAAP , the proﬁt for
the year ended 31 March 2003 was £648
million, before crediting a cumulative
adjustment for the effect of implementing
DIG guidance Revised C15 and C16, net of
tax, of £141 million, compared to a loss of
£825 million in the previous year after
charging an extraordinary item, net of tax, of
£8 million and before charging a cumulative
adjustment for the effect of implementing
FAS 133, net of tax, of £62 million. Earnings
per share under US GAAP , before the
cumulative adjustment for Revised C15 and
C16, were 35.16 pence per share compared
to a loss, before the cumulative adjustment
for FAS 133, of 44.91 pence per share in
2001/02. Earnings per share under US
GAAP were 42.81 pence per share
compared to a loss per share for the year
ended 31 March 2002 of 48.26 pence. In
accordance with US GAAP , earnings/(loss)
per share are stated based on US GAAP
minimum pension liability under US GAAP
of £717.4 million, of which £569.0 million
was charged to accumulated other
comprehensive income and £148.4 million
was recognised as a US regulatory asset. If a
discount rate had been used for
accumulated beneﬁt obligation purposes
which was 0.5% p.a. higher than that
actually used, the impact would have been
to reduce the minimum pension liability by
£375.7 million for the UK schemes and
£24.1 million for the US schemes. The
discount rates used for the purposes of US
GAAP for the group’s principal pension
schemes are set out in Table 38.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
The group has not entered into any
transactions or arrangements which have
given rise to off balance sheet obligations
other than in respect of the following. The
group has entered into various operating
leases. In accordance with UK GAAP , future
payments under these leases, amounting to
£50.5 million at 31 March 2003, are not
recognised as liabilities in the group’s
balance sheet. The group has entered into
various energy-related and treasury
derivative contracts, primarily for hedging
purposes. In accordance with UK GAAP , the
value of derivatives held for hedging
purposes are only recognised when the
hedged item is recognised. This contrasts
with US GAAP which requires that
derivatives, as deﬁned in the relevant US
accounting standards, are reﬂected as assets
or liabilities at their market values at the
balance sheet date. An analysis of the
group’s derivatives, as deﬁned under US
GAAP , is set out in ‘Fair Value of Derivative
Contracts’ above. As discussed in
‘Accounting Developments’ above, FIN 45
earnings, without adjustments for the impact
of the UK GAAP exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation, as such additional
measures of underlying performance are not
permitted under US GAAP . The inclusion of
UK GAAP exceptional items in the
determination of earnings per share in
accordance with US GAAP decreased
earnings by £1,039 million or 56.53 pence
per share in 2001/02. The inclusion of
goodwill amortisation decreased earnings by
£173 million or 9.38 pence per share in
2001/02. This additional information has
been provided to aid investors’ comparison
between the results reported under US and
UK GAAP . Equity shareholders’ funds under
US GAAP amounted to £5,480 million at 31
March 2003 compared to £5,850 million at
31 March 2002. 
Table 39 details the impact of UK GAAP
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation
on the reported results under US GAAP for
2002/03 and 2001/02.
Summary
We have delivered a good set of ﬁnancial
results with earnings per share increased
from a loss of 53.71 pence last year to
earnings of 26.17 pence. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, earnings
per share were up 29% on last year to 33.71
pence. Our increased proﬁt before tax
reﬂects improved business operational
performance and lower interest charges due
to our lower net debt position, which has
also contributed to a stronger balance sheet.
Table 39 – Impact of UK GAAP exceptional items and goodwill amortisation on US GAAP EPS
2002/03 2001/02
Effect on US Effect on US
GAAP EPS GAAP EPS
£m (pence) £m (pence)
UK GAAP exceptional items 
UK GAAP – continuing operations –– (26.0) (1.41)
UK GAAP – discontinued operations –– (1,292.1) (70.31)
UK/US GAAP adjustment for UK GAAP exceptional items –– 279.1 15.19
Effect on US GAAP of UK GAAP exceptional items –– (1,039.0) (56.53)
Goodwill amortisation
UK GAAP (139.0) (7.54) (149.0) (8.10)
UK/US GAAP adjustment for goodwill amortisation 139.0 7.54 (23.5) (1.28)
Effect on US GAAP of goodwill amortisation –– (172.5) (9.38)
David Nish Finance Director
7 May 2003 Executive Directors
Ian Russell (50) is Chief Executive, having
been appointed to this position in April
2001. He joined ScottishPower as Finance
Director in April 1994 and became Deputy
Chief Executive in November 1998. He is a
member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Scotland, having trained with
Thomson McLintock, and has held senior
ﬁnance positions with Tomkins plc and
HSBC.
Charles Berry (51) is Executive Director UK,
responsible in this capacity for the UK
energy businesses of Generation, Energy
Management and Supply. He joined
ScottishPower in November 1991 and was
appointed to the Board in April 1999. He is
a member of the Board of the Energy
Saving Trust. Prior to joining ScottishPower,
he was Group Development Director of
Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie
Générale des Eaux, and prior to that held
management positions within subsidiaries
of Pilkington plc. He holds a BSc (First Class
Hons) in Electrical Engineering from the
University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree
in Management from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
David Nish (43) is Finance Director, having
joined ScottishPower in September 1997 as
Deputy Finance Director and then being
appointed to the Board as Finance Director
in December 1999. In this capacity, he also
has responsibility at Board level for
performance management and information
technology. He is a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and
its Qualiﬁcations Board, a member of the
Scottish Council of the CBI and a non-
executive director of The Royal Scottish
National Orchestra. Prior to joining
ScottishPower, he was a partner with Price
Waterhouse. He has a BAcc from the
University of Glasgow.
Chairman
Charles Miller Smith (63) joined the Board
as Deputy Chairman in August 1999 and
was appointed Chairman in April 2000.
Following a career with Unilever for some 30
years, during the last ﬁve of which he was
Director of Finance and latterly of the Food
Executive, he was appointed Chief Executive
of ICI in 1995 and then served as Chairman
from 1999 to 2001. He is an international
adviser to Goldman Sachs, a member of the
Board of the Indian company, ICICI One
Source plc, and a member of the Ministry of
Defence Management Board. He is
currently serving on the committee chaired
by Professor Laura Tyson of London
Business School which is considering, in the
light of the recommendations of the Higgs
Review, ways of broadening the pool of non-
executive directors. He is also a Governor of
the Henley Management College.
Non-Executive Directors
Euan Baird (65) joined the Board in January
2001. He served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of Schlumberger Limited
from 1986 to February 2003. He is now
non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc
and a non-executive director of Société
Générale and Areva. He is a trustee of
Tocqueville Alexis Trust and Carnegie
Institution of Washington, and a member of
the Comité National de Ia Science in France
and the Prime Minister’s Council of Science
and Technology in the UK. His current term
of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM in 2004.
Mair Barnes (58) joined the Board in April
1998. She is a non-executive director of
GWR Group plc, Patientline plc and the
South African company, Woolworths
Holdings Limited. She is a member of the
Department of Trade and Industry’s Strategy
Board and Services Group Board. She was
previously Managing Director of Woolworths
plc in the UK until 1994, and subsequently
became Chairman of Vantios plc until 1998.
She was also formerly a non-executive
director of Abbey National plc, Littlewoods
plc and George Wimpey plc. Her current
term of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM in 2004.
Philip Carroll (65) joined the Board in
January 2002. He was formerly Chairman
and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Fluor
Corporation, a California-based international
engineering, construction and services
company, until his retirement in February
2002. Previously, he was with Shell Oil for
over 35 years, serving as President and
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer from 1993 to 1998.
He is an honorary life member of the Board
of the American Petroleum Institute and
holds various posts with the James A Baker
III Institute for Public Policy of Rice
University and the University of Houston. His
current term of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM
in 2005.
Sir Peter Gregson GCB (66) joined the
Board in December 1996 and is the
company’s senior independent non-
executive director and Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. He was formerly
a career civil servant, having served latterly
as Permanent Secretary of the Department
of Energy from 1985 to 1989 and
Permanent Secretary of the Department of
Trade and Industry until his retirement in
June 1996. He was previously Deputy
Chairman of the Board of Companions of
the Chartered Institute of Management and
a non-executive director of Woolwich plc. His
current term of ofﬁce has been extended by
up to one year, such that it will expire not
later than the AGM in 2004.
Nolan Karras (58) joined the Board in
November 1999. He continues as a non-
executive director of PaciﬁCorp, having
previously (until the merger in November
1999) served as Chairman of the PaciﬁCorp
Personnel Committee. He is President of
The Karras Company, Inc., and a Registered
Principal for Raymond James Financial
Services. He is Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of
Western Hay Company, Inc., and a non-
executive director of Beneﬁcial Life
Insurance Company. He is Chairman of the
Utah State Higher Education Board of
Regents and a member of the board of
Ogden-Weber Applied Technology College.
He also served as a member of the Utah
House of Representatives from 1981 to
1990, and as Speaker of the Utah House of
Representatives from 1989 to 1990. His
current term of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM
in 2006.
Ewen Macpherson (61) joined the Board in
September 1996 and is Chairman of the
Audit Committee. He had a long career with
3i Group plc, leading to his appointment as
Chief Executive from 1992 until his
retirement in 1997. He is Chairman of
Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology plc
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
54
Board of Directors & Executive Team and a non-executive director of Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust plc and Pantheon
International Participations plc. He is also
Chairman of the Trustees of
GlaxoSmithKline Pension Fund. Previous
appointments include non-executive
directorships of M&G Group plc, Booker plc
and The Law Debenture Corporation plc. He
will retire from the Board after the AGM in
2003.
Nick Rose (45) joined the Board in February
2003; he is the Audit Committee’s “ﬁnancial
expert” and will succeed Ewen Macpherson
as Chairman of the Committee later in the
year. He is Finance Director of Diageo plc,
having been appointed to this position in
July 1999. Previously he held senior ﬁnance
positions with GrandMet and was latterly
Finance Director of International Distillers &
Vintners in 1996 and then of United
Distillers & Vintners in 1997. He is also a
director of Moët Hennessy. His current term
of ofﬁce, subject to his election in 2003, will
expire at the AGM in 2006.
Executive Team
The Executive Team is constituted as a
committee of the Board and includes not
only the Executive Directors of the Board
but also the following key Executives and
Ofﬁcers from the group:
Julian Brown (53) was appointed Group
Director, Strategy in April 1997, having
joined ScottishPower in 1993. He began his
commercial career with Exxon Chemical in
Australia and subsequently spent seven
years with management consultants
McKinsey and Company. He holds a BSc
from the Australian National University and
a PhD in Chemistry from University College
London. With effect from 1 April 2003, he
left the Executive Team to assume a new
position within the group.
Dominic Fry (43) joined ScottishPower in
September 2000 as Group Director,
Corporate Communications. He is
responsible for investor and media relations,
communications with employees, corporate
social responsibility and management of the
group’s overall reputation. He has held
appointments as Communications Director
with J Sainsbury plc and Eurotunnel plc. He
chairs the Trading Board of the Glasgow
Science Centre and is a communications
adviser to the Royal Shakespeare Company
and Business in the Community. He was
educated at the Université Paul Valéry III in
Montpellier and the University of North
Carolina.
Terry Hudgens (48) was appointed Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of ScottishPower’s
competitive US energy business, PPM, in
May 2001 and joined the Executive Team in
December 2001. He joined PaciﬁCorp as
Senior Vice President of Power Supply in
April 2000, having previously spent 25 years
with Texaco, Inc. He was formerly President
of Texaco Natural Gas and served as
Texaco’s senior representative and elected
ofﬁcer in the Natural Gas Supply
Association. He has a bachelor’s degree in
civil engineering from the University of
Houston.
Judi Johansen (44) was appointed
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of
PaciﬁCorp in June 2001 and joined the
Executive Team in December 2001. She is
responsible for all of PaciﬁCorp’s operations.
She joined PaciﬁCorp as Executive Vice
President of Regulation and External Affairs
in December 2000, having held senior
positions with the Bonneville Power
Administration and Washington Water
Power. She is involved in several civic and
professional activities. She has a bachelor’s
degree in political science from Colorado
State University and a law degree from
Northwestern School of Law at Lewis &
Clark College in Portland, Oregon.
Ronnie Mercer (59) was appointed Group
Director, Infrastructure in April 2001 and is
responsible in this role for the UK wires
business. He is a member of the Board of
the Electricity Association. He joined the
ScottishPower Generation Business in 1994
and was appointed Generation Director in
1996 and then Managing Director of
Southern Water in 1998. Previous career
positions include Scottish Director and
Managing Director roles in British Steel. He
was educated at Paisley College of
Technology.
Andrew Mitchell (51) was appointed Group
Company Secretary in July 1993 and is
responsible in this role for corporate
governance and reporting, shareholder
services, compliance and group security. He
also serves as Chairman of the trustees of
the group’s UK pension schemes and as the
company’s e7 representative. Prior to
joining ScottishPower, he held a number of
company secretarial appointments, latterly
as Company Secretary of The Laird Group
plc and then Stakis plc, now part of the
Hilton Group. He is a graduate in law from
the University of Edinburgh (LLB Hons) and
the London School of Economics (LLM) and
is a member of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators.
Michael Pittman (50) was appointed Group
Director, Human Resources in November
2001. He has groupwide responsibility for
human resources, leading the focus on
talent management, one of the group’s
main strategic thrusts. He joined PaciﬁCorp
in December 1979 and was appointed to
the PaciﬁCorp Board in May 2000. He
chairs the PaciﬁCorp Foundation for
Learning Board and is involved in numerous
civic activities. He has held several positions
within PaciﬁCorp, including safety and
health, risk management and operations. He
holds an advanced degree in environmental
health from the University of Washington. 
James Stanley (48) was appointed Group
Director, Commercial and Legal in March
1996. He is responsible in this role for the
provision of all legal, commercial and
associated services throughout the group
and particularly the negotiation, structuring
and delivery of M&A projects such as the
sale of Southern Water plc. In his early
career he specialised in commercial
litigation in private practice. In 1986 he
moved to the Trafalgar House Group and
subsequently became both Commercial
Director of John Brown plc and General
Counsel to the Global Engineering Division
of the Group. He is a graduate in law from
Nottingham University and the College of
Law in Chester where he qualiﬁed as a
solicitor in 1980.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
55 Members of the Audit Committee
Ewen Macpherson, Chairman
Philip Carroll
Sir Peter Gregson
Nolan Karras
Nick Rose
Members of the Nomination Committee
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman
Mair Barnes
Sir Peter Gregson
Nolan Karras
lan Russell
Members of the Remuneration Committee
Sir Peter Gregson, Chairman
Euan Baird
Mair Barnes
Nolan Karras
Ewen Macpherson
Board & Executive Team changes
Allan Leighton resigned from the Board on
12 June 2002. Nick Rose was appointed to
the Board on 19 February 2003; in
accordance with the Articles of Association,
he will retire from ofﬁce at the Annual
General Meeting and, being eligible, offers
himself for election. In addition, Charles
Miller Smith, David Nish and Ewen
Macpherson retire by rotation at the Annual
General Meeting. Charles Miller Smith and
David Nish, being eligible, offer themselves
for re-election. Ewen Macpherson will retire
from the Board and accordingly does not
seek re-election. David Nish has a service
contract terminable by either party upon
one year’s notice.
Julian Brown served as a member of the
Executive Team throughout the year but
assumed a new position within the group
with effect from 1 April 2003.
ForUSreporting purposes the members of
the Executive Team are regarded as ofﬁcers
of the company.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
56
Board of Directors & Executive Team
continued Corporate governance statement
The company is committed to the highest
standards of corporate governance. This
statement, together with the Remuneration
Report of the Directors, set out on pages 61
to 68, describes the extent to which, in
respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31
March 2003, the company has been in
compliance with the principles of good
governance set out in Section 1 of the
Combined Code (as appended to the Listing
Rules of the UK Listing Authority) in the UK
and with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and
associated rules (to the extent they apply to
the company) in the US.
The company acknowledges the
consideration of the role and effectiveness of
non-executive directors contained in the
Higgs Report and the guidance for audit
committees contained in the Smith Report.
Arising from the Higgs Report, the company
will review its corporate governance policies
and practices, in due course, in the light of
any revisions made to the Combined Code.
Board of directors
There is a well-established division of
authority and responsibility at the most
senior level within the company through the
separation of the roles of Chairman and
Chief Executive. 
In addition to the Chairman, there are
currently three executive and seven non-
executive directors on the Board. All the
non-executive directors are considered by
the Board to be independent and Sir Peter
Gregson is the senior independent director.
The company has made provision for the
non-executive directors to meet annually
without the presence of the Chairman and
the Chief Executive; this practice has been
established for a number of years.
The non-executive directors are from a wide
range of backgrounds, and all directors have
the beneﬁt of induction and training tailored
to individual requirements following their
appointment to the Board. Their experience
allows them to exercise independent
judgement on the Board and their views
carry signiﬁcant weight in Board decisions.
They contribute to the company’s strategy
and policy formulation, in addition to
monitoring its performance and its
executive management. 
The non-executive directors are appointed for
a speciﬁed term of three years;
reappointment is not automatic, and each
non-executive director’s position is subject to
review prior to his or her expiry from ofﬁce. It
is company policy that non-executive directors
serve no more than two three-year terms
unless there are exceptional circumstances. In
the case of Sir Peter Gregson, it was felt
appropriate in the interests of orderly
succession planning to extend his term of
ofﬁce by up to one year. Directors are
elected at the ﬁrst annual general meeting
following their appointment and thereafter
are re-elected at least every three years. 
Board meetings are held on a regular basis,
twelve times a year, and otherwise as
required. Of the normal twelve meetings, six
are held at company locations in the UK
and US and the remaining six are
conducted by telephone conference. The
Board has a schedule of matters concerning
key aspects of the company’s activities
which are reserved to it for decision. The
Board exercises full control over strategy,
investment and capital expenditure. In
addition, individual executive directors have
speciﬁc responsibilities for such matters as
health, safety, environment and regulation.
The decisions reserved to the Board include
any changes to the company’s constitution
or share capital or to the group structure;
the adoption of business plans and budgets;
the approval of capital expenditure over
certain limits; and the adoption or variation
of major policies.
All directors have access to the Company
Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring
that all Board procedures are observed and,
through the Chairman, is responsible for all
corporate governance matters. Any director
wishing to do so, in furtherance of his or her
duties, may take independent professional
advice at the company’s expense.
During the year, the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators conducted
an independent evaluation of the
performance of the Board. The evaluation
looked at the operation of the Board,
including its corporate governance and
decision-making framework and the
operation and content of its meetings. The
evaluation process, on the basis of private
interviews with each of the directors, was
considered to have been a thorough
process; and its outcome, including speciﬁc
recommendations, was regarded as very
positive.
Table 40 shows the number of, and
individual attendance at, meetings of the
Board, as well as of the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees
during the year.
Board committees
The Board has three principal standing
committees: namely, the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees,
together with certain other committees. 
The current membership of each of the
principal committees is shown on page 56.
In addition, authority (as described below) is
delegated to the Executive Team. Details are
as follows:
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is chaired by
the Chairman of the Board with, as
members of the Committee, the Chief
Executive and three independent non-
executive directors. It has a remit to
consider and make recommendations to the
Board on all new appointments of directors,
having regard to the overall balance and
composition of the Board; to consider and
approve the remit and responsibilities of the
executive directors; and to review and advise
upon issues of succession planning and
organisational development. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by
Sir Peter Gregson and all members of the
Committee are independent non-executive
directors. It has a remit to consider and
make recommendations on Board
remuneration policy and, on behalf of the
Board, to determine speciﬁc remuneration
packages for each of the executive directors.
In discharging its remit, the Committee has
regard to the provisions of the Combined
Code and has as an objective the aim of
providing packages to attract, retain and
motivate executive directors of the quality
required; to judge the company’s position in
matters of remuneration policy and practice
relative to other companies; and to take into
account wider issues of pay-setting. It also
has responsibility for the company’s bonus
and incentive schemes. The Remuneration
Report of the Directors for 2002/03 is set
out on pages 61 to 68.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
57
Corporate Governance Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is chaired by Ewen
Macpherson and all members of the
Committee are independent non-executive
directors. Nick Rose has been identiﬁed as
the Committee’s “ﬁnancial expert” and,
following Ewen Macpherson’s retirement,
will become chairman of the Committee.
The Committee has written terms of
reference. Its principal role is to review:
• the effectiveness of the system of internal
control and consider reports from both
internal and external auditors on key risks
facing the group and controls over these risks
• the company’s quarterly ﬁnancial
statements, including accounting policies,
compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements, judgmental issues and the
ﬁndings of the external auditors
• the activities and effectiveness of the
internal audit function
• the relationship with the external auditors,
including the engagement of auditors, the
audit scope and approach, fees and
performance and provision of non-audit
services by the external auditors
• compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements
• litigation and claims affecting the group.
Meetings of the Committee are normally
attended by the Chief Executive, Finance
Director, Director of Internal Audit, Company
Secretary and representatives of the external
auditors. However the Committee also
meets in private session, at least once
annually, and otherwise as required, with the
external auditors, external counsel the
Director of Internal Audit and senior
management.
Other Committees
During the year, the company established a
Group Finance Committee and a Treasury
Committee. The Group Finance Committee,
comprising both executive and non-
executive directors, was created to review
the structure, financing, tax and treasury
affairs of the group and make
recommendations on these matters to the
Board. The Treasury Committee was
established to implement finance and
treasury operations within limits set by the
Board, including such matters as authorities
for the operation of bank accounts and the
approval of bond and note issues, loan
facilities and guarantees.
Executive Team
The Executive Team comprises the Chief
Executive and other executive directors,
together with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,
PaciﬁCorp; Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, PPM;
Group Director, Infrastructure; Group
Director, Commercial and Legal; Group
Director, Corporate Communications; Group
Director, Human Resources; Group Director,
Strategy; and the Group Company
Secretary. Operational control and
implementation of group strategy and policy
are responsibilities delegated by the Board
to the Chief Executive who is supported by
the Executive Team (and by divisional and
business boards) in the discharge of these
functions. Major issues and decisions are
reported to the Board. 
Relations with shareholders
The company's Investor Relations
department communicates with its
institutional investors through analysts'
brieﬁngs and extensive investor roadshows
in the UK, US and Europe. Transparency is
further promoted by timely stock exchange
announcements, formal meetings with
management and site visits. Broader
communication with shareholders takes
place via the Annual General Meeting, the
Annual Report & Accounts, and the
company website to which all material stock
exchange announcements are posted. All
Board members attend the AGM and they
are available to answer shareholder
questions.
The company website,
www.scottishpower.com, provides current
information on share prices, ﬁnancial results
and analysts’ presentations. Information
regarding the AGM, results and other events
are typically made available to shareholders
by webcast.
Internal control
The directors of ScottishPower have overall
responsibility for the system of internal
controls and for reviewing the effectiveness
of the system. The system of internal
control is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
58
Corporate Governance
continued
Table 40 – Board and Committee attendance during the year ended 31 March 2003
Charles Euan Mair Philip Sir Peter Nolan Ewen Nick Ian Charles David
Miller Smith Baird Barnes Carroll Gregson Karras Macpherson Rose
3
Russell Berry Nish
(N*, A
1
) (R) (N, R) (A) (N, R*, A) (N, R, A
2
) (R, A*) (A) (N)
Board 
(12 meetings) 12 8 11 11 11 12 12 1 12 12 10
Nomination Committee
(5 meetings) 5 4 5 5 5
Remuneration Committee
(4 meetings) 4 3 4 4 4
Audit Committee
(7 meetings) 7 77271
N – Nomination Committee
R – Remuneration Committee
A – Audit Committee
* Committee Chairman
1
Resigned from the Audit Committee in April 2003
2
Appointed to the Audit Committee in January 2003
3
Appointed February 2003  business objectives. In pursuing these
objectives, internal control can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Executive Team is responsible for
implementing the risk management
strategy; ensuring that an appropriate risk
management framework is operating
effectively across the company;
embedding a risk culture throughout the
group; and providing the Board and the
Audit Committee with a consolidated view
of the risk proﬁle of the company,
identifying any major exposures and
mitigating actions.
The risk management framework and
internal control system across the group,
which is subject to continuous development,
provides the basis on which the company
has complied with the Combined Code
provisions on internal control.
Control environment
The company is committed to ensuring that
a proper control environment is
maintained. There is a commitment to
competence and integrity and to the
communication of ethical values and
control consciousness to managers and
employees. Employees are required to
adhere to the company’s Code of Conduct
and Disciplinary Rules. Furthermore, in
compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
2002, the company has adopted a Code of
Ethics for the Chief Executive, Finance
Director and principal accounting ofﬁcers.
Human resources policies underpin that
commitment by a focus on enhancing job
skills and promoting high standards of
probity among staff. In addition, the
appropriate organisational structure has
been developed within which to control the
businesses and to delegate authority and
accountability, having regard to acceptable
levels of risk.
The company has developed a fraud policy
and implemented procedures to ensure that
all incidences of fraud are appropriately
investigated and reported.
A Disclosure Committee has been
established to ensure effective disclosure
controls are operating around the
production of key published ﬁnancial
statements and to provide assurance to the
Chief Executive and Finance Director that
they may sign their formal certiﬁcation to
the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“SEC”) in accordance with Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. 
Identiﬁcation and evaluation of risks and
control objectives
The company’s strategy is to follow an
appropriate risk policy, which effectively
manages exposures related to the
achievement of business objectives.
Each business identiﬁes and assesses the
key business risks associated with the
achievement of its strategic objectives. Any
key actions needed to further enhance the
control environment are identiﬁed along
with the person responsible for the
management of the speciﬁc risk. Each
month a detailed review of the key risks,
controls and action plans within each of the
businesses takes place and a Risk Report is
produced for review and challenge by the
board of each business. This monthly Risk
Report is a standing item on the agenda of
the business boards which operate
throughout the group. This is a key tool in
ensuring the active management of risk
across the organisation.
Business controls managers have been
appointed within each of the businesses to
help ensure that the risk management and
internal control system is consistently
adopted, updated and embedded into the
business processes.
The corporate centre also considers those
risks to the group’s strategic objectives that
may not be identiﬁed and managed at a
business level. 
The Board and Executive Team on a
monthly basis receive the group-wide Risk
Report together with supporting
documentation for review. This report
highlights the most signiﬁcant risks across
the group and the actions being taken to
mitigate them, and also identiﬁes the
individuals responsible for the
management of these risks. The
information being supplied to the Board
and Executive Team is continually being
developed to include quantitative measures
such as sensitivity analyses and Value-at-
Risk calculations for issues reported on in
the Group Energy Risk Report.
The use of a well-deﬁned risk management
methodology across all businesses allows a
consistent and coordinated approach to risk
reporting for review by the Board, which
also receives regular reports on these
matters from the Audit Committee, to
enable the directors to review the
effectiveness of the system of internal
control on a regular basis.
A key element and requirement of the risk
evaluation process is that a written
certiﬁcate is provided quarterly by all
members of the Executive Team, conﬁrming
that they have reviewed the effectiveness
during the year of the system of internal
control under their responsibility.
Energy management
A Group Energy Risk Committee (“GERC”)
has been established to assist the Executive
Team in ensuring that there is an appropriate
risk and control governance framework in
place over energy activities. The GERC meets
monthly and the key responsibility of this
group is to make suitable recommendations
to the Executive Team on energy-related risk
management issues. In addition, the Group
Energy Risk Director, with other members of
the GERC, continues to enhance business
processes and systems to ensure that all
risks pertaining to operating the trading and
energy businesses are understood,
quantiﬁed, managed and reported on a
consistent basis across the group.
The GERC also provides advice and
guidance to the businesses on interpretation
and execution of the Group Energy Risk Policy.
Monitoring and corrective action
The Executive Team reviews monthly the key
risks facing the group and the controls and
monitoring procedures for these. Operation
of the group’s control and monitoring
procedures is reviewed and tested by the
group’s internal audit function under the
supervision of the Director of Internal Audit,
reporting to the Finance Director and with
access to the Chairman of the Audit
Committee. Internal audit reports and
recommendations on the group’s
procedures are reviewed regularly by the
Audit Committee. As part of their external
audit responsibilities, the external auditors
also provide reports to the Audit Committee
on the operation of the group’s internal
ﬁnancial control procedures. The Audit
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
59 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
60
Corporate Governance
continued
Committee also receives regular reports on
the continued development, implementation
and evaluation of the risk management and
internal control system.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee and the ﬁrm of
external auditors have safeguards to avoid
the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity
and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the
implementation of a policy on the use of the
external auditor for non-audit-related
services. This policy has been revised
during the year to reﬂect the provisions of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and
subsequent SEC rules.
Where it is deemed that the work to be
undertaken is of a nature that is generally
considered reasonable to be completed by
the external auditors for sound commercial
and practical reasons, including
conﬁdentiality, the conduct of such work will
be permissible provided that it has been
pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include
the completion of regulatory audits,
provision of taxation and regulatory advice,
reporting to the SEC and the UK Listing
Authority and the completion of certain
ﬁnancial due diligence work. All these
services are also subject to a pre-deﬁned fee
limit. Any work performed in excess of this
limit must be approved by the Finance
Director and the Chairman of the Audit
Committee. Details of audit and non-audit
fees paid to the external auditors are
contained in Note 2 to the Group Proﬁt and
Loss Account on page 79.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and
procedures (Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002)
The Chief Executive and the Finance
Director have evaluated the effectiveness of
the group’s disclosure controls and
procedures within 90 days of the date of
this document. Based on this evaluation,
the Chief Executive and Finance Director
concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures are effective in all material
respects to ensure that material
information relating to the group would be
made known to them by others within the
group. 
There have been no signiﬁcant changes to
the group’s internal controls or in other
factors that could materially affect these
controls after the date of their evaluation.
Social, environmental and ethical risks and
opportunities
Information regarding the social,
environmental and ethical policies and
practices of the company can be found in
the separate Environmental and Social
Impact Report.
Political donations and expenditure
ScottishPower is a politically neutral
organisation but is required to comply with
the Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000. This legislation
deﬁnes political “donations” and
“expenditure” in wider terms than would be
commonly understood by these phrases.
The deﬁnitions include expenditure which
the Board believes it is in the interests of
the company to incur. The Act also requires
companies to obtain prior shareholder
approval of this expenditure; at the Annual
General Meeting in 2002, the company
obtained authorisation up to a maximum
amount of £100,000.
During the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March
2003, the company paid a total of £9,500
for activities which may be regarded as
falling within the terms of the Act. These
activities comprised the sponsorship of
briefings, receptions and fringe meetings at
party conferences. These occasions present
an important opportunity for the company
to represent its views on a non-partisan
basis to politicians from across the political
spectrum. The payments do not indicate
support, and are not intended to inﬂuence
support, for any particular political party. 
It should be noted that these activities do
not contravene the restrictions on political
contributions under the US Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, to which the
company is subject. Introduction
The following statement sets out how, for
the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2003,
the company has adopted the remuneration
principles set out in Part B of the Combined
Code and has taken account of the Directors’
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002
which came into effect on 1 August 2002. 
Consideration of remuneration
matters by the directors
The ScottishPower Board is responsible for
determining the remuneration policy for the
ScottishPower group. The Remuneration
Committee, with delegated authority from
the Board, determines the detail of
remuneration arrangements for the
Executive Team, including the executive
directors, and reviews proposals in respect
of other senior executives. The relationship
between the Board and the Committee is
based on formal Terms of Reference, which
are regularly reviewed to ensure that they
reﬂect best practice.
The Remuneration Committee consists
solely of independent non-executive
directors. Its members are Sir Peter Gregson
(Chairman), Euan Baird, Mair Barnes, Nolan
Karras and Ewen Macpherson. These
members have no personal ﬁnancial
interest, other than as shareholders, in the
matters considered by the Committee.
Details of the payments made to all non-
executive directors are set out in Table 41
(page 65). 
The Chairman of the company, Charles
Miller Smith, and the Chief Executive, Ian
Russell, are invited to attend meetings and
may provide guidance on the impact of
remuneration policy and advise, as
appropriate, on the performance of senior
executives. They are not present during any
discussion of their own remuneration. The
Terms of Reference contain conﬂict of
interest provisions to ensure that no
directors are involved in any decision
relating to their own remuneration.
The Committee is able to draw on advice
from independent remuneration consultants
and internal expertise. During the year, the
Committee appointed Towers, Perrin, Forster
& Crosby, Inc., (“Towers Perrin”) as
remuneration consultant and independent
adviser following a competitive tendering
process. Towers Perrin also provides
remuneration and other human resources
consultancy services directly to some
ScottishPower companies within parameters
established by the Committee. Company
executives whom the Committee may consult
include the Group Company Secretary,
Andrew Mitchell (who acts as Secretary to
the Committee), the Group Director, Human
Resources, Michael Pittman, the Director
Group Talent Management and Reward,
Sandy Begbie, and the Head of Group
Reward, Nigel Johnson. The Terms of
Reference empower the Committee to avail
itself of external legal and professional
advice at the expense of the company.
During the year, the Board accepted all of
the recommendations from the Committee
without signiﬁcant amendment.
Statement of remuneration policy
Philosophy and policy
ScottishPower seeks to ensure that
remuneration and incentive schemes are in
line with best practice, provide a strong link
to individual and company performance
and promote a community of interest
between employees and shareholders. 
Rewards for executives and directors are
designed to attract and retain individuals of
high quality, who have the requisite skills
and are incentivised to achieve levels of
performance which exceed that of
competitor companies. As such,
remuneration packages must be market-
competitive and capable of rewarding
exceptional performance. All senior
management remuneration packages are
set according to a mid-market position, with
packages above the mid-market level
provided only where supported by
demonstrably superior personal
performance. Remuneration packages will
be developed to reﬂect the prevailing market
practice in each business environment.
Annual bonus arrangements have been
structured so that stretching targets are
based on corporate, business unit and
individual performance.
The company operates a Personal
Shareholding Policy, requiring executives
and senior managers to build-up and retain
a shareholding in the company in
proportion to their annual salaries. These
proportions are three times base salary for
the Chief Executive and two times base
salary for other executive directors. The
Committee considers this policy to be in line
with evolving best practice and in the
interests of shareholders.
In setting remuneration levels, the
Committee commissions an independent
evaluation of the roles of the Executive
Team, and also of the next levels of
management within the company. The
Committee takes independent advice from
Towers Perrin on market-level remuneration,
based on comparisons with utility and other
companies of similar size and complexity
with which the company competes for
executive talent. 
The Committee recognises the importance
of linking rewards to business and
personal performance and believes that
the arrangements detailed below provide
an appropriate focus on performance and
balance between short- and long-term
incentives. At target level, base salary is
expected to deliver around 45% of total
reward excluding beneﬁts and pension.
The annual bonus plan and long-term
incentive arrangements are expected to
provide 55% of total reward for the
achievement of stretching target level
business and personal performance
objectives. Higher proportions of
performance based reward are available
for the delivery of exceptional personal
and business performance resulting in
enhanced shareholder value. 
The Committee constantly monitors
market practice in order to remain
competitive and to reﬂect good corporate
governance practice. At this time, no
substantial changes to the company’s
policies with regard to directors’
remuneration are envisaged over the next
year. However, the Committee may develop
policy and, should it determine any
changes to be appropriate, will report such
changes to shareholders through
established channels of consultation and
reporting. For example, the Committee and
the Board will consider carefully the
recommendations of the Higgs Report and
may amend policy accordingly.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
61
Remuneration Report of the Directors Elements of the remuneration
package
Base salaries
The Committee sets base salaries for the
Executive Team by reference to individual
performance through a formal appraisal
system applied to all management
employees, and to external market data,
reﬂecting similar roles in comparable
companies. Account is also taken of salary
increases and employment conditions
across the company.
Annual performance-related bonus
Executive directors and senior management
participate in the company’s performance-
related annual bonus plans. Any payments
to UK executives under the schemes are
non-pensionable and are determined by the
Committee following assessment against
predetermined targets.
The 2002/03 plan for executive directors
provided a maximum bonus opportunity of
75% of salary. For the Chief Executive, half is
determined by the company’s ﬁnancial
performance, with the balance linked to the
achievement of key strategic objectives, both
short-term and long-term. For the Finance
Director and the Executive Director UK, one-
third is determined by the company’s
ﬁnancial performance, one-third is based on
the performance of the relevant function/
division and one-third on the achievement
of key strategic objectives, both short-term
and long-term. Objectives are set annually
by the Board and performance against
these is reviewed on a six-monthly basis.
The Committee has approved the bonus
plan for 2003/04 and no signiﬁcant
changes have been made.
Exceptionally, in 2002/03 an interim
payment of up to 20% of salary was made
to executive directors at the half year in
recognition of the substantial improvement
in the company’s performance during the
ﬁrst two quarters. This interim payment was
outside of normal policy and it is not
anticipated that this practice will be
repeated. The aggregate of the interim and
ﬁnal payments was kept within the normal
maximum of 75% of salary. 
Executive share plans
The company operates a performance share
plan, known as the Long Term Incentive
Plan (“LTIP”), and an Executive Share Option
Plan 2001 (“ExSOP”) for executive directors
and other senior managers. 
Under the LTIP, awards to acquire shares in
ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost are
made to the participants up to a maximum
value equal to 75% of base salary. The
award will vest only if the Committee is
satisﬁed that there has been an underlying
improvement in the performance of the
company and, to this end, certain gateway
performance targets are measured and the
Committee reviews performance against
these measures when determining if awards
vest. The measures relate to the key
ﬁnancial performance indicators of the
company and customer service standards,
including those published by Ofgem,
Energywatch and the US Public Utility
Commissions.  These measures provide a
mechanism to safeguard stakeholder interests
and provide an overview of the ﬁnancial and
operational success of the business. 
The number of shares which actually vest is
dependent upon the company’s comparative
Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
performance, over a three-year performance
period. TSR measures ScottishPower’s
comparative performance against key
competitors and only provides rewards if
ScottishPower exceeds the median
performance of appropriate comparators.
The Committee chose TSR as the
performance measure for the LTIP as it
believes that it provides a clear link to the
creation of shareholder value.
LTIP awards were granted to 48 directors and
senior executives during the year (Award 7).
TSR performance is measured against an
international comparator group of 39 major
energy companies, as identiﬁed below. 
AES Corp; American Electric Power Inc;
Calpine Corp; Centrica; Chubu Electric
Power Co Inc; CLP Holdings Limited;
Constellation Energy Group Inc; Dominion
Resources Inc; Duke Energy Corp; Dynegy
Inc; Edison SpA; Edison International; El
Paso Corp; Electricidade de Portugal SA;
Electrabel SA; Endesa SA; Ente Nazionale
per l’Energia Elettrica SpA (Enel); Entergy
Corp; Exelon; FirstEnergy Corp; FPL Group
Inc; Gas Natural SDG SA; Iberdrola SA;
Kansai Electric Power Co Inc; Lattice Group
plc; National Grid Group plc; PPL Corp;
Progress Energy Inc; Public Service
Enterprise Group Inc; Reliant Energy Inc;
RWE AG; Scottish & Southern Energy plc;
Southern Company Inc; Tenaga Nasional
Bhd; The Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc; TXU;
Union Fenosa; Williams Companies Inc; Xcel
Energy Inc.
No shares vest unless the company’s TSR
performance is at least equal to the median
performance of the comparator group, at
which point 40% of the initial award vests.
100% of the shares vest if the company’s
performance is equal to or exceeds the top
quartile. The number of shares that vest for
performance between these two points is
determined on a straight-line basis.
For LTIP awards which had the potential to
vest during the year, performance was
measured against that of the FTSE 100
index and an index of the Electricity and
Water sectors of the FTSE All Share Index.
As the performance criteria were not
achieved, Award 4 of the LTIP (May 1999 –
May 2002) lapsed with no vesting of shares.
The Committee has approved the operation
of the LTIP for 2003/04 and no signiﬁcant
changes have been implemented.
Options were granted at market value to
285 directors and other executives across
the company during the year. Options
granted to UK executives under the ExSOP
are subject to the performance criterion that
the average annual percentage increase in
the company’s earnings per share* (“EPS”)
be at least 3% (adjusted for any increase in
the Retail Price Index). The Committee
believes that EPS* is an appropriate
measure for the purposes of testing the
ExSOP because it is based on the
underlying ﬁnancial performance of the
company. This criterion is assessed at the
end of the third ﬁnancial year, the ﬁrst year
being the ﬁnancial year starting immediately
before the date of grant. If not satisﬁed on
the third anniversary, the criterion may be
retested, from the same base, on the fourth
and ﬁfth anniversaries of grant. Unvested
options lapse at the ﬁfth anniversary.
The Committee has approved the operation
of the ExSOP for 2003/04 and no changes
have been implemented.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
62
Remuneration Report of the Directors
continued
*excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Performance graph
The new Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations require that a graph be
presented showing the company’s TSR
performance against the TSR performance
of a broad equity market index over a ﬁve-
year period. The FTSE 100 has been chosen
because it is the principal index in which the
company’s shares are quoted. The graph
below presents the comparative TSR
performance of the company during the
period 1 April 1998 – 31 March 2003. The
graph shows that ScottishPower has
outperformed the index over this period.
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March
2003, of £100 invested in ScottishPower on
31 March 1998 compared with that of £100
invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other
points plotted are the values at intervening
ﬁnancial year-ends.
All-employee share plans 
To facilitate high levels of share ownership
by employees, the company operates a
savings-related share option plan, which is
open to executive directors and all UK
employees. Under this plan, options are
granted over ScottishPower shares at a
discount of 20% from the prevailing market
price at the time of grant to eligible
employees who commit to save up to £250
per month over a period of three or ﬁve
years.
The company also operates an Employee
Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) and was
amongst the ﬁrst to introduce these
arrangements for executive directors and all
UK employees. The ESOP enables
employees to purchase shares in the
company from pre-tax income up to the
limits speciﬁed in the legislation. The value
of these shares is at risk as they are not
normally released until the legislation
allows. The company matches these shares
at no cost to the employee on a one-for-one
ratio. The legislation also enables the
company to award free shares to
employees. 
The savings-related share option plan and
the ESOP are all employee Inland Revenue
approved plans and as such are not subject
to performance conditions.
Pension
The executive directors, and other UK-based
senior managers of the company, are
provided with pension beneﬁts through the
company’s main pension scheme, and
through an executive top-up pension plan
which provides a maximum pension of two-
thirds of ﬁnal salary on retirement at age 63,
reduced where service to age 63 is less than
20 years. Pensionable salary is normally
base salary in the 12 months prior to
leaving the company although there are
prescribed mechanisms for calculating
pensionable salary by averaging base salary
over a period of up to three out of the last
10 years’ service. The employee contributes
5% of salary to the scheme. Life assurance
provision of four times pensionable salary
and a widow’s pension of half the
executive’s pension on death are provided. 
Individuals who joined the company (in the
UK) on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to
the Inland Revenue ‘earnings cap’,
introduced by the Finance Act 1989.
Entitlement to pension beneﬁts above the
cap cannot be provided through the
company’s approved pension scheme, and
therefore arrangements on an unapproved
basis have been made to provide total
beneﬁts for executives affected by the
legislation as though there was no cap. The
total liability in respect of executives and
senior employees arising in relation to
unapproved beneﬁts accrued for service for
the year to 31 March 2003 was £208,700.
The Trustee body of the Executive Top Up
Plan is chaired by the Company Secretary. 
The Committee has reported the pension
expense in accordance with the
requirements of the UK Listing Authority
and Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations. Pension costs detailed in the
Accounts are calculated as the cost of
providing beneﬁts accrued in the 2002/03
year, in accordance with appropriate
accounting standards.
Beneﬁts
Executive directors are eligible for a range of
beneﬁts on which they are assessed for tax.
These include the provision of a company
car, fuel, private medical provision and
permanent health insurance. The provision
and level of beneﬁts is reviewed regularly to
ensure that practice is in line with the market.
Service contracts
ScottishPower has reviewed its policy on
service contracts and, in accordance with
the best practice recommendation of the
Combined Code, has resolved that new
appointees to the Board be offered rolling
contracts with notice periods of one year.
The Committee recognises however that
exceptional circumstances may arise and
that it may be necessary, in the case of
appointments from outside the company, to
offer a longer initial notice period. In such
cases the intent would be subsequently to 
reduce this period to one year following an
agreed initial period. 
The Committee’s policy on early termination
is to emphasise the duty to mitigate to the
fullest extent practicable. Senior managers
within the company have notice periods
ranging from six months to one year.
Executive directors, Charles Berry and David
Nish, were appointed to the Board on or
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
63
Total shareholder return
Source: Datastream
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
98 99 00 01 02 03
Scottish Power plc FTSE 100 Index after 1 April 1999; these appointments have
rolling service contracts terminable on one
year’s notice from both parties. Charles
Berry has a service contract dated 30 July
1999 (and subsequently varied) and David
Nish has a service contract dated 13
December 1999 (and subsequently varied).
Both contracts include a clause enabling the
company, at its sole discretion, to make a
payment in lieu of notice equal to the value
of the salary and contractual beneﬁts the
executive director would have received
during the notice period. 
The Chief Executive, Ian Russell, has a
service contract dated 30 July 1999
terminable by the executive on one year’s
notice and by the company on two years’
notice. The Chief Executive has chosen to
reduce the notice period from the company
to one year. The contract includes a clause
enabling the company, at its sole discretion,
to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to
the value of the salary and contractual
beneﬁts the Chief Executive would have
received during the notice period. The
company would however pursue mitigation
to minimise, as far as possible, costs to the
company on termination.
The Chairman, Charles Miller Smith, is a
non-executive director and he does not have
a service contract with the company. 
External non-executive appointments
The company encourages its directors to
become non-executive directors of other
companies, provided that these
appointments are not with competing
companies, are not likely to lead to any
conﬂicts of interest, and do not require
extensive commitments of time which would
prejudice their roles within the company.
This serves to add to their personal and
professional experience and knowledge, to
the beneﬁt of the company. Any fees derived
from such appointments may be retained
by the executives.
Remuneration policy for non-executive
directors
The remuneration of non-executive directors
is determined by the Board and, during the
year consisted of a base fee of £24,000 p.a.,
a committee membership fee of £3,500 p.a.,
a fee of  £7,500 p.a. for chairing the Audit
Committee and the Remuneration
Committee, and an international travel fee of
£1,000 for attending a tranche of meetings
that involve a Transatlantic journey. In line
with best practice, the independent non-
executive directors do not have service
contracts, are not members of the company's
pension schemes and do not participate in
any bonus, share option or other proﬁt or
long term incentive plan. Full details of the
remuneration of the non-executive directors
are contained in Table 41.
Compensation of directors and ofﬁcers
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to
provide information on compensation and
interests for directors and ofﬁcers. The
aggregate amount of compensation paid by
the group to all directors and ofﬁcers of the
company, as a group, was £5,407,075.
During 2002/03 the aggregate amount set
aside or accrued by the group to provide
pension, retirement or similar beneﬁts for
directors and ofﬁcers of the company
pursuant to any existing plan provided or
contributed to by the group was
£1,016,900.
Interest of management in certain
transactions
There have been no material transactions
during the group’s three most recent ﬁnancial
years, nor are there presently proposed to
be any material transactions to which the
company or any of its subsidiaries was or is
a party and in which any director or ofﬁcer,
or 10% shareholder, or any relative or
spouse thereof or any relative of such a
spouse, who had the same home as such
person or who is a director or ofﬁcer of any
subsidiary of the company has or is to have
a direct or indirect material interest. 
During the group’s three most recent
ﬁnancial years there has been no, and at
present there is no, outstanding indebtedness
to the company or any of its subsidiaries
owed or owing by any director or ofﬁcer of
the group or any associate thereof. 
Directors’ interests
Other than as disclosed, none of the
directors had a material interest in any
contract of signiﬁcance with the company
and its subsidiaries during or at the end of
the ﬁnancial year. The directors’ interests, all
beneﬁcial, in the ordinary shares of the
company, including interests in options
under the company’s ExSOP and Sharesave
Scheme and awards under the LTIP, are
shown on pages 67 to 68.
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance
The company maintains liability insurance
for the directors and ofﬁcers of the
company and its subsidiaries.
Directors’ emoluments and interests
Total emoluments
Table 41 provides a breakdown of the total
emoluments of the Chairman and all the
directors in ofﬁce during the year ended 31
March 2003.
Directors’ pension beneﬁts
Details of pension beneﬁts earned by the
executive directors during the year are
shown in Table 42.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
64
Remuneration Report of the Directors
continued The following tables provide details of the remuneration, pensions and share interests of the directors and the information is audited.
Table 41 – Directors’ emoluments 2002/03
Basic salary Bonuses Beneﬁts in kind Total
£000’s £000’s £000’s £000’s
Total emoluments 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Chairman and executive directors
Charles Miller Smith (Non-Executive Chairman) 235.0 235.0 – – 14.0 13.8 249.0 248.8
Sir Ian Robinson (retired 4 May 2001) – 93.3 – – – 2.9 – 96.2
Ian Russell (appointed Chief Executive 17 April 2001) 550.0 542.9 412.5 – 32.8 27.6 995.3 570.5
Charles Berry 300.0 280.0 225.0 – 25.8 19.2 550.8 299.2
David Nish 350.0 325.0 262.5 – 31.2 23.9 643.7 348.9
Alan Richardson (retired 31 December 2001) * – 225.0 – – – 0.8 – 225.8
Ken Vowles (retired 31 March 2002) – 300.0 – – – 16.0 – 316.0
Total 1,435.0 2,001.2 900.0 – 103.8 104.2 2,438.8 2,105.4
Fees Bonuses Beneﬁts in kind Total
£000’s £000’s £000’s £000’s
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
Non-executive directors (fees and expenses)
Euan Baird 29.5 28.5 – – 0.3 0.7 29.8 29.2
Mair Barnes 33.0 32.0 – – 0.3 1.0 33.3 33.0
Philip Carroll (appointed 15 January 2002) 31.5 4.4 – – 5.0 0.6 36.5 5.0
Sir Peter Gregson 44.0 40.5 – – 1.2 2.8 45.2 43.3
Nolan Karras** 35.9 32.8 – – 14.8 19.7 50.7 52.5
Allan Leighton (resigned 12 June 2002) 5.5 27.5 – – – 0.1 5.5 27.6
Ewen Macpherson 40.5 39.5 – – – 4.0 40.5 43.5
Keith McKennon (retired 27 July 2001) – 21.3 – – – 17.4 – 38.7
Robert Miller (resigned 8 June 2001) – 6.1 – – – 2.2 – 8.3
John Parnaby (retired 27 July 2001) – 12.8 – – – 3.9 – 16.7
Nick Rose (appointed 19 February 2003) 3.7 – – – – – 3.7 –
Total 223.6 245.4 – – 21.6 52.4 245.2 297.8
Other emoluments
* Alan Richardson received an additional £381,220 during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2002 in respect of housing, foreign service allowance and other essential
costs associated with his assignment as Executive Director, US, based in Portland, Oregon. These costs include relocation and repatriation to the UK. 
** Nolan Karras received emoluments in the US of £16,807 (2002 £22,613) in respect of services to the PaciﬁCorp and Utah advisory boards in the form of cash and
shares.
(i) The emoluments of the highest paid director (Ian Russell) excluding pension contributions were £995,280 (2002 £570,531). In addition, gains on exercise of share
options during the year by Ian Russell amounted to £nil (2002 £138,628). Details of other share related incentives are contained in Table 44. 
(ii) Ian Russell has an entitlement under the unapproved pension beneﬁts described further in Table 42.
(iii) Sir Ian Robinson retired from the Board on 4 May 2001 and as an employee on 31 May 2001. Alan Richardson retired from the Board and as an employee on 
31 December 2001. Ken Vowles retired from the Board and as an employee on 31 March 2002.
(iv) In addition to the above, payments were made during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2002 to Sir Ian Robinson, £385,000; Alan Richardson, £372,099; and Ken
Vowles, £405,649, in accordance with the terms of their respective contracts.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
65 Table 42 – Deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme 2002/03
(A) (B)
Transfer Total 
Additional value of change in 
pension increases Value of Value of value during
earned Accrued after inﬂation accrued accrued the year
in year pension (net of pension pension (net of
Transferred (net of at end director’s at start at end director’s
-in beneﬁts inﬂation) of year contribution) of year of year contributions)
£ p.a. £ p.a. £ p.a. £ £ £ £
Ian Russell 15,094 11,947 160,286 142,710 1,493,751 1,915,459 416,818
Charles Berry – 12,031 97,175 144,625 880,682 1,197,029 311,487
David Nish 37,333 10,851 79,932 100,339 536,162 804,254 263,232
(i) The accrued entitlement of the highest paid director (Ian Russell) was £160,286 (2002 £144,159). During the year, retirement beneﬁts were accrued under the
deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme in respect of three directors (2002 ﬁve directors).
(ii) The transfer value of the increases after inﬂation (A) represents the current capital sum which would be required, using demographic and ﬁnancial assumptions, to
produce an equivalent increase in accrued pension and ancillary beneﬁts, excluding the statutory inﬂationary increase, and after deduction of members’ contributions.
Although the transfer value represents a liability to the Pension Scheme in respect of approved beneﬁts and to the company in respect of unapproved beneﬁts, it is not
a single sum paid or due to be paid to the individual director and cannot therefore meaningfully be added to the annual remuneration. Instead, this value would not be
payable until the director’s retirement date, and thereafter would be spread over the remainder of his lifetime (and also covering the cost of dependants’ beneﬁts after
his death).
(iii) The total change in value (B) in the last column of the table above reﬂects the following elements:
1. Changes to the economic and demographic assumptions underlying the transfer value basis over the year.
2. Increases in pensionable salary received by directors during the year.
3. The directors have completed another year of pensionable service during the year.
4. The directors are a year closer to drawing their pensions at the end of the year.
During the year the transfer value basis for approved beneﬁts altered. The transfer value for approved beneﬁts at the start of the year was calculated broadly in line with
the statutory Minimum Funding Requirement (“MFR”) basis. However, by the end of the year the MFR transfer value basis for approved beneﬁts no longer met the
actuarial profession’s guidance for certifying transfer values. Based on current market conditions, the end of year transfer value basis provides for higher transfer values
than the basis at the start of the year (all other things being equal).
The change in the amount of the transfer values over the year includes the effect of ﬂuctuations in factors that are beyond the control of the company and its directors,
such as stock market movements and long-term interest rates. 
(iv) The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based upon service to the end of the year. Members of the company’s schemes
have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions; neither the contributions nor the resulting beneﬁts are included in the above table.
(v) Directors who joined the pension scheme on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to the earnings cap, introduced in the Finance Act 1989. Pension entitlements which
cannot be provided through the company’s approved schemes due to the earnings cap are provided through unapproved pension arrangements, details of which are
included in the Remuneration Report. The pension beneﬁts disclosed above include approved and unapproved pension arrangements.
(vi) The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes the increase due to RPI inﬂation as measured at December 2002 (2.9%).
(vii) The value of directors’ entitlements has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance note GN11, in two parts: the
approved element being based upon the normal cash equivalent transfer value assumptions less directors’ contributions; the unapproved element being calculated in
line with FRS 17 assumptions.
(viii) Transferred-in beneﬁts represent pension rights accrued in respect of previous employments.
(ix) The total liabilities, calculated on a FRS 17 basis, for the 9 executives and senior employees arising in relation to unapproved beneﬁts for service for the year to 31
March 2003 was £208,700 (2002 £690,000). All beneﬁts for the above are provided on a deﬁned beneﬁt basis.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
66
Remuneration Report of the Directors
continued Table 43 – Directors’ interests in ScottishPower shares
Ordinary shares Share options (Executive) Share options (Sharesave) Long Term Incentive Plan
1.4.02 1.4.02 1.4.02 1.4.02
(or date of (or date of (or date of (or date of
appointment appointment appointment appointment
31.3.03 if later) 31.3.03 if later) 31.3.03 if later) 31.3.03 if later)
**Vested *Potential **Vested *Potential
Charles Miller Smith 11,000 11,000––––––––
Euan Baird 110,770 100,000––––––––
Mair Barnes 1,400 1,400––––––––
Philip Carroll 4,000–––––––––
Sir Peter Gregson 1,186 1,093––––––––
Nolan Karras 36,346 31,286––––––––
Ewen Macpherson 5,000 5,000––––––––
Nick Rose (appointed 19 February 2003) ––––––––––
Ian Russell •87,741 86,817 498,678 227,743 4,371 4,371 12,682 238,675 12,682 175,063
Charles Berry •22,553 18,958 255,443 107,660 2,941 903 – 124,328 4,433 87,904
David Nish •12,742 7,294 296,636 124,223 2,509 2,509 – 137,954 4,191 85,030
None of the directors has an interest in ordinary shares which is greater than 1% of the issued share capital of the company.
* These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance criteria as
approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
** These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the LTIP award is exercisable after the fourth anniversary of grant calculated
according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
• These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free Partnership Matching Dividend
shares shares shares shares Total
Ian Russell 50 799 799 135 1,783
Charles Berry 50 799 799 135 1,783
David Nish 50 799 799 135 1,783
Between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003, Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish each acquired 32 Partnership shares and 32 Matching shares as part of the regular
monthly transactions of the Employee Share Ownership Plan; and Nolan Karras acquired 20 ScottishPower ADSs (80 Ordinary shares) as part of the PaciﬁCorp
Compensation Reduction Plan. Otherwise, there have been no changes to the directors’ interests between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003.
Table 44 – Directors’ interests in performance and other share plans at 31 March 2003
Market
Option price at
exercise date of Date from
1 April 31 March price Date exercise which Expiry
2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed# 2003 (pence) exercised (pence) exercisable date
Long Term Incentive Plan
Ian Russell 12,682––– 12,682 nil 7 May 02 6 May 05
37,988 – – 37,988 – nil 10 May 03 9 May 06
45,000––– 45,000 nil 5 May 04 4 May 07
92,075––– 92,075 nil 4 May 04 3 May 08
– 101,600 – – 101,600 nil 2 May 05 1 May 09
187,745 101,600 – 37,988 251,357
Charles Berry 4,433 – 4,433 – – nil 17 May 02 389.375 7 May 02 6 May 05
18,994 – – 18,994 – nil 10 May 03 9 May 06
25,384––– 25,384 nil 5 May 04 4 May 07
43,526––– 43,526 nil 4 May 04 3 May 08
– 55,418 – – 55,418 nil 2 May 05 1 May 09
92,337 55,418 4,433 18,994 124,328
David Nish 4,191 – 4,191 – – nil 17 May 02 389.375 7 May 02 6 May 05
11,731 – – 11,731 – nil 10 May 03 9 May 06
23,076––– 23,076 nil 5 May 04 4 May 07
50,223––– 50,223 nil 4 May 04 3 May 08
– 64,655 – – 64,655 nil 2 May 05 1 May 09
89,221 64,655 4,191 11,731 137,954
# During the year, the performance period for the awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in 1999 ended and, on the basis of the company’s total
shareholder return, none of the awards vested.
Awards granted during the year were granted for no consideration. The market value of a ScottishPower share at the date of grant was 406.00 pence.
Footnote
Awards granted to directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 129,568; Charles Berry 62,790; and David Nish 82,724.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
67 Table 44 – Directors’ interests in performance and other share plans at 31 March 2003 continued
Market
Option price at
exercise date of Date from
1 April 31 March price Date exercise which Expiry
2002 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2003 (pence) exercised (pence) exercisable date
Executive Share Option Plan 2001
Ian Russell 227,743––– 227,743 483.0 21 Aug 04 21 Aug 11
– 270,935 – – 270,935 406.0 2 May 05 2 May 12
227,743 270,935 – – 498,678
Charles Berry 107,660––– 107,660 483.0 21 Aug 04 21 Aug 11
– 147,783 – – 147,783 406.0 2 May 05 2 May 12
107,660 147,783 – – 255,443
David Nish 124,223––– 124,223 483.0 21 Aug 04 21 Aug 11
– 172,413 – – 172,413 406.0 2 May 05 2 May 12
124,223 172,413 – – 296,636
Sharesave Scheme
Ian Russell 4,371––– 4,371 386.0 1 Sep 06 28 Feb 07
4,371––– 4,371
Charles Berry 903 – – 903 – 429.0* 1 Sep 02 28 Feb 03
– 2,941 – – 2,941 323.0* 1 Sep 05 28 Feb 06
903 2,941 – 903 2,941
David Nish 2,509––– 2,509 386.0* 1 Sep 04 28 Feb 05
2,509––– 2,509
*Denotes options granted under a three-year scheme.
(i) The market price of the shares at 31 March 2003 was 376.00 pence and the range during 2002/03 was 298.75 pence to 416.00 pence.
(ii) The Long Term Incentive Plan makes annual awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost to the plan participants up to a maximum value equal
to 75% of base salary. The award will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisﬁed that certain performance measures related to the sustained underlying
ﬁnancial performance of the company and improvements in certain Customer Service Standards published by Ofgem, Energywatch and the US Public Utility
Commissions are achieved over a period of three ﬁnancial years commencing with the ﬁnancial year preceding the date an award is made. Assuming that such targets
have been achieved, the number of shares that can be acquired will be dependent upon how the company ranks in terms of its total shareholder return performance
over a three-year period, in comparison to the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index and the Electricity and Water sectors and a group of international energy
companies. A percentage of each half of the award will vest depending upon the company’s ranking within each of the comparator groups. The plan participant may
acquire the shares in respect of the percentage of the award which has vested at any time after the third or fourth year, as appropriate, up to the seventh year after the
grant of the award. No dividends accrue to participants prior to vesting.
(iii) The company grants options annually under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 to relevant executives and senior managers. These options are subject to the
performance criterion that the percentage increase in the company’s annualised earnings per share be at least 3% (adjusted for any increase in the Retail Price Index).
This criterion is assessed at the end of the third ﬁnancial year, the ﬁrst year being the ﬁnancial year starting immediately before the date of grant. If the criterion is not
satisﬁed over this period it is tested again at the end of the fourth ﬁnancial year. If the criterion is not satisﬁed over this period, it is tested again at the end of the ﬁfth
ﬁnancial year. If the criterion is not satisﬁed over this period, then the options lapse. 
(iv) The option price for Sharesave options is calculated by reference to the middle-market quotation on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation and
discounted by 20% in accordance with the Inland Revenue rules for such schemes. 
(v) The number of options granted to a director under the Sharesave Scheme is calculated by reference to the total amount which the director agrees to save for a
period of three or ﬁve years under an Inland Revenue approved savings contract, subject to a current maximum.
(vi) Total gains made on exercise of directors’ share options and awards during the year were £33,580 (2002 £295,205).
(vii) Awards and options granted during the year under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Share Option Plan 2001 were granted for no consideration.
Footnote
Options granted to directors under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 345,514; Charles Berry 167,441; and David
Nish 220,598.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Sir Peter Gregson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
7 May 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
68
Remuneration Report of the Directors
continued Directors’ responsibility for the Accounts
The directors are required by law to prepare
Accounts for each ﬁnancial year and to
present them annually to the company’s
members at the Annual General Meeting.
The Accounts, of which the form and
content are prescribed by the Companies
Act 1985 and applicable accounting
standards, must give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the company and of
the group as at the end of the ﬁnancial year,
and of the group’s proﬁt or loss for the
period.
The directors conﬁrm that suitable
Accounting Policies have been used and
applied consistently, and that reasonable
and prudent judgements and estimates
have been made in the preparation of the
Accounts for the year ended 31 March
2003. The directors also conﬁrm that
applicable accounting standards have been
followed and that the Accounts have been
prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for
maintaining proper accounting records and
sufﬁcient internal controls to safeguard the
assets of the company and of the group and
to prevent and detect fraud or any other
irregularities.
Auditors 
Following the conversion of the company’s
auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers to a
Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) from 1
January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers
resigned on 21 March 2003 and the
directors appointed its successors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as auditors. A
resolution to re-appoint
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to
the company will be proposed at the Annual
General Meeting.
Report of the directors 
The Report of the Directors comprising the
statements and reports has been approved
by the Board and signed on its behalf by
Andrew Mitchell
Secretary
7 May 2003
Cautionary statement for purposes of the
“Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
Some statements made in this Annual Report
&Accounts are forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the “safe harbor”
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. All statements with
respect to us, our corporate plans, future
ﬁnancial condition, future results of
operations, future business plans, strategies,
objectives and beliefs and other statements
that are not historical facts are forward
looking. Statements containing the words
“may”, “will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”,
“estimate”, “continue”, “plan”, “project”,
“target”, “on track to”, “strategy”, “aim”,
“seek”, “will meet” or other similar words are
also forward looking. These statements are
based on our management’s assumptions
and beliefs in light of the information available
to us. These assumptions involve risks and
uncertainties which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements to be
materially different from any future results,
performance or achievements expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements.
ScottishPower wishes to caution readers, and
others to whom forward-looking statements
are addressed, that any such forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future
performance and that actual results may
differ materially from estimates in the
forward-looking statements. ScottishPower
undertakes no obligation to revise these
forward-looking statements to reﬂect events
or circumstances after the date hereof.
Important factors that may cause results to
differ from expectations include, for example:
– any regulatory changes (including changes
in environmental regulations) that may
increase the operating costs of the group,
may require the group to make unforeseen
capital expenditures or may prevent the
regulated business of the group from
achieving acceptable returns;
– future levels of industry generation and
supply, demand and pricing, political
stability, competition and economic growth
in the relevant areas in which the group
has operations;
– the availability of acceptable fuel at
favorable prices;
– the availability of operational capacity of
plants;
– the success of reorganizational and cost-
saving efforts; and
– development and use of technology, the
actions of competitors, natural disasters
and other changes to business conditions.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
69 Accounting Policies 
and Definitions
Definitions 
Business segment definitions
ScottishPower defines business segments
for management reporting purposes
based on a combination of factors,
principally differences in products and
services and the regulatory environment
in which the businesses operate. 
Business segments have been included
under either ‘continuing operations’ or
‘discontinued operations’ as appropriate.
The business segments of the group are
defined as follows:
Continuing operations 
United Kingdom
UK Division – Integrated Generation and
Supply
The generation of electricity from the
group’s own power stations, the purchase
of external supplies of coal and gas for the
generation of electricity, the purchase of
external supplies of electricity and gas for
sale to customers, together with related
billing and collection activities, gas storage,
sale of gas to industrial and domestic
customers and the sale of electricity to
electricity suppliers, in Scotland and
England & Wales and full participation in
the New Electricity Trading Arrangements
(“NETA”) in England & Wales. 
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems
The transmission and distribution
businesses in Scotland and the
distribution business of Manweb 
operating in Merseyside and North Wales
and, specifically, the transportation of
units of electricity from the power
stations through the transmission and
distribution networks to customers in
Scotland and to customers in Northern
Ireland and England & Wales through the
Interconnectors. 
United States
US Division – PacifiCorp 
A vertically integrated electric utility that
includes the generation, transmission and
distribution and sale of electricity to retail,
industrial and commercial customers in
portions of six western states; Utah,
Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and
California. The operations also include
wholesale sales and power purchase
transactions with various entities. The
state regulatory commissions and Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”)
regulate the retail and wholesale
operations. The subsidiaries of PacifiCorp
support its electric utility operations by
providing coal mining facilities and
services, environmental remediation and
financing.
US Division – PPM 
The competitive energy development,
origination and marketing business
serving wholesale customers in North
American markets. Electricity products
and services are provided from gas
generation and renewable wind
generation resources located in the
western and mid-western US. Natural gas
storage and hub services are provided
from gas storage facilities located in
Alberta, Canada and in Texas.
Discontinued operations 
United Kingdom
Southern Water
The provision of water and wastewater
services in the south-east of England,
together with related billing and collection
activities. The disposal of the Southern
Water business was completed on 23
April 2002.
Thus
The provision of telecommunications
services, internet access and information
services to national corporates, small and
medium-sized enterprises and residential
customers. Thus Group plc (“Thus”) was
demerged from ScottishPower on 19
March 2002. 
Appliance Retailing
The retailing and servicing of domestic
electrical goods and home entertainment
appliances. The business was disposed of
and withdrawn from during the year
ended 31 March 2002. 
Revenue cost definitions
Cost of sales
The cost of sales for the group, excluding
Southern Water, reflect the direct costs of
the generation and purchase of electricity,
the purchase and transportation of
natural gas, appliance retailing and
telecommunications services. For
Southern Water, cost of sales represented
the cost of extracting water from
underground and raw water surface
reservoirs and of its treatment and supply
to customers and the collection of
wastewater and its treatment and disposal. 
Transmission and distribution costs
The cost of transmitting units of electricity
from the power stations through the
transmission and distribution networks 
to customers. It includes the costs of
metering, billing and debt collection. 
This heading is considered more
appropriate to the electricity industry 
than the standard Companies Act 
heading of distribution costs. 
Administrative expenses
The indirect costs of businesses, the 
costs of corporate services, property rates
and goodwill amortisation.
Other definitions
Company or ScottishPower
Scottish Power plc.
Group
Scottish Power plc and its consolidated
subsidiaries.
Associated undertakings
Entities in which the group holds a long-
term participating interest and exercises
significant influence. 
Joint ventures
Entities in which the group holds a long-
term interest and shares control with
another company external to the group.
Subsidiary undertakings
Entities in which the group holds a long-
term controlling interest.
Accounts 2002/03
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
70 Accounting Policies
Basis of accounting
The Accounts have been prepared under
the historical cost convention, modified 
to include the revaluation of certain
tangible fixed assets, and in accordance
with applicable accounting standards in
the UK and, subject to the treatment,
prior to the disposal of Southern Water,
of water infrastructure grants and
contributions described under “Grants
and contributions” below, comply with the
requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of consolidation
The group Accounts include the Accounts
of the company and its subsidiary under-
takings together with the group’s share 
of results and net assets of associated
undertakings and joint ventures. 
For commercial reasons certain
subsidiaries have a different year end. 
The consolidation includes the Accounts
of these subsidiaries as adjusted for
material transactions in the period
between the year ends and 31 March.
Use of estimates
The preparation of Accounts in conformity
with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the Accounts and
the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results can differ from those estimates. 
Turnover
Turnover comprises the sales value of
energy, goods and other services supplied
to customers during the year and excludes
Value Added Tax and intra-group sales.
Turnover from the sale of energy is the
value of units supplied during the year
and includes an estimate of the value of
units supplied to customers between the
date of their last meter reading and the
year end, based on external data supplied
by the electricity and gas market
settlement processes. Prior to the disposal
of Southern Water in April 2002, turnover
also included the sales value of water and
wastewater services.
Interest
Interest on the funding attributable to
major capital projects is capitalised gross
of tax relief during the period of
construction and written off as part of the
total cost over the operational life of the
asset. All other interest payable and
receivable is reflected in the profit and
loss account as it arises. 
Financial instruments
Debt instruments
All borrowings are stated at the fair value
of consideration received after deduction
of issue costs. The issue costs and interest
payable on bonds are charged to the
profit and loss account at a constant rate
over the life of the bond. Premiums and
discounts arising on the early repayment
of borrowings are recognised in the profit
and loss account as incurred and received.
Interest rate swaps/Forward rate
agreements
These are used to manage debt interest 
rate exposures. Amounts payable or
receivable in respect of these agreements
are recognised as adjustments to interest
expense over the period of the contracts.
The cash flows from, and gains and losses
arising on terminations of, these contracts
are recognised as returns on investments
and servicing of finance. Where associated
debt is not retired in conjunction with the
termination of an interest swap, gains and
losses are deferred and are amortised to
interest expense over the remaining life of
the associated debt to the extent that
such debt remains outstanding. 
Interest rate caps/Swaptions/Options
Premiums received and payable on these
contracts are amortised over the period of
the contracts and are disclosed as interest
income and expense. The accounting for
interest rate caps and swaptions is
otherwise in accordance with interest rate
swaps detailed above.
Cross currency interest rate swaps
These are used both to hedge foreign
exchange and interest rate exposures
arising on foreign currency debt and to
hedge overseas net investment. Where
used to hedge debt issues, the debt is
recorded at the hedge contracted rate and
accounting is otherwise in accordance
with interest rate swaps detailed above.
Where used to hedge overseas net
investment, spot gains or losses are
recorded in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses, with interest
recorded in the profit and loss account.
Forward contracts
The group enters into forward contracts
for the purchase and/or sale of foreign
currencies in order to manage its
exposure to fluctuations in currency rates
and to hedge overseas net investment.
The cash flows from forward purchase
contracts are classified in a manner
consistent with the underlying nature of
the hedged transaction. Hence, unrealised
gains and losses on contracts hedging
forecast transactions are not accounted
for until the maturity of the contract.
Foreign currency debtors and creditors
that are hedged with forward contracts
are translated at the contracted rate at the
balance sheet date. Spot gains or losses
on hedges of the overseas net investment
are recorded in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses with the
interest rate differential reflected in the
profit and loss account. Where a currency
forward contract no longer represents a
hedge because either the underlying asset
or liability has been derecognised, or the
effectiveness of the hedge has been
undermined, it is restated at fair value and
any change in value is taken directly to
the profit and loss account and reported
within exchange losses.
Hydro-electric and temperature hedges
These instruments are used to hedge
fluctuations in weather and temperature
in the US. On a periodic basis, the group
estimates and records a gain or loss in
the profit and loss account corresponding
to the total expected future cash flows
from these contracts.  
Commodity contracts
Where there is no physical delivery
associated with commodity contracts,
they are recorded at fair value on the
balance sheet and movements reflected
through the profit and loss account. Gas
future contracts are undertaken for
hedging and proprietary trading purposes.
Where the instrument is a hedge, the daily
margin calls are initially reflected on the
balance sheet and subsequently reflected
through the profit and loss account to
match the recognition of the hedged item.
Where the instrument is for proprietary
trading the margin calls are reflected
through the profit and loss account.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
71 Taxation
In accordance with Financial Reporting
Standard 19 ‘Deferred tax’, full provision
is made for deferred tax on a non-
discounted basis. 
Goodwill
Purchased goodwill represents the 
excess of the fair value of the purchase
consideration over the fair value of the net
assets acquired. Goodwill arising from
acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 was
written off against reserves. 
On disposal of trading entities, the
goodwill previously included in reserves is
charged to the profit and loss account
matched by an equal credit to reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since
1 April 1998 has been capitalised and
amortised through the profit and loss
account over its estimated useful
economic life. Goodwill arising on
overseas acquisitions is regarded as a
currency asset and is retranslated at the
end of each period at the closing rate of
exchange.
Tangible fixed assets
Accounting for non-water 
infrastructure assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or
valuation and are generally depreciated
on the straight line method over their
estimated operational lives. Tangible fixed
assets include capitalised employee,
interest and other costs which are directly
attributable to construction of fixed assets. 
Land is not depreciated except in the case
of mines (see below). The main
depreciation periods used by the group
are as set out below.
Years 
Coal, oil-fired, gas and other 
generating stations 22-45
Hydro plant and machinery 20-100
Other buildings 40
Transmission and distribution plant 20-75
Towers, lines and underground cables 40-60
Vehicles, computer software costs, 
miscellaneous equipment and fittings 3-40
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets
are reviewed for impairment in periods if
events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value may not be
recoverable. For those assets with
estimated remaining useful economic lives
of more than 50 years, impairment
reviews are undertaken annually.
Impairment losses are recognised in the
period in which they are identified.
Mine reclamation and closure costs
Provision is made for mine reclamation
and closure costs when an obligation
arises out of events prior to the year 
end. The amount recognised is the
present value of the estimated future
expenditure determined in accordance
with local conditions and requirements. 
A corresponding tangible fixed asset is 
also created of an amount equal to the
provision. This asset, together with 
the cost of the mine, is subsequently
depreciated on a unit of production basis.
The unwinding of the discount is included
within net interest and similar charges.
Decommissioning costs
Provision is made for the estimated
decommissioning costs at the end of the
producing lives of the group’s power
stations on a discounted basis. Capitalised
decommissioning costs are depreciated
over the useful lives of the related assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included
within net interest and similar charges.
Infrastructure accounting
Water infrastructure assets, being mains
and sewers, reservoirs, dams, sludge
pipelines and sea outfalls comprised a
network of systems. Expenditure on water
infrastructure assets relating to increases
in capacity or enhancement of the network
and on maintaining the operating
capability of the network in accordance
with defined standards of service was
treated as an addition to fixed assets.
The depreciation charge for water
infrastructure assets was the estimated 
level of annualised expenditure required
to maintain the operating capability of 
the network and was based on the asset
management plan agreed with the water
industry regulator as part of the price
regulation process. 
The asset management plan was
developed from historical experience
combined with a rolling programme of
reviews of the condition of the
infrastructure assets.
Leased assets
As lessee
Assets leased under finance leases are
capitalised and depreciated over the
shorter of the lease periods and the
estimated operational lives of the assets.
The interest element of the finance lease
repayments is charged to the profit and
loss account in proportion to the balance
of the capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases
are charged to the profit and loss account
on a straight line basis. 
As lessor
Rentals receivable under finance leases
are allocated to accounting periods to give
a constant periodic rate of return on the
net cash investment in the lease in each
period. The amounts due from lessees
under finance leases are recorded in the
balance sheet as a debtor at the amount
of the net investment in the lease after
making provisions for bad and doubtful
rentals receivable. 
Investments
Investments in subsidiary and associated
undertakings and joint ventures are 
stated in the balance sheet of the parent
company at cost, or nominal value of
shares issued as consideration where
applicable, less provision for any
impairment in value. The group profit 
and loss account includes the group’s
share of the operating profits less 
losses, net interest charge and taxation 
of associated undertakings and joint
ventures. The group balance sheet
includes the investment in associated
undertakings and joint ventures at the
group’s share of their net assets. Other
fixed asset investments are carried at cost
less provision for impairment in value. 
Own shares held under trust
The amount recorded in the balance sheet
for shares in the company purchased for
employee sharesave schemes represents
the amounts receivable from option
holders on exercise of the options.
The group has taken advantage of the
exemption within Urgent Issues Task 
Force (“UITF”) Abstract 17 not to apply the
requirements therein to Inland Revenue
approved savings-related share option
schemes and equivalent overseas schemes.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Shares in the company purchased for the
LTIP are held under trust and are recorded
within investments in the balance sheet at
cost. The cost of awards made by the trust
under the LTIP , being the difference
between the fair value of the shares and
the option price at the date of grant, is
taken to the profit and loss account on a
straight line basis over the period in which
performance is measured.
Accounting Policies and Definitions
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
72 Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of average
cost and net realisable value.
US regulatory assets
Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (“FAS”) 71 ‘Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation’
establishes US GAAP for utilities in the US
whose regulators have the power to
approve and/or regulate rates that may be
charged to customers. FAS 71 provides
that regulatory assets may be capitalised
if it is probable that future revenue in an
amount at least equal to the capitalised
costs will result from the inclusion of that
cost in allowable costs for ratemaking
purposes. Due to the different regulatory
environment, no equivalent GAAP applies
in the UK.
Under UK GAAP, the group’s policy is to
recognise regulatory assets established in
accordance with FAS 71 only where they
comprise rights or other access to future
economic benefits which have arisen as a
result of past transactions or events which
have created an obligation to transfer
economic benefits to a third party.
Measurement of the past transaction or
event and hence the regulatory asset, is
determined in accordance with UK GAAP.
Grants and contributions 
Capital grants and customer contributions
in respect of additions to non-water
infrastructure fixed assets are treated as
deferred income and released to the profit
and loss account over the estimated
operational lives of the related assets. Prior
to the disposal of Southern Water in April
2002, grants and contributions receivable
relating to water infrastructure assets were
deducted from the cost or valuation of
those assets. While this treatment was in
accordance with SSAP 4, it was not in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Act requires capital grants and
contributions to be shown as deferred
income rather than offset against the cost
or valuation of tangible fixed assets.
This departure from the requirements of
the Act was, in the opinion of the
directors, necessary for the Accounts to
give a true and fair view as, while provision
was made for depreciation of water
infrastructure assets, these assets did not
have determinable finite lives and
therefore no basis existed on which to
recognise grants and contributions as
deferred income. The effect of this
treatment on the value of tangible fixed
assets is disclosed in Note 16. 
Pensions
The group provides pension benefits
through both defined benefit and defined
contribution arrangements. The regular
cost of providing pensions and related
benefits and any variations from regular
cost arising from the actuarial valuations
for defined benefit schemes are charged
to the profit and loss account over the
expected remaining service lives of
current employees following consultations
with the actuary. Any difference between
the charge to the profit and loss account
and the actual contributions paid to the
pension schemes is included as an asset
or liability in the balance sheet. Payments
to defined contribution schemes are
charged against profits as incurred.
Post-retirement benefits other 
than pensions
Certain additional post-retirement
benefits, principally healthcare benefits,
are provided to eligible retirees within the
group’s US businesses. The estimated
cost of providing such benefits is charged
against profits on a systematic basis 
over the employees’ working lives within
the group.
Environmental liabilities
Provision for environmental liabilities is
made when expenditure on remedial work
is probable and the group is obliged,
either legally or constructively through its
environmental policies, to undertake such
work. Where the amount is expected to be
incurred over the long-term, the amount
recognised is the present value of the
estimated future expenditure and the
unwinding of the discount is included
within net interest and similar charges.
Foreign currencies
Group
The results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries are translated to sterling 
at the average rate of exchange for each
quarter of the financial year. The net
assets of such subsidiaries and the
goodwill arising on their acquisition are
translated to sterling at the closing rates
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet 
date. Exchange differences which relate 
to the translation of overseas subsidiaries
and of matching foreign currency
borrowings and derivatives are taken
directly to group reserves and are shown
in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses.
Company
Transactions in foreign currencies are
recorded at the rate ruling at the date of
the transaction. At the year end, monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the
rate of exchange ruling at the balance
sheet date or, where applicable, at the
hedged contracted rate. Any gain or loss
arising on the restatement of such
balances is taken to the profit and loss
account.
Overseas net investments that are partially
hedged with foreign currency borrowings
and derivatives are viewed as a foreign
currency asset to the extent that they are
matched with these instruments.
Exchange differences arising on re-
translation of the investment and the
borrowings and derivatives are taken
directly to reserves. The remaining
unhedged element of the investment is
recorded at historical cost at the exchange
rate ruling at the date of acquisition
without further re-translation.
Exchange rates
The exchange rates applied in the
preparation of the Accounts were 
as follows:
Year ended 31 March
2003 2002 2001
Average rate for  
quarters ending:
30 June $1.46/£ $1.42/£ $1.53/£
30 September $1.55/£ $1.44/£ $1.48/£
31 December $1.57/£ $1.44/£ $1.45/£
31 March $1.60/£ $1.43/£ $1.46/£
Closing rate as 
at 31 March $1.58/£ $1.42/£ $1.42/£
A glossary of terms used in the Accounts
and their US equivalents is set out on
page 133.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
73 Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Year ended 31 March 2003
Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Total
2003 2003 2003
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover: group and share of joint ventures and associates 5,273.1 26.7 5,299.8
Less: share of turnover in joint ventures (25.2) – (25.2)
Less: share of turnover in associates (0.8) – (0.8)
Group turnover 1 5,247.1 26.7 5,273.8
Cost of sales (3,215.4) (11.4) (3,226.8)
Gross profit 2,031.7 15.3 2,047.0
Transmission and distribution costs (512.6) – (512.6)
Administrative expenses (including goodwill amortisation) (613.2) (1.3) (614.5)
Other operating income 26.0 – 26.0
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 1,070.9 14.0 1,084.9
Goodwill amortisation (139.0) – (139.0)
Operating profit 1, 2 931.9 14.0 945.9
Share of operating profit in joint ventures 4.8 – 4.8
Share of operating profit in associates 0.4 – 0.4
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 937.1 14.0 951.1
Net interest and similar charges
– Group (245.9) (3.0) (248.9)
– Joint ventures (5.4) – (5.4)
5 (251.3) (3.0) (254.3)
Profit on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation and taxation 824.8 11.0 835.8
Goodwill amortisation (139.0) – (139.0)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 685.8 11.0 696.8
Taxation
– Group (205.8) (3.4) (209.2)
– Joint ventures 0.3 – 0.3
– Associates (0.1) – (0.1)
6 (205.6) (3.4) (209.0)
Profit after taxation 480.2 7.6 487.8
Minority interests 27 (5.2) – (5.2)
Profit for the financial year 475.0 7.6 482.6
Dividends 8 (529.5) – (529.5)
Loss retained 26 (54.5) 7.6 (46.9)
Earnings per ordinary share 7 25.76p 0.41p 26.17p
Adjusting item – goodwill amortisation 7.54p – 7.54p
Earnings per ordinary share before goodwill amortisation 7 33.30p 0.41p 33.71p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 7 26.11p
Adjusting item – goodwill amortisation 7.52p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before goodwill amortisation 7 33.63p
Dividends per ordinary share 8 28.708p
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
74 Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2002
Year ended 31 March 2002
Exceptional Exceptional
items items
-continuing Total -discontinued Total
Continuing operations continuing Discontinued operations discontinued
operations (Note 4) operations operations (Note 4) operations Total
2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover: group and share of joint ventures and associates 5,545.9 – 5,545.9 791.3 – 791.3 6,337.2
Less: share of turnover in joint ventures (22.6) – (22.6) – – – (22.6)
Less: share of turnover in associates (0.5) – (0.5) – – – (0.5)
Group turnover 1 5,522.8 – 5,522.8 791.3 – 791.3 6,314.1
Cost of sales (3,920.0) – (3,920.0) (490.8) – (490.8) (4,410.8)
Gross profit 1,602.8 – 1,602.8 300.5 – 300.5 1,903.3
Transmission and distribution costs (479.3) – (479.3) (33.3) – (33.3) (512.6)
Administrative expenses (including goodwill amortisation) (533.8) (18.5) (552.3) (142.8) – (142.8) (695.1)
Other operating income 64.2 – 64.2 3.6 – 3.6 67.8
Utilisation of Appliance Retailing disposal provision – – – 13.2 – 13.2 13.2
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 800.5 (18.5) 782.0 143.6 – 143.6 925.6
Goodwill amortisation (146.6) – (146.6) (2.4) – (2.4) (149.0)
Operating profit 1, 2 653.9 (18.5) 635.4 141.2 – 141.2 776.6
Share of operating profit in joint ventures 2.2 – 2.2 – – – 2.2
Share of operating profit in associates 0.2 – 0.2 – – – 0.2
656.3 (18.5) 637.8 141.2 – 141.2 779.0
Loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing  
before goodwill write back 4 – – – – (105.0) (105.0) (105.0)
Goodwill write back 4 – – – – (15.1) (15.1) (15.1)
Loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing 4 – – – – (120.1) (120.1) (120.1)
Provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water  
before goodwill write back 4 – – – – (449.3) (449.3) (449.3)
Goodwill write back 4 – – – – (738.2) (738.2) (738.2)
Provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water 4 – – – – (1,187.5) (1,187.5) (1,187.5)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 656.3 (18.5) 637.8 141.2 (1,307.6) (1,166.4) (528.6)
Net interest and similar charges
– Group before exceptional interest and similar charges (336.3) – (336.3) (36.9) – (36.9) (373.2)
– Exceptional interest and similar charges 4 – (18.8) (18.8) – (12.0) (12.0) (30.8)
– Joint ventures (6.2) – (6.2) – – – (6.2)
5 (342.5) (18.8) (361.3) (36.9) (12.0) (48.9) (410.2)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before goodwill 
amortisation and taxation 460.4 (37.3) 423.1 106.7 (1,319.6) (1,212.9) (789.8)
Goodwill amortisation (146.6) – (146.6) (2.4) – (2.4) (149.0)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 313.8 (37.3) 276.5 104.3 (1,319.6) (1,215.3) (938.8)
Taxation
– Group before tax on exceptional items (68.0) – (68.0) (55.1) – (55.1) (123.1)
– Tax on exceptional items 4 – 11.3 11.3 – 27.5 27.5 38.8
– Joint ventures 1.1 – 1.1 – – – 1.1
6 (66.9) 11.3 (55.6) (55.1) 27.5 (27.6) (83.2)
Profit/(loss) after taxation 246.9 (26.0) 220.9 49.2 (1,292.1) (1,242.9) (1,022.0)
Minority interests 27 (6.9) – (6.9) 41.8 – 41.8 34.9
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 240.0 (26.0) 214.0 91.0 (1,292.1) (1,201.1) (987.1)
Dividends
– Cash 8 (503.5) – (503.5) – – – (503.5)
– Dividend in specie on demerger of Thus 8 – – – (436.6) – (436.6) (436.6)
(503.5) – (503.5) (436.6) – (436.6) (940.1)
Loss retained 26 (263.5) (26.0) (289.5) (345.6) (1,292.1) (1,637.7) (1,927.2)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share 7 13.06p (1.41)p 11.65p 4.95p (70.31)p (65.36)p (53.71)p
Adjusting items – exceptional items – 1.41p 1.41p – 70.31p 70.31p 71.72p
– goodwill amortisation 7.98p – 7.98p 0.13p – 0.13p 8.11p
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation 7 21.04p – 21.04p 5.08p – 5.08p 26.12p
Diluted loss per ordinary share 7 (53.64)p
Adjusting items – exceptional items 71.63p
– goodwill amortisation 8.10p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation 7 26.09p
Cash dividends per ordinary share 8 27.34p
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
75 Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2001
Year ended 31 March 2001
Exceptional
item
-continuing Total Total
Continuing operations continuing discontinued
operations (Note 4) operations operations Total
2001 2001 2001 2001 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover: group and share of joint ventures and associates 5,421.9 – 5,421.9 939.5 6,361.4
Less: share of turnover in joint ventures (11.7) – (11.7) – (11.7)
Less: share of turnover in associates (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Group turnover 1 5,409.8 – 5,409.8 939.5 6,349.3
Cost of sales (3,837.0) (62.1) (3,899.1) (570.4) (4,469.5)
Gross profit 1,572.8 (62.1) 1,510.7 369.1 1,879.8
Transmission and distribution costs (483.2) (45.1) (528.3) (38.4) (566.7)
Administrative expenses (including goodwill amortisation) (446.1) (13.5) (459.6) (182.0) (641.6)
Other operating income 46.6 – 46.6 3.8 50.4
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 815.3 (120.7) 694.6 154.9 849.5
Goodwill amortisation (125.2) – (125.2) (2.4) (127.6)
Operating profit 1, 2 690.1 (120.7) 569.4 152.5 721.9
Share of operating loss in joint ventures (9.4) – (9.4) – (9.4)
Share of operating profit in associates 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Profit on ordinary activities before interest 680.8 (120.7) 560.1 152.5 712.6
Net interest and similar charges
– Group (293.7) – (293.7) (36.3) (330.0)
– Joint ventures (2.9) – (2.9) – (2.9)
5 (296.6) – (296.6) (36.3) (332.9)
Profit on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation and taxation 509.4 (120.7) 388.7 118.6 507.3
Goodwill amortisation (125.2) – (125.2) (2.4) (127.6)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 384.2 (120.7) 263.5 116.2 379.7
Taxation
– Group before tax on exceptional item (145.9) – (145.9) 6.7 (139.2)
– Tax on exceptional item 4 – 45.9 45.9 – 45.9
– Joint ventures (1.9) – (1.9) – (1.9)
6 (147.8) 45.9 (101.9) 6.7 (95.2)
Profit after taxation 236.4 (74.8) 161.6 122.9 284.5
Minority interests (10.4) – (10.4) 33.4 23.0
Profit for the financial year 226.0 (74.8) 151.2 156.3 307.5
Dividends 8 (477.3) – (477.3) – (477.3)
Loss retained 26 (251.3) (74.8) (326.1) 156.3 (169.8)
Earnings per ordinary share 7 12.35p (4.09)p 8.26p 8.54p 16.80p
Adjusting items – exceptional item – 4.09p 4.09p – 4.09p
– goodwill amortisation 6.84p – 6.84p 0.13p 6.97p
Earnings per ordinary share before exceptional item
and goodwill amortisation 7 19.19p – 19.19p 8.67p 27.86p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 7 16.74p
Adjusting items – exceptional item 4.07p
– goodwill amortisation 6.94p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before exceptional item
and goodwill amortisation 7 27.75p
Dividends per ordinary share 8 26.04p
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
76 2003 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 482.6 (987.1) 307.5
Exchange movement on translation of overseas results and net assets 26 (387.0) (4.2) 493.1
Translation differences on foreign currency hedging 26 357.6 (19.5) –
Tax on translation differences on foreign currency hedging 26 (28.8) ––
Unrealised gains on fixed asset disposals 26 – 4.9 –
Total recognised gains and losses for the financial year 424.4 (1,005.9) 800.6
Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 696.8 (938.8) 379.7
Differences between historical cost depreciation charge and actual depreciation 
charge for the year calculated on the revalued amount of fixed assets 26 2.0 3.4 3.4
Fixed asset revaluation gains realised on disposal 26 – 168.2 –
Historical cost profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 698.8 (767.2) 383.1
Historical cost loss retained for the financial year after
taxation, minority interest and dividends (44.9) (1,755.6) (166.4)
Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders’ Funds
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 482.6 (987.1) 307.5
Dividends
– Cash (529.5) (503.5) (477.3)
– Dividend in specie on demerger of Thus – (436.6) –
Loss retained (46.9) (1,927.2) (169.8)
Exchange movement on translation of overseas results and net assets (387.0) (4.2) 493.1
Translation differences on foreign currency hedging 357.6 (19.5) –
Tax on translation differences on foreign currency hedging (28.8) ––
Unrealised gains on fixed asset disposals – 4.9 –
Share capital issued 12.0 16.2 6.6
Goodwill realised on disposals – 753.3 –
Goodwill realised on demerger of Thus – 14.7 –
Net movement in shareholders’ funds (93.1) (1,161.8) 329.9
Opening shareholders’ funds 4,731.4 5,893.2 5,563.3
Closing shareholders’ funds 4,638.3 4,731.4 5,893.2
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts.
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
for the year ended 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
77 Notes to the Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2003
1 Segmental information
(a) Turnover by segment Total turnover Inter-segment turnover External turnover
2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 2,180.8 2,160.7 2,099.1 (33.0) (39.3) (35.3) 2,147.8 2,121.4 2,063.8
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 667.3 646.6 666.3 (353.3) (399.0) (442.6) 314.0 247.6 223.7
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 2,461.8 2,369.0 2,287.5
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i) 2,502.2 2,980.7 3,106.2 (2.8) –– 2,499.4 2,980.7 3,106.2
PPM (i),(ii) 293.6 173.1 16.1 (7.7) –– 285.9 173.1 16.1
United States total – continuing operations 2,785.3 3,153.8 3,122.3
Total continuing operations 5,247.1 5,522.8 5,409.8
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water 26.7 430.6 422.9 – (0.7) (0.5) 26.7 429.9 422.4
Thus – 257.8 233.8 – (28.7) (34.4) – 229.1 199.4
Appliance Retailing – 133.9 325.4 – (1.6) (7.7) – 132.3 317.7
United Kingdom total – discontinued operations 26.7 791.3 939.5
Total (iii) 5,273.8 6,314.1 6,349.3
(b) Operating profit/(loss) by segment Before Before
goodwill goodwill
amortisation amortisation
Before and and
goodwill Goodwill exceptional Goodwill Exceptional exceptional Goodwill Exceptional
amortisation amortisation item amortisation item item amortisation item
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 77.9 (4.9) 73.0 78.7 (4.9) (18.5) 55.3 122.7 (0.4) – 122.3
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 367.8 – 367.8 354.9 – – 354.9 341.3 – – 341.3
United Kingdom total – 
continuing operations 445.7 (4.9) 440.8 433.6 (4.9) (18.5) 410.2 464.0 (0.4) – 463.6
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i) 596.7 (133.9) 462.8 371.6 (141.7) – 229.9 346.8 (124.8) (120.7) 101.3
PPM (i),(ii) 28.5 (0.2) 28.3 (4.7) – – (4.7) 4.5 – – 4.5
United States total – continuing operations 625.2 (134.1) 491.1 366.9 (141.7) – 225.2 351.3 (124.8) (120.7) 105.8
Total continuing operations 1,070.9 (139.0) 931.9 800.5 (146.6) (18.5) 635.4 815.3 (125.2) (120.7) 569.4
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water 14.0 – 14.0 216.3 – – 216.3 221.6 – – 221.6
Thus ––– (63.7) (2.4) – (66.1) (58.0) (2.4) – (60.4)
Appliance Retailing ––– (9.0) – – (9.0) (8.7) – – (8.7)
United Kingdom total –
discontinued operations 14.0 – 14.0 143.6 (2.4) – 141.2 154.9 (2.4) – 152.5
Total 1,084.9 (139.0) 945.9 944.1 (149.0) (18.5) 776.6 970.2 (127.6) (120.7) 721.9
(c) Depreciation and impairment by segment Depreciation Depreciation Impairment Total Depreciation
2003 2002 2002 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 87.3 72.9 13.0 85.9 51.6
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 112.4 108.3 – 108.3 107.6
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 199.7 181.2 13.0 194.2 159.2
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i) 233.9 225.4 – 225.4 203.5
PPM (i) 8.0 2.4 – 2.4 0.1
United States total – continuing operations 241.9 227.8 – 227.8 203.6
Total continuing operations 441.6 409.0 13.0 422.0 362.8
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water 5.6 77.6 – 77.6 71.2
Thus – 65.2 – 65.2 36.5
Appliance Retailing – 3.2 – 3.2 9.8
United Kingdom total – discontinued operations 5.6 146.0 – 146.0 117.5
Total depreciation and impairment charged to operating profit 447.2 555.0 13.0 568.0 480.3
Impairment within loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing – – 32.2 32.2 –
Impairment within provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water – – 449.3 449.3 –
Total depreciation and impairment 447.2 555.0 494.5 1,049.5 480.3
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
78 1 Segmental information continued
(i) The former ‘PacifiCorp’ segment has been separated into two reporting segments, PacifiCorp, the US regulated business and PPM, the competitive US energy
business, which commenced substantive operations during 2001.
(ii) PPM completed the acquisition of the Katy gas storage facility and certain other trade and assets from Aquila, Inc. in December 2002. The post acquisition
results of the acquired business are included within the PPM segment and amounted to turnover of £3.2 million, operating profit, before goodwill amortisation,
of £1.0 million and operating profit, after goodwill amortisation, of £0.8 million.
(iii) In the segmental analysis turnover is shown by geographical origin. Turnover analysed by geographical destination is not materially different.
2 Operating profit
2003 2002 2001
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting): Note £m £m £m 
Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 447.2 568.0 480.3
Amortisation of goodwill 139.0 149.0 127.6
Release of customer contributions/grants (18.6) (17.8) (15.1)
Research and development 0.7 3.1 4.2
Hire of plant and equipment – operating leases 0.1 0.1 0.3
Hire of other assets – operating leases 14.6 55.6 54.6
Auditors’ remuneration for audit of
– group 1.5 1.5 1.5
– company – ––
Non-audit fees paid to auditors:
Regulatory advice – 0.3 1.3
Taxation, compliance and advice 4.8 5.2 3.1
Due diligence, UK Listing Authority and SEC reporting 0.3 3.4 0.8
Other audit and assurance services 1.0 0.8 0.8
Advice on systems and consultancy services (i) 0.3 6.9 5.4
Total UK and US non-audit fees paid to auditors 6.4 16.6 11.4
(i) Fees for the year ended 31 March 2003 include an amount of £0.3 million which was paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting in the period prior to its
disposal by PricewaterhouseCoopers on 2 October 2002.
(ii) The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards to avoid the possibility that the auditors’ objectivity and independence could be
compromised. These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit-related services. This policy has been
revised during the year to incorporate the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the group for sound
commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit
Committee. Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and regulatory advice, reporting to the SEC and
the UK Listing Authority and the completion of certain financial due diligence work. All these services are also subject to a pre-defined fee limit. Any work
performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Fees and expenses invoiced by the auditors for non-audit services include £2.3 million (2002 £10.4 million, 2001 £7.5 million) payable in the UK.
For the year ended 31 March 2003, all of the above non-audit fees were charged to operating profit.
For the year ended 31 March 2002, £15.1 million of the above non-audit fees were charged to operating profit, £0.6 million were charged to exceptional loss on
disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing and £0.9 million were charged to exceptional provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water.
For the year ended 31 March 2001, £10.7 million of the above non-audit fees were charged to operating profit and £0.7 million were included within the costs of
sale of the businesses held for disposal.
Operating profit for the years ended 31 March 2003, 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2001 is also stated after charging/(crediting) £27.8 million, £(4.2) million
and £(4.3) million respectively in relation to finance leases in the US, which are financed by non-recourse borrowings and qualify for linked presentation under
FRS 5. Net earnings comprise gross loss/(earnings), after provision against the carrying value of the group’s residual interests, of £3.2 million, £(32.3) million
and £(33.8) million less finance costs of £24.6 million, £28.1 million and £29.5 million respectively.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
79 Notes to the Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2003 – continued
3 Employee information
2003 2002 2001
(a) Employee costs Note £m £m £m 
Wages and salaries 553.1 695.6 676.8
Social security costs 36.7 46.9 50.3
Pension costs (i) 68.0 43.9 28.4
Total employee costs 657.8 786.4 755.5
Less: charged as capital expenditure (155.2) (191.3) (151.2)
Charged to the profit and loss account 502.6 595.1 604.3
(i) Pension costs above comprise pension costs, company contributions to the PacifiCorp 401(k) plan and costs of other post-retirement and other post-employment
benefits. The cost of the group’s pension arrangements for the year ended 31 March 2003 was £41.8 million (2002 £21.4 million, 2001 £23.0 million).
(b) Employee numbers
The year end and average numbers of employees (full-time and part-time) employed by the group, including executive directors, were: 
At 31 March Annual average
Note 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 4,319 4,582 4,278 4,362 4,589 4,178
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 3,215 3,084 3,265 3,238 3,174 3,332
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 7,534 7,666 7,543 7,600 7,763 7,510
United States – continuing operations
US Division
PacifiCorp 6,130 6,289 6,626 6,175 6,436 7,027
PPM 161 98 42 128 76 26
United States total – continuing operations 6,291 6,387 6,668 6,303 6,512 7,053
Total continuing operations 13,825 14,053 14,211 13,903 14,275 14,563
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water – 2,109 2,138 2,024 2,125 2,160
Thus – – 2,686 – 2,392 2,696
Appliance Retailing – – 2,946 – 2,391 2,988
United Kingdom total – discontinued operations (i) – 2,109 7,770 2,024 6,908 7,844
Total 13,825 16,162 21,981 15,927 21,183 22,407
The year end and average numbers of full-time equivalent staff employed by the group, including executive directors, were: 
At 31 March Annual average
Note 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001
United Kingdom
– continuing operations 7,163 7,353 7,184 7,240 7,391 7,125
– discontinued operations (i) – 2,056 7,025 1,982 6,314 7,049
United States 6,265 6,349 6,612 6,268 6,474 6,993
Total 13,428 15,758 20,821 15,490 20,179 21,167
(i) The annual average for 2003 for Southern Water is calculated for the period prior to disposal on 23 April 2002. The annual average for 2002 for discontinued
operations is calculated for the period prior to disposal or demerger. This represents the period to 8 October 2001 for Appliance Retailing and the period to 19
March 2002 for Thus.
(c) Directors’ remuneration
Details, for each director, of remuneration, pension entitlements and interests in share options are set out on pages 65 to 68. This information forms part of the
Accounts.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
80 4 Exceptional items
2003 2001
Continuing Continuing
operations 2002 2002 operations
and Continuing Discontinued 2002 and 
Total operations operations Total Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m
(a) Recognised in arriving at operating profit
Reorganisation costs (i), (v) – (18.5) – (18.5) (120.7)
Total recognised in arriving at operating profit – (18.5) – (18.5) (120.7)
(b) Recognised after operating profit
Loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing (ii) – – (120.1) (120.1) –
Provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water before goodwill write back (iii) – – (449.3) (449.3) –
Goodwill write back relating to Southern Water (iii) – – (738.2) (738.2) –
Total recognised after operating profit – – (1,307.6) (1,307.6) –
Total exceptional items before interest and taxation – (18.5) (1,307.6) (1,326.1) (120.7)
Restructuring of debt portfolio (iv) – (18.8) (12.0) (30.8) –
Tax on exceptional items – 11.3 27.5 38.8 45.9
Total exceptional items (net of tax) – (26.0) (1,292.1) (1,318.1) (74.8)
Year ended 31 March 2003
There were no exceptional items during the year ended 31 March 2003. 
Year ended 31 March 2002
(i) An exceptional charge of £18.5 million was incurred relating to reorganisation costs for the UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply and primarily
represented severance and related costs.
(ii) An exceptional charge of £120.1 million related to the loss on disposal of and withdrawal from the group’s Appliance Retailing operations. This charge
included £15.1 million of goodwill previously written off to reserves. The pre-goodwill loss of £105.0 million comprised asset impairments of £54.2 million
(including a provision for impairment of tangible fixed assets of £32.2 million) and provisions for trading losses and closure costs of £50.8 million. The loss on
disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing was stated before a tax credit of £21.0 million.
(iii) On 23 April 2002, the group completed the sale of Aspen 4 Limited (the holding company of Southern Water plc) to First Aqua Limited for a total
consideration, before expenses, of £2.05 billion including repayment and acquisition of intra-group non-trading indebtedness and assumption by First Aqua
Limited of Southern Water’s non-trading debt due to third parties. An exceptional charge of £1,187.5 million related to the provision for the loss on disposal of the
group’s Southern Water business. This charge included £738.2 million of goodwill previously written off to reserves and was stated before a tax credit of £2.9 million. 
(iv) Exceptional finance costs of £12.0 million, comprising hedging and debt redemption costs associated with the proposed refinancing of Southern Water,  have
been included within the results of Discontinued operations. Exceptional finance costs of £18.8 million, relating to the restructuring of the group’s debt portfolio in
anticipation of the disposal of Southern Water, have been included within the results of Continuing operations.
Year ended 31 March 2001
(v) The charge of £120.7 million related to the cost of the Transition Plan for PacifiCorp announced on 4 May 2000 and primarily represented severance and 
related costs for approximately 1,600 employees.
5 Net interest and similar charges
2003 2002 2001
Analysis of net interest and similar charges Notes £m £m £m 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 18.6 32.8 38.1
Interest on other borrowings 331.0 379.5 333.7
Finance leases 2.1 2.3 2.2
Total interest payable 351.7 414.6 374.0
Interest receivable (107.1) (15.0) (33.7)
Capitalised interest (i) (17.3) (36.1) (32.2)
Net interest charge 227.3 363.5 308.1
Unwinding of discount on provisions 26.5 22.8 16.0
Foreign exchange loss/(gain) 0.5 (6.9) 8.8
Net interest and similar charges before exceptional items 254.3 379.4 332.9
Exceptional interest on bank loans and overdrafts – 12.0 –
Exceptional interest on other borrowings – 18.8 –
Exceptional interest and similar charges 4(iv) – 30.8 –
Net interest and similar charges after exceptional items 254.3 410.2 332.9
Interest cover (times) (ii) 4.3 2.5 3.0
(i) The tax relief on the capitalised interest was £4.4 million (2002 £10.5 million; 2001 £9.1 million).
(ii) Interest cover is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities before interest (before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation) by the sum of the net
interest charge (before exceptional interest and similar charges) and the unwinding of discount on provisions. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
81 Notes to the Group Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2003 – continued
6 Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items item item
2003 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current tax:
UK Corporation tax 124.4 82.6 (32.5) 50.1 175.3 – 175.3
Foreign tax 78.9 17.3 – 17.3 5.7 (8.7) (3.0)
Double taxation relief – ––– (61.2) – (61.2)
203.3 99.9 (32.5) 67.4 119.8 (8.7) 111.1
Adjustments to UK Corporation tax in respect of prior years (44.9) (54.4) – (54.4) (29.7) – (29.7)
Total current tax for year 158.4 45.5 (32.5) 13.0 90.1 (8.7) 81.4
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences 50.6 76.5 (6.3) 70.2 86.0 (37.2) 48.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years – ––– (35.0) – (35.0)
Total deferred tax for year 50.6 76.5 (6.3) 70.2 51.0 (37.2) 13.8
Total tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities 209.0 122.0 (38.8) 83.2 141.1 (45.9) 95.2
Effective rate of tax before goodwill amortisation 25.0% 21.5% 22.5%
The current tax charge on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities for the year varied from the standard rate of UK Corporation tax as follows:
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Corporation tax at 30% 209.0 (281.6) 113.9
Losses and other permanent differences 3.9 28.1 6.2
Effect of tax rate applied to overseas earnings (0.7) (21.8) 11.2
Permanent differences on exceptional items – 368.2 (9.7)
Goodwill amortisation 41.7 44.7 38.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (44.9) (54.4) (64.7)
Tax charge (current and deferred) 209.0 83.2 95.2
Origination and reversal of timing differences – deferred tax charge (50.6) (70.2) (13.8)
Current tax charge for year 158.4 13.0 81.4
7 Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
(a) Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share have been calculated for all years by dividing the profit/(loss) for the financial year by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares in issue during the financial year, based on the following information: 
2003 2002 2001
Profit/(loss) for the financial year (£ million) 482.6 (987.1) 307.5
Basic weighted average share capital (number of shares, million) 1,843.9 1,837.8 1,830.3
Diluted weighted average share capital (number of shares, million) 1,848.4 1,840.1 1,837.4
The difference between the basic and the diluted weighted average share capital is wholly attributable to outstanding share options and shares held in trust for
the group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan. These share options are dilutive by reference to continuing operations and accordingly a diluted earnings/(loss)
per share has been calculated which has the impact of reducing the net earnings/(loss) per ordinary share.
(b) The calculation of earnings/(loss) per ordinary share, on a basis which excludes exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, is based on the following adjusted
earnings:
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Total operations operations Total operations operations Total
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 475.0 7.6 482.6 214.0 (1,201.1) (987.1) 151.2 156.3 307.5
Adjusting items – exceptional items
(net of attributable taxation) ––– 26.0 1,292.1 1,318.1 74.8 – 74.8
– goodwill amortisation 139.0 – 139.0 146.6 2.4 149.0 125.2 2.4 127.6
Adjusted earnings 614.0 7.6 621.6 386.6 93.4 480.0 351.2 158.7 509.9
The group’s net interest and similar charges have been allocated between continuing and discontinued operations on the basis of external and internal borrowings
of the respective operations. The group’s tax charge has been allocated between continuing and discontinued operations based on the profit/(loss) before tax of
the respective operations.
ScottishPower management assess the performance of the group by adjusting earnings per share, calculated in accordance with FRS 14, to exclude items they
consider to be non-recurring or non-operational in nature. Management believes that the exclusion of such items provides a better comparison of business
performance. Consequently, an adjusted earnings per share figure is presented for all years.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
82 8 Dividends
(a) Cash dividends 2003 2002 2001
pence per pence per pence per
ordinary ordinary ordinary 2003 2002 2001
share share share £m £m £m 
First interim dividend paid 7.177 6.835 6.510 132.5 125.4 119.1
Second interim dividend paid 7.177 6.835 6.510 132.7 125.9 119.3
Third interim dividend paid 7.177 6.835 6.510 132.1 126.1 119.5
Final dividend 7.177 6.835 6.510 132.2 126.1 119.4
Total cash dividends 28.708 27.340 26.040 529.5 503.5 477.3
(b) Dividend in specie on demerger of Thus
2003 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m 
Demerger dividend 34 – 436.6 –
The demerger of Thus was recorded in the group Accounts at the book value of the net assets which were deconsolidated of £421.9 million, together with £14.7
million of related goodwill which had previously been written off to reserves, giving a dividend in specie of £436.6 million.
The demerger of Thus was recorded in the individual company Accounts of Scottish Power plc at the book value of the cost of investment in the ordinary and
preference shares of Thus, giving a dividend in specie of £396.3 million.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
83 2003 2002 2001
Notes £m £m £m
Cash inflow from operating activities 10 1,412.9 1,248.4 1,411.6
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.9 0.3 2.1
Returns on investments and servicing of finance 9 (297.0) (377.8) (373.5)
Taxation (191.3) (85.0) (152.6)
Free cash flow 925.5 785.9 887.6
Capital expenditure and financial investment 9 (704.9) (1,148.3) (1,081.4)
Cash flow before acquisitions and disposals 220.6 (362.4) (193.8)
Acquisitions and disposals 9 1,799.0 150.0 482.9
Equity dividends paid (523.4) (496.8) (471.3)
Cash inflow/(outflow) before use of liquid resources and financing 1,496.2 (709.2) (182.2)
Management of liquid resources 9,13 (161.1) (38.7) (11.9)
Financing
– Issue of ordinary share capital 9 12.0 16.2 6.6
– Redemption of preferred stock of PacifiCorp 9 (5.1) (69.5) –
– (Decrease)/increase in debt 9,13 (1,191.4) 982.4 189.5
(1,184.5) 929.1 196.1
Increase in cash in year 13 150.6 181.2 2.0
Free cash flow represents cash flow from operating activities after adjusting for dividends received from joint ventures, returns on investments
and servicing of finance and taxation. 
Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt
for the year ended 31 March 2003
2003 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m
Increase in cash in year 150.6 181.2 2.0
Cash outflow/(inflow) from decrease/(increase) in debt 1,191.4 (982.4) (189.5)
Cash outflow from movement in liquid resources 161.1 38.7 11.9
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 1,503.1 (762.5) (175.6)
Net debt/(funds) disposed 100.0 (46.9) –
Foreign exchange movement 289.9 (6.3) (264.7)
Other non-cash movements (5.6) (107.6) (3.3)
Movement in net debt in year 1,887.4 (923.3) (443.6)
Net debt at end of previous year (6,208.4) (5,285.1) (4,841.5)
Net debt at end of year 13 (4,321.0) (6,208.4) (5,285.1)
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts.
Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
84 9 Analysis of cash flows
2003 2002 2001
Note £m £m £m
(a) Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 112.0 33.1 32.7
Interest paid (404.2) (402.8) (395.8)
Dividends paid to minority interests (4.8) (8.1) (10.4)
Net cash outflow for returns on investments and servicing of finance (297.0) (377.8) (373.5)
(b) Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (735.9) (1,244.7) (1,143.6)
Deferred income received 69.5 76.9 97.3
Sale of tangible fixed assets 10.4 17.7 26.4
(Purchase)/sale of fixed asset investments (48.9) 1.8 (61.5)
Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment (704.9) (1,148.3) (1,081.4)
(c) Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of businesses and subsidiary undertakings 12 (101.3) – (230.2)
Sale of businesses and subsidiary undertakings 12 1,900.3 150.0 713.1
Net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals 1,799.0 150.0 482.9
(d) Management of liquid resources*
Cash outflow in relation to short-term deposits and other short-term investments (161.1) (38.7) (11.9)
Net cash outflow for management of liquid resources (161.1) (38.7) (11.9)
(e) Financing
Issue of ordinary share capital 12.0 16.2 6.6
Redemption of preferred stock of PacifiCorp (5.1) (69.5) –
6.9 (53.3) 6.6
Debt due within one year:
– net (repayment)/drawdown of uncommitted facilities (203.6) 120.8 6.6
– (repayment)/drawdown of committed bank loan (100.0) 100.0 –
– net commercial paper (redeemed)/issued (288.9) (52.8) 6.1
– medium-term notes/private placements (86.4) 79.9 (58.9)
– (redemption)/issue of loan notes (2.2) (0.1) 0.4
– European Investment Bank loans (129.2) 114.8 (4.6)
– mortgages (5.9) 72.6 (96.4)
– non-recourse notes – – (147.2)
– 5.875% euro-US dollar bond 2003 (183.5) 183.5 –
– other 18.3 (1.3) 0.5
Debt due after one year:
– net repayment of uncommitted facilities – (3.8) –
– medium-term notes/private placements (127.3) 7.5 594.2
– European Investment Bank loans – (129.2) 42.8
– 5.875% euro-US Dollar bond 2003 – (183.3) –
– variable coupon Australian dollar bond issue – 233.8 –
– mortgages (83.0) 449.5 (25.8)
– secured pollution control revenue bonds – 2.8 0.2
– unsecured pollution control revenue bonds 2.1 (2.9) 1.9
– junior debentures – – (117.0)
– non-recourse notes – – (21.2)
– preferred securities 0.3 ––
– other (2.1) (9.7) 8.0
Finance leases:
– finance leases – 0.3 (0.1)
(Decrease)/increase in debt (1,191.4) 982.4 189.5
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing (1,184.5) 929.1 196.1
*Liquid resources include term deposits of less than one year, commercial paper and other short-term investments. 
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
85 10 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Operating profit 945.9 776.6 721.9
Depreciation and amortisation 586.2 717.0 607.9
Loss/(profit) on sale of tangible fixed assets and disposal of businesses 2.7 (7.7) (19.9)
Release of deferred income (18.6) (17.8) (15.1)
Movements in provisions for liabilities and charges (73.1) (93.6) 57.5
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (1.9) 10.4 (13.3)
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (169.4) 58.4 (137.2)
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 141.1 (194.9) 209.8
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,412.9 1,248.4 1,411.6
11 Effect of acquisitions and disposals on cash flows
Acquisition Disposal Disposals
2003 2003 2002
£m £m £m
Cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 1.0 16.0 (39.5)
Returns on investments and servicing of finance – (6.6) 0.7
Capital expenditure and financial investment (1.4) (9.2) (93.2)
Acquisitions and disposals –– 3.3
Management of liquid resources –– 4.0
Financing – 4.5 –
(Decrease)/increase in cash (0.4) 4.7 (124.7)
The analysis of cash flows of the acquisition in 2003 relates to the post-acquisition cash flows of the Katy gas storage facility. The effect of the disposal on cash
flows in 2003 relates to the disposal of Southern Water. 
The effect of disposals on cash flows in 2002 principally related to the group’s demerger of Thus and the disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing.
The cash flows relating to acquisitions during 2002 were not material.
The effect of acquisitions and disposals on cash flows during 2001 was not material.   
12 Analysis of cash flows in respect of acquisitions and disposals  
Acquisition Disposals Disposals Acquisitions Disposals
2003 2003 2002 2001 2001
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration including expenses (101.3) 1,139.4 13.9 (227.7) 716.5
Cash settlement of inter-company loan – 756.4 –––
Bank overdraft disposed/(cash at bank disposed) – 6.2 (9.2) – –
Deferred consideration in respect of prior year disposals/(acquisitions) – 10.5 152.1 (2.5) –
Expenses paid in respect of prior year disposals – (12.2) (6.8) – (3.4)
(101.3) 1,900.3 150.0 (230.2) 713.1
In 2003, the cash flows in respect of the acquisition represent the purchase of the Katy gas storage facility. The cash flows in respect of disposals principally
represent the proceeds from the sale of Southern Water.
In 2002, the cash flows in respect of disposals principally represent the collection of a note receivable on the discontinued operations of PacifiCorp’s mining and
resource development business, NERCO, which was sold in 1993 and the disposal of PacifiCorp’s synthetic fuel operations.
In 2001, cash flows in respect of acquisitions principally represent the purchase of Rye House power station. The cash flows in respect of disposals mainly
comprise proceeds from the sale of Centralia and Powercor.
Notes to the Group Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
86 13 Analysis of net debt
At Disposal Other At
1 April (excl. cash & non-cash 31 March
2001 Cash flow overdrafts) Exchange changes 2002
2001/02 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 139.7 163.4 – (0.3) – 302.8
Overdrafts (52.5) 17.8 – 0.1 – (34.6)
181.2
Debt due after 1 year (4,868.3) (364.7) – (3.7) (106.3) (5,343.0)
Debt due within 1 year (575.4) (617.4) 4.4 (2.5) (1.3) (1,192.2)
Finance leases (19.1) (0.3) – – – (19.4)
(982.4)
Other deposits 90.5 38.7 (51.3) 0.1 – 78.0
Total (5,285.1) (762.5) (46.9) (6.3) (107.6) (6,208.4)
‘Other non-cash changes’ to net debt represents amortisation of finance costs of £1.5 million, finance costs of £5.6 million representing the effects of the Retail
Price Index (“RPI”) on bonds carrying an RPI coupon and the recognition of the share of debt in joint arrangements of £100.5 million.
At Disposal Other At
1 April (excl. cash & non-cash 31 March
2002 Cash flow overdrafts) Exchange changes 2003
2002/03 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 302.8 139.5 – (12.2) – 430.1
Overdrafts (34.6) 11.1 – 2.4 – (21.1)
150.6
Debt due after 1 year (5,343.0) 210.0 100.0 278.9 (5.5) (4,759.6)
Debt due within 1 year (1,192.2) 981.4 – 23.5 (0.1) (187.4)
Finance leases (19.4) – – 1.9 – (17.5)
1,191.4
Other deposits 78.0 161.1 – (4.6) – 234.5
Total (6,208.4) 1,503.1 100.0 289.9 (5.6) (4,321.0)
‘Other non-cash changes’ to net debt represents amortisation of finance costs of £1.6 million and finance costs of £4.0 million representing the effects of the RPI
on bonds carrying an RPI coupon. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
87 2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 15 2,280.6 2,658.9
Tangible assets 16 9,028.7 11,652.3
Investments
– Investments in joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 111.9 119.3
Share of gross liabilities (111.8) (119.2)
0.1 0.1
– Loans to joint ventures 40.2 36.8
40.3 36.9
– Investments in associates 2.8 5.2
– Other investments 247.3 223.5
17 290.4 265.6
11,599.7 14,576.8
Current assets
Stocks 18 154.6 167.0
Debtors
– Gross debtors 1,684.5 1,448.2
– Less non-recourse financing (148.2) (257.4)
19 1,536.3 1,190.8
Short-term bank and other deposits 664.6 380.8
2,355.5 1,738.6
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Loans and other borrowings 20 (208.5) (1,226.8)
Other creditors 21 (1,785.7) (1,951.9)
(1,994.2) (3,178.7)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 361.3 (1,440.1)
Total assets less current liabilities 11,961.0 13,136.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Loans and other borrowings 20 (4,777.1) (5,362.4)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
– Deferred tax 23 (1,301.9) (1,691.2)
– Other provisions 22 (610.9) (713.8)
(1,912.8) (2,405.0)
Deferred income 24 (558.9) (551.2)
Net assets 14 4,712.2 4,818.1
Called up share capital 25, 26 928.0 926.3
Share premium 26 2,264.4 2,254.1
Revaluation reserve 26 43.5 45.5
Capital redemption reserve 26 18.3 18.3
Merger reserve 26 406.4 406.4
Profit and loss account 26 977.7 1,080.8
Equity shareholders’ funds 26 4,638.3 4,731.4
Minority interests (including non-equity) 27 73.9 86.7
Capital employed 4,712.2 4,818.1
Net asset value per ordinary share 14 249.2p 254.8p
Approved by the Board on 7 May 2003 and signed on its behalf by
Charles Miller Smith David Nish
Chairman Finance Director
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form part of these Accounts.
Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
88 14 Segmental information
2003 2002
(a) Net assets by segment Notes £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 908.4 873.4
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 2,175.4 2,070.7
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 3,083.8 2,944.1
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i) 6,787.2 7,521.9
PPM (i) 375.8 254.1
United States total – continuing operations 7,163.0 7,776.0
Total continuing operations 10,246.8 10,720.1
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water – 2,347.6
United Kingdom total – discontinued operations – 2,347.6
Unallocated net liabilities
Net debt (4,321.0) (6,208.4)
Deferred tax (1,301.9) (1,691.2)
Corporate tax (251.1) (293.3)
Proposed dividend (132.2) (126.1)
Fixed asset investments 290.4 265.6
Other (ii) 181.2 (196.2)
Total unallocated net liabilities (5,534.6) (8,249.6)
Total 4,712.2 4,818.1
Net asset value per ordinary share has been calculated based on the following net assets and the number of shares in issue at the end of the respective financial
years (after adjusting for the effect of shares held in trust for the group’s Sharesave Schemes and Employee Share Ownership Plan):
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
Net assets (as adjusted) (£ million) 4,600.1 4,692.5
Number of ordinary shares in issue at year end (as adjusted) (number of shares, million) 1,845.6 1,841.9
2003 2002
(b) Capital expenditure by segment Notes £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply (iii) 73.2 109.2
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems (iii) 273.1 240.1
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 346.3 349.3
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i),(iii) 388.4 393.2
PPM (i) 36.1 206.2
United States total – continuing operations 424.5 599.4
Total continuing operations 770.8 948.7
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water (iii) 15.8 279.5
Thus – 78.0
Appliance Retailing – 0.1
Total discontinued operations 15.8 357.6
Total 786.6 1,306.3
2003 2002
(c) Total assets by segment Notes £m £m
United Kingdom – continuing operations
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 1,601.4 1,563.6
Infrastructure Division – Power Systems 2,808.7 2,657.6
United Kingdom total – continuing operations 4,410.1 4,221.2
United States – continuing operations
US Division 
PacifiCorp (i) 7,709.2 8,600.3
PPM (i) 542.8 278.6
United States total – continuing operations 8,252.0 8,878.9
Total continuing operations 12,662.1 13,100.1
United Kingdom – discontinued operations
Southern Water – 2,568.9
Total discontinued operations – 2,568.9
Unallocated total assets (iv) 1,293.1 646.4
Total 13,955.2 16,315.4
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
89 14 Segmental information continued
(i) The former ‘PacifiCorp’ segment has been separated into two reporting segments, PacifiCorp, the US regulated business and PPM, the competitive US energy
business, which commenced substantive operations during 2001.
(ii) Other unallocated net liabilities principally includes interest and amounts relating to gains arising on retranslation of forward contracts and cross currency
interest rate swaps used to hedge net overseas investments.
(iii) Capital expenditure by business segment is stated gross of capital grants and customer contributions. Capital expenditure net of contributions amounted to
£717.1 million (2002 £1,229.4 million). Capital grants and customer contributions receivable during the year of £69.5 million (2002 £76.9 million) comprised
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply £5.4 million (2002 £0.2 million), Infrastructure Division – Power Systems £43.2 million (2002 £42.5 million),
PacifiCorp £20.0 million (2002 £22.1 million) and Southern Water £0.9 million (2002 £12.1 million).
(iv) Unallocated total assets includes investments, interest receivable, bank deposits and amounts relating to gains arising on retranslation of forward contracts
and cross currency interest rate swaps used to hedge net overseas investments.
15 Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
Year ended 31 March 2002 Note £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2001 3,017.9
Thus open offer 34 34.4
Demerger of Thus 34 (70.4)
Exchange (4.1)
At 31 March 2002 2,977.8
Amortisation:
At 1 April 2001 177.1
Amortisation for the year 149.0 
Demerger of Thus 34 (7.8) 
Exchange 0.6
At 31 March 2002 318.9 
Net book value:
At 31 March 2002 2,658.9
At 31 March 2001 2,840.8
Goodwill
Year ended 31 March 2003 Note £m
Cost:
At 1 April 2002 2,977.8
Acquisition 32 12.4
Exchange (286.0)
At 31 March 2003 2,704.2
Amortisation:
At 1 April 2002 318.9
Amortisation for the year 139.0 
Exchange (34.3)
At 31 March 2003 423.6
Net book value:
At 31 March 2003 2,280.6
At 31 March 2002 2,658.9
Goodwill capitalised is being amortised over its estimated useful economic life of 20 years. Goodwill capitalised relating to Thus was being amortised over its
estimated useful economic life of 15 years.
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
90 16 Tangible fixed assets
Water
Land and infrastructure Plant and Vehicles and
buildings assets machinery equipment Total
Year ended 31 March 2002 Notes £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation: 
At 1 April 2001 1,385.2 1,174.9 10,053.5 1,480.3 14,093.9
Additions 88.5 76.7 986.5 154.6 1,306.3
Impairment (i), (ix) (6.9) (306.3) (136.1) – (449.3)
Valuation adjustment (ii) – (109.1) (207.3) – (316.4)
Grants and contributions – (9.2) – – (9.2)
Disposals (13.7) (0.6) (57.3) (94.9) (166.5)
Demerger of Thus 34 (11.9) – (466.2) (136.8) (614.9)
Exchange (0.3) – (3.7) (0.5) (4.5)
At 31 March 2002 1,440.9 826.4 10,169.4 1,402.7 13,839.4
Depreciation: 
At 1 April 2001 265.6 88.4 1,401.9 417.2 2,173.1
Reclassification (42.6) – 42.6 – –
Charge for the year 32.8 21.2 323.1 177.9 555.0
Impairment (ix) 1.6 – 12.2 31.4 45.2
Valuation adjustment (ii) – (109.1) (207.3) – (316.4)
Disposals (13.3) (0.5) (29.9) (80.9) (124.6)
Demerger of Thus 34 (3.1) – (78.9) (64.1) (146.1)
Exchange –– 0.6 0.3 0.9
At 31 March 2002 241.0 – 1,464.3 481.8 2,187.1
Net book value:
At 31 March 2002 1,199.9 826.4 8,705.1 920.9 11,652.3
At 31 March 2001 1,119.6 1,086.5 8,651.6 1,063.1 11,920.8
Year ended 31 March 2003
Cost or valuation: 
At 1 April 2002 1,440.9 826.4 10,169.4 1,402.7 13,839.4
Additions 24.1 0.1 651.8 110.6 786.6
Acquisition 32 7.1 – 81.2 – 88.3
Grants and contributions – (0.8) – – (0.8)
Disposals (7.3) (0.3) (45.8) (52.9) (106.3)
Valuation adjustment (ii) – – 149.8 – 149.8
Disposal of Southern Water 33 (811.1) (825.4) (714.3) (235.1) (2,585.9)
Exchange (21.0) – (541.3) (58.8) (621.1)
At 31 March 2003 632.7 – 9,750.8 1,166.5 11,550.0
Depreciation: 
At 1 April 2002 241.0 – 1,464.3 481.8 2,187.1
Reclassification –– 3.2 (3.2) –
Charge for the year 13.9 1.5 287.9 143.9 447.2
Disposals (0.8) (0.3) (40.8) (51.1) (93.0)
Valuation adjustment (ii) – – 149.8 – 149.8
Disposal of Southern Water 33 (75.0) (1.2) (2.0) (33.0) (111.2)
Exchange (1.8) – (43.0) (13.8) (58.6)
At 31 March 2003 177.3 – 1,819.4 524.6 2,521.3
Net book value:
At 31 March 2003 455.4 – 7,931.4 641.9 9,028.7
At 31 March 2002 1,199.9 826.4 8,705.1 920.9 11,652.3
2003 2002
Historical cost analysis £m £m
Cost 11,496.0 13,785.4
Depreciation based on cost (2,510.8) (2,178.6)
Net book value based on cost 8,985.2 11,606.8
2003 2002
Included in the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets above are: Notes £m £m
Assets in the course of construction 556.1 1,181.1
Other assets not subject to depreciation (v) 114.3 158.1
Grants and contributions in respect of water infrastructure assets – (42.2)
Capitalised interest (iv) 40.4 130.6
(i) The impairment of assets of £449.3 million in 2001/02 represented the provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water. The total impairment of group assets
is detailed in Note 1(c).
(ii) The valuation adjustment in 2002/03 represents an adjustment to the cost and accumulated depreciation of the tangible fixed assets of Southern Water on disposal.
The valuation adjustment in 2001/02 represented elimination of the accumulated depreciation on the tangible fixed assets of Southern Water which were impaired.
(iii) The Manweb distribution and Southern Water operational assets were revalued by the directors on 30 September 1997 on a market value basis. The valuation
of the Manweb distribution assets has not been and will not be updated, as permitted under the transitional provisions of FRS 15 ‘Tangible fixed assets’. The net
book value of tangible fixed assets included at valuation at 31 March 2003 relates to Manweb distribution assets and was £580.8 million (2002 £599.6 million). 
(iv) Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects was capitalised during the year at a rate of 5% (2002 7%) in the UK and 7% (2002 4%) in the US. 
(v) Other assets not subject to depreciation are land. Land and buildings held by the group are predominantly freehold. 
(vi) The historical cost of fully depreciated tangible fixed assets still in use was £298.0 million (2002 £272.6 million). 
(vii) Capitalised computer software costs developed for internal use include employee, interest and other external direct costs of materials and services which are
directly attributable to the development of computer software. Cumulative computer software costs capitalised are £525.8 million (2002 £490.7 million, 2001
£455.5 million). The depreciation charge was £79.6 million (2002 £73.4 million, 2001 £52.5 million). 
(viii) The net book value of land and buildings under finance leases at 31 March 2003 was £17.5 million (2002 £22.3 million). The charge for depreciation against
these assets during the year was £0.1 million (2002 £2.1 million).
(ix) Assets which were impaired in 2001/02 were valued on the basis of their estimated recoverable amounts. The impairment charge for the year ended 31 March
2002 of £494.5 million was charged to the profit and loss account as follows: cost of sales £13.0 million, loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance
Retailing £32.2 million and provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water £449.3 million. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
91 17 Fixed asset investments
Associated Own
Joint ventures undertakings shares held Other
Shares Loans Shares under trust investments Total 
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Cost or valuation: 
At 1 April 2001 18.8 25.0 5.0 65.4 182.1 296.3
Additions – 16.1 – 25.6 2.3 44.0
Share of retained (loss)/profit (2.4) (0.5) 0.2 – – (2.7)
Disposals and other (16.3) (3.8) – (19.8) (7.7) (47.6)
Demerger of Thus 34–––– (24.2) (24.2)
Exchange –––– (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 March 2002 0.1 36.8 5.2 71.2 152.3 265.6
Additions – 6.8 – 36.2 19.4 62.4
Share of retained (loss)/profit – (0.3) 0.3–––
Disposals and other – (3.1) (0.8) (10.3) (5.3) (19.5)
Disposal of Southern Water 33 – – (1.9) – – (1.9)
Exchange –––– (16.2) (16.2)
At 31 March 2003 0.1 40.2 2.8 97.1 150.2 290.4
The principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings are listed on page 130. 
Details of listed investments, including own shares held under trust, are given below:
£m
Balance Sheet value at 31 March 2003 154.6
Market value at 31 March 2003 133.2
(a) Shares in the company held under trust during the year are as follows:
Shares Shares Nominal Market 
held at Shares Shares held at value at value at
1 April acquired transferred 31 March 31 March 31 March
Dividends 2001 during year during year 2002 2002 2002 
2001/02 Notes waived (000s) (000s) (000s) (000s) £m £m 
Long Term Incentive Plan (i) no 2,712 1,355 (379) 3,688 1.8 13.3
ScottishPower Sharesave Schemes (ii) yes 15,240 – (6,917) 8,323 4.2 29.9
Executive Share Option Plan 2001 (iii) yes – 2,360 – 2,360 1.2 8.5
PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan (iv) no 114 122 (76) 160 0.1 0.6
Employee Share Ownership Plan (v) no 747 1,659 (224) 2,182 1.1 7.8
18,813 5,496 (7,596) 16,713 8.4 60.1
Shares Shares Nominal Market 
held at Shares Shares held at value at value at
1 April acquired transferred 31 March 31 March 31 March
Dividends 2002 during year during year 2003 2003 2003 
2002/03 Notes waived (000s) (000s) (000s) (000s) £m £m 
Long Term Incentive Plan (i) no 3,688 – (218) 3,470 1.7 13.0
ScottishPower Sharesave Schemes (ii) yes 8,323 – (2,064) 6,259 3.1 23.5
Executive Share Option Plan 2001 (iii) yes 2,360 7,387 – 9,747 4.9 36.6
PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan (iv) no 160 – (54) 106 0.1 0.4
Employee Share Ownership Plan (v) no 2,182 1,574 (755) 3,001 1.5 11.3
16,713 8,961 (3,091) 22,583 11.3 84.8
(i) Shares of the company are held under trust as part of the Long Term Incentive Plan for executive directors and other senior managers (see Remuneration
Report of the Directors on pages 61 to 68 for details of the Plan). 
(ii) Shares of the company are held in two Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trusts as part of the Scottish Power UK plc Sharesave Scheme and the Scottish
Power plc Sharesave Scheme. Holders of options granted under the schemes will be awarded shares by the Trusts upon the exercise of the options. Details of
options granted under these schemes are disclosed in Note 25.
(iii) Shares of the company are held under trust as part of the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 for executive directors and other senior managers (see
Remuneration Report of the Directors on pages 61 to 68 for details of the plan).
(iv) Options granted under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan are for ScottishPower ADSs; for the purposes of the table above, ADSs have been converted 
to ScottishPower ordinary shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower ordinary shares. 
(v) Shares of the company are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust on behalf of employees of the ScottishPower group. Shares appropriated under
the Free Element and the Matching Element are subject to forfeiture for a period of three years from the date of appropriation. Shares appropriated under the
Partnership Element of the Employee Share Ownership Plan are not subject to forfeiture. 
18 Stocks
2003 2002 
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 91.7 95.7
Fuel stocks 50.3 48.4
Work in progress 12.6 21.7
Finished goods and goods for resale – 1.2
154.6 167.0
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
92 19 Debtors
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
(a) Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade debtors (i) 424.8 470.9
Amounts receivable under finance leases – US (ii), (iii) 29.4 124.1
Less non-recourse financing (20.9) (92.9)
8.5 31.2
Amounts receivable under finance leases – UK (iii) 0.1 0.1
Prepayments and accrued income 393.3 395.2
Other debtors (iv) 530.1 114.7
1,356.8 1,012.1
(b) Amounts falling due after more than one year: 
Amounts receivable under finance leases – US (ii), (iii) 233.0 318.0
Less non-recourse financing (127.3) (164.5)
105.7 153.5
Amounts receivable under finance leases – UK (iii) 4.1 4.2
Other debtors 69.7 21.0
1,536.3 1,190.8
(i) Trade debtors are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of £76.7 million (2002 £101.1 million).
(ii) The group’s finance lease assets in the US which are financed by non-recourse borrowing qualify for linked presentation under FRS 5. The provider of the
finance has agreed in writing in the finance documentation that it will seek repayment of the finance, as to both principal and interest, only to the extent 
that sufficient funds are generated by the specific assets it has financed and that it will not seek recourse in any other form. The directors confirm that the group
has no obligation to support any losses arising under these leases nor is there any intention to do so. 
(iii) Amounts receivable under finance leases falling due after more than one year at 31 March 2003 of £237.1 million (2002 £322.2 million) are due as follows:
within 1-2 years, £32.3 million (2002 £28.7 million); within 2-3 years, £25.8 million (2002 £36.8 million); within 3-4 years, £33.2 million (2002 £28.6 million);
within  4-5 years, £27.7 million (2002 £38.3 million) and after 5 years, £118.1 million (2002 £189.8 million). Amounts received under finance leases during the
year were £51.6 million (2002 £58.8 million). 
(iv) Included within Other debtors falling due within one year is an amount of £297.1 million (2002 £nil) relating to the value of net investment swaps as disclosed
in Note 20(b).
20 Loans and other borrowings
Details of the group’s objectives, policies and strategy with regard to financial instruments and risk management are contained within the Financial Review 
on pages 33 to 53. The analyses of financial instruments in this Note, other than currency disclosures, do not include short-term debtors and creditors as
permitted by FRS 13.
Weighted Weighted
average average
interest rate interest rate 2003 2002
(a) Analysis by instrument Notes 2003 2002 £m £m
Unsecured debt of UK businesses
Bank overdraft – – 2.7 11.0
Committed bank loans 4.2% 5.0% – 100.0
Uncommitted bank loans 4.4% 5.0% 9.3 212.9
Commercial paper (i) 4.3% 5.0% – 195.0
Medium-term notes/private placements (ii) 5.0% 5.6% 1,035.7 1,245.1
Loan notes (iii) 4.1% 4.9% 3.6 5.9
European Investment Bank loans (iv) 5.9% 6.8% 199.2 328.4
5.875% euro-US dollar bond 2003 7.0% 7.0% – 183.5
Variable coupon bond 2008 6.9% 6.9% – 99.8
Variable rate Australian dollar bond 2011 4.7% 5.7% 234.2 233.8
5.250% deutschmark bond 2008 6.8% 6.8% 245.8 245.7
6.625% euro-sterling bond 2010 6.7% 6.7% 198.4 198.2
8.375% euro-sterling bond 2017 8.5% 8.4% 197.7 197.5
6.750% euro-sterling bond 2023 6.8% 6.8% 247.2 247.1
Unsecured debt of US businesses
Bank overdraft – – 18.4 23.6
Commercial paper (i) 1.4% 2.2% 15.8 124.0
Preferred securities (v) 8.6% 8.6% 208.9 231.9
Pollution control revenue bonds (vi) 2.0% 2.1% 284.9 316.4
Finance leases (vii) 11.9% 11.9% 17.5 19.4
Other borrowings 1.0% – 18.1 –
Unsecured debt 2,937.4 4,219.2
Secured debt of US businesses
First mortgage and collateral bonds (viii) 7.5% 7.5% 1,726.0 2,011.1
Pollution control revenue bonds (vi) 2.4% 2.6% 179.2 198.9
Other secured borrowings (ix) 6.5% 6.6% 143.0 160.0
Secured debt 2,048.2 2,370.0
4,985.6 6,589.2
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
93 20 Loans and other borrowings continued
(i) Commercial paper
Scottish Power UK plc has an established US$2.0 billion (2002 US$2.0 billion) euro-commercial paper programme. Paper is issued in a range of currencies 
and swapped back into sterling. PacifiCorp has a US$1.5 billion (2002 US$1.5 billion) domestic commercial paper programme. Amounts borrowed under the
commercial paper programmes are repayable in less than one year. 
(ii) Medium-term notes/private placements
Scottish Power plc and Scottish Power UK plc have an established joint US$7.0 billion (2002 US$7.0 billion) euro-medium-term note programme. Scottish
Power plc has as yet not issued under the programme. Paper is issued in a range of currencies and swapped back into sterling. As at 31 March 2003, maturities
range from 1 to 37 years.
(iii) Loan notes
All loan notes are redeemable at the holders’ discretion. The ultimate maturity date for currently outstanding loan notes is 2006. 
(iv) European Investment Bank (“EIB”) loans
These loans incorporate agreements with various interest rates and maturity dates. The maturity dates of these arrangements range from 2009 to 2011.
Following the sale of Aspen 4 Limited (the holding company of Southern Water plc) in April 2002, the EIB loans relating to Southern Water were repaid.
(v) Preferred securities
Wholly-owned subsidiary trusts of PacifiCorp (“the Trusts”) have issued redeemable preferred securities representing preferred undivided beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trusts. The sole assets of the Trusts are junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of PacifiCorp that bear interest at the same rates as
the preferred securities to which they relate, and certain rights under related guarantees by PacifiCorp.
(vi) Pollution control revenue bonds
Bonds issued by qualified tax exempt entities to finance, or refinance, the cost of certain pollution control, solid waste disposal and sewage facilities. PacifiCorp
has entered into agreements with the issuers pursuant to which PacifiCorp received the proceeds of the issuance and agreed to make payments sufficient to pay
principal of, interest on, and certain additional expenses. The interest on the bonds is not subject to federal income taxation for most bondholders. In some
cases, PacifiCorp has issued first mortgage and collateral bonds as collateral for repayment.
(vii) Finance leases
These are facility leases that are accounted for as capital leases, maturity dates range from 2014 to 2022. 
(viii) First mortgage and collateral bonds
First mortgage and collateral bonds of PacifiCorp may be issued in amounts limited by its Electric operation’s property, earnings and other provisions of the
mortgage indenture. Approximately US$12.0 billion of the eligible assets (based on original costs) of PacifiCorp is subject to the lien of the mortgage.
(ix) Other secured borrowings
Included within other secured borrowings is ScottishPower’s share of debt in a joint arrangement for the Klamath co-generation plant. The borrowings are the
subject of a guarantee, for US$60.0 million, provided by NA General Partnership in respect of second lien revenue bonds.
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
Book Fair Book Fair 
amount value amount value
(b) Fair value of financial instruments £m £m £m £m
Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt 209.2 209.2 1,263.1 1,263.1
Long-term debt 4,807.2 5,384.3 5,356.0 5,555.2
Cross currency interest rate swaps (30.8) (50.0) (29.9) (26.0)
Total debt 4,985.6 5,543.5 6,589.2 6,792.3
Interest rate swaps – (22.6) – 22.6
Interest rate swaptions 4.0 2.6 4.0 1.4
Forward rate agreements – 8.4 ––
Forward contracts – (46.7) 16.8 10.8
Net investment forward contracts (9.5) (9.9) ––
Net investment swaps (297.1) (255.8) ––
Energy hedge contracts – 35.0 (0.3) 60.3
Energy trading contracts (0.4) (0.4) (1.0) (1.0)
Total financial instruments 4,682.6 5,254.1 6,608.7 6,886.4
The assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial instruments are summarised below:
(i) For short-term borrowings (uncommitted borrowing, commercial paper and short-term borrowings under the committed facilities), the book value
approximates to fair value because of their short maturities. 
(ii) The fair values of all quoted euro bonds are based on their closing clean market price converted at the spot rate of exchange as appropriate.
(iii) The fair values of the EIB loans have been calculated by discounting their future cash flows at market rates adjusted to reflect the redemption adjustments
allowed under each agreement.
(iv) The fair values of unquoted debt have been calculated by discounting the estimated cash flows for each instrument at the appropriate market discount rate
in the currency of issue in effect at the balance sheet date.
(v) The fair values of the sterling interest rate swaps, sterling forward rate agreements and sterling interest rate caps have been estimated by calculating the
present value of estimated cash flows.
(vi) The fair values of the sterling interest rate swaptions are estimated using the sterling yield curve and implied volatilities as at 31 March.
(vii) The fair values of the cross currency interest rate swaps have been estimated by adding the present values of the two sides of each swap. The present value
of each side of the swap is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows for that side, using the appropriate market discount rates for that currency
in effect at the balance sheet date.
(viii) The fair values of the forward contracts and tax equalisation swaps are estimated using market forward exchange rates on 31 March.
(ix) The fair values of gas futures are the margin calls under those contracts.
(x) The fair values of weather derivatives have been estimated assuming for water related derivatives a normal water year in several water basins, and for
temperature related derivatives a normal daily high temperature of certain cities in the US.
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
94 20 Loans and other borrowings continued
2003 2002
(c) Maturity analysis £m £m 
Repayments fall due as follows: 
Within one year, or on demand 208.5 1,226.8
After more than one year 4,777.1 5,362.4
4,985.6 6,589.2
Repayments due after more than one year are analysed as follows: 
Between one and two years 223.0 198.9
Between two and three years 302.2 238.6
Between three and four years 246.2 340.4
Between four and five years 101.6 259.5
More than five years 3,904.1 4,325.0
4,777.1 5,362.4
Included in the within one year, or on demand figure above is £0.1 million, in the between two and five years figures is £0.8 million and in the more than five years
figure is £16.6 million relating to finance leases (2002 £nil, £0.6 million and £18.8 million respectively).
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Fair Value*
Liabilities: £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate (GBP) 25.0 50.0 – 100.0 25.0 1,109.9 1,309.9 1,486.9
Average interest rate (GBP) 6.1% 6.6% – 6.5% 6.7% 6.6% 6.6%
Fixed rate (USD) – UK group ––––– 51.4 51.4 73.6
Average interest rate (USD) – UK group ––––– 4.6% 4.6%
Fixed rate (USD) – US group 88.6 153.4 169.9 132.0 76.6 1,475.7 2,096.2 2,449.5
Average interest rate (USD) – US group 7.3% 7.3% 7.4% 7.6% 7.7% 7.7% 7.6%
Fixed rate (CHF) 4.1––––– 4.1 4.1
Average interest rate (CHF) 2.5%––––– 2.5%
Fixed rate (CZK) – – 34.2––– 34.2 47.5
Average interest rate (CZK) – – 6.9%––– 6.9%
Fixed rate (EUR) 7.0 14.6––– 282.6 304.2 332.2
Average interest rate (EUR) 4.9% 4.8%––– 5.2% 5.2%
Index-linked (GBP) ––––– 184.1 184.1 194.6
Average interest rate (GBP) – – –––3.49x RPI 3.49 x RPI
Variable rate (GBP) 31.6 5.0––– 87.0 123.6 127.0
Average interest rate (GBP) 3m LIBOR 3m LIBOR–––4m LIBOR 4m LIBOR
Variable rate (USD) – UK group – – 66.3 – – 21.2 87.5 84.9
Average interest rate (USD) – UK group – – 3m LIBOR – – 3m LIBOR 3m LIBOR
Variable rate (USD) – US group 52.2 – 9.9 14.2 – 389.8 466.1 446.6
Average interest rate (USD) – US group 1m LIBOR – BMA BMA – BMA BMA
Variable rate (USD) – US group ––––– 49.5 49.5 49.5
Average interest rate (USD) – US group ––––– MCBY MCBY
Variable rate (AUD) ––––– 234.2 234.2 257.1
Average interest rate (AUD) –––––3mBBSW3mBBSW
Variable rate (EUR) ––––– 18.7 18.7 21.0
Average interest rate (EUR) –––––5m LIBOR 5m LIBOR
Variable rate (JPY) – – 21.9––– 21.9 19.0
Average interest rate (JPY) – – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
4,985.6 5,593.5
The disclosures represent the interest profile and currency profile of financial liabilities before the impact of derivative hedging instruments.
The average variable rates above, LIBOR, exclude margins. LIBOR is the London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
GBP – Pounds Sterling, USD – American Dollars, CHF – Swiss Francs, CZK – Czech Koruna, EUR – Euros, JPY – Japanese Yen, AUD – Australian Dollars. BMA is a
weekly high grade market index comprised of 7-day tax exempt variable rate demand notes produced by municipal market data. MCBY is the Moody’s Corporate
Bond Yield. It is derived from the pricing data of 100 corporate bonds in the US market, each with current outstandings of over $100 million and maturities of
30 years. BBSW is the Australian Bank Bill Rate.
Reference to ‘m’ in ‘m LIBOR’ and ‘m BBSW’ represents months.
* Fair value represents the fair value of the total debt excluding the fair value of related cross currency interest rate swaps, details of which are set out in Note 20(g).
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
95 20 Loans and other borrowings continued
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
UK US Total UK US Total
(d) Interest rate analysis £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Fixed rate borrowings 1,427.0 2,096.2 3,523.2 1,920.2 2,446.2 4,366.4
Floating rate borrowings 946.8 515.6 1,462.4 1,583.7 639.1 2,222.8
2,373.8 2,611.8 4,985.6 3,503.9 3,085.3 6,589.2
Weighted average interest Weighted average 
rate at which borrowings period for which interest
are fixed rate is fixed
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002 At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
UK US UK US UK US UK US
%% %% Years Years Years Years
Fixed rate borrowings 6.7 7.6 6.9 7.6 11 13 10 13
All amounts in the analysis above take into account the effect of interest rate swaps and currency swaps. Floating rate borrowings bear interest at rates based on
LIBOR, certificate of deposit rates, interbank borrowing rates, prime rates or other short-term market rates. The average interest rates on short-term borrowings
as at 31 March 2003 were as follows: UK operations 3.6%, US operations 1.4% (2002 4.3% and 2.2% respectively).
Based on the floating rate net debt of £1,462.4 million at 31 March 2003 (2002 £2,222.8 million), a 100 basis point change in interest rates would result in a 
£14.6 million change in profit/(loss) before tax for the year (2002 £22.2 million change). 
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
UK US Total UK US Total
(e) Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Fixed rate financial assets 8.3 114.2 122.5 7.4 184.7 192.1
Floating rate financial assets 542.7 157.9 700.6 219.0 196.8 415.8
551.0 272.1 823.1 226.4 381.5 607.9
Included within US fixed rate financial assets at 31 March 2003 are amounts receivable under finance leases of £262.4 million (2002 £442.1 million) less 
non-recourse finance of £148.2 million (2002 £257.4 million). The floating rate financial assets of the group’s UK and US operations are principally cash
deposits of which £2.2 million in the UK and £nil in the US (2002 £2.1 million and £24.5 million respectively) are subject to either a legal assignment or a
charge in favour of a third party.
Weighted average interest rate Weighted average period for
at which financial assets are fixed which interest is fixed
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002 At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
UK US UK US UK US UK US
%% %% Years Years Years Years
Fixed rate financial assets 8.2 10.0 8.4 9.4 59 79
All amounts in the analysis above take into account the effect of interest rate swaps and currency swaps. Floating rate investments pay interest at rates based 
on LIBOR, certificate of deposit rates, prime rates or other short-term market rates. The average interest rates on short-term financial assets as at 31 March 2003
were as follows: UK operations 3.6%, US operations 1.2% (2002 3.7% and 2.0% respectively).
The fair values of the financial assets are not materially different from their book values.
The group also has certain equity investments which have been excluded from the disclosures above because they have no maturity date. As at 31 March 2003,
the book value of these investments was £68.9 million (2002 £78.5 million) and the fair value was £59.8 million (2002 £71.1 million).
(f) Borrowing facilities
The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2003 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met. Of the
facilities shown £100.0 million (2002 £1,000.0 million) relates to operations in the UK. The remaining £506.1 million (2002 £618.0 million) relates to operations
in the US. Scottish Power UK plc’s £1,000.0 million facility was cancelled following completion of the sale of Southern Water in April 2002. Both facilities are
floating rate facilities.
At 31 March At 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m 
Expiring within one year 416.3 618.0
Expiring between two and five years 189.8 1,000.0
Commitment fees on the above facilities were as follows: Scottish Power UK group £0.2 million (2002 £4.1 million); PacifiCorp £0.9 million 
(2002 £0.6 million). 
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
96 20 Loans and other borrowings continued
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Fair Value*
(g) Maturity analysis of derivatives £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate swaps
Variable to fixed (GBP) 275.0 – – 50.0 – 50.0 375.0 19.5
Average pay rate 5.5% – – 5.5% – 6.3% 5.6%
Average receive rate 5m LIBOR – – 3m LIBOR – 3m LIBOR 5m LIBOR
Fixed to index-linked (GBP) ––––– 100.0 100.0 11.3
Average pay rate ––––– 3.35 x RPI 3.35 x RPI
Average receive rate ––––– 6.2% 6.2%
Fixed to variable (GBP) 50.0 150.0 50.0 220.0 169.9 992.1 1,632.0 (98.4)
Average pay rate 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate 5.0% 5.7% 5.3% 5.9% 5.6% 6.4% 6.1%
Variable to variable (GBP) – 5.0––– 30.0 35.0 (0.7)
Average pay rate – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate – 3m LIBOR–––12m LIBOR 11m LIBOR
Variable to fixed (USD) – – 316.3 158.2 158.2 948.9 1,581.6 45.7
Average pay rate – – 3.3% 3.7% 4.0% 4.1% 3.92%
Average receive rate – – 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Swaptions
Notional amount (GBP) ––––– 100.0 100.0 2.6
Average pay rate ––––– 4.3% 4.3%
Average receive rate –––––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Forward rate agreements
Notional amount (GBP) 703.8––––– 703.8 (5.5)
Average pay rate 6m LIBOR–––––6m LIBOR
Average receive rate 5.4%––––– 5.4%
Notional amount (USD) 1,107.1––––– 1,107.1 13.9
Average pay rate 3.8%––––– 3.8%
Average receive rate 6m LIBOR–––––6m LIBOR
Cross currency swaps
Receive fixed USD pay variable GBP ––––– 51.4 51.4 (22.0)
Average pay rate (GBP) –––––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (USD) ––––– 4.6% 4.6%
Receive variable USD pay fixed GBP – – 33.1 – – 21.2 54.3 3.6
Average pay rate (GBP) – – 6.7% – – 4.9% 6.0%
Average receive rate (USD) – – 3m LIBOR – – 3m LIBOR 3m LIBOR
Receive variable USD pay variable GBP – – 33.3––– 33.3 1.9
Average pay rate (GBP) – – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (USD) – – 3m LIBOR–––3m LIBOR
Receive variable AUD pay variable GBP ––––– 237.8 237.8 (11.7)
Average pay rate (GBP) –––––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (AUD) –––––3mBBSW3mBBSW
Receive fixed CHF pay variable GBP 4.1––––– 4.1 (0.6)
Average pay rate (GBP) 3m LIBOR–––––3m LIBOR
Average receive rate (CHF) 2.7%––––– 2.7%
Receive fixed CZK pay variable GBP – – 34.3––– 34.3 (13.1)
Average pay rate (GBP) – – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (CZK) – – 3.5%––– 3.5%
Receive fixed EUR pay fixed GBP ––––– 246.6 246.6 (2.6)
Average pay rate (GBP) ––––– 6.7% 6.7%
Average receive rate (EUR) ––––– 5.3% 5.3%
Receive fixed EUR pay variable GBP 7.0 14.6––– 36.8 58.4 (6.3)
Average pay rate (GBP) 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (EUR) 4.9% 4.8%––– 5.0% 5.0%
Receive variable EUR pay variable GBP ––––– 18.7 18.7 (2.2)
Average pay rate (GBP) –––––6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (EUR) –––––5m LIBOR 5m LIBOR
Receive fixed JPY pay variable GBP – – 21.9––– 21.9 3.0
Average pay rate (GBP) – – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (JPY) – – 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
Receive fixed GBP pay fixed USD – 503.8–––– 503.8 (30.6)
Average pay rate (USD) – 3.6%–––– 3.6%
Average receive rate (GBP) – 5.1%–––– 5.1%
Receive fixed GBP pay variable USD – – – 35.0 – – 35.0 (5.0)
Average pay rate (USD) – – – 5.3% – – 5.3%
Average receive rate (GBP) – – – 6m LIBOR – – 6m LIBOR
Receive variable GBP pay fixed USD 352.2 413.4 343.7––– 1,109.3 1.1
Average pay rate (USD) 3.7% 3.5% 3.7%––– 3.6%
Average receive rate (GBP) 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR–––6m LIBOR
Receive variable GBP pay variable USD – 105.3 317.0 105.7 351.1 1,913.2 2,792.3 (221.3)
Average pay rate (USD) – 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Average receive rate (GBP) – 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR 6m LIBOR
Forward contracts
Buy GBP, sell USD 1,856.5 204.1 113.5 128.7 – – 2,302.8 (49.9)
Buy USD, sell GBP 1,173.0––––– 1,173.0 (6.7)
14,311.5 (374.0)
The abbreviations contained in the table are defined in Note 20(c). The above table includes derivatives relating to the partial hedging of the net assets of the US
business and the implementation of the change in policy regarding the interest rate mix of the group’s debt.
* Derivatives which have a positive fair value are shown in the table above as bracketed, while derivatives with a negative fair value are shown without brackets to
follow the convention in Note 20(b) that financial liabilities are shown without brackets.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
97 20 Loans and other borrowings continued
(h) Hedges
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. Unrecognised gains and losses
on instruments used for hedging, and the movements therein, are as follows: 
Total net 
Gains Losses gains/losses
Note £m £m £m 
Unrecognised gains and (losses) on hedges at 1 April 2001 108.7 (178.6) (69.9)
Transfer from gains to losses (i) (0.2) 0.2 –
Transfer from losses to gains (i) (0.1) 0.1 –
(Gains) and losses arising in previous years that were recognised in 2001/02 3.3 8.2 11.5
Gains and (losses) arising before 1 April 2001 that were not recognised in 2001/02 111.7 (170.1) (58.4)
Gains and (losses) arising in 2001/02 that were not recognised in 2001/02 (47.6) 27.5 (20.1)
Unrecognised gains and (losses) on hedges at 31 March 2002 64.1 (142.6) (78.5)
Gains and (losses) expected to be recognised in 2002/03 14.4 (17.7) (3.3)
Gains and (losses) expected to be recognised in 2003/04 or later 49.7 (124.9) (75.2)
(i) Figures in the table above are calculated by reference to the 31 March 2002 fair value of the derivative concerned.
Total net 
Gains Losses gains/losses
Note £m £m £m 
Unrecognised gains and (losses) on hedges at 1 April 2002 64.1 (142.6) (78.5)
Transfer from gains to losses (ii) (6.7) 6.7 –
Transfer from losses to gains (ii) (49.4) 49.4 –
(Gains) and losses arising in previous years that were recognised in 2002/03 (23.2) 4.1 (19.1)
Gains and (losses) arising before 1 April 2002 that were not recognised in 2002/03 (15.2) (82.4) (97.6)
Gains and (losses) arising in 2002/03 that were not recognised in 2002/03 196.6 (52.8) 143.8
Unrecognised gains and (losses) on hedges at 31 March 2003 181.4 (135.2) 46.2
Gains and (losses) expected to be recognised in 2003/04 33.1 (48.1) (15.0)
Gains and (losses) expected to be recognised in 2004/05 or later 148.3 (87.1) 61.2
(ii) Figures in the table above are calculated by reference to the 31 March 2003 fair value of the derivative concerned.
The analysis above excludes any gains and losses in respect of the net investment swaps and net investment forward contracts as gains and losses arising on
these contracts are recorded in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
2003 2002
(i) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities held for trading £m £m 
Net realised and unrealised gains included in profit and loss account 2.9 4.5
Fair value of financial assets held for trading at 31 March 11.0 3.7
Fair value of financial liabilities held for trading at 31 March (10.6) (2.7)
In the UK and US a limited amount of proprietary trading within the limits and guidelines of the risk management framework is undertaken.
The transactions included in the table above consist of forward purchase and sale contracts of electricity and forward purchase and sale contracts of gas and gas
futures contracts.
(j) Currency exposures
As explained in the Financial Review on pages 33 to 53 the group uses forward contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps to mitigate the currency
exposures arising from its net investment overseas. Gains and losses arising on net investment overseas and the forward contracts and cross currency interest
rate swaps used to hedge the currency exposures, are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. 
The group did not hold material net monetary assets or liabilities in currencies other than functional currency at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002.
21 Other creditors
2003 2002
£m £m 
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade creditors 135.9 172.0
Corporate tax 251.1 293.3
Other taxes and social security 62.6 56.9
Payments received on account 43.2 29.3
Capital creditors and accruals 73.0 135.4
Other creditors 396.5 395.6
Accrued expenses 691.2 743.3
Proposed dividend 132.2 126.1
1,785.7 1,951.9
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
98 22 Provisions for liabilities and charges – Other provisions
Acquisition/
At revision to Unwinding Utilised At
1 April provisional New of during 31 March 
2000 fair values Disposal provisions discount year Exchange 2001
2000/01 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Reorganisation and restructuring 44.0 – – 54.7 – (17.8) 4.2 85.1
Environmental and health 84.0 – – 3.7 2.3 (2.4) 9.2 96.8
Decommissioning costs 91.5 (15.2) (6.7) – 3.9 (0.8) 9.4 82.1
Onerous contracts 79.0 171.5 – – 6.3 (12.7) – 244.1
Pensions, post-retirement and post-employment benefits 97.6 – – 98.6 – (47.6) 16.3 164.9
Mine reclamation costs 104.8 – (17.3) – 3.5 (11.8) 11.1 90.3
Other 20.5 – – 6.9 – (13.3) 1.3 15.4
521.4 156.3 (24.0) 163.9 16.0 (106.4) 51.5 778.7
AtDemerger UnwindingUtilised At
1 April of Thus New of during 31 March 
2001 (Note 34) provisions discount year Exchange 2002 
2001/02 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Reorganisation and restructuring 85.1 – 18.5 – (40.8) (0.2) 62.6
Environmental and health 96.8 – 0.1 5.7 (4.4) – 98.2
Decommissioning costs 82.1 – – 4.8 (0.3) – 86.6
Onerous contracts 244.1 – – 8.5 (67.3) – 185.3
Pensions, post-retirement and post-employment benefits 164.9 – 17.3 – (19.3) (0.2) 162.7
Mine reclamation costs 90.3 – – 3.8 (9.1) (0.1) 84.9
Disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing – – 50.8 – (43.5) – 7.3
Other 15.4 (0.9) 22.6 – (10.9) – 26.2
778.7 (0.9) 109.3 22.8 (195.6) (0.5) 713.8
Disposal
At of Southern Unwinding Utilised At
1 April Water New of during 31 March
2002 (Note 33) provisions discount year Exchange 2003 
2002/03 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Reorganisation and restructuring (a) 62.6 (2.5) 4.7 – (32.3) (3.0) 29.5
Environmental and health (b) 98.2 (3.1) – 9.5 (10.9) (8.5) 85.2
Decommissioning costs (c) 86.6 – 0.5 4.8 (0.6) (8.0) 83.3
Onerous contracts (d) 185.3 – – 8.4 (32.4) – 161.3
Pensions, post-retirement and post-employment benefits (e) 162.7 – 52.0 – (47.4) (17.0) 150.3
Mine reclamation costs (f) 84.9 – – 3.8 (8.1) (8.3) 72.3
Disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing (g) 7.3––– (2.1) – 5.2
Other (h) 26.2 – 11.9 – (13.4) (0.9) 23.8
713.8 (5.6) 69.1 26.5 (147.2) (45.7) 610.9
(a) The provisions for reorganisation and restructuring principally comprise certain costs relating to the PacifiCorp Transition Plan announced in May 2000 and
reorganisation provisions established in 2001/02 for the UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply. The provisions are principally in respect of severance
costs, most of which are expected to be incurred in the period up to March 2004. The PacifiCorp Transition Plan, upon completion, will result in a reduction in
employee numbers of approximately 1,600 from the 1998 levels. At 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp had reduced its employees by approximately 1,050 under this
Plan. The reorganisation provisions established in 2001/02 for the UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply will result in a reduction in employee numbers
of approximately 500 from 2002/03 onwards. At 31 March 2003, the UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply had reduced its employees by 359.
(b) The environmental and health provisions principally comprise the costs of notified environmental remediation work and constructive obligations in respect of
potential environmental remediation costs identified by an external due diligence review in the US. These costs are expected to be incurred in the period up to
March 2010. Included within the ‘Unwinding of discount’ of £9.5 million for 2002/03 is £3.9 million relating to a change in the discount rate.
(c) The provision for decommissioning costs is the discounted future estimated costs of decommissioning the group’s power plants, principally in the US, but
also in the UK. The decommissioning of these plants is expected to occur over the period between 2004 and 2047.
(d) The provision for onerous contracts comprises the costs of contracted energy purchases. The costs provided are expected to be incurred in the period up
to 31 March 2009 as follows: less than 1 year £41.4 million, between 1 and 2 years £37.3 million, between 2 and 5 years £75.7 million and the remainder after
5 years £6.9 million.
(e) Details of the group’s pensions, post-retirement and post-employment benefits are disclosed in Notes 28 and 35.
(f) The provision for mine reclamation costs comprises the discounted future estimated costs of reclaiming the group’s mines in the US. The costs are expected
to be incurred in the period up to 2031.
(g) The Appliance Retailing provision comprises closure costs, principally property lease termination premia, expected to be incurred in the period up to 2004.
(h) The Other category comprises various provisions which are not individually sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
99 23 Provisions for liabilities and charges – Deferred tax
Deferred tax provided in the Accounts is as follows: 
Provided
2003 2002
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 1,539.9 1,978.5
Other timing differences (238.0) (287.3)
1,301.9 1,691.2
Note £m
Deferred tax provided at 1 April 2000 1,612.1
Charge to profit and loss account 13.8
Movements arising from revisions to fair values (98.5)
Exchange 97.9
Deferred tax provided at 1 April 2001 1,625.3
Charge to profit and loss account 70.2
Other movements (4.3)
Deferred tax provided at 1 April 2002 1,691.2
Charge to profit and loss account 50.6
Disposal of Southern Water 33 (361.0)
Exchange (80.5)
Other movements 1.6
Deferred tax provided at 31 March 2003 1,301.9
24 Deferred income
Released to
At Receivable profit At
1 April during and loss 31 March
2001 year account Disposal Exchange 2002 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Grants and customer contributions 501.5 67.7 (17.8) (0.1) (0.1) 551.2
Released to Disposal of
At Receivable profit Southern At
1 April during and loss Water 31 March
2002 year account (Note 33) Exchange 2003 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Grants and customer contributions 551.2 68.7 (18.6) (37.4) (5.0) 558.9
Deferred income excludes grants and contributions received, prior to the disposal of Southern Water in April 2002, in respect of water infrastructure assets. 
25 Share capital
2003 2002
Note £m £m 
Authorised: 
3,000,000,000 (2002 3,000,000,000) ordinary shares of 50p each 1,500.0 1,500.0
One Special Share of £1 (a) – –
1,500.0 1,500.0
Allotted, called up and fully paid: 
1,855,932,802 (2002 1,852,646,984) ordinary shares of 50p each 928.0 926.3
One Special Share of £1 (a) – –
928.0 926.3
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
100 25 Share capital continued
(a) Special Share
The ‘Special Share’, which can be held only by one of the Secretaries of State or any other person acting on behalf of HM Government, does not carry rights to
vote at the general or separate meetings but entitles the holder to attend and speak at such meetings. Written consent of the Special Shareholder is required
before certain provisions of the company’s Articles of Association or certain rights attaching to the Special Share are varied. This share shall confer no rights to
participate in the capital or profits of the company, except that in a winding up the Special Shareholder shall be entitled to repayment in priority to the other
shareholders. The Special Share is redeemable at par at any time by the Special Shareholder after consultation with the company.
(b) Employee share schemes
The group has six types of share based plans for employees. Options have been granted and awards made to eligible employees to subscribe for ordinary shares
or ADSs in Scottish Power plc in accordance with the rules of each plan. 
The ScottishPower Sharesave Schemes are savings related and under normal circumstances share options are exercisable on completion of a three or five year
save-as-you-earn contract as appropriate. 
The PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan relates to options over ScottishPower ADSs which vest over two or three years, as appropriate. 
The Executive Share Option Scheme applied to executive directors and certain senior managers. However, this Scheme was replaced with the Long Term
Incentive Plan and, although it will not affect options already granted, this plan supersedes the Executive Share Option Scheme. 
Awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that certain performance measures related to the
sustained underlying financial performance of the group and improvements in customer service standards are achieved over a period of three financial years
commencing with the financial year preceding the date an award is made. 
Options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 (“ExSOP”) to executive directors and certain senior managers are subject to the performance
criterion that the percentage increase in the company’s annualised earnings per share, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, be at least 3%
(adjusted for any increase in the RPI).
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) allows eligible employees to make contributions from pre-tax salary to buy shares in ScottishPower which are
held in trust (Partnership Shares). These shares are matched by the company (Matching Shares) and are also held in trust. At the launch of the ESOP, Free
Shares were offered to employees. 
The K Plus Plan consists of the K Plus Employee Savings Plan and the K Plus Employee Stock Ownership Plan. The K Plan Employee Savings Plan is a 401(k)
based qualified retirement plan designed to provide income during employees’ retirement. The K Plus Employee Stock Ownership Plan provides for matching
contributions by PacifiCorp based on employees’ contributions, plus additional discretionary employer contributions made to all eligible employees. 
(i) Summary of movements in share options in ScottishPower shares
Southern Executive PacifiCorp 
ScottishPower Weighted Water Weighted Share Weighted Stock Weighted
Sharesave average Sharesave average Option average Incentive average
Schemes exercise Scheme exercise Schemes
#
exercise Plan
##
exercise Total 
(number of price (number of price (number of price (number of price (number of 
shares 000s) (pence) shares 000s) (pence) shares 000s) (pence) shares 000s) (pence) shares 000s) 
Outstanding at 1 April 2000 19,945 339.2 1,078 147.1 263 297.0 19,073 528.5 40,359
Granted 2,459 453.0–––– 457 440.6 2,916
Exercised (3,615) 299.0 (786) 145.7 (122) 274.6 (304) 528.2 (4,827)
Lapsed (2,577) 400.7 (13) 159.9 (1) – (4,318) 596.0 (6,909)
Outstanding at 1 April 2001 16,212 355.6 279 149.3 140 316.1 14,908 588.8 31,539
Granted 4,378 386.0 – – 2,354 483.0 3,299 452.1 10,031
Exercised (6,718) 283.3 (189) 144.7 (78) 278.4 (99) 474.3 (7,084)
Lapsed (2,115) 420.6 (7) 154.9 (19) 483.0 (2,240) 576.4 (4,381)
Outstanding at 1 April 2002 11,757 396.7 83 159.1 2,397 479.9 15,868 563.6 30,105
Granted 3,316 323.0 – – 7,327 388.0 – – 10,643
Exercised (1,992) 309.3 (68) 159.4 (16) 298.8 – – (2,076)
Lapsed (5,640) 409.3 (15) 157.4 (252) 411.1 (2,255) 539.0 (8,162)
Outstanding at 31 March 2003 7,441 377.7 – – 9,456 411.5 13,613 500.8 30,510
# The Executive Share Option figures shown for 2002/03 and 2001/02 are a combination of the options outstanding under the Executive Share Option Scheme
and the Executive Share Option Plan 2001.
## PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan (“PSIP”) are options over ScottishPower ADSs; for the purpose of the table above, ADSs have been converted to
ScottishPower shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower shares. Eligibility for participation in the ExSOP wasextended during the year
to certain senior managers in the US. Consequently, no new options were granted in the year under the PSIP, nor is it intended to grant any new PSIP optionsin
the future.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
101 25 Share capital continued
(ii) Analysis of share options outstanding at 31 March 2003
Number of Option 
Date of Number of shares price
grant participants (000s) (pence) Normal exercisable date
ScottishPower Sharesave Schemes 20 June 1997 3 3 307.0 6 months to March 2003
12 June 1998 1,005 919 440.0 6 months to March 2004
11 June 1999 878 825 429.0 6 months to March 2003 or 2005
9 June 2000 1,172 677 453.0 6 months to March 2004 or 2006
8 June 2001 1,787 1,966 386.0 6 months to March 2005 or 2007
7 June 2002 2,000 3,051 323.0 6 months to March 2006 or 2008
Executive Share Option Scheme 17 December 1993 13 20 454.8 1996-2003
27 May 1994 1 1 354.0 1997-2004
12 May 1995 3 26 335.0 1998-2005
Executive Share Option Plan 2001* 21 August 2001 158 2,318 483.0 21 August 2004 to 21 August 2011
2 May 2002 265 7,091 406.0 2 May 2005 to 2 May 2012
PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan** 3 June 1997 56 897 538.6 29 November 1999 to 3 June 2007
12 August 1997 18 177 579.4 29 November 1999 to 12 August 2007
10 February 1998 82 1,579 654.3 29 November 1999 to 10 February 2008
13 May 1998 4,692 1,083 632.4 29 November 1999 to 13 May 2008
9 February 1999 95 2,383 518.0 9 February 2000 to 9 February 2009
##
11 May 1999 4,962 1,144 468.7 11 May 2000 to 11 May 2009***
16 February 2000 93 1,956 426.0 16 February 2001 to 16 February 2010
###
24 March 2000 4 1,343 502.1 24 March 2001 to 24 March 2010
25 January 2001 2 457 396.3 25 January 2002 to 25 January 2011
####
24 April 2001 104 2,594 406.4 24 April 2002 to 24 April 2011
* Includes 935,054 options granted over ScottishPower ADSs (expressed in the above as 3,740,216 options over ScottishPower ordinary shares), the exercise
price for which is US$23.55 per ADS (equal to US$5.887 per ordinary share).
** Options granted under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan are over ScottishPower ADSs; for the purpose of the table above, options have been converted to
ScottishPower ordinary shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower ordinary shares. The US$ ADS option price was converted so 
that it may be represented in terms of ScottishPower ordinary shares. The price was further converted at the closing exchange rate on 31 March 2003 to be
quoted in pence in the table above.
## Options became exercisable in the proportions of one-third on 9 February 2000, one-third on 9 February 2001 and the remaining one-third on 
9 February 2002.
*** Options became exercisable in the proportions 50% on 11 May 2000 and the remaining 50% on 11 May 2001.
### Options became exercisable in the proportions of one-third on 16 February 2001, one-third on 16 February 2002 and the remaining one-third on 16
February 2003.
#### Options became exercisable in the proportions of one-third on 25 January 2002, one-third on 25 January 2003 and the remaining one-third becomes
exercisable on 25 January 2004.
Where reference is made to PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan, this is to identify the scheme under which the options over ScottishPower ADSs have been granted.
For the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan, the date of grant refers to the date the original PacifiCorp Common Stock options were granted. These 
options were exchanged for options over ScottishPower ADSs following the acquisition on 29 November 1999.
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
102 26 Analysis of movements in shareholders’ funds
Capital Profit
Number of Share Share Revaluation redemption Merger Other and loss
shares capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve account Total
Notes 000s £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2000 1,847,586 923.8 3,733.8 220.5 18.3 406.4 – 260.5 5,563.3
Retained loss for the year ––––––– (169.8) (169.8)
Share capital issued 
– Employee sharesave scheme 304 0.1 1.4––––– 1.5
– Executive share option scheme 122 0.1 0.1––––– 0.2
– ESOP 1,014 0.5 4.4––––– 4.9
Revaluation surplus realised – – – (3.4) – – – 3.4 –
Exchange movement on translation of overseas
results and net assets (b)––––––– 493.1 493.1
At 1 April 2001 1,849,026 924.5 3,739.7 217.1 18.3 406.4 – 587.2 5,893.2
Retained loss for the year ––––––– (1,927.2) (1,927.2)
Share capital issued 
– Employee sharesave scheme 99 0.1 0.5––––– 0.6
– Executive share option scheme 78 – 0.2––––– 0.2
– ESOP 3,444 1.7 13.7––––– 15.4
Goodwill realised on disposals (c)––––––– 753.3 753.3
Goodwill realised on demerger of Thus 34––––––– 14.7 14.7
Reduction of share premium (d) – – (1,500.0) –––– 1,500.0 –
Unrealised gains on fixed asset disposals –––––– 4.9 – 4.9
Gains realised on Thus demerger –––––– (4.9) 4.9 –
Revaluation surplus realised – – – (3.4) – – – 3.4 –
Fixed asset revaluation gains realised on disposal – – – (168.2) – – – 168.2 –
Exchange movement on translation of overseas
results and net assets (b)––––––– (4.2) (4.2)
Translation differences on foreign currency hedging (b)––––––– (19.5) (19.5)
At 1 April 2002 1,852,647 926.3 2,254.1 45.5 18.3 406.4 – 1,080.8 4,731.4
Retained loss for the year ––––––– (46.9) (46.9)
Share capital issued 
– Executive share option scheme 15 – 0.1––––– 0.1
– ESOP 3,271 1.7 10.2––––– 11.9
Revaluation surplus realised – – – (2.0) – – – 2.0 –
Exchange movement on translation of overseas
results and net assets (b)––––––– (387.0) (387.0)
Translation differences on foreign currency hedging (b)––––––– 357.6 357.6
Tax on translation differences on foreign 
currency hedging ––––––– (28.8) (28.8)
Balance at 31 March 2003 1,855,933 928.0 2,264.4 43.5 18.3 406.4 – 977.7 4,638.3
(a) Cumulative goodwill written off to the profit and loss account reserve as at 31 March 2003 was £572.3 million (2002 £572.3 million, 2001 £1,349.9 million).
(b) The pre-tax cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments at 31 March 2003 amount to £464.9 million (2002 £494.3 million, 2001 £518.0 million).
(c) The goodwill realised on disposals related to Appliance Retailing (£15.1 million) and the impairment of goodwill in connection with the provision for loss on
disposal of Southern Water (£738.2 million).
(d) The company applied to the Court of Session (‘the Court’) to approve a reduction in the share premium account which had previously been approved by the
company’s shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 21 January 2002. On 5 March 2002, the Court approved the reduction of the company’s share
premium account by £1,500 million. This amount was transferred to the company’s profit and loss account reserve. The reduction in the share premium
account created sufficient distributable reserves to facilitate payment of a dividend in specie to demerge Thus.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
103 27 Minority interests
Equity Non-equity Total Equity Non-equity Total
2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 1.5 85.2 86.7 128.2 157.6 285.8
Additions ––– 1.0 – 1.0
Disposals ––– 2.2 – 2.2
Thus open offer ––– 34.4 – 34.4
Demerger of Thus 34 ––– (127.4) – (127.4)
Redemption of preferred stock of PacifiCorp – (5.1) (5.1) – (69.5) (69.5)
Profit and loss account 0.5 4.7 5.2 (41.8) 6.9 (34.9)
Unrealised gains on fixed asset disposals ––– 4.9 – 4.9
Dividends paid to minority interests – (4.8) (4.8) – (8.1) (8.1)
Exchange – (8.1) (8.1) – (1.7) (1.7)
At 31 March 2.0 71.9 73.9 1.5 85.2 86.7
Non-equity minority interests include 100% of the preferred stock and preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption of PacifiCorp. Of the total preferred
stock subject to mandatory redemption at 31 March 2003, £2.3 million (2002 £2.6 million) is due to be redeemed within 1 year, £2.3 million (2002 £2.6
million) is due to be redeemed in each of the next 4 years with the remaining £30.5 million (2002 £39.2 million) being redeemable after 5 years.
The fair value of preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption is £49.4 million (2002 £57.4 million). The fair value of other preferred stock is not materially
different from book value.
The weighted average rate of return on preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption is 7.6% (2002 7.6%) and on other preferred stock is 5.1% (2002 5.1%).
Preferred stockholders have first preference in the event of a liquidation of PacifiCorp and first rights to dividends. The holders of these shares only have rights
against the PacifiCorp group of companies.
28 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
At 31 March 2003, ScottishPower had six statutorily approved defined benefit pension schemes, one statutorily approved defined contribution scheme and one
unapproved scheme. Details of the principal schemes are set out below:
(Provision)/
Pension charge prepayment
for the year as at 31 March 
Scheme Funded or 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002
Pension fund type unfunded £m £m £m £m £m 
ScottishPower Defined benefit funded 7.0 –– (2.0) 5.0
Manweb Defined benefit funded 5.2 3.6 4.3 – –
Southern Water
(i)
Defined benefit funded 0.2 4.1 3.7 – –
Final Salary LifePlan Defined benefit funded 3.1 3.4 3.0 – –
PacifiCorp
(ii),(iii)
Defined benefit funded 25.6 7.5 63.7 (83.6) (88.4)
(i) The Southern Water figures for 2003 relate only to the period until its sale on 23 April 2002. Refer to Note 28(d) for further details.
(ii) The PacifiCorp figures include the unfunded Supplementary Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”). The SERP accounts for less than 5% of the PacifiCorp
liabilities.
(iii) The PacifiCorp figures for 2003 include a credit adjustment of £2.5 million (2002 £0.6 million charge, 2001 £54.8 million charge) to Special Termination
Benefits. Also included in the figure for 2003 is a £3.1 million contribution to the PacifiCorp/International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (“IBEW”) Local
Union 57 Retirement Trust Fund.
The components of the pension charge are as follows:
2003 2002
Interest Interest
(credit)/ (credit)/
cost on Variation Net cost on Net
Regular prepayment/ (credit)/ pension Regular prepayment/ Variation pension
cost provision cost charge cost provision credit charge
Pension fund £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
ScottishPower 17.9 (0.3) (10.6) 7.0 21.8 (0.3) (32.5)
(i)
–
Manweb 6.0 – (0.8) 5.2 5.1 – (1.5) 3.6
Southern Water
(ii)
0.2 – – 0.2 4.8 – (0.7) 4.1
Final Salary LifePlan 3.1 – – 3.1 3.4 – – 3.4
PacifiCorp 13.5 5.8 6.3
(iii)
25.6 10.4 6.7 (9.6)
(iv)
7.5
(i) In the year to 31 March 2002, the net pension charge was set to a minimum of £nil where the variation credit exceeded regular cost less interest.
(ii) The Southern Water figures for 2003 relate only to the period until its sale on 23 April 2002. Refer to Note 28(d) for further details.
(iii) Being a normal variation cost of £8.8 million decreased by the credit adjustment relating to the Special Termination Benefits of £2.5 million.
(iv) Being a normal variation credit of £10.2 million decreased by the cost of Special Termination Benefits of £0.6 million.
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
104 28 Pensions continued
The prepayment/(provision) as at the year end can be reconciled as follows:
Prepayment/ Prepayment/ Prepayment/
(provision) Provision (provision) (provision)
at 1 April Employer Pension at 31 March at 1 April Employer Pension at 31 March
2002 contribution charge Exchange 2003 2001 contribution charge Exchange 2002
Pension fund £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
ScottishPower 5.0 – (7.0) – (2.0) 5.0––– 5.0
Manweb – 5.2 (5.2) – – – 3.6 (3.6) – –
Southern Water 
(i)
– 0.2 (0.2) – – – 4.1 (4.1) – –
Final Salary LifePlan – 3.1 (3.1) – – – 3.4 (3.4) – –
PacifiCorp
(ii)
(88.4) 21.5 (25.6) 8.9 (83.6) (85.9) 5.1 (7.5) (0.1) (88.4)
(i) The Southern Water figures for 2003 relate only to the period until its sale on 23 April 2002. Refer to Note 28(d) for further details.
(ii) The employer contribution rate to the PacifiCorp Scheme increased from 1.8% of pensionable salaries in 2001/02 to 10.3% of pensionable salaries in 2002/03.
The individual scheme funding details based on the latest full actuarial valuations are as follows:
Principal actuarial assumptions
Value Value
Latest of assets Market Average of fund
full Valuation based on value of Valuation investment Average Average assets/
actuarial carried valuation assets method rate of salary pension accrued
Pension fund valuation out by £m £m adopted return increases increases benefits
ScottishPower 31 March 2000 Mercer HR Consulting 1,930.4 2,090.4 Projected unit 6.0% 4.5% 2.5% 129%
Manweb 31 March 2001 Bacon & Woodrow 640.8 623.6 Projected unit 6.8%
(i)
4.3% 2.5% 111%
Southern Water 31 March 2001 Watson Wyatt 296.0 296.0 Projected unit 6.2% 4.5% 2.5% 107%
Final Salary LifePlan 31 March 2002 Mercer HR Consulting 4.8 4.8 Projected unit 6.0% 4.3% 2.8% 94%
PacifiCorp 1 January 2002 Hewitt Associates 519.5 519.5 Projected unit 7.50%
(ii)
4.0% – 83%
(i) 4.8% post-retiral.
(ii) 7.50% represents the liability discount rate.
(a) Group pension arrangements
Following a review of the group’s UK pension arrangements, the ScottishPower Pension Scheme, Manweb Pension Scheme and Southern Water Pension Scheme
were closed to new members from 31 December 1998.
The group introduced two new group pension plans for new UK employees effective from 1 January 1999. The new plans are a defined benefit plan (Final Salary
LifePlan) and a defined contribution plan (Money Purchase LifePlan) which are open to continuous contract employees aged between 16 and 60.
Following the acquisition of PacifiCorp on 29 November 1999, the associated US pension arrangements are now included in the group’s Accounts. Further
details of these US arrangements are given in sub-note (f) below.
Each of the pension schemes are invested in an appropriately diversified range of equities, bonds, property and private markets. The broad proportions of each
asset class in which the schemes aim to be invested are as follows, however it is important to note that this may vary from time to time as markets change and
as cash may be held for strategic reasons.
Private 
Equities Bonds Property markets Total
%%%%%
ScottishPower 75 19 6 – 100
Manweb 70 30 – – 100
Final Salary LifePlan 100––– 100
PacifiCorp 52 35 – 13 100
(b) ScottishPower
Scottish Power UK plc operates a funded pension scheme of the company providing defined retirement and death benefits based on final pensionable salary.
This scheme was open prior to 1 January 1999 to employees of ScottishPower. Members are required to contribute to the Scheme at a rate of 5% of
pensionable salary. Scottish Power UK plc meets the balance of cost of providing benefits, and company contributions paid are based on the results of the
actuarial valuation of the Scheme and are agreed by Scottish Power UK plc and the Scheme Trustees.
The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the company in a trustee administered fund. Included in the Scheme assets are 140,400
ScottishPower shares (£527,904, based on market value as at 31 March 2003), purchased only as part of a pooled strategy to match the relative weightings 
in the UK Stock Exchange index.
The pension charge for the year is based on the advice of the Scheme’s independent qualified actuary and is calculated using the same assumptions as those
used at the last formal actuarial valuation of the Scheme. The Scheme assets were taken at an adjusted market value at that time.
The amount included in the balance sheet represents the difference between the accumulated excess of the actual contributions paid to the Scheme and the
pension accounting charge. The net pension charge is derived from a regular cost of 19.8% of salaries, offset by a variation credit. The variation credit is calculated
as the assessed surplus (updated to allow for significant market changes in the interim period), as adjusted for the balance sheet amount, spread as a fixed
percentage of pensionable salaries over nine years. In the year to 31 March 2002, the net pension charge was set to a minimum of £nil where the variation credit
exceeded the regular cost less interest.
The actual contributions payable by participating employers during the year were £nil, except where required by a business transfer agreement. Employer
contributions have recommenced at the rate of 4.8% of pensionable salaries with effect from April 2003. The rate is expected to rise on the completion of the
2003 triannual actuarial valuation. The results will be known in the autumn of 2003 and are likely to lead to an increase in the employer contribution rate.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
105 28 Pensions continued
(c) Manweb
Prior to 1 January 1999, most of the Manweb employees were entitled to join the Manweb Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme, which provides
pension and other related benefits based on final pensionable salary to employees throughout the Electricity Supply Industry in England & Wales. The ongoing
contributions to the Scheme are based on the results of the actuarial valuation of the Scheme and the advice of the Scheme Actuary. 
The assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund. The Scheme assets no longer include any ScottishPower shares. For funding and expensing
purposes the Scheme assets are taken at market value plus a smoothing adjustment appropriate at the valuation date.
The regular cost for the year, of 14.6% of pensionable salaries, is based on the advice of the Scheme’s independent qualified actuary and is calculated using the
basis of the 2001 valuation. The variation credit is calculated as a spreading of the assessed surplus over 14 years.
The actual contributions payable by participating employers during the year ranged between 8.1% and 14.1% for different sections of membership (but tending
towards the higher rates), or other rates for particular groups or as required by a business transfer agreement. There are no immediate plans to alter the
contributions payable.
(d) Southern Water
The sale of Southern Water to First Aqua Limited (“First Aqua”) was concluded on 23 April 2002. The figures in this note relate purely to the charge arising prior
to this date. There is no impact in respect of pensions on the group’s balance sheet as a result of the sale of Southern Water, as the Southern Water Scheme had
not given rise to any prepayment or provision at the time of the sale.
Southern Water operated a funded pension scheme. The Scheme details above relate to the principal defined benefit scheme which covered the majority 
of the Southern Water employees. Members were required to contribute to the Scheme at varying rates of pensionable salary depending upon category of
membership. The company met the balance of the cost of the accruing benefits. Contributions paid were based on the results of the actuarial valuation of the
Scheme and were agreed by the company and the Scheme Trustees.
The assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund. For funding and expensing purposes, the scheme assets were taken at market value.
The pension charge for the period, of 10% of pensionable salaries, plus employer augmentation costs, is based on the advice of the scheme’s independent
qualified actuary and is calculated using the same assumptions as at the last actuarial valuation of the scheme. The variation credit for 2001/02 was calculated
as the assessed surplus spread over 17 years.
The actual contributions payable by participating employers during the year were 10% of pensionable salaries, except where required by a business transfer
agreement. 
Following the sale of Southern Water on 23 April 2002, the sponsorship of the Southern Water Scheme passed to First Aqua, with no further payments due by
ScottishPower after that date. Therefore there are no consequent liabilities in respect of this Scheme.
(e) Final Salary LifePlan
The group operates a funded pension scheme providing defined retirement and death benefits based on final pensionable salary for eligible UK employees of
the group. The assets of the LifePlan are held in a separate trustee administered fund. The pension charge for the year, of 11.4% of pensionable salaries, is
based on the advice of the LifePlan’s independent qualified actuary, representing the assessed balance of cost of the accruing benefits after allowing for
members’ contributions of 5% of pensionable salaries. The same actuarial assumptions have been adopted for both funding and expensing purposes.
The actual contributions payable by participating employers during the year were 11.4% of pensionable salaries, except where required by a business transfer
agreement. There are no planned changes to employer contribution requirements.
(f) PacifiCorp
PacifiCorp operates pension plans covering substantially all its employees. Benefits are based on the employee’s years of service and final pensionable salary,
adjusted to reflect estimated social security benefits. Pension costs are funded annually by no more than the maximum amount of pension expense which can
be deducted for federal income tax purposes. The PacifiCorp pensions figures in these Accounts include the unfunded SERP. The SERP accounts for less than
5% of the PacifiCorp liabilities. PacifiCorp meets the entire cost of accruing benefits under PacifiCorp plans. The assets for the funded Plan are held in a
separate fund. For funding and expensing purposes, the Plan assets are valued at market levels, and liabilities costed on financial assumptions in line with
market return expectations. The pension charge for the year is based on the advice of the Plan’s independent qualified actuary. The actual contributions payable
by participating employers during the year were 10.3% of pensionable earnings. The planned contributions for 2003/04 are expected to increase to 10.5% of
pensionable earnings.
PacifiCorp also provides other post-retirement benefits to certain employees. The group has provided £55.0 million as at 31 March 2003 (2002 £62.6 million)
for these benefits. The related charge for the year was £14.3 million (2002 £8.8 million). Further details of these benefits are disclosed in Note 35. 
(g) Additional pension arrangements
The group operates an approved defined contribution pension scheme (Money Purchase LifePlan) for eligible employees. Contributions are paid by the member
and employer at fixed rates. The benefits secured at retirement or death reflect each employee’s accumulated fund and the cost of purchasing benefits at that
time. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund. The pension charge for the year represents the defined employer contribution
and amounted to £0.1 million. The group also operates pension arrangements for senior executives, namely the ScottishPower Executive Top-Up Plan (for
benefits which are held within UK Inland Revenue limits) and the Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme (“UURBS”) for benefits beyond these limits.
The UURBS has no invested assets and the group has provided £9.5 million as at 31 March 2003 (2002 £9.3 million) for the benefit promises which will
ultimately be paid by the group.
Further details of the group’s pensions arrangements are disclosed in Note 35.
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
106 28 Pensions continued
(h) Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 17 ‘Retirement benefits’
The pension figures shown above comply with the current pension accounting standard, Statement of Standard Accounting Practice (“SSAP”) 24. 
However, under the transitional arrangements of the new accounting standard, FRS 17, the group is required to disclose the following information about its
pension and other post-retirement benefit schemes and the figures that would have been shown under FRS 17 in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2003 and
2002. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary for both the pensions and other post-retirement benefits arrangements were:
UK UK US US
arrangements arrangements arrangements arrangements
at 31 March at 31 March at 31 March at 31 March
2003 2002 2003 2002
Rate of increase in salaries 3.9% p.a. 4.3% p.a. 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a.
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.4% p.a. 2.8% p.a. n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.4% p.a. 2.8% p.a. n/a n/a
Discount rate 5.4% p.a. 6.0% p.a. 6.5% p.a. 7.5% p.a.
Inflation assumption 2.4% p.a. 2.8% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a.
Pensions
The group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes as described earlier in this Note. Full actuarial valuations were carried out as
described earlier and updated to 31 March 2003 by a qualified independent actuary. Figures are shown separately for the UK and US arrangements.
The assets in the schemes and the expected long-term rates of return were as follows:
UK pension UK pension US pension US pension
arrangements arrangements arrangements arrangements
Value at Value at Value at Value at
31 March 2003 31 March 2002 31 March 2003 31 March 2002
£m £m £m £m
Equities 1,241.4 1,882.0 204.2 293.2
Bonds 363.4 551.1 139.3 206.8
Property 147.2 164.3 – –
Cash 21.3 26.0 – –
Private markets – – 50.0 81.9
Total market value of assets 1,773.3 2,623.4 393.5 581.9
Present value of schemes’ past service liabilities (2,102.6) (2,362.3) (738.2) (760.1)
(Deficit)/surplus of schemes’ assets over past service liabilities (329.3) 261.1 (344.7) (178.2)
Resulting balance sheet (liability)/asset (329.3) 176.9* (344.7) (178.2)
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) 98.8 (53.1) 131.0 67.7
Net pension (liability)/asset (230.5) 123.8 (213.7) (110.5)
* The balance sheet asset which would have arisen under FRS 17 at 31 March 2002 is lower than the total calculated excess of schemes’ assets over past service
liabilities, due to part of the ScottishPower Pension Scheme’s past service ‘surplus’ being designated as “non-recoverable” in FRS 17 terms and therefore excluded
from the balance sheet.
The UK pension arrangements net pension (liability)/asset comprises assets (net of deferred tax) of £nil (2002 £159.1 million) and liabilities (net of deferred tax) of
£230.5 million (2002 £35.3 million).
UK pension UK pension US pension US pension
arrangements arrangements arrangements arrangements
Long-term rates Long-term rates Long-term rates Long-term rates
of return expected of return expected of return expected of return expected
at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002 at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002
Equities 7.2% p.a. 8.0% p.a. 9.25% p.a. 9.75% p.a.
Bonds 4.5% p.a. 5.3% p.a. 6.5% p.a. 6.5% p.a.
Property 6.2% p.a. 7.0% p.a. n/a n/a
Cash 3.45% p.a. 3.8% p.a. n/a n/a
Private markets n/a n/a 14.0% p.a. 14.5% p.a.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
107 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
28 Pensions continued
UK pension US pension
arrangements arrangements
Year to Year to
31 March 2003 31 March 2003
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit £m £m
Current service cost 31.2 13.9
Special termination benefits – (2.5)
Total operating profit charge 31.2 11.4
UK pension US pension
arrangements arrangements
Year to Year to
31 March 2003 31 March 2003
Analysis of amount credited/(charged) to other finance income £m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 168.4 46.5
Interest on pension liabilities (120.6) (49.6)
Net return on assets/(interest cost) 47.8 (3.1)
UK pension US pension
arrangements arrangements
Year to Year to
31 March 2003 31 March 2003
Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (“STRGL”) £m £m
Actual return less expected return on assets (647.2) (96.5)
Experience gains and losses on liabilities 68.4 6.0
Changes in assumptions (76.4) (106.1)
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL (655.2) (196.6)
Adjustment due to surplus cap 84.2 –
Net loss recognised (571.0) (196.6)
UK pension US pension
arrangements arrangements
Year to Year to
31 March 2003 31 March 2003
Movement in surplus/(deficit) in pension schemes during the year £m £m
Surplus/(deficit) in pension schemes at beginning of year 261.1 (178.2)
Movement in year:
Current service cost (31.2) (13.9)
Gain on settlement/curtailment/special termination 39.4 2.5
Contributions 8.8 21.5
Net return on assets/(interest cost) 47.8 (3.1)
Actuarial loss (655.2) (196.6)
Exchange – 23.1
Deficit in pension schemes at end of year (329.3) (344.7)
Other post-retirement benefits
PacifiCorp provides post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefits as described in Note 35(e). Actuarial valuations were carried out as at 31 March 2003 by
a qualified independent actuary. The major assumptions used by the actuary are described in Note 35(e).
The assets in the schemes and the expected long-term rates of return were as follows:
Value at Value at
31 March 2003 31 March 2002
£m £m
Equities 88.6 113.0
Bonds 52.4 67.3
Private markets 3.7 4.6
Total market value of assets 144.7 184.9
Present value of schemes’ liabilities (341.4) (331.3)
Deficit in the schemes (196.7) (146.4)
Related deferred tax asset 74.7 55.6
Net other post-retirement benefits liability (122.0) (90.8)
Long-term rates Long-term rates
of return expected of return expected
at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002
Equities 9.25% p.a. 9.75% p.a.
Bonds 6.5% p.a. 6.5% p.a.
Private markets 14.0% p.a. 14.5% p.a.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
108 28 Pensions continued
Other post-
retirement
benefits
Year to
31 March 2003
Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit £m
Current service cost 3.6
Adjustment to special termination benefits (0.6)
Total operating profit charge 3.0
Other post-
retirement
benefits
Year to
31 March 2003
Analysis of amount charged to other finance income £m
Expected return on other post-retirement benefits scheme’s assets 14.9
Interest on other post-retirement benefits scheme’s liabilities (22.1)
Net interest cost (7.2)
Other post-
retirement
benefits
Year to
31 March 2003
Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (“STRGL”) £m
Actual return less expected return on assets (31.0)
Experience gains and losses on liabilities (2.9)
Changes in assumptions (39.1)
Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL (73.0)
Other post-
retirement
benefits
Year to
31 March 2003
Movement in deficit during the year £m
Deficit in schemes at beginning of year (146.4)
Movement in year:
Current service cost (3.6)
Adjustment to special termination benefits 0.6
Contributions 16.0
Net interest cost (7.2)
Actuarial loss (73.0)
Exchange 16.9
Deficit in schemes at end of year (196.7)
Year to 31 March 2003
UK US Other
pension pension post-retirement
schemes schemes benefits
History of experience gains and losses £m £m £m
Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets:
Amount (647.2) (96.5) (31.0)
Percentage of scheme’s assets (36)% (24)% (21)%
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount 68.4 6.0 (2.9)
Percentage of scheme’s liabilities 3% 1% (1)%
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount (571.0) (196.6) (73.0)
Percentage of scheme’s liabilities (27)% (27)% (21)%
Summary
If the above FRS 17 pensions and other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (net of deferred tax) were recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March
2002 and 31 March 2003, the group’s net assets and profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
At 31 March At 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m
Net assets 4,712.2 4,818.1
Reversal of SSAP 24 net pensions/other post-retirement benefits liability (net of deferred tax) 94.0 96.3
Reversal of capitalisation of SSAP 24 costs of pensions/other post-retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) (8.0) –
Net assets excluding effect of FRS 17 4,798.2 4,914.4
Capitalisation of FRS 17 costs of pensions/other post-retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) 1.5 –
Net assets excluding FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (net of deferred tax) 4,799.7 4,914.4
FRS 17 pensions assets (net of deferred tax) – 159.1
FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits liabilities (net of deferred tax) (566.2) (236.6)
Net assets including FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits liabilities (net of deferred tax) 4,233.5 4,836.9
Profit and loss reserve 977.7 1,080.8
Reversal of SSAP 24 net pensions/other post-retirement benefits liability (net of deferred tax) 94.0 96.3
Reversal of capitalisation of SSAP 24 costs of pensions/other post-retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) (8.0) –
Profit and loss reserve excluding effect of FRS 17 1,063.7 1,177.1
Capitalisation of FRS 17 costs of pensions/other post-retirement benefits (net of deferred tax) 1.5 –
Profit and loss reserve excluding FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (net of deferred tax) 1,065.2 1,177.1
FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (net of deferred tax) (566.2) (77.5)
Profit and loss reserve including FRS 17 pensions/other post-retirement benefits assets and liabilities (net of deferred tax) 499.0 1,099.6
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
109 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
29 Contingent liabilities
Thus Flotation
In November 1999, the group floated a minority stake in its internet and telecommunications business, Thus plc. This gave rise to a contingent liability to
corporation tax on chargeable gains, estimated at amounts up to £570 million.
On 19 March 2002, the group demerged its residual holding in Thus Group plc (the new holding company of Thus plc). The charge referred to above could still
arise, in certain circumstances, before 19 March 2007. Members of the ScottishPower group have agreed to indemnify Thus Group plc for any such liability,
except in circumstances arising without the consent of the ScottishPower group.
Legal proceedings
The group’s businesses are parties to various legal claims, actions and complaints, certain of which involve material amounts. Although the group is unable to
predict with certainty whether or not it will ultimately be successful in these legal proceedings or, if not, what the impact might be, the directors currently believe
that disposition of these matters will not have a materially adverse effect on the group’s consolidated Accounts.
30 Financial commitments
2003 2002
(a) Analysis of annual commitments under operating leases £m £m 
Leases of land and buildings expiring:
Within one year 0.4 0.2
Between one and two years 0.3 1.3
Between two and three years 1.4 0.1
Between three and four years 0.8 –
Between four and five years 0.1 1.8
More than five years 2.5 1.0
5.5 4.4
Other operating leases expiring:
Within one year 1.1 3.9
Between one and two years 1.9 3.6
Between two and three years 2.4 2.5
Between three and four years – 0.7
Between four and five years – 0.9
More than five years – 0.2
5.4 11.8
2003 2002
(b) Capital commitments £m £m 
Contracted but not provided 127.4 238.9
(c) Other contractual commitments
(i) UK contractual commitments 
Under contractual arrangements in the UK, the group has the following power and other purchase commitments at 31 March 2003: 
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Commitments to purchase in year 696.7 612.7 298.5 295.5 303.9 1,267.2 3,474.5
UK contractual commitments as at 31 March 2003 principally comprise the purchase of electricity, gas and coal to manage both generation and supply activities.
(ii) PacifiCorp contractual commitments
Long-term wholesale sales and purchased power contracts
In the US, PacifiCorp manages its energy resource requirements by integrating long-term firm, short-term and spot market purchases with its own generating
resources to economically operate the system (within the boundaries of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requirements) and meet commitments for
wholesale sales and retail load growth. The long-term wholesale sales commitments include contracts with minimum sales requirements of £198.2 million, 
£166.8 million, £141.2 million, £115.8 million and £89.6 million for the years 2004 to 2008 respectively and £0.7 billion thereafter. As part of its energy
resource portfolio, PacifiCorp acquires a portion of its power through long-term purchases and/or exchange agreements which require minimum fixed payments of
£244.1 million, £230.2 million, £213.3 million, £231.7 million and £156.5 million for the years 2004 to 2008 respectively, and £1.4 billion thereafter. 
Excluded from the minimum fixed annual payments above are commitments to purchase power from several hydro-electric projects under long-term
arrangements with public utility districts. These purchases are made on a ‘cost-of-service’ basis for a stated percentage of project output and for a like
percentage of project annual costs (operating expenses and debt service). PacifiCorp is required to pay its portion of operating expenses and its portion of the
debt service, whether or not any power is produced. The arrangements provide for non-withdrawable power and the majority also provide for additional power,
withdrawable by the public utility districts upon one to five years’ notice. For 2003, these purchases represented approximately 2.4% of PacifiCorp’s energy
requirements. At 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp’s share of long-term arrangements with public utility districts were as follows:
Annual
Year contract Percentage costs*
Generating facility expires of output Capacity (kw) £m 
Wanapum 2009 18.7% 155,444 4.4
Priest Rapids 2005 13.9% 109,602 2.5
Rocky Reach 2011 5.3% 64,297 2.2
Wells 2018 6.9% 59,617 1.4
Total 388,960 10.5
*The annual costs include debt service costs of £4.1 million. PacifiCorp’s minimum debt service obligation at 31 March 2003 was £5.4 million and for the years
2004 to 2008 are £5.1 million, £4.4 million, £5.8 million, £7.7 million and £7.8 million respectively.
Short-term wholesale sales and purchased power contracts
At 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp had short-term wholesale forward sales commitments that included contracts with minimum sales requirements of £138.1 million,
£77.6 million and £10.4 million for the years 2004 to 2006 respectively. At 31 March 2003, short-term forward purchase agreements require minimum fixed
payments of £113.0 million, £296.4 million and £19.3 million for the years 2004 to 2006 respectively.
Fuel contracts
PacifiCorp has ‘take or pay’ coal and natural gas contracts that require minimum fixed payments of £163.6 million, £146.7 million, £117.8 million, £97.5 million
and £100.4 million for the years 2004 to 2008 respectively, and £589.5 million thereafter.
(iii) PPM contractual commitments
At 31 March 2003, PPM had purchase commitments of £350.0 million of which £284.4 million relates to the years 2004 to 2008. PPM’s contractual
commitments primarily consist of electricity and gas purchases made to optimise returns from generation resources and commercial activities.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
110 31 Related party transactions
(a) Trading transactions and balances arising in the normal course of business
Sales/(purchases) Amounts due 
to/(from) other from/(to) other 
group companies group companies 
during the year as at 31 March 
2003 2002 2001 2003 2002
Related party Related party relationship to group £m £m £m £m £m
Sales by related parties 
Scottish Electricity Settlements Limited 50% owned joint venture 5.0 5.3 6.2 1.1 1.1
ScotAsh Limited 50% owned joint venture 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2
South Coast Power Limited 50% owned joint venture 74.2 46.5 25.1 9.3 3.0
CeltPower Limited 50% owned joint venture 2.0 1.7 1.7 0.3 0.3
Calanais Limited* 50% owned joint venture – – 69.0 – –
Thus** Subsidiary – 0.9 – – 12.0
Purchases by related parties 
Scottish Electricity Settlements Limited 50% owned joint venture (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – –
ScotAsh Limited 50% owned joint venture (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) – –
South Coast Power Limited 50% owned joint venture (35.3) (7.8) (3.2) (4.1) (0.5)
Klamath co-generation plant Joint arrangement (24.8) (24.1) – (5.0) (2.2)
CeltPower Limited 50% owned joint venture – (0.3) (0.3) – –
Calanais Limited* 50% owned joint venture – – (13.0) – –
Thus** Subsidiary – (0.1) – – (5.2)
N.E.S.T. Makers Limited 50% owned joint venture (1.6) (0.3) – – –
Southern Water*** Subsidiary (2.7) –– (0.2) –
In addition to the above, during the year ended 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp made management and similar charges to Powercor of £nil as a result of the disposal of
Powercor by PacifiCorp in September 2000 (31 March 2002 £nil, 31 March 2001 £1.4 million). At 31 March 2003, Powercor owed the group £nil (2002 £nil,
2001 £nil).
During the year ended 31 March 2003, ScottishPower made management and similar charges to ScotAsh Limited of £0.1 million (2002 £0.4 million, 2001 £0.2
million).
*On 23 March 2001 the group disposed of its 50% holding in Calanais Limited; as a result it ceased to be a joint venture from this date.
**On 19 March 2002 the group demerged Thus. The related party sales and purchases in 2002 represent those transactions between ScottishPower and Thus
for the period from 20 March to 31 March 2002.
***On 23 April 2002, the group disposed of Southern Water; as a result it ceased to be a subsidiary from this date. The sales and purchases for 2003 represent
those transactions between ScottishPower and Southern Water for the period from 24 April 2002 to 31 March 2003.
(b) Funding transactions and balances arising in the normal course of business
Interest payable Amounts due 
to other group to other group
companies during companies as 
the year at 31 March
2003 2002 2003 2002 
Related party Related party relationship to group Note £m £m £m £m 
Scottish Electricity Settlements Limited 50% owned joint venture (0.8) (1.1) (12.2) (14.7)
ScotAsh Limited 50% owned joint venture – – (3.7) (2.4)
South Coast Power Limited 50% owned joint venture (1.2) (1.1) (18.2) (13.5)
RoboScot (38) Limited 50% owned joint venture – – (5.4) (5.4)
Thus** Subsidiary (i) – – – (5.4)
N.E.S.T. Makers Limited 50% owned joint venture – – (0.7) (0.8)
(i) This balance represents £nil (2002 £1.1 million) of loans and £nil (2002 £4.3 million) payable in respect of finance leases.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
111 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
32 Acquisition
On 9 December 2002 PPM completed the acquisition of the Katy gas storage facility and certain other trade and assets from Aquila, Inc. for a cash consideration,
including expenses, of £101.3 million. The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted and the goodwill on the purchase has been capitalised and is
being amortised over 20 years. The directors have estimated the useful economic life of the goodwill acquired having regard to the economic life of the facility
and the duration of the contracts acquired. The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are
shown below.
Book Provisional
values at fair values at
9 December 9 December
2002 Revaluation 2002
Fair value of Katy consideration £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 80.6 7.7 88.3
Stocks 1.5 – 1.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (0.9) – (0.9)
Net assets 81.2 7.7 88.9
Goodwill arising on acquisition of Katy 12.4
Purchase consideration 101.3
(a) A valuation adjustment of £7.7 million has been made to the book value of Katy’s tangible fixed assets to record them at their depreciated replacement cost.
(b) Due to the proximity of the acquisition to the balance sheet date, the fair values attributed to the Katy business are provisional and may be revised.
The results of Katy, based on Katy’s accounting policies under US GAAP prior to acquisition and excluding fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition, for
the year to 31 December 2001 and for the pre-acquisition period from 1 January 2002 to 8 December 2002 are shown below expressed in US dollars:
Period from Year to
1 Jan 2002 to 31 Dec
8 Dec 2002 2001
Results $m $m
Turnover 13.0 9.7
Operating profit 6.2 1.6
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6.2 1.4
Taxation ––
Profit for the financial period/year 6.2 1.4
Dividends ––
Profit attributable to shareholders 6.2 1.4
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
112 33 Southern Water disposal 
On 23 April 2002, the group completed the sale of Aspen 4 Limited (the holding company of Southern Water plc) to First Aqua Limited for a total consideration,
before expenses, of £2.05 billion including repayment and acquisition of intra-group non-trading indebtedness and assumption by First Aqua Limited of
Southern Water’s non-trading debt due to third parties. The net assets disposed of were as follows:
Notes £m 
Tangible fixed assets 16, (i) 2,474.7
Fixed asset investments 17 1.9
Current assets 193.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
– Loans and other borrowings:
– Inter-company loan (756.4) 
– Bank overdraft (6.2)
– Other creditors (291.2)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
– Loans and other borrowings (100.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
– Other provisions 22 (5.6)
– Deferred tax 23 (361.0)
Deferred income 24 (37.4)
Book value of Southern Water net assets disposed 1,111.9
Gain on disposal (i) –
Net disposal proceeds 1,111.9
Satisfied by:
Cash received for net assets (ii) 1,187.3
Cash expenses (47.9)
Net disposal cash proceeds 1,139.4
Accrued expenses (27.5)
Net disposal proceeds 1,111.9
(i) In the year ended 31 March 2002, an exceptional impairment provision of £449.3 million was made to reduce the carrying value of Southern Water’s net
assets to their recoverable amount. In addition, a further exceptional charge of £738.2 million was recognised representing the impairment of goodwill on the
acquisition of Southern Water previously written off to reserves. As a consequence of these charges to profits in the year ended 31 March 2002, there is no
further gain or loss required to be recognised for the year ended 31 March 2003 on completion of the sale.
(ii) Analysis of total consideration before expenses £m
Cash received for net assets 1,187.3
Cash received on repayment to ScottishPower of inter-company loan 756.4
Cash consideration before expenses 1,943.7
Debt due to third parties assumed by First Aqua Limited (including premium of £6.3 million) 106.3
Total consideration before expenses 2,050.0
34 Thus Group plc demerger
On 19 March 2002, the group demerged Thus Group plc (“Thus”). The demerger of Thus was preceded by an open offer of approximately £275 million of new
equity shares in Thus which resulted in ScottishPower’s equity interest in Thus temporarily increasing from 50.1% to 72.4%, and an increase in goodwill of
£34.4 million. Thus’ results for the period to 19 March 2002 were reported under discontinued operations in the ScottishPower Accounts for the year ended 31
March 2002 and the prior year. The demerger of Thus was accounted for as a dividend in specie.
Notes £m 
Intangible fixed assets – goodwill 15 62.6
Tangible fixed assets 16 468.8
Fixed assets investments 17 24.2
Current assets 104.5
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (109.9)
Provisions for liabilities and charges
– Other provisions 22 (0.9)
Book value of Thus net assets disposed 549.3
Minority interest share of net assets 27 (127.4)
ScottishPower’s share of Thus net assets disposed 421.9
Goodwill previously charged to reserves written back 26 14.7
Dividend in specie 436.6
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
113 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) 
The consolidated Accounts of the group are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP which differs in certain significant respects from US GAAP. The effect of the
US GAAP adjustments to profit/(loss) for the financial year and equity shareholders’ funds are set out in the tables below. 
Year ended 31 March
2003 2002 2001
(a) Reconciliation of profit/(loss) for the financial year to US GAAP: Notes £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under UK GAAP 482.6 (987.1) 307.5
US GAAP adjustments:
Amortisation of goodwill (i) 139.0 (23.5) (35.9)
Disposal of businesses (ii) – 279.1 –
US regulatory net assets (iii) (121.6) 95.3 73.8
Pensions (iv) 20.1 40.0 95.5
Impairment on demerger of Thus (v) – (243.7) –
Depreciation on revaluation uplift (vi) 2.0 3.4 3.4
Decommissioning and mine reclamation liabilities (vii) (38.3) (21.8) (32.3)
PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs (viii) (19.1) (29.9) 108.2
Business combinations (i) (31.6) ––
FAS 133 (ix) 205.5 144.5 –
Other (xv) (10.8) (17.7) (0.4)
Re-classification as extraordinary item (x) – 12.0 –
627.8 (749.4) 519.8
Deferred tax effect of US GAAP adjustments (xi) 20.4 (67.6) (133.0)
648.2 (817.0) 386.8
Extraordinary item (net of tax) (x) – (8.4) –
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP before cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) 648.2 (825.4) 386.8
Cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) (ix) 141.1 (61.6) –
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP 789.3 (887.0) 386.8
Earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP (xiv) 42.81p (48.26)p 21.13p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP (xiv) 42.70p (48.26)p 21.05p
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
(b) Effect on equity shareholders’ funds of differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP: Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 4,638.3 4,731.4
US GAAP adjustments:
Goodwill (i) 572.3 572.3
Business combinations (i) (226.3) (174.2)
Amortisation of goodwill (i) 51.0 (84.2)
ESOP shares held in trust (xii) (38.2) (38.9)
US regulatory net assets (iii) 1,007.9 1,042.8
Pensions (iv) (412.8) 222.9
Cash dividends (xiii) 132.2 126.1
Revaluation of fixed assets (vi) (54.0) (54.0)
Depreciation on revaluation uplift (vi) 10.5 8.5
Decommissioning and mine reclamation liabilities (vii) 0.4 60.7
PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs (viii) 56.1 86.9
FAS 133 (ix) (66.8) (308.2)
Other (xv) (12.1) (3.4)
Deferred tax:
Effect of US GAAP adjustments (xi) (157.4) (316.9)
Effect of differences in methodology (xi) (21.4) (21.3)
Equity shareholders’ funds under US GAAP 5,479.7 5,850.5
(i) Goodwill and business combinations
Goodwill
Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising from the purchase of operating entities before 31 March 1998 has been written off directly to reserves. Additionally, UK GAAP
requires that on subsequent disposal of these entities any goodwill previously taken directly to reserves is then charged in the profit and loss account against the
profit or loss on disposal. Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 31 March 1998 is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over its useful
economic life. 
The goodwill adjustment is made to recognise goodwill previously written off to reserves under UK GAAP as an intangible asset under US GAAP. 
Under US GAAP, following the introduction of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“FAS”) 142 ‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’ which was effective
for the group from 1 April 2002, goodwill arising from the purchase of operating entities should be held as an indefinite lived intangible asset in the balance
sheet and is no longer amortised. Instead goodwill is subject to an impairment test performed at least annually. The adjustment ‘Amortisation of goodwill’ for the
year ended 31 March 2003 represents the reversal of amortisation of goodwill charged under UK GAAP. 
The group has completed its transitional and annual goodwill impairment analysis under FAS 142 and has concluded that goodwill is not impaired. The
following table provides an analysis of goodwill included in the balance sheet under US GAAP for the year ended 31 March 2003 and for the year ended 31
March 2002.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
114 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Net book value of goodwill capitalised under US GAAP:
At 1 April 2,937.7 3,794.1
Acquisition 12.4 –
Disposal of businesses – (680.1)
Business combinations (a) (36.7) –
Amortisation for the year – (172.5)
Exchange (235.8) (3.8)
As at 31 March (b) 2,677.6 2,937.7
(a) The Business combinations adjustment of £36.7 million relates to deferred tax provisions recognised on the acquisition of PacifiCorp.
(b) The net book value of goodwill capitalised under US GAAP is analysed by business segment in the table below:
31 March 31 March
2003 2002
£m £m
UK Division – Integrated Generation and Supply 562.9 562.9
US Division
PacifiCorp 2,102.3 2,374.8
PPM 12.4 –
United States total 2,114.7 2,374.8
Total 2,677.6 2,937.7
(c) The impact of reporting under FAS 142 for the year ended 31 March 2002 would have been to reduce the loss under US GAAP by £172.5 million to £714.5
million (2001 increase earnings by £163.5 million to £550.3 million) and to reduce the loss per share under US GAAP by 9.38 pence per share to 38.88 pence
per share (2001 increase earnings per share by 8.93 pence per share to 30.06 pence per share).
Business combinations
In addition to re-instating the goodwill calculated under UK GAAP as described above, goodwill must also be recalculated in accordance with US GAAP. This is
required due to differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP in the determination of acquisition price and valuation of assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
The adjustment referred to as Business combinations reflects principally the impact of recalculating the goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Manweb and
PacifiCorp under US GAAP. The Business combinations adjustment of £31.6 million (£22.1 million net of tax) reflected in the reconciliation of profit/(loss) to US
GAAP for the year ended 31 March 2003 represents the difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP in accounting for accruals recognised under UK GAAP when
PacifiCorp was acquired.
In cases where traded equity securities are exchanged as consideration, UK GAAP requires the fair value of consideration to be determined at the date the
transaction is completed, while US GAAP requires the fair value of such consideration to be determined at the date the acquisition is announced.
(ii) Disposal of businesses
Under UK GAAP the loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing and the provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water were calculated based
on net asset value, together with the goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Under US GAAP the same methodology was applied, however the net asset value under US GAAP differed from that under UK GAAP. The principal differences
relate to the amortisation of goodwill which had been recognised as an intangible asset under US GAAP but had been written off to reserves under UK GAAP and
the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets, which is not permitted under US GAAP but is permitted under UK GAAP.
(iii) US regulatory net assets
FAS 71 ‘Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation’ establishes US GAAP for utilities in the US whose regulators have the power to approve and/or
regulate rates that may be charged to customers. FAS 71 provides that regulatory assets may be capitalised if it is probable that future revenue in an amount at
least equal to the capitalised costs will result from the inclusion of that cost in allowable costs for ratemaking purposes. Due to the different regulatory
environment, no equivalent GAAP applies in the UK.
Under UK GAAP, the group’s policy is to recognise regulatory assets established in accordance with FAS 71 only where they comprise rights or other access to future
economic benefits which have arisen as a result of past transactions or events which have created an obligation to transfer economic benefits to a third party.
The impact of the application of different accounting policies is that US regulatory assets amounting to £1,007.9 million (2002 £1,042.8 million) are not
recognised under UK GAAP, including deferred excess power costs, certain FAS 133 regulatory balances and certain pension regulatory balances.
Profits under US GAAP are consequently decreased by £121.6 million in 2003 (2002 profit increased by £95.3 million).
US regulatory net assets relating to the PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs are discussed in note (viii) below.
(iv) Pension costs
The fundamental differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP are as follows: 
(a) Under UK GAAP, the annual pension charge is determined so that it is a substantially level percentage of the current and expected future payroll. Under US
GAAP, the aim is to accrue the cost of providing pension benefits in the year in which the employee provides the related service in accordance with FAS 87, which
requires re-adjustment of the significant actuarial assumptions annually to reflect current market and economic conditions.
(b) Under UK GAAP, pension liabilities are usually discounted using an interest rate that represents the expected long-term return on plan assets. Under US GAAP,
pension liabilities are discounted using the current rates at which the pension liability could be settled. 
(c) Under UK GAAP, variations from plan can be aggregated and amortised over the remaining employee service lives. Under US GAAP, variations from plan must
be amortised separately over remaining service lives. 
(d) Under UK GAAP, alternative bases can be used to value plan assets. Under US GAAP, plan assets should be valued at market or at market related values and
where the fair/market value of the plan assets is less than the accumulated benefit obligation a minimum pension liability is then recognised as a charge to other
comprehensive income under the provisions of FAS 87 unless and to the extent that FAS 71 can be applied in which case a pension regulatory asset is recognised.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
115 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
(v) Impairment on demerger of Thus
Under UK GAAP, the demerger dividend was calculated based on the book value of the net assets disposed of as a result of demerger.
Under US GAAP, the demerger dividend was calculated based on the market value of the shares at the demerger date and the difference between this and the
book value of net assets disposed of was disclosed as an impairment charge under US GAAP.
(vi) Revaluation of fixed assets
The revaluation of assets is not permitted under US GAAP. The reconciliation therefore adjusts fixed assets to historical cost and the depreciation charge has been
adjusted accordingly. 
(vii) Decommissioning and mine reclamation liabilities
Under UK GAAP, future decommissioning costs are provided for, on a discounted basis, generally at the inception of the asset life with a corresponding increase
to the cost of the asset. This increased cost is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. Under US GAAP, for regulated industries, decommissioning costs are
accounted for by depreciating the related tangible fixed asset to a negative amount which equates to the estimated decommissioning costs. In respect of mine
reclamation costs UK GAAP requires the discounted future costs of reclamation to be provided for, with a corresponding increase to the cost of the mine assets.
Under US GAAP, anticipated mine reclamation costs are accrued over the life of the mine asset.
(viii) PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs
Under UK GAAP, PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs were recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account at the date of the announcement of the Plan.
Costs were provided for in accordance with FRS 12 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’.
Under US GAAP, PacifiCorp Transition Plan costs are accounted for as regulatory assets and are being amortised through the income statement. Costs have been
accounted for in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. 94-3 ‘Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit
an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)’ and FAS 88 ‘Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit
Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits’. 
(ix) FAS 133 – derivative instruments and hedging activities 
Under UK GAAP derivatives designated as used for non-trading purposes are accounted for on a consistent basis with the asset, liability or position being
hedged. Under US GAAP, the group applies FAS 133 ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’, as amended by FAS 137 ‘Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities – Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133’ and FAS 138 ‘Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities’. Effective from 1 April 2002, the group adopted revised FAS 133 guidance issued by the Derivatives Implementation
Group under Revised Issue C15 ‘Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Certain Option-Type Contracts in Electricity’ and Issue C16 ‘Applying the
Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception to Contracts that Combine a Forward Contract and Purchased Option Contract’. This new guidance had the effect
of including an increased number of the group’s contracts within the scope of FAS 133. The cumulative adjustment to profit under US GAAP for the year ended
31 March 2003 as a result of adopting Revised Issue C15 and Issue C16 was an increase to profit of £228.6 million (£141.1 million, net of tax). FAS 133
requires recognition of all derivatives, as defined in the standard, on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives, or any portion thereof, that are not an effective
hedge, are adjusted to fair value through income. If a derivative qualifies as an effective hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative are either offset against
the change in fair value of the hedged asset, liability, or firm commitment recognised in income, or are recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income
until the hedged items are recognised in earnings. The effects of changes in fair value of certain derivative instruments entered into to hedge future retail
resource requirements in the group’s US regulated business are subject to regulation and therefore are deferred pursuant to FAS 71. The FAS 133 adjustment
included within equity shareholders’ funds of £66.8 million at 31 March 2003 is offset by a US regulatory net asset of £320.6 million relating to PacifiCorp’s
regulated activities which have been deferred as a regulatory asset under FAS 71.
Contracts that qualify as normal purchases and normal sales are excluded from the requirements of FAS 133. The realised gains and losses on these contracts
are reflected in the income statement at the contract settlement date. 
(x) Extraordinary item
Under UK GAAP, certain costs of early debt repayment have been treated as exceptional interest costs. Under US GAAP, costs of early debt repayment are
classified as extraordinary items. The tax credit on the extraordinary item was £3.6 million for the year ended 31 March 2002.
(xi) Deferred tax
Under UK GAAP, FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’, requires full provision for deferred tax at future enacted rates. Provision is only made in respect of assets revalued for
accounting purposes where a commitment exists to sell the asset at the balance sheet date.  
Under US GAAP, full provision for deferred tax is required to the extent that accounting profit differs from taxable profit due to temporary timing differences.
Provision is made based on enacted tax law. 
The item ‘Effect of US GAAP adjustments’ reflects the additional impact of making full provision for deferred tax in respect of adjustments made in restating 
the balance sheet to US GAAP. 
The item ‘Effect of differences in methodology’ reflects the impact of making full provision for deferred tax under US GAAP compared to UK GAAP. 
(xii) ESOP shares held in trust
Under UK GAAP, shares held by employee share ownership trusts are recorded as fixed asset investments at cost less amounts written off. Under US GAAP,
shares held in trust are recorded at cost in the balance sheet as a deduction from shareholders’ funds. Details of the group’s employee share ownership trusts
are set out in Note 17. 
(xiii) Cash dividends
Under UK GAAP, final ordinary cash dividends are recognised in the financial year in respect of which they are proposed by the Board of Directors. Under US
GAAP, such dividends are not recognised until they are formally declared by the Board of Directors. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
116 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
(xiv) Earnings/(loss) per share
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share have been calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP by the weighted average number of
ordinary shares in issue during the financial year, based on the following information: 
2003 2002 2001 
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP (£ million) 789.3 (887.0) 386.8
Basic weighted average share capital (number of shares, millions) 1,843.9 1,837.8 1,830.3
Diluted weighted average share capital (number of shares, millions) 1,848.4 1,840.1 1,837.4
Earnings/(loss) per share
Earnings per share under US GAAP – continuing operations 35.76p 19.15p 13.48p
(Loss)/earnings per share under US GAAP – discontinued operations (0.60)p (63.60)p 7.65p
Loss per share under US GAAP – extraordinary item (net of tax) – (0.46)p –
Earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP before cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) 35.16p (44.91)p 21.13p
Earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP – cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) 7.65p (3.35)p –
Earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.81p (48.26)p 21.13p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share
Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP – continuing operations 35.67p 19.15p 13.43p
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share under US GAAP – discontinued operations (0.60)p (63.60)p 7.62p
Diluted loss per share under US GAAP – extraordinary item (net of tax) – (0.46)p –
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP before cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) 35.07p (44.91)p 21.05p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP – cumulative adjustment for C15 and C16 (2002 FAS 133) 7.63p (3.35)p –
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.70p (48.26)p 21.05p
The difference between the basic and the diluted weighted average share capital is wholly attributable to outstanding share options and shares held in trust for
the group’s Employee Share Ownership Plan. In accordance with FAS 128 ‘Earnings per Share’ the diluted loss per share for the year ended 31 March 2002
does not assume the exercise of securities that have an antidilutive effect on the loss per share. The (loss)/earnings per share detailed above for discontinued
operations have been calculated based on US GAAP earnings which are net of £3.0 million (2002 £37.0 million, 2001 £36.3 million) of interest and similar
charges and a tax credit of £4.6 million (2002 £18.8 million tax charge, 2001 £5.8 million tax credit). The group’s charge for interest and similar charges has
been allocated between continuing and discontinued operations on the basis of external and internal borrowings of the respective operations.
As permitted under UK GAAP, earnings/(loss) per share have been presented including and excluding the impact of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 
to provide an additional measure of underlying performance. UK GAAP permits the presentation of more than one measure of earnings/(loss) per share provided
that all such measures are clearly explained and given equal prominence on the face of the profit and loss account. In accordance with US GAAP, earnings/(loss)
per share have been presented above based on US GAAP earnings/(loss), without adjustments for the impact of UK GAAP exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation. Such additional measures of underlying performance are not permitted under US GAAP. 
(xv) Other
Other differences between UK and US GAAP are not individually material and relate to post-retirement benefits other than pensions, capitalisation of finance
costs, available-for-sale securities, energy exchange contracts and stock option compensation expense.
UK GAAP permits the use of long-term discount rates in determining the provision for post-retirement benefits other than pensions. US GAAP requires the use 
of current market rates.
Under UK GAAP, only interest on debt funding may be capitalised during the period of construction. Under US GAAP, as applied by regulated electricity utilities,
both the cost of debt and the cost of equity applicable to domestic utility properties are capitalised during the period of construction.
Under UK GAAP, obligations under energy exchange contracts are valued based on the forecast cost at the balance sheet date of delivering energy under the
contract. Under US GAAP, for regulated utilities, obligations under energy exchange contracts are valued based on the cost avoided in receiving delivery of energy
under the contract. 
Available-for-sale securities
UK GAAP permits current asset investments to be valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. US GAAP requires that such investments, insofar as they
are available-for-sale securities, are marked to market with movements in market value being included in other comprehensive income.
The book value and estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities were as follows:
At 31 March 2003
Gross Gross
unrealised unrealised Estimated
Book value gains losses fair value
£m £m £m £m
Money market account 2.5 – – 2.5
Mutual fund account 19.4 – (0.2) 19.2
Debt securities 10.8 0.4 (1.7) 9.5
Equity securities 35.0 0.5 (6.3) 29.2
Total 67.7 0.9 (8.2) 60.4
At 31 March 2002
Gross Gross
unrealised unrealised Estimated
Book value gains losses fair value
£m £m £m £m
Money market account 1.9 – – 1.9
Debt securities 14.4 0.3 (1.8) 12.9
Equity securities 27.7 2.7 (5.3) 25.1
Total 44.0 3.0 (7.1) 39.9
The quoted market price of securities at 31 March is used to estimate the securities’ fair value.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
117 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
The book value and estimated fair value of debt securities by contractual maturities at 31 March 2003 and 2002 are shown below. Actual maturities may differ
from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or pre-pay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
At 31 March 2003 At 31 March 2002
Estimated Estimated
Book value fair value Book value fair value
£m £m £m £m
Debt securities
Due within one year 0.5 0.5 ––
Due between one and five years 1.6 1.4 3.2 2.9
Due between five and ten years 4.5 4.0 4.6 4.4
Due after ten years 4.2 3.6 6.6 5.6
Money market account 2.5 2.5 1.9 1.9
Mutual fund accounts 19.4 19.2 ––
Equity securities 35.0 29.2 27.7 25.1
Total 67.7 60.4 44.0 39.9
Proceeds, gross gains and gross losses from realised sales of available-for-sale securities using the specific identification method were as follows:
Year ended 31 March
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Proceeds 56.3 56.4 54.0
Gross gains 1.1 2.1 5.3
Gross losses (3.7) (5.6) (3.6)
Net (losses)/gains (2.6) (3.5) 1.7
Stock-based compensation
Under US GAAP, the group applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 (“APB 25”), ‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees’, and related
interpretations in accounting for its plans and a compensation expense has been recognised accordingly for its share option schemes. As the group applies APB
25 in accounting for its plans, under FAS 123, ‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation’, it has adopted the disclosure only option in relation to its share
option schemes. Had the group determined compensation cost based on the fair value at the grant date for its share options under FAS 123, the group’s
profit/(loss) for financial year under US GAAP and earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts below: 
2003 2002 2001
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP (£ million) 789.3 (887.0) 386.8
Reversal of APB 25 stock compensation expense (included within the ‘Other’ adjustment) (£ million) 3.6 4.4 5.0
Stock compensation expense calculated under FAS 123 (£ million) (6.1) (7.4) (11.2)
Pro forma profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP (£ million) 786.8 (890.0) 380.6
Basic earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.81p (48.26)p 21.13p
Pro forma basic earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.67p (48.43)p 20.79p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.70p (48.26)p 21.05p
Pro forma diluted earnings/(loss) per share under US GAAP 42.57p (48.43)p 20.71p
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £6.3 million (2002 £8.6 million, 2001 £1.6 million). The fair value of each option grant
was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used:
2003 2002 2001
Dividend yield 8.3% 6.7% 6.4%
Risk-free interest rate 4.6% 4.8% 4.9%
Volatility 30.0% 30.0% 24.0%
Expected life of the options (years) 64 4
The weighted average life of the share options outstanding as at 31 March 2003, March 2002 and March 2001 was as follows:
2003 2002 2001
(years) (years) (years)
ScottishPower Sharesave Schemes 3 32
Southern Water Sharesave Scheme – 22
Executive Share Option Scheme 2 22
Executive Share Option Plan 2001 9 9–
PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan 6 66
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
118 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
(xvi) Reclassifications
The reconciliations of profit/(loss) for the financial year and equity shareholders’ funds at the year end from UK GAAP to US GAAP only include those items
which have a net effect on profit/(loss) or equity shareholders’ funds. There are other GAAP differences, not included in the reconciliations, which would affect
the classification of assets and liabilities or of income and expenditure. The principal items which would have such an effect are as follows:
– under UK GAAP debt issue costs are deducted from the carrying value of the related debt instrument. US GAAP requires such costs to be included as 
an asset
– under UK GAAP customer contributions in respect of fixed assets are generally credited to a separate deferred income account. Under US GAAP such
contributions are netted off against the cost of the related fixed assets
– items included as exceptional items under UK GAAP are either classified as extraordinary items or operating items under US GAAP
– under US GAAP, transmission and distribution costs would be included in cost of sales, and gross profit from continuing operations would be calculated
after deducting these expenses
– under UK GAAP, the investor’s interest in the turnover and results of a joint venture or associate are disclosed gross. The investor’s share of the interest 
and taxation are disclosed separately as a component of the group interest and taxation lines. Under US GAAP, the investor’s interest in the net results of joint
ventures and associates is disclosed as a single line in the income statement, net of interest and taxation. 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(loss)
Under US GAAP, certain items shown as components of common equity must be more prominently reported in a separate statement as components of
comprehensive income/(loss).
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(loss) is set out below:
2003 2002 2001 
£m £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the financial year under US GAAP after cumulative income adjustment 789.3 (887.0) 386.8
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
– Foreign currency translation adjustment (114.1) (29.7) 671.2
– Unrealised loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax credit of £1.4 million (2002 £0.1 million, 2001 £4.0 million) (2.3) (0.1) (6.5)
– Pensions, net of tax credit of £154.1 million (2002 £23.6 million) (358.8) (38.5) –
– Cumulative effect of accounting change (2002 FAS 133, net of tax charge of £261.4 million) – 421.3 –
– FAS 133 – loss on derivative financial instruments recognised in net income, net of tax credit of £0.7 million 
(2002 £47.6 million) (1.6) (76.6) –
– F AS 133 – unrealised gain/(loss) on derivative financial instruments, net of tax charge of £9.5 million (2002 tax credit of £219.9 million) 15.4 (354.7) –
Total comprehensive income/(loss) under US GAAP 327.9 (965.3) 1,051.5
The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss) are as follows:
2003 2002 2001 
£m £m £m
Foreign currency translation adjustment 552.5 666.6 696.3
Unrealised loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax credit of £3.4 million (2002 £2.0 million) (5.5) (3.2) (3.1)
Pensions, net of tax credit of £177.7 million (2002 £23.6 million) (397.3) (38.5) –
Unrealised gain/(loss) on derivative financial instruments, net of tax charge of £2.7 million (2002 tax credit of £6.1 million) 3.8 (10.0) –
Consolidated statement of cash flows
The consolidated statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with FRS 1 (Revised) presents substantially the same information as that required under US
GAAP. Under US GAAP, however, there are certain differences from UK GAAP with regard to the classification of items within the cash flow statement and with
regard to the definition of cash and cash equivalents. 
Under UK GAAP, cash flows are presented separately for operating activities, dividends received from joint ventures, returns on investments and servicing of
finance, taxation, capital expenditure and financial investment, acquisitions and disposals, equity dividends paid, management of liquid resources, and financing.
Under US GAAP, only three categories of cash flow activity are reported; operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. Cash flows from
dividends received from joint ventures, returns on investments and servicing of finance and taxation would be included as operating activities under US GAAP.
Equity dividends paid would be included under financing activities under US GAAP. 
Under US GAAP, cash and cash equivalents are not offset by bank overdrafts repayable within 24 hours from the date of the advance, as is the case under UK
GAAP and instead such bank overdrafts are classified within financing activities. 
The consolidated cash flow statement prepared in conformity with UK GAAP is set out on page 84. In this statement an additional measure, free cash flow, is
included which is not an accepted measure under US GAAP. This measure represents cash flow from operations after adjusting for dividends received from joint
ventures, returns on investments and servicing of finance and taxation. UK investors regard free cash flow as the money available to management annually to be
allocated among a number of options including capital expenditure, payments of dividends and the financing of acquisitions. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
119 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
The consolidated statement of cash flows under US GAAP is set out below:
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m 
Cash inflow from operating activities 1,412.9 1,248.4 1,411.6
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.9 0.3 2.1
Returns on investments and servicing of finance (297.0) (377.8) (373.5)
Taxation (191.3) (85.0) (152.6)
Net cash provided by operating activities 925.5 785.9 887.6
Capital expenditure and financial investment (704.9) (1,148.3) (1,081.4)
Acquisitions and disposals 1,792.8 98.7 482.9
Net cash provided/(used) in investing activities 1,087.9 (1,049.6) (598.5)
Financing (1,184.5) 929.1 196.1
Movement in bank overdrafts (4.9) (17.8) 11.1
Equity dividends paid (523.4) (496.8) (471.3)
Net cash (required)/provided by financing activities (1,712.8) 414.5 (264.1)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 300.6 150.8 25.0
Exchange movement on cash and cash equivalents (16.8) (0.2) 19.9
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 380.8 230.2 185.3
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 664.6 380.8 230.2
All liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the time of acquisition are considered to be cash equivalents.
2003 2002 2001 
Significant non-cash investing or financing activities £m £m £m 
Movement of share of debt in joint arrangement – 100.5 –
Additional information required under US GAAP
(a) Infrastructure accounting
The group’s accounting policy in respect of Southern Water’s infrastructure assets and related maintenance and renewals expenditure, as set out and explained
in the accounting policies, was not generally accepted under US GAAP which required historical cost depreciation accounting for these assets. The difference
between the infrastructure renewals depreciation charge and depreciation accounting under US GAAP was not material to profit and equity shareholders’ funds.
This difference no longer exists following the disposal of Southern Water in April 2002.
(b) Doubtful debts
The group provided £36.8 million, £57.5 million and £29.7 million for doubtful debts in 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively. Write-offs against the provision for
doubtful debts for uncollectable amounts were £61.2 million, £36.6 million and £26.1 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively. 
(c) Deferred tax
The additional components of the estimated net deferred tax liability that would be recognised under US GAAP are as follows: 
2003 2002 
£m £m 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
Excess of book value over taxation value of fixed assets 83.6 142.6
Other temporary differences 99.3 200.7
182.9 343.3
Deferred tax assets: 
Other temporary differences (4.1) (5.1)
Net deferred tax liability 178.8 338.2
Analysed as follows: 
Current (4.1) (5.1)
Non-current 182.9 343.3
178.8 338.2
The deferred tax balance in respect of leveraged leases at the year end is £101.1 million (2002 £145.1 million).
Investment tax credits for PacifiCorp are deferred and amortised to income over periods prescribed by the group’s various regulatory jurisdictions under US GAAP.
(d) Pensions
At 31 March 2003, ScottishPower had six statutorily approved defined benefit pension schemes, one statutorily approved defined contribution scheme and one
unapproved scheme. 
Benefits under the UK defined benefit plans reflect each employee’s basic earnings, years of service and age at retirement. Funding of the defined benefit plans 
is based upon actuarially determined contributions, with members paying contributions at fixed rates and the employers meeting the balance of cost as
determined by the scheme actuaries. 
Under the UK defined contribution plan, contributions are paid by the member and employer at a fixed rate. Benefits under the UK defined contribution plan
reflect each employee’s fund at retirement and the cost of purchasing benefits at that time. 
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
120 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
Reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances of the projected pension benefit obligation and the funded status of these plans for the years ending 31
March 2003, 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2001 are as follows: 
2003 2002 2001
Change in projected benefit obligation £m £m £m 
Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year 3,112.2 3,051.0 2,827.6
Service cost (excluding plan participants’ contributions) 52.6 62.2 66.6
Interest cost 168.6 182.5 179.8
Plan amendments – 12.6
(ii)
(15.7)
Special termination benefits (2.5)
(i)
0.6
(iii)
54.8
Plan participants’ contributions 8.1 11.9 12.9
Actuarial loss 69.7 29.0 27.4
Benefits paid (191.5) (209.5) (187.0)
Settlements
(iv)
(317.9) (29.0) –
Exchange (68.3) 0.9 84.6
Projected benefit obligation at end of year 2,831.0 3,112.2 3,051.0
(i) The period to commence the enhanced early retirement benefits under the Workforce Transition Retirement Program (“WTRP”) ended on 31 December 2002.
Acredit adjustment of £2.5 million for prior special termination benefits was necessary to reflect the impact of those participants who did not commence their
WTRP benefits by 31 December 2002 because they revoked their earlier election.
(ii) Ad hoc cost of living benefit increase for certain retired employees that was approved on 13 March 2002.
(iii) The acquisition of PacifiCorp by ScottishPower triggered special termination benefits from the SERP during 2002.
(iv) Assets and liabilities were transferred in 2002 to the PacifiCorp/IBEW Local Union 57 Retirement Trust Fund and in 2003 in relation to the sale of Southern Water.
2003 2002 2001
Change in plans’ assets £m £m £m 
Fair value of plans’ assets at beginning of year 3,204.6 3,586.6 3,886.8
Actual return on plans’ assets (509.8) (163.0) (248.2)
Employer contributions 27.2 18.5 32.7
Plan participants’ contributions 8.1 11.9 12.9
Benefits paid (191.5) (209.5) (187.0)
Settlements* (278.5) (39.4) –
Exchange (55.9) (0.5) 89.4
Fair value of plans’ assets at end of year 2,204.2 3,204.6 3,586.6
* Assets and liabilities were transferred in 2002 to the PacifiCorp/IBEW Local Union 57 Retirement Trust Fund and in 2003 in relation to the sale of Southern Water.
2003 2002 2001
Reconciliation of funded status of the plans to prepaid benefit cost £m £m £m
Funded status of the plans (626.8) 92.4 535.6
Unrecognised net actuarial loss/(gain) 852.4 121.9 (348.9)
Unrecognised prior service cost (1.3) (1.5) (15.2)
Unrecognised transition obligation asset (0.9) (1.6) (2.5)
Prepaid benefit cost 223.4 211.2 169.0
Amounts recognised in balance sheet 2003 2002 2001
(UK arrangements) £m £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost* – 270.4 237.4
Accrued benefit liability (252.1) ––
Accumulated other comprehensive loss 507.9 ––
Total recognised 255.8 270.4 237.4
* £nil where scheme has accrued benefit liability or where asset value is below accumulated benefit obligation.
Amounts recognised in balance sheet 2003 2002 2001
(US arrangements) £m £m £m
Accrued benefit liability (241.9) (121.3) (68.4)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss 67.1 62.1 –
US Regulatory assets* 148.4 ––
Exchange (6.0) ––
Total recognised (32.4) (59.2) (68.4)
* For the US pension arrangements the fair value of the plan assets was less than the accumulated benefit obligation. Under FAS 87 a minimum pension liability
is then recognised. This liability was recorded as a non-cash increase of £148.4 million to regulatory assets and £67.1 million to accumulated other
comprehensive loss. Accounting orders were received from the regulatory commissions in Utah, Oregon and Wyoming to classify this charge as a regulatory asset
instead of a charge to other comprehensive income. This increase to regulatory assets will be adjusted in future periods as the difference between the fair value
of the plan assets and the accumulated benefit obligation changes.
The value of plan assets exceed the accumulated benefit obligation at the end of the year except in the following cases:
Value of Value of Accumulated Accumulated
plan assets plan assets benefit obligation benefit obligation
at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002 at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002
£m £m £m £m
ScottishPower 1,310.5 – 1,438.4 –
Manweb 449.2 – 563.0 –
PacifiCorp 430.9 581.8 672.2 700.8
The value of plan assets exceed the projected benefit obligation at the end of the year except in the following cases:
Value of Value of Projected Projected
plan assets plan assets benefit obligation benefit obligation
at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002 at 31 March 2003 at 31 March 2002
£m £m £m £m
ScottishPower 1,310.5 – 1,487.3 –
Manweb 449.2 – 591.0 –
Final Salary LifePlan 12.8 10.2 13.5 11.6
PacifiCorp 430.9 581.8 528.4 760.1
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
121 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
The components of pension benefit costs for the years ended 31 March 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows:
31 March 31 March 31 March 
2003 2002 2001 
£m £m £m 
Service cost 55.7* 62.2 66.6
Curtailment/settlement cost 26.3** ––
Interest cost 168.6 182.5 179.8
Expected return on plans’ assets (232.2) (261.2) (287.2)
Amortisation of experience losses/(gains) 0.1 (5.8) (36.0)
Amortisation of prior service cost – (1.1) (1.1)
Amortisation of transition obligation asset (0.7) (0.9) (0.8)
Net periodic benefit cost/(credit) 17.8 (24.3) (78.7)
* Includes the contribution of £3.1 million to the PacifiCorp/IBEW Local Union 57 Retirement Trust Fund.
** Sale of Southern Water, and consequent removal of pre-paid benefit cost in relation to this scheme.
The actuarial assumptions adopted in arriving at the above figures are as follows: 
31 March 31 March 31 March 
UK arrangements – assumptions at: 2003 2002 2001
Expected return on plans’ assets 6.8% p.a. 7.5% p.a. 7.0% p.a.
Discount rate 5.4% p.a. 6.0% p.a. 5.75% p.a.
Rate of earnings increase 3.9% p.a. 4.3% p.a. 4.5% p.a.
Pension increases 2.4% p.a. 2.8% p.a. 2.5% p.a.
31 March 31 March 31 March 
US arrangements – assumptions at: 2003 2002 2001 
Expected return on plans’ assets 8.75% p.a. 9.25% p.a. 9.25% p.a.
Discount rate 6.75% p.a. 7.5% p.a. 7.75% p.a.
Rate of earnings increase 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a.
Inflation rates 3.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a.
(e) Other post-retirement benefits
PacifiCorp provides healthcare and life insurance benefits through various plans for eligible retirees on a basis substantially similar to those who are active
employees. The cost of post-retirement benefits is accrued over the active service period of employees. Except for a few groups of former employees, PacifiCorp
funds post-retirement benefit expense through a combination of funding vehicles. Over the period from 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp made
contributions totalling £16.3 million in respect of these arrangements. These funds are invested in common stocks, bonds and US government obligations.
The net periodic post-retirement benefit cost and significant assumptions are summarised as follows: 
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Service cost 3.6 3.6 3.5
Interest cost 22.1 20.0 18.8
Expected return on plan assets (18.5) (20.4) (19.1)
Amortisation of experience losses 1.3 ––
Net periodic post-retirement benefit cost 8.5 3.2 3.2
The change in the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation, change in plan assets and funded status are as follows:
2003 2002 2001
Change in accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation £m £m £m
Accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation at beginning of year 331.3 268.0 220.3
Service cost 3.6 3.6 3.5
Interest cost 22.1 20.0 18.8
Plan participants’ contributions 3.9 3.8 3.2
Special termination benefit (gain)/loss (0.6)* – 11.4
Actuarial loss/(gain) 26.4 53.8 (3.1)
Benefits paid (21.8) (18.8) (13.6)
Exchange (34.5) 0.9 27.5
Accumulated post-retirement obligation at end of year 330.4 331.3 268.0
* The period to commence the enhanced early retirement benefits under the WTRP ended on 31 December 2002. A credit adjustment of £0.6 million for special
termination benefits was necessary to reflect the impact of those participants who did not commence their WTRP benefits by 31 December 2002 because they
revoked their earlier election.
2003 2002 2001
Change in plan assets £m £m £m
Plan assets at fair value at beginning of year 184.9 201.9 200.2
Actual return on plan assets (13.8) (12.6) (18.2)
Company contributions 3.0 10.4 6.8
Plan participants’ contributions 3.9 3.8 3.2
Benefits paid (21.8) (18.8) (13.6)
Exchange (18.3) 0.2 23.5
Plan assets at fair value at end of year 137.9 184.9 201.9
2003 2002 2001
Reconciliation of accrued post-retirement costs and total amount recognised £m £m £m
Funded status of plan (192.5) (146.4) (66.1)
PacifiCorp unrecognised net loss 140.2 93.5 6.0
Final contribution made after measurement date but before 31 March 2003 13.3 ––
Accrued post-retirement benefit cost (39.0) (52.9) (60.1)
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
122 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
The actuarial assumptions adopted in arriving at the above figures are as follows:
31 March 31 March 31 March
US arrangements – assumptions at: 2003 2002 2001
Expected return on plans’ assets 8.75% p.a. 9.25% p.a. 9.25% p.a.
Discount rate 6.75% p.a. 7.50% p.a. 7.75% p.a.
Initial healthcare cost trend – under 65 9.5% p.a. 10.5% p.a. 6.0% p.a.
Initial healthcare cost trend – over 65 11.5% p.a. 12.5% p.a. 6.5% p.a.
Initial healthcare cost trend rate 5.0% p.a. 5.0% p.a. 4.5% p.a.
The assumed healthcare cost trend rate gradually decreases over four to seven years. The healthcare cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. Increasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have increased the accumulated post-retirement benefit
obligation (the “APBO”) as of 31 March 2003 by £16.4 million (2002 £18.5 million, 2001 £13.1 million) and the annual net periodic post-retirement benefit
costs by £1.4 million (2002 £1.3 million, 2001 £1.1 million). Decreasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have reduced
the APBO as of 31 March 2003 by £14.3 million (2002 £17.1 million, 2001 £16.0 million), and the annual net periodic post-retirement benefit costs by £1.2
million (2002 £1.2 million, 2001 £1.4 million).
Post-employment benefits
PacifiCorp provides certain post-employment benefits to former employees and their dependants during the period following employment but before retirement.
The costs of these benefits are accrued as they are incurred. Benefits include salary continuation, severance benefits, disability benefits and continuation of
healthcare benefits for terminated and disabled employees and workers’ compensation benefits. The provision for post-employment benefits was £9.5 million 
at 31 March 2003 (2002 £13.5 million).
Employee savings and stock ownership plan
PacifiCorp has an employee savings and stock ownership plan that qualifies as a tax-deferred arrangement under Section 401(a), 401(k), 409, 501 and
4975(e)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code. Participating US employees may defer up to 20% of their compensation, subject to certain regulatory limitations.
PacifiCorp matches a portion of employee contributions with ScottishPower ADSs, vesting that portion over five years. PacifiCorp makes an additional
contribution of ScottishPower ADSs to qualifying employees equal to a percentage of the employee’s eligible earnings. These contributions are immediately
vested. Employer contributions to the savings plan were £10.0 million for the year ended 31 March 2003 (2002 £14.7 million, 2001 £12.2 million).
(f) Southern Water disposal 
On 23 April 2002, the group completed the sale of Aspen 4 Limited (the holding company of Southern Water plc) to First Aqua Limited. A summary of the net
assets disposed of calculated under US GAAP are detailed in the table below: 
£m 
Tangible fixed assets 2,474.7
Fixed asset investments 1.9
Current assets 193.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (1,053.8)
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Loans and other borrowings (100.0)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (366.6)
Deferred income (37.4)
Net assets 1,111.9
(g) Environmental, decommissioning and mine reclamation costs
The group’s mining operations in the US are subject to reclamation and closure requirements. Reclamation and closure costs are estimated based on
engineering studies. The group monitors these requirements and periodically revises its cost estimates to meet existing legal and regulatory requirements of the
various jurisdictions in which it operates.
The group believes that it has adequately provided for its reclamation obligations, assuming ongoing operations of its mines. Total estimated final reclamation
costs, including joint owners’ portions, for all mines with which the group is involved was £136.0 million at 31 March 2003. These amounts are expected to be
paid over the next 30 years.
The liabilities for environmental, decommissioning and mine reclamation costs are generally recorded on an undiscounted basis. These liabilities are recorded in
the UK GAAP balance sheet within ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’, and balances under US GAAP are detailed below: 
Balance sheet liability 
31 March 31 March 
2003 2002 
Notes £m £m 
Environmental costs (i) 35.7 39.5
Decommissioning costs (ii) 12.3 13.2
Mine reclamation costs (iii) 92.9 102.4
Total costs 140.9 155.1
(i) Expected to be paid over 19 years.
(ii) Expected to be paid over 22 years.
(iii) Amounts include the group’s and joint owners’ portion of mine reclamation costs.
The group had trust fund assets of £43.3 million and £57.0 million at 31 March 2003 and 2002, respectively, relating to mine reclamation, including joint
owners’ portions.
(h) Leveraged leases
The pre-tax (loss)/income from leveraged leases during the year was £(27.8) million (2002 £4.2 million), the tax (credit)/charge on the pre-tax (loss)/income was
£(10.7) million (2002 £1.4 million) and the investment tax credit recognised in the income statement was £0.9 million (2002 £1.0 million).
(i) Commitments and contingencies
(i) Environmental issues
UK businesses
The group’s UK businesses are subject to numerous regulatory requirements with respect to the protection of the environment, including environmental laws
which regulate the construction, operation and decommissioning of power stations, pursuant to legislation implementing environmental directives adopted by
the EU and protocols agreed under the auspices of international bodies such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. The group believes that it
has taken and continues to take measures to comply with applicable laws and regulations for the protection of the environment. Applicable regulations and
requirements pertaining to the environment change frequently, however, with the result that continued compliance may require material investments, or that the
group’s costs and results of operation are less favourable than anticipated.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
123 Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
US Division – PacifiCorp
PacifiCorp is subject to numerous environmental laws including: the Federal Clean Air Act, as enforced by the Environmental Protection Agency and various
state agencies; the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments; the Endangered Species Act of 1973, particularly as it relates to certain potentially endangered species of
fish; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, relating to environmental cleanups; along with the Federal Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and Clean Water Act relating to water quality. These laws could potentially impact future operations. For those
contingencies identified at 31 March 2003, principally Clean Air matters, which are the subject of discussions with the United States Environmental Protection
Agency and state regulatory authorities, future costs relating to these matters may be significant and consist primarily of capital expenditures. However,
PacifiCorp expects these costs will be included within rates and, therefore, are not expected to have a material impact on the group’s results and financial position.
(ii) Mine reclamation
US Division – PacifiCorp
All of PacifiCorp’s mining operations are subject to reclamation and closure requirements. Compliance with these requirements could result in higher
expenditures for both capital improvements and operating costs.
(iii) Deferred net power costs
US Division – PacifiCorp
At 31 March 2003, PacifiCorp had deferred net power costs for the states of Utah, Oregon and Idaho. While PacifiCorp is pursuing full recovery of these costs,
there can be no assurance that this will be achieved. Denial of recovery would result in the write-off of £87.2 million of deferred net power costs (net of
amortisation), under US GAAP, reported under US regulatory assets in the UK/US GAAP reconciliation of equity shareholders’ funds.
(iv) Regulation
US Division – PacifiCorp
The Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the FASB concluded in 1997 that FAS 71 should be discontinued when detailed legislation or regulatory orders
regarding competition are issued. Additionally, the EITF concluded that regulatory assets and liabilities applicable to businesses being deregulated should be
written-off unless their recovery is provided through future regulated cash flows. PacifiCorp continuously evaluates the appropriateness of applying FAS 71 to
each of its jurisdictions. At 31 March 2003, the group concluded that FAS 71 was appropriate. However, if efforts to deregulate progress, the group may in the
future be required to discontinue its application of FAS 71 to all or a portion of its business. Based on the group’s US regulatory net asset balance under US
GAAP at 31 March 2003, if the group stopped applying FAS 71 to its remaining regulated US operations, it would have recorded an extraordinary loss, after tax,
of £580.8 million under US GAAP.
(v) Hydro-electric relicensing
US Division – PacifiCorp
Approximately 97% of the installed capacity of PacifiCorp’s hydro-electric portfolio is regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission through 20
individual licences. Nearly all of PacifiCorp’s hydro-electric projects are at some stage of relicensing under the Federal Power Act. Hydro-electric relicensing and
the related environmental compliance requirements are subject to uncertainties. PacifiCorp expects future costs relating to these matters may be significant and
consist primarily of additional environmental requirements. The group has accumulated approximately £38.2 million in costs for ongoing hydro-electric
relicensing and it is expected that these and other future costs will be included in rates, and as such, will not have a material adverse impact on the group’s
results and financial position under US GAAP.
(j) Guarantees
In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45 (“FIN 45”) ‘Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others: an Interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34’, the group is required to disclose
certain guarantees as defined in FIN 45.  These guarantees principally relate to the group’s disposal of its former operations and are typical of these types of
transactions.  Furthermore, disclosure is required under FIN 45 of guarantees even where the likelihood that a liability will crystallise is remote.  FIN 45 also
requires recognition of liabilities under US GAAP of the fair value of certain guarantees issued or modified after 31 December 2002.  No such guarantees have
been identified. The disclosures required to be made under FIN 45 are detailed below:
The group has entered into a number of transactions involving the sale of parts of its business and the purchase of certain businesses and assets in accordance
with overall group strategy.  These transactions include the disposal of Southern Water, the demerger of Thus plc, the sale and disposal of the group’s Appliance
Retailing business and the disposal of other non-core activities.
It is standard practice in such transactions to obtain or grant contractual assurances, including in the form of warranties and indemnities.  In conducting merger,
disposal or acquisition transactions the group takes significant steps to quantify and mitigate risk at the outset of any transaction and as the transaction
progresses. Steps include carrying out, or granting the facility for the conduct of, a thorough due diligence exercise to ascertain any likely liabilities and, where the
group is the vendor, the use of caps and threshold levels for liability, inserting time limits on claim periods and detailed disclosure.
Under certain of the business disposals, indemnities under the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 1981 (“the Regulations”) are still
outstanding.  These indemnities relate to potential liabilities with respect to former employees of the group in relation to their period of employment in the group.
Typically there is no maximum limit on claims under these indemnities.
Recourse via tax warranties and indemnities remains outstanding on the same basis as stated above and in relation to the disposal of ScottishPower
Telecommunications (Services) Limited, a former subsidiary of Thus plc. These expire on 30 October 2005. The maximum financial exposure under these
arrangements is £7.5 million. No claims have been intimated in relation to this arrangement and the directors consider it extremely unlikely that there will be any
material financial exposure to the group under this arrangement.
On 23 April 2002, the group sold Aspen 4 Limited, the owner of the Southern Water group of companies. In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor
to give assurances, in the form of warranties and indemnities to the purchaser. In relation to this transaction the warranty liability period commenced on 23 April
2002 and ends on 23 April 2007 for environmental warranties, 23 April 2009 for tax warranties and 23 April 2004 for all other warranties. The sale and purchase
agreement contains a number of limitations to and exclusions of liability and maximum financial exposure for breach of the warranties (apart from tax warranties)
is capped at £900.0 million. For the tax warranties the maximum exposure is approximately £1,950.0 million. There are also minimum threshold claim levels to be
reached before a potential claim arises at all and thereafter as to whether it can be made. The directors consider it extremely unlikely that there will be any
material financial exposure to the group under these arrangements as a detailed due diligence exercise was carried out pre-disposal and detailed disclosures were
made to the purchaser so as to make them aware of all relevant information concerning the business and, consequentially, to reduce the likelihood of claims being
made against the group.
On 8 October 2001, certain business and assets of the group’s former Appliance Retailing business were sold and the remainder of the business was closed. In
such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to give assurances in the form of certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser. In relation to this
transaction the warranty liability period commenced on 8 October 2001 and ends on the earlier of 8 October 2003 or, with respect to the sale of the shares, the
date of receipt by the purchaser of audited accounts for the group’s former subsidiary, Domestic Appliance Insurance Limited (“DAIL”) for the year ended 31
March 2002. Maximum financial exposure for breach of the other warranties is £10.0 million. Protection relating to DAIL was given in relation to any shortfall in the
provisions for claims for which DAIL was liable under the “Cashback” warranty scheme. For the tax warranties and cashback indemnity the limit is £75.0 million.
Certain threshold levels must be exceeded before claims can be made against the group. Although a potential claim has been received with respect to the
adequacy of the cashback provisions in the DAIL accounts (and discussions have taken place with respect to such a claim) the directors consider it extremely
unlikely that there will be any material financial exposure to the group under these arrangements. Indemnities were also given in respect of any liability arising in
relation to the Regulations for employment claims prior to 8 October 2001, long-term sick employees and employees who are deemed to transfer pursuant to the
Regulations but were not disclosed as transferring employees. Under the transaction a number of properties were assigned to the purchaser. By operation of law
and through the putting in place of standard agreements in the event that the purchaser becomes insolvent the liability for rent and certain other items due under
certain lease arrangements could revert to the group. The annual liability to the group for rental payments in the event of insolvency of the purchaser is
approximately £9.0 million. It is extremely unlikely that the group would become liable to this extent as steps would be taken to mitigate any such liability which
could include surrendering leases to landlords and putting in place new tenants to take over the liability.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
124 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
125
35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
On 3 August 2000, the group agreed to sell Powercor Australia Ltd. In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to give certain warranties and
indemnities to the purchaser.  The group agreed to indemnify the purchaser for any breaches of representations relating to tax warranties or tax claims as defined
therein until August 2005. The indemnity is limited by a AUD$15.0 million (£5.7 million) basket, with the group liable for the excess over this amount only and an
overall cap of AUD$300.0 million (£114.5 million). No claims have been intimated in relation to the above noted arrangements and the directors consider it
extremely unlikely that there will be any material financial exposure to the group under these arrangements.
In November 2000, the group sold its interests in Hazelwood Holdings Inc. and PacifiCorp Global Inc. In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to
give certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser. In relation to this transaction the tax warranty period commenced in November 2000 and ends in
November 2005.  The maximum financial exposure for breach of these warranties is AUD$88.0 million (£33.6 million). The directors consider it extremely unlikely
that there will be any material financial exposure under these arrangements as a detailed due diligence exercise was carried out pre-disposal and detailed
disclosures were made to the purchaser to reduce the likelihood of claims being made against the group.
To the extent that claims based upon the arrangements below are limited by applicable statutes, the limitation periods generally vary from three to six years,
depending on the jurisdiction and the nature of the claim.
On 22 July 2000, a subsidiary company, PacifiCorp Trans, Inc. (“PacifiCorp Trans”) sold two Cessna Citation Excel aircraft for US$16.6 million (£10.5 million), and
agreed to indemnify the purchaser for any claims asserted against the purchaser in connection with the inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made by
PacifiCorp Trans. 
On 4 May 2000, the group and other joint owners completed the sale to Transalta of a power plant and coal mine located in Centralia, Washington. Under the
agreement relating to the plant, the joint owners agreed to indemnify Transalta if it were to incur certain losses after the closing date and arising as a result of
certain breaches of covenants. Under the agreement relating to the mine, the group provided similar indemnity. The maximum indemnification obligation under
these agreements, with respect to the group, is limited to $556.0 million (£351.7 million), less a deductible of 1% of the purchase price (approximately $1.0 million
(£0.6 million)). No indemnity claims have been made to date.
In connection with the sale of PacifiCorp's Montana service territory, PacifiCorp entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Flathead Electric Cooperative
("Flathead") dated 9 October 1998. Under the agreement, PacifiCorp indemnified Flathead for losses, if any, occurring after the closing date and arising as a result
of certain breaches of warranty or covenants. The indemnification has a cap of $6.0 million (£4.0 million). One indemnity claim relating to environmental issues
has been tendered, but remediation costs for this claim, if any, are not expected to create a material financial exposure for the group.
On 15 October 2001, the group sold its synthetic fuels operation. In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to give certain warranties and
indemnities to the purchaser. The group agreed to indemnify the purchaser from losses suffered as a result of fraud or breach of representation or warranty, within
30 days of the expiration of the applicable statutory period of limitations. The established basket and cap do not apply to the surviving representations and
warranties. The group also agreed to indemnify the purchaser for tax liabilities up to the closing date; this indemnity also expires within 30 days of the expiration of
the statutory period of limitations. No claims have been intimated in relation to the above noted arrangements and the directors consider it extremely unlikely that
there will be any material financial exposure to the group under these arrangements. 
On 11 June 1997, PacifiCorp Group Holdings Company (“PGHC”), a subsidiary of the company, sold Pacific Telecom, Inc. ("PTI"). In such transactions it is standard
practice for the vendor to give certain warranties and indemnities to the purchaser. PGHC agreed to indemnify and hold harmless the purchaser from losses or
claims arising from breach of representation or warranty of PGHC resulting from any liability of PTI with respect to tax years ending prior to the closing date; and
resulting from material breaches of agreements and covenants under the agreement. The indemnity includes a $5.0 million (£3.2 million) basket, with the group
being liable for the excess over this amount only and an overall cap of $300.0 million (£189.7 million). Most of the indemnities survive for six months beyond the
applicable statute of limitations. PGHC is currently defending one environmental indemnity claim under this provision and apart from this no claims have been
intimated in relation to the above noted arrangements. 
On 10 October 1997, PGHC agreed to sell Pacific Generation Company. In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to give certain warranties and
indemnities to the purchaser. The group agreed to indemnify the purchaser for breaches of representations and warranties relating to tax matters, which continue
until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. The indemnity includes an aggregate cap of $66.0 million (£41.7 million) and a basket of $3.0 million
(£1.7 million). No claims have been intimated in relation to the above noted arrangements and the directors consider it extremely unlikely that there will be any 
material financial exposure to the group under these arrangements. 
On 9 February 1999, PGHC agreed to sell TPC Corporation.  In such transactions it is standard practice for the vendor to give certain warranties and indemnities to
the purchaser. The group provided indemnification to the purchaser for breaches of representations and warranties relating to environmental matters, tax matters
and employee benefits for the period ending 9 February 2004 with regard to the environmental matters, and through the applicable statute of limitations on tax
and employee benefit matters. The indemnification is limited to a $1.0 million (£0.6 million) basket, with the group liable for the excess over this amount only and
an overall $10.0 million (£6.3 million) cap. In addition, certain special indemnities were provided with respect to certain specified matters. No claims have been
intimated in relation to the above noted arrangements and the directors consider it extremely unlikely that there will be any material financial exposure to the
group under these arrangements. 
ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited (“SPERL”) has entered into an agreement with Lloyds TSB in relation to energy marketing and services.  This agreement
contains indemnities in relation to transfer of staff by operation of the Regulations from SPERL to Lloyds TSB.  The maximum liability is limited to £5.0 million.  No
claims have been intimated.
Under certain cash collateral agreements, Automated Power Exchange (UK) Limited, UK Power Exchange and Elexon can draw down and use cash collateral in
event of default situations including upon a change in credit rating.  The maximum financial exposure under these arrangements is £10.3 million.
Under the group’s arrangements carried out in accordance with the standard terms and conditions of the International Swap Dealers Association Inc (“ISDA”)
Master Agreement there is a provision that the group will indemnify the counter-party for certain withholding taxes incurred under relevant tax laws. A liability
under this indemnification will only arise on the occurrence of certain changes to tax laws in the jurisdiction of a relevant counterparty. The directors are not aware
of any such contemplated changes.
(k) Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
The group uses derivative instruments in the normal course of business, to offset fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and equity associated with movements in
exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
FAS 133 ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’, as amended by FAS 137 and FAS 138, was adopted by the group with effect from 1 April
2001. Effective from 1 April 2002, the group adopted revised FAS 133 guidance issued by the Derivatives Implementation Group under Revised Issue C15
‘Normal Purchases and Normal Sales Exception for Certain Option-Type Contracts in Electricity’ and Issue C16 ‘Applying the Normal Purchases and Normal
Sales Exception to Contracts that Combine a Forward Contract and Purchased Option Contract’. This new guidance had the effect of including an increased
number of the group’s contracts within the scope of FAS 133. The cumulative adjustment to profit under US GAAP for the year ended 31 March 2003 as a result
of adopting Revised Issue C15 and Issue C16 was an increase to profit of £228.6 million (£141.1 million, net of tax).
FAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts
(collectively referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities. FAS 133 requires that an entity recognise all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. FAS 133 prescribes requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to qualify for hedge accounting.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed consistently with the method and risk management strategy documented for each hedging relationship. On at least a quarterly
basis, the group assesses the effectiveness of each hedging relationship retrospectively and prospectively to ensure that hedge accounting was appropriate for
the prior period and continues to be appropriate for future periods. The group applies the short cut method of assessing effectiveness when possible. The group
considers hedge accounting to be appropriate if the assessment of hedge effectiveness indicates that the change in fair value of the designated hedging
instrument is 80% to 125% effective at offsetting the change in fair value arising on the hedged risk of the hedged item or transaction.
The effect of changes in fair value of certain derivative instruments entered into to hedge PacifiCorp’s future retail resource requirements are subject to
regulation in the US and therefore are deferred pursuant to FAS 71. PacifiCorp requested and received deferred accounting orders for the effects of FAS 133 as it
relates to the change in value of certain long-term wholesale electricity contracts not meeting the definition of normal purchases and normal sales contracts. 35 Summary of differences between UK and US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (‘GAAP’) continued
Categories of derivatives
Derivatives are classified into four categories: fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, overseas net investment hedges and trading.
If a derivative instrument qualifies as a fair value hedge the change in the fair value of the derivative and the change in the fair value of hedged risk arising on the
hedged item is recorded in earnings. The corresponding change is recorded against the book values of the derivative and hedged item on the balance sheet.
If a derivative instrument qualifies as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the hedging instrument’s gain or loss is reported in shareholders’ funds under
US GAAP (as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) and is recognised in earnings in the period during which the transaction being hedged
affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the derivative’s fair value change is recorded in earnings.
For derivative instruments designated as a hedge of the foreign currency risk in an overseas net investment, gains or losses due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates
are recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment within shareholders’ funds under US GAAP (as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income).
If a derivative instrument does not qualify as either a net investment hedge or a cash flow hedge under the applicable guidance, the change in the fair value of
the derivative is immediately recognised in earnings or as an adjustment to the FAS 71 regulatory asset as appropriate.
Derivative instruments are not generally held by the company for speculative trading purposes. To the extent such instruments are held they are measured at
fair value with gains or losses recorded in earnings. The fair value of trading derivatives at 31 March 2003 was £0.4 million.
Certain contracts that meet the definition of a derivative under FAS 133 may qualify as a normal purchase or a normal sale and be excluded from the scope of
FAS 133. Specific criteria must be met in order for a contract that would otherwise be regarded as a derivative to qualify as a normal purchase or a normal sale.
The group has evaluated all commodity contracts to determine if they meet the definition of a derivative and qualify as a normal purchase or a normal sale.
The group also evaluates contracts for “embedded” derivatives, and considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be separated from the underlying host
contract and accounted for separately in accordance with FAS 133 requirements. Where embedded derivatives have terms that are not clearly and closely
related to the terms of the host contract in which they are included, they are accounted for separately from the host contract as derivatives, with changes in the
fair value recorded in earnings, to the extent that the hybrid instrument is not already accounted for at fair value.
Discontinued hedge accounting
When hedge accounting is discontinued due to the group’s determination that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair value hedge, the group will
continue to carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value. The related hedged asset or liability will cease to be adjusted for changes in fair value
relating to the previously hedged risk.
When the group discontinues hedge accounting in a cash flow hedge because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur in the expected
period, the gain or loss on the derivative remains in accumulated other comprehensive income and is reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction
affects earnings. However, if it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional
two-month period of time thereafter, the gains and losses that were accumulated in other comprehensive income will be recognised in earnings.
Where a derivative instrument ceases to meet the criteria for hedge accounting, any subsequent gains and losses are recognised in earnings.
Fair value hedges
The group seeks to maintain a desired level of floating rate debt, and uses interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage interest rate and foreign
currency risk arising from long-term debt obligations denominated in sterling and foreign currencies. The group does not exclude any component of derivative
gains and losses from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The ineffective portion of fair value hedges as at 31 March 2003 resulted in a loss of £0.2 million.
Cash flow hedges 
A desired level of fixed rate debt is maintained through the use of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps. Foreign currency forward contracts are used
to fix the exchange rate on future contracted purchases of assets. These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The group does not exclude any
component of derivative gains and losses from the assessment of ineffectiveness. The amount of ineffectiveness for cash flow hedges recorded for the year ended
31 March 2003 was £nil. Net realised losses on cash flow hedges totalling £13.9 million were transferred from accumulated other comprehensive income into
income during the year to match the underlying hedged items recognised in the income statement. The group estimates that losses of £5.7 million on cash flow
hedges in place at the year end will be transferred from accumulated other comprehensive income into income during 2003/04.
Net investment hedges
The group uses foreign currency forwards and cross currency swaps to protect the value of its investments in operations denominated in foreign currencies. The
group excludes the spot-forward difference from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In the year ended 31 March 2003 the group recorded a £158.8 million
translation adjustment gain related to net investment hedges.
Recent US accounting pronouncements 
In June 2001 the FASB issued FAS 143 'Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations' which became effective for the group on 1 April 2003. The statement requires the
fair value of an asset retirement obligation to be recorded as a liability in the period in which the obligation was incurred. At the same time the liability is recorded, the
costs of the asset retirement obligation must be recorded as an addition to the carrying amount of the related asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present
value and the addition to the carrying amount is depreciated over the asset's useful life. Upon retirement of the asset, the group will settle the retirement obligation
against the recorded balance of the liability. Any difference in the financial retirement obligation cost and the liability will result in either a gain or loss. The group has
considered the application of this standard to its operations and has completed an assessment of the impact of this standard. The group estimates that the cumulative
post-tax effect of adopting FAS 143 will increase net income under US GAAP by £1.7 million, which will be recorded primarily as a net US net regulatory liability if
PacifiCorp receives regulatory approval.
In April 2002, the FASB issued FAS 145, 'Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4,44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13 and Technical Corrections'. FAS 145
became effective for the group on 1 April 2003. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on the group's results and financial position under US GAAP .
In June 2002, the FASB issued FAS 146 ‘Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities’, which requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit
or disposal activity be recognised when the liability is incurred instead of at the date of the company’s commitment to the exit plan. FAS 146 is effective for exit or
disposal activities that are initiated after 31 December 2002 and therefore has had no effect on the group’s results and financial position under US GAAP .
In January 2003, the FASB issued FAS Interpretation No. 46 (‘FIN 46’), ‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’, which requires existing unconsolidated variable
interest entities to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if the entities do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved. FIN 46 applies immediately to
variable interest entities created after 31 January 2003 and applies to accounting periods beginning after 15 June 2003 to variable interest entities acquired before 1
February 2003. This interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the group’s results and financial position under US GAAP .
In April 2003, the FASB issued FAS 149, ‘Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’. FAS 149 amends and clarifies financial
reporting for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and for hedging activities. This statement is effective for
contracts entered into or modified after 30 June 2003. The group is currently evaluating the effect FAS 149 will have on its results and financial position under US
GAAP .
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
126
Notes to the Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued 2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 36 4,088.3 4,769.4
Current assets
Debtors 37 504.2 141.0
Short-term bank and other deposits 1.7 –
505.9 141.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Loans and other borrowings 38 (313.4) (266.3)
Other creditors 39 (215.1) (137.3)
(528.5) (403.6)
Net current liabilities (22.6) (262.6)
Net assets 4,065.7 4,506.8
Called up share capital 40 928.0 926.3
Share premium 40 2,264.4 2,254.1
Capital redemption reserve 40 18.3 18.3
Profit and loss account 40 855.0 1,308.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 40 4,065.7 4,506.8
Approved by the Board on 7 May 2003 and signed on its behalf by
Charles Miller Smith David Nish
Chairman Finance Director
The Accounting Policies and Definitions on pages 70 to 73, together with the Notes on pages 78 to 83, 85 to 87, 89 to 126 and 128 to 130 form
part of these Accounts. 
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
127 36 Fixed asset investments
Subsidiary Own shares
undertakings held under
Shares Loans trust Total
Note £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation:
At 1 April 2002 2,233.6 2,491.3 44.5 4,769.4
Additions (i) 2,376.0 – 36.1 2,412.1
Disposals and other (595.7) (2,491.3) (6.2) (3,093.2)
At 31 March 2003 4,013.9 – 74.4 4,088.3
(i) The company received a dividend in cash from SP Finance of £250 million on 9 December 2002. On the same date, the company entered into certain
guarantees and undertakings with SP Finance and Scottish Power UK plc as a consequence of which the dividend was not recognised as income but recorded as 
a liability. The company has subsequently fulfilled its obligations under these guarantees and undertakings through the purchase from Scottish Power UK plc of
preference shares in SP Finance for a consideration of £250 million (plus interest). Consequently, the purchase of the preference shares has been accounted for 
as settlement of this liability rather than as an addition to fixed asset investments. The preference shares were converted to ordinary shares in SP Finance on 28
March 2003.
37 Debtors
2003 2002
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Loans to subsidiary undertakings 495.5 140.2
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 8.6 –
Interest due from subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.8
504.2 141.0
38 Loans and other borrowings due within one year
2003 2002
£m £m
Loans from subsidiary undertakings 313.4 166.3
Committed bank loans – 100.0
313.4 266.3
39 Other creditors
2003 2002
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 8.6 –
Interest due to subsidiary undertakings 0.1 –
Corporate tax 65.1 –
Accrued expenses 9.1 11.2
Proposed dividend 132.2 126.1
215.1 137.3
40 Analysis of movements in shareholders’ funds
Capital Profit
Number Share Share redemption and loss
of shares capital premium reserve account Total
000s £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2002 1,852,647 926.3 2,254.1 18.3 1,308.1 4,506.8
Retained loss for the year –––– (453.1) (453.1)
Share capital issued
– Executive share option scheme 15 – 0.1 – – 0.1
– ESOP 3,271 1.7 10.2 – – 11.9
.
At 31 March 2003 1,855,933 928.0 2,264.4 18.3 855.0 4,065.7
41 Profit and loss account
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account. The company’s profit and loss account
was approved by the Board on 7 May 2003. The profit for the financial year per the Accounts of the company was £76.4 million (2002 £91.8 million). The
retained loss for the year of £453.1 million is stated after dividends of £529.5 million.
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
128 42 Contingent liabilities
In consideration of Scottish Power UK plc agreeing to subscribe for preference shares in SP Finance, the company has unconditionally and irrevocably agreed to:
a) indemnify and hold harmless Scottish Power UK plc against any liability or loss incurred as a direct result of Scottish Power UK plc being or having been a
member of SP Finance; and
b) procure that, for the period from 28 November 2002 until the date being 12 months after Scottish Power UK plc ceases to be a member of SP Finance, SP
Finance shall not engage in any trading activities nor incur any liabilities other than in respect of its obligations under its Articles of Association.
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003 – continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
129 Proportion 
Class of share of shares 
Subsidiary undertakings capital held Activity 
Core Utility Solutions Limited ‘A’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Multi-utility design and construction service
CRE Energy Limited (Northern Ireland) Ordinary shares £1 100% Wind-powered electricity generation 
NA General Partnership
##
Notapplicable100% Investment holding
PacifiCorp (USA) Common stock 100% Regional electricity company
PacifiCorp Financial Services, Inc. (USA) Common stock 100% Finance company
PacifiCorp Group Holdings Company (USA) Common stock 100% Investment holding
PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc. (USA) Common stock 100% US holding company
PacifiCorp UK Limited*** Voting shares $1 100% Finance company
PPM Energy, Inc. (USA) Common stock 100% Wholesale power marketer, developer of
wind-power projects and provider of
natural gas/hub services
ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Supply of electricity and gas to domestic
and business customers
ScottishPower Energy Trading Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Wholesale trading company engaged in
purchase and sale of electricity, gas and coal 
ScottishPower Energy Trading (Agency) Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Agent for trading activity of ScottishPower
Energy Trading Limited and 
Scottish Power UK plc
ScottishPower Generation Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Electricity generation 
ScottishPower Insurance Limited (Isle of Man) Ordinary shares £1 100% Insurance
ScottishPower Investments Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Holding company
ScottishPower NA1 Limited
#
Ordinary shares £1 100% Holding company
ScottishPower NA 2 Limited
#
Ordinary shares £1 100% Holding company
Scottish Power UK Holdings Limited
#
Ordinary shares 50p 100% Holding company 
Scottish Power UK plc Ordinary shares 50p 100% Holding company 
SP Dataserve Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Data collection, data aggregation, meter
operation and revenue protection
SP Distribution Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Ownership and operation of distribution
network within the ScottishPower area
SP Finance
#
Ordinary shares £1 100% Holding company
SP Finance 2 Limited
#
Ordinary shares £1 100% Holding company
SP Manweb plc Ordinary shares 50p 100% Ownership and operation of distribution
network within the Mersey and North Wales area
SP Power Systems Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Provision of asset management services 
SP Transmission Limited Ordinary shares £1 100% Ownership and operation of transmission
network within the ScottishPower area 
Fixed asset investments
Joint ventures
CeltPower Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Wind-powered electricity generation
N.E.S.T. Makers Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Energy efficiency agent for the
‘fuel poor’/benefit market
ScotAsh Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Sales of ash and ash-related cementitious 
products
Scottish Electricity Settlements Limited Ordinary shares £1 50% Scottish electricity settlements
Shoreham Operations Company Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Management services
South Coast Power Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1* 100% Electricity generation
Associated undertaking
Wind Resources Limited ‘B’ Ordinary shares £1** 100% Wind-powered electricity generation 
Notes
* Represents 50% of the total issued share capital.
** Represents 45% of the total issued share capital.
*** 100% of the following classes of shares in PacifiCorp UK Limited are also indirectly held: ‘A’ Non-Voting Shares of $3,189.26 each; ‘B’ Non-Voting Shares of
$3,446.41 each; ‘C’ Non-Voting Shares of $4,874.18 each; ‘D’ Non-Voting Shares of $2,924.90 each; ‘E’ Non-Voting Shares of $4,874.18 each; ‘F’ Non-Voting
Shares of $3,883.54 each.
#
The investment in this company is a direct holding of Scottish Power plc.
##
NA General Partnership is a partnership and therefore has no defined class of share capital.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. The information above includes the
undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the results or financial position of the group. 
All companies are incorporated in Great Britain, unless otherwise stated.
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and Other Investments
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
130 We have audited the Accounts which
comprise the Accounting Policies and
Definitions, the Group Profit and Loss
Accounts, the Statement of Total
Recognised Gains and Losses, the Note
of Historical Cost Profits and Losses, the
Reconciliation of Movements in
Shareholders’ Funds, the Group Cash
Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Net
Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt, the
Group Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and
Other Investments, the Company
Balance Sheet and the related notes. We
have also audited the disclosures
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985 contained in the
Remuneration Report of the Directors
(‘the auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for
preparing the Annual Report and
Accounts in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and accounting
standards are set out in the statement of
directors’ responsibilities. The directors
are also responsible for preparing the
Remuneration Report of the Directors.
Our responsibility is to audit the Accounts
and the auditable part of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements
and United Kingdom Auditing Standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been
prepared for and only for the company’s
members as a body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985
and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to
any other person to whom this report is
shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to
whether the Accounts give a true and fair
view and whether the Accounts and the
auditable part of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors have been
properly prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985. We also report
to you if, in our opinion, the Report of
the Directors is not consistent with the
Accounts, if the company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or 
if information specified by law regarding
directors’ remuneration and transactions
is not disclosed.
We read the Chairman’s Statement, the
Chief Executive’s Review, the Business
Review, the Financial Review, the
Corporate Governance statement, the
unaudited part of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors and the other
information contained in the Annual
Report and Accounts and consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the Accounts.
We review whether the Corporate
Governance statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the seven
provisions of the Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the board’s
statements on internal control cover all
risks and controls, or to form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the company’s or
group’s corporate governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with Auditing Standards issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of
evidence relevant to the amounts and
disclosures in the Accounts and the
auditable part of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors. It also includes
an assessment of the significant
estimates and judgements made by the
directors in the preparation of the
Accounts, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the group’s
circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit 
so as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Accounts and the
auditable part of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors are free from
material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In
forming our opinion we also evaluated
the overall adequacy of the presentation
of information in the Accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion: 
– the Accounts give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the company and
the group at 31 March 2003 and of the
profit and cash flows of the group for the
year then ended; 
– the Accounts have been properly
prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
– those parts of the Remuneration
Report of the Directors required by Part
3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act
1985 have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act
1985. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and 
Registered Auditors
Glasgow
7 May 2003
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Scottish Power plc
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
131 Years ended 31 March
2003 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Notes $m £m £m £m £m £m
UK GAAP Information
Profit and Loss Account Information:
Turnover
– continuing operations (a) 8,290 5,247 5,523 5,410 3,110 2,334
– discontinued operations 43 27 791 939 1,005 908
Total turnover 8,333 5,274 6,314 6,349 4,115 3,242
Operating profit
– continuing operations (a) 1,472 932 636 569 395 527
– discontinued operations 22 14 141 153 267 276
Total operating profit 1,494 946 777 722 662 803
Operating profit (as adjusted) (b)
– continuing operations (a) 1,692 1,071 801 815 676 527
– discontinued operations 22 14 143 155 285 277
Total operating profit (as adjusted) 1,714 1,085 944 970 961 804
Profit/(loss) before taxation
– continuing operations 1,084 686 276 264 837 362
– discontinued operations 17 11 (1,215) 116 312 282
Total profit/(loss) before taxation 1,101 697 (939) 380 1,149 644
Profit before taxation (as adjusted) (b)
– continuing operations 1,304 825 460 509 484 360
– discontinued operations 17 11 107 119 252 285
Total profit before taxation (as adjusted) 1,321 836 567 628 736 645
Profit/(loss) for financial year
– continuing operations 750 475 214 151 626 210
– discontinued operations 13 8 (1,201) 157 259 259
Total profit/(loss) for financial year 763 483 (987) 308 885 469
Cash dividends (837) (530) (503) (477) (341) (268)
Dividend in specie on demerger of Thus –– (437) – – –
Balance Sheet Information:
Total assets 22,049 13,955 16,315 16,976 15,516 6,232
Capital expenditure (net) (c) 1,133 717 1,229 1,095 887 754
Long-term liabilities 11,453 7,249 8,318 7,793 6,895 2,852
Net debt 6,827 4,321 6,208 5,285 4,842 2,421
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,328 4,638 4,731 5,893 5,563 1,203
Net assets 7,445 4,712 4,818 6,179 5,863 1,204
Basic weighted average share capital (number of shares, million) 1,844 1,844 1,838 1,830 1,390 1,185
Diluted weighted average share capital (number of shares, million) 1,848 1,848 1,840 1,837 1,399 1,197
Ratios and statistics:
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
– continuing operations $0.407 25.76p 11.65p 8.26p 45.05p 17.73p
– discontinued operations $0.0065 0.41p (65.36)p 8.54p 18.64p 21.87p
Total earnings/(loss) per ordinary share $0.4135 26.17p (53.71)p 16.80p 63.69p 39.60p
Earnings per ordinary share (as adjusted) (e)
– continuing operations $0.5261 33.30p 21.04p 19.19p 23.65p 17.84p
– discontinued operations $0.0065 0.41p 5.08p 8.67p 14.32p 21.86p
Total earnings per ordinary share (as adjusted) $0.5326 33.71p 26.12p 27.86p 37.97p 39.70p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share $0.4125 26.11p (53.64)p 16.74p 63.25p 39.20p
Earnings/(loss) per ScottishPower ADS (d) $1.66 £1.05 £(2.15) £0.67 £2.55 £1.58
Earnings per ScottishPower ADS (as adjusted) (d),(e) $2.13 £1.35 £1.04 £1.11 £1.52 £1.59
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ScottishPower ADS (d) $1.64 £1.04 £(2.15) £0.67 £2.53 £1.57
Cash dividends per ScottishPower ordinary share $0.4536 28.708p 27.34p 26.04p 24.80p 22.50p
Cash dividends per ScottishPower ADS (d) $1.83 £1.15 £1.09 £1.04 £0.99 £0.90
Dividend cover (as adjusted) (e) 1.2x 1.2x 1.0x 1.1x 1.5x 1.8x
Interest cover (as adjusted) (e) 4.3x 4.3x 2.5x 3.0x 4.2x 5.0x
Gearing (f) 93% 93% 131% 90% 87% 201%
US GAAP Information
Total turnover (a) 8,333 5,274 6,314 6,349 4,115 3,242
Profit/(loss) for the financial year 1,247 789 (887) 387 870 451
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (g) $0.6764 42.81p (48.26)p 21.13p 62.59p 38.08p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share $0.6747 42.70p (48.26)p 21.05p 62.16p 37.70p
Earnings/(loss) per ScottishPower ADS (d),(g) $2.70 £1.71 £(1.93) £0.85 £2.50 £1.52
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ScottishPower ADS (d) $2.70 £1.71 £(1.93) £0.84 £2.49 £1.51
Total assets 24,109 15,259 17,818 18,646 16,971 7,344
Equity shareholders’ funds under US GAAP 8,658 5,480 5,850 7,463 7,001 2,457
Five Year Summary
(a) The results for the financial year ended 31 March 2000 included turnover of
£711.7 million, operating profit of £114.9 million and operating profit, before
goodwill amortisation, of £151.7 million in respect of PacifiCorp for the period of
the year following its acquisition on 29 November 1999.
(b) Operating profit (as adjusted) and profit before taxation (as adjusted) 
exclude the effect of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
(c) Capital expenditure is stated net of capital grants and customer contributions.
(d) Earnings/(loss) and cash dividends per ScottishPower ADS have been calculated
based on a ratio of four ScottishPower ordinary shares to one ScottishPower
ADS. Cash dividends per ScottishPower ADS are shown based on the actual
amounts in US dollars.
(e) The adjusted figures for Earnings per ordinary share, Earnings per ScottishPower ADS,
Dividend cover and Interest cover exclude the effects of exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation as applicable.
(f) Gearing is calculated by dividing net debt by equity shareholders’ funds.
(g) As permitted under UK GAAP , earnings/(loss) per share have been presented
including and excluding the impact of the exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation to provide an additional measure of underlying performance. In
accordance with US GAAP , earnings/(loss) per share have been presented based
on US GAAP earnings, without adjustments for the impact of UK GAAP
exceptional items and goodwill amortisation. Such additional measures of
underlying performance are not permitted under US GAAP . 
(h) Amounts for the financial year ended 31 March 2003 have been translated, solely
for the convenience of the reader, at $1.58 to £1.00, the closing exchange rate on
31 March 2003.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
132 UK Financial Terms used in Annual Report & Accounts US equivalent or definition
Accounts Financial statements
Associates Equity investees
Capital allowances Tax depreciation
Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital
Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Long-term liabilities
Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans
Employee costs Payroll costs
Finance lease Capital lease
Financial year Fiscal year
Fixed asset investments Non-current investments
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity
Gearing Leverage
Investment in associates and joint ventures Securities of equity investees
Loans to associates and joint ventures Indebtedness of equity investees not current
Net asset value Book value
Operating profit Net operating income
Other debtors Other current assets
Own work capitalised Costs of group’s employees engaged in the construction 
of plant and equipment for internal use
Profit Income
Profit and loss account (statement) Income statement
Profit and loss account (in the balance sheet) Retained earnings
Profit/(loss) for financial year Net income/(loss)
Profit on sale of fixed assets Gain on disposal of non-current assets
Provision for doubtful debts Allowance for bad and doubtful accounts receivable
Provisions Long-term liabilities other than debt and specific 
accounts payable
Recognised gains and losses (statement) Comprehensive income
Reserves Shareholders’ equity other than paid-up capital
Severance costs Early release scheme expenses
Share premium account Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable)
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity
Stocks Inventories
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment
Trade debtors Accounts receivable (net)
Turnover Revenues
Glossary of Financial Terms and US Equivalents
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
133 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
134
Investor Information
Nature of trading market
The principal trading market for the
ordinary shares of ScottishPower is the
London Stock Exchange. In addition,
American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) (each
of which represents four ordinary shares)
have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank,
as depositary (the “Depositary”) for the
company’s ADSs, and are traded on the
New York Stock Exchange following listing
on 8 September 1997.
Table 45 sets out, for the periods indicated,
the highest and lowest middle market
quotations for the ordinary shares, as
derived from the Daily Ofﬁcial List of the
London Stock Exchange and the range of
high and low closing sale prices for ADSs, as
reported on the New York Exchange
Composite Tape.
On 31 March 2003, there were 534
registered holders of 315,296 ordinary
shares with addresses in the US and 62,359
registered holders of 68,859,341 ADSs
(equivalent to 275,437,364 ordinary
shares). The combined holdings of these
shareholders represented 14.86% of the
total number of ordinary shares outstanding
as at 31 March 2003. UK registered
shareholders held 84.90% of the total
number of ordinary shares, and all
shareholders other than those registered in
the UK or the US held 0.24% of the total
number of ordinary shares outstanding as
at 31 March 2003. As certain of the
ordinary shares and ADSs are held by
brokers and other nominees, these numbers
may not be representative of the actual
number of beneﬁcial owners in the US or
elsewhere or the number of ordinary shares
or ADSs beneﬁcially held by US persons.
Table 46 – Analysis of Ordinary Shareholdings
at 31 March 2003
Range of No. of 
holdings shareholdings No. of shares
1-100 18,436 732,327
101-200 174,505 28,957,720
201-600 178,703 55,273,513
601-1,000 39,280 30,763,853
1,001-5,000 48,442 90,686,464
5,001-100,000 4,223 62,322,104
100,001 and above 781 1,587,196,821
Total 464,3701,855,932,802
Share capital and options
As a result of the exercise of options under
the Executive Share Option Scheme and the
issue of shares to the Trustee of the
Employee Share Ownership Plan, a total of
3,285,818 ordinary shares of 50p each were
issued during the year. Accordingly, the
number of ordinary shares in issue was
1,855,932,802 as at 31 March 2003. During
the year, 3,316,143 options over ordinary
shares were granted to 2,188 employees
under the ScottishPower Sharesave
Scheme. A total of 7,327,043 options were
granted under the Executive Share Option
Plan 2001. No options were granted under
the Executive Share Option Scheme, which
was replaced in 1996 by the introduction of
the Long Term Incentive Plan. Awards in
respect of 1,028,417 shares were made
under the Plan during the year and these
awards are subject to the achievement of
speciﬁed performance criteria. Details are
contained in the Remuneration Report. 
Between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003, 
a further 225,182 ordinary shares have
been issued as a result of the allotments in
respect of the Employee Share Ownership
Plan. At the Annual General Meeting of the
company last year, shareholders granted
authority to the directors to purchase up to
185,298,702 ordinary shares. The directors
have not exercised this authority.
Table 45 – Historical share prices
Ordinary shares
1
American Depositary Shares
Period High (p) Low (p) High ($) Low ($)
1998/99 675.00 521.00 44.63 34.13
1999/00 601.50 359.50 39.11 22.97
2000/01 576.00 422.00 33.88 26.15
2001/02
First quarter 521.84 430.64 30.24 24.90
Second quarter 513.06 351.14 29.66 20.90
Third quarter 412.59 355.78 24.51 21.05
Fourth quarter 426.49 350.00 24.75 20.10
2002/03
First quarter 416.00 342.00 24.80 19.90
Second quarter 384.00 298.75 24.00 18.84
Third quarter 373.00 336.00 23.75 20.55
Fourth quarter 388.00 330.75 24.45 21.40
October 2002 373.00 343.50 23.75 21.15
November 2002 373.00 338.00 23.65 20.55
December 2002 362.50 336.00 23.45 20.88
January 2003 372.75 330.75 24.05 21.40
February 2003 373.50 332.00 24.00 21.80
March 2003 388.00 333.50 24.45 21.51
Note:
1 The past performance of the ordinary shares is not necessarily indicative of future performance. ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
135
Substantial shareholdings
As at 7 May 2003, the company had been
notiﬁed that the following companies were
substantial shareholders:
Capital Research and 
Management Company 7.38%
Barclays plc 3.58%
Prudential plc 3.55%
Legal & General
InvestmentManagement 3.38%
The substantial shareholders enjoy the
same voting rights as all other shareholders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not
directly or indirectly owned or controlled by
another corporation or by any foreign
government.
As at 7 May 2003, no person known to the
company, other than as shown above,
owned more than 5% of any class of the
group’s voting securities.
As at 7 May 2003, the total amount of
voting securities owned by directors and
executive ofﬁcers of ScottishPower as a
group is shown in Table 47 below.
Table 47 – Voting securities
Title of Class Amount Percentage
Identity of Group Owned of Class
Ordinary shares
Directors and ofﬁcers
(18 persons) 409,261 0.02%
Full details of the directors’ interests in
ScottishPower shares are shown in Tables 
43 and 44 in the Remuneration Report.
None of the ofﬁcers had a beneﬁcial interest
in 1% or more of the issued share capital.
In addition, as at 7 May 2003, the directors
and ofﬁcers of the company, as a group, held
options to purchase 4,466,130 ordinary
shares, all of which were issued pursuant to
the Long T erm Incentive Plan, Executive Share
Option Scheme, Executive Share Option Plan
2001, ScottishPower’s Sharesave Schemes or
the PaciﬁCorp Stock Incentive Plan.
The company does not know of any
arrangements the operation of which might
result in a change in control of the group.
Exchange rates
The group publishes its consolidated
Accounts in pounds sterling. In this
document, references to “pounds sterling”,
“pounds”, “pence” or “p” are to UK currency
and references to “US dollars”, “US$” or “$”
are to US currency. Solely for the convenience
of the reader, this report contains translations
of certain pounds sterling amounts into US
dollars at speciﬁed rates, or, if not so speciﬁed,
at the Noon Buying Rate in New York City
for cable transfers in pounds sterling as
certiﬁed for customs purposes by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“Noon
Buying Rate”) on 31 March 2003 of £1.00 =
$1.58. On 7 May 2003, the Noon Buying
Rate was $1.59 to £1.00. No representation
is made that the pound sterling amounts
have been, could have been or could be
converted into US dollars at the rates
indicated or at any other rates.
Table 48 sets out, for the periods indicated,
certain information concerning the Noon
Buying Rate for US dollars per £1.00.
Dividends
Although dividends were historically
declared and paid and ﬁnancial reports
published semi-annually, following
completion of the merger with PaciﬁCorp,
the company moved to quarterly reporting
and the quarterly payment of dividends.
A dividend of 7.177 pence per share on the
ordinary shares will be paid on 16 June
2003 to shareholders on the register on 16
May 2003. This makes total dividends for
the year of 28.708 pence per share. A
dividend of $0.4609 per ADS will also be
paid on 16 June 2003 to ADS holders of
record on 16 May 2003. This makes total
dividends for the year of $1.8268 per ADS.
As stated at the time of announcing the
proposed disposal of Southern Water, with
effect from the ﬁnancial year commencing 1
April 2003, ScottishPower intends to target
dividend cover, based on full year earnings
excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, in the range 1.5 - 2.0
times and ideally towards the middle of that
range. ScottishPower will aim to grow
dividends broadly in line with earnings
thereafter.
To implement this policy, in the absence of
unforeseen circumstances, ScottishPower
intends to pay an identical dividend for each
of the ﬁrst three quarters of each year, with
the dividend for the fourth quarter
representing the balance of the total
dividend for each year. In respect of each of
the quarters ending 30 June 2003, 30
September 2003 and 31 December 2003,
ScottishPower aims to declare a dividend of
4.75 pence per share.
Table 48 – Historical exchange rates
Period High Low Average
1
Year end
1998/99 $1.72 $1.60 $1.65 $1.61
1999/00 $1.68 $1.55 $1.61 $1.59
2000/01 $1.61 $1.40 $1.52 $1.42
2001/02 $1.48 $1.37 $1.43 $1.42
2002/03 $1.65 $1.43 $1.55 $1.58
October 2002 $1.57 $1.54 $1.56
November 2002 $1.59 $1.54 $1.57
December 2002 $1.61 $1.56 $1.59
January 2003 $1.65 $1.60 $1.62
February 2003 $1.65 $1.57 $1.61
March 2003 $1.61 $1.56 $1.58
Note:
1 The average of the Noon Buying Rates on the last day of each month during the relevant period. Investor Information
continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
136
Table 49 sets out the dividends paid on
ordinary shares and ADSs in respect of the
past ﬁve ﬁnancial years, excluding any
associated UK tax credit in respect of such
dividends. A person resident in the UK for
tax purposes who receives a dividend from
the company is generally entitled to a tax
credit, currently at a rate of 1/9th of the
dividend (“associated UK tax credit”). For
further information, see “Taxation of
Dividends”.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
A summary of certain provisions of the
company’s Memorandum and Articles of
Association will be ﬁled with the company’s
report to the US Securities and Exchange
Commission on Form 20-F.
Exchange controls and other limitations
affecting security holders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or
regulations that restrict the export or import
of capital, including, but not limited to,
foreign exchange capital restrictions, or that
affect the remittance of dividends or other
payments to non-UK resident holders of the
company’s securities except as otherwise
set forth in “Taxation”.
There are no limitations imposed by UK law
or by the company’s Memorandum and
Articles of Association that restrict the right
of non-UK resident or non-UK citizen
owners to hold or to vote the ordinary
shares.
Taxation
The following discussion of UK tax and US
federal income tax consequences is set
forth with respect to US tax considerations
in reliance upon the advice of Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special US
counsel to the company, and with respect
to UK tax considerations in reliance upon
the advice of Freshﬁelds Bruckhaus
Deringer, the company’s UK lawyers. The
discussion is intended only as a summary
of the principal US federal income tax and
UK tax consequences to investors who hold
the ADSs or ordinary shares as capital
assets and does not purport to be a
complete analysis or listing of all potential
tax consequences of the purchase,
ownership and disposition of ADSs or
ordinary shares. The summary does not
discuss special tax rules that may be
applicable to certain classes of investors,
including banks, insurance companies, tax
exempt entities, dealers, traders who elect
to mark to market, investors with a
functional currency other than the US
dollar, persons who hold ADSs as part of a
hedge, straddle or conversion transaction,
or holders of 10% or more of the voting
stock of the company. The statements of
UK and US tax laws and practices set out
below are based on the laws in force and as
interpreted by the relevant taxation
authorities as of the date of this report. The
statements are subject to any changes
occurring after that date in UK or US law or
practice, in the interpretation thereof by the
relevant taxation authorities, or in any
double taxation convention between the US
and the UK. On 24 July 2001, the US and
the UK signed a new convention between
the two countries for the avoidance of
double taxation with respect to taxes on
income and capital gains (“the New Income
Tax Convention”). Instruments of ratiﬁcation
with respect to the New Income Tax
Convention were exchanged on 31 March
2003, putting the New Income Tax
Convention into force, subject to certain
effective date provisions that result in the
delayed implementation of certain
withholding and income tax provisions.
As of the time of this report, all prior
distributions by the company since
Table 49 – Historical dividend payments
Notes 2002/03 2001/02 2000/01 1999/00 1998/99
Pence per ordinary share 1
Interim – –– 8.27p 7.50p
Pre-completion – –– 8.10p –
Quarter (29 Nov 1999 – 31 Dec 1999) – –– 2.23p –
Quarter (1 Jan 2000 – 31 Mar 2000) – –– 6.20p –
Quarter (1 April – 30 June) 7.177p 6.835p 6.51p – –
Quarter (1 July – 30 Sept) 7.177p 6.835p 6.51p – –
Quarter (1 Oct – 31 Dec) 7.177p 6.835p 6.51p – –
Quarter (1 Jan – 31 Mar ) 7.177p 6.835p 6.51p – –
Final – ––– 15.00p
Total 28.708p 27.34p 26.04p 24.80p 22.50p
US dollars per ADS 1,2
Interim – –– $0.5324 $0.48
Pre-completion – –– $0.5215 –
Quarter (29 Nov 1999 – 31 Dec 1999) – –– $0.1413 –
Quarter (1 Jan 2000 – 31 Mar 2000) – –– $0.3856 –
Quarter (1 April – 30 June) $0.4472 $0.3907 $0.3928 – –
Quarter (1 July – 30 Sept) $0.4479 $0.3979 $0.3702 – –
Quarter (1 Oct – 31 Dec) $0.4708 $0.3863 $0.3805 – –
Quarter (1 Jan – 31 Mar) $0.4609 $0.3972 $0.3721 – –
Final – ––– $0.97
Total $1.8268 $1.5721 $1.5156 $1.5808 $1.45
Notes: 
1 Dividends per share and per ADS are shown net of any associated UK tax credit available to certain holders of ordinary shares and ADSs. See “Taxation of Dividends”.
Dividends paid by the Depositary in respect of ADSs are paid in US dollars based on a market rate of exchange that differs from the Noon Buying Rate. 
2 Calculated based on a ratio of four ordinary shares for one ADS. ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
137
publication of our last annual statement
were governed by the rules of the treaty in
force prior to 1 April 2003, (the “Expiring
Income Tax Convention”). As a result, unless
otherwise noted, the following discussion is
based on the Expiring Income Tax
Convention. The company believes, and the
discussion therefore assumes, that it is not a
passive foreign investment company for US
federal income tax purposes.
Each investor is urged to consult their own
tax adviser regarding the tax consequences
of the purchase, ownership and disposition
of ordinary shares or ADSs under the laws
of the US, the UK and their constituent
jurisdictions and any other jurisdiction
where the investor may be subject to tax.
If the obligations contemplated by the
Deposit Agreement are performed in
accordance with its terms, a beneﬁcial
owner of ADSs will be treated as the owner
of the underlying ordinary shares for the
purposes of the Expiring Income Tax
Convention and the US Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (“Code”).
For the purposes of this summary, the term
“US Holder” means a beneﬁcial owner of
the ADSs that is a US citizen or resident, a
domestic corporation or partnership, a trust
subject to the control of a US person and
the primary supervision of a US court, or an
estate, the income of which is subject to US
federal income tax regardless of its source.
For the purposes of this summary, the term
“Eligible US Holder” means a US holder that
is a resident of the US for the purposes of
the Expiring Income Tax Convention and
that satisﬁes the following conditions:
• is not also resident in the UK for UK tax
purposes;
• is not a corporation which, alone or
together with one or more associated
corporations, controls, directly or indirectly,
10% or more of the voting stock of the
company;
• whose holding of the ADSs is not
attributable to a permanent establishment
in the UK through which such holder carries
on a business or with a ﬁxed base in the UK
from which such holder performs
independent personal services; and
• under certain circumstances, is not a
company 25% or more of the capital of
which is owned, directly or indirectly, by
persons that are neither individual residents
of, nor nationals of the US.
Taxation of dividends
Save as set out below in relation to the UK
withholding tax applied to the UK tax credit
(as deﬁned below), the company is not
required to withhold any UK taxes from its
dividend payments to US Holders. Therefore
the amount of a dividend paid to a US
Holder will not be reduced by any UK
withholding tax. Under UK tax law and the 
Expiring Income Tax Convention, an Eligible
US Holder that makes the appropriate
election with respect to dividends paid prior
to 1 May 2003, and, as described below, if
elected, with respect to dividends paid
before 1 May 2004, is in theory entitled to
an additional payment from the UK (“UK tax
credit”) equal to 1/9th of the amount of any
dividend paid by the company to the holder.
While, as noted above, the dividend paid by
the company is not subject to any UK
withholding tax, under the Expiring Income
Tax Convention and under current UK law,
the UK tax credit that otherwise would be
payable by the UK is completely offset by a
UK withholding tax equal to 100% of that
UK tax credit. Accordingly, US Holders will
receive the full amount of any dividend
declared by the company (without
deduction for UK tax) but will not be entitled
to an additional cash payment from the UK
in respect of the UK tax credit. An Eligible
US Holder who elects to claim a credit (as
described below) against the holder’s US
federal income tax liability with respect to
the UK withholding tax imposed on the UK
tax credit amount, is required to include, in
addition to the gross amount of the dividend
paid by the company, the amount of UK tax
credit in taxable income for US federal
income tax purposes, even though none of
the amount of the UK tax credit is paid by
the UK. An Eligible US Holder who so elects
to include the amount of the UK tax credit in
taxable income, generally will be entitled to
credit against the holder’s US tax liability,
the amount of the UK tax credit that the
holder is deemed to have received, which
US tax credit may result in a reduction in
the holder’s effective US tax rate on the
cash dividend received. Following is a
simpliﬁed numerical example of the US tax
treatment of dividends paid to an Eligible
US Holder who is subject to tax at a rate of
35% and is eligible for and claims a US tax
credit for the complete amount of the UK
tax credit:
$
Dividend received 90.00
UK tax credit 10.00
US taxable income 100.00
US tax @ 35% 35.00
US tax credit for UK withholding tax (10.00)
US tax liability 25.00
Cash dividend received 90.00
US tax liability (25.00)
After-tax cash amount 65.00
Approximate effective US tax rate 
on cash received 27.8%
Note that the US federal income tax
consequences of dividends paid to an Eligible
US Holder will depend upon the holder’s
particular circumstances and, consequently,
the US federal income tax consequences
applicable to a particular holder may differ
from those set out in the above example and
some US Holders may not be able to make
full or partial use of the UK tax credit. Eligible
US Holders are urged to consult their own tax
advisers regarding the tax consequences to
them of the payment of a dividend by the
company.
The full procedures for determining and
claiming a US tax credit, with respect to
dividends received from a UK corporation, are
outlined in US Internal Revenue Service
Revenue Procedure 2000 – 13, 2000 – 6
I.R.B. 1.
A US Holder recognises income when the
dividend is actually or constructively received
by the holder, in the case of ordinary shares,
or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs. The
dividend will not be eligible for the dividends
received deduction generally allowed to US
corporations in respect of dividends received
from other US corporations. Distributions in
excess of current and accumulated earnings
and proﬁts, as determined for US federal
income tax purposes, will be treated as a
return of capital to the extent of the Eligible
US Holder’s basis in the ordinary shares or
ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain. In
determining the amount of the distribution,
a US Holder will use the spot currency
exchange rate on the date the dividend is
included in income. Any difference between
that amount and the dollars actually received
may constitute a foreign currency gain or loss. Investor Information
continued
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
138
However, an Eligible US Holder that is an
individual is not required to recognise a gain
of less than $200 from the exchange of
foreign currency in a “personal transaction”
as deﬁned in Section 988(e) of the Code.
Subject to certain limitations and
requirements, an Eligible US Holder will be
entitled under the Expiring Income Tax
Convention to credit the UK withholding tax
imposed with respect to the UK tax credit
against the Eligible US Holder’s US federal
income tax liability, provided the holder
includes the gross amount of the UK tax
credit in the holder’s gross income as
described above. Claiming a US foreign tax
credit with respect to the UK withholding tax
imposed under the Expiring Income Tax
Convention with respect to the UK tax credit,
may result in a lower effective US federal
income tax rate on dividends paid by the
company for certain Eligible US Holders as
demonstrated in the above numerical
example. An Eligible US Holder is not
required to afﬁrmatively make a claim to
the UK Inland Revenue to be entitled to the
US foreign tax credit, although an Eligible
US Holder electing to claim the credit must
complete an Internal Revenue Service Form
8833 (Treaty Based Return Position
Disclosure) and ﬁle such Form with the
holder’s US federal income tax return for
each year that the tax credit is claimed.
Eligible US Holders that include the amount
of the UK tax credit in gross income, but do
not elect to claim foreign tax credits may
instead claim a deduction for UK
withholding tax deemed paid. For foreign
tax credit limitation purposes, the dividend
(grossed-up to include the UK tax deemed
paid) will be income from sources outside
the US. The rules relating to the
computation of foreign tax credits are
complex and Eligible US Holders should
consult their own tax advisers to determine
whether, and to what extent, a credit would
be available and whether any ﬁlings or
other actions may be required to
substantiate an Eligible US Holder’s foreign
tax credit claim.
If the US Holder is a US partnership, trust
or estate, the UK tax credit will be available
only to the extent that the income derived
by such partnership, trust or estate is
subject to US federal income tax as the
income of a resident either in its hands or
in the hands of its partners or beneﬁciaries,
as the case may be. Whether holders of
ADSs who reside in countries other than
the US are entitled to a tax credit in respect
of dividends on ADSs depends in general
upon the provisions of conventions or
agreements, if any, as may exist between
such countries and the UK.
Under the New Income Tax Convention, US
Holders are not entitled to claim the UK tax
credit with respect to dividends paid by the
company on or after 1 May 2003.
Notwithstanding this effective date, an
Eligible US Holder may continue to claim
the UK tax credit with respect to dividends
paid before 1 May 2004, if the holder elects
to apply all the provisions of the Expiring
Income Tax Convention during such period.
Each investor is urged to consult their own
tax adviser regarding the tax consequences
of electing to apply the Expiring Income Tax
Convention in lieu of the New Income Tax
Convention.
Taxation of capital gains
In general, for US tax purposes, US Holders
of ADSs will be treated as the owners of the
underlying ordinary shares that are
represented by such ADSs and deposits
and withdrawals of ordinary shares by US
Holders in exchange for ADSs will not be
treated as a sale or other disposition for US
federal income tax purposes. Upon a sale
or other disposition of ordinary shares or
ADSs, US Holders will recognise a gain or
loss for US federal income tax purposes in
an amount equal to the difference between
the US dollar value of the amount realised
and the US Holder’s tax basis (determined
in US dollars) in such ordinary shares or
ADSs. Generally, such gain or loss will be a
long-term capital gain or loss if the US
Holder’s holding period for such ordinary
shares or ADSs exceeds one year. Any such
gain or loss generally will be income from
sources within the US for foreign tax credit
limitation purposes. Long-term capital gain
for an individual US Holder is generally
subject to a maximum tax rate of 20%.
A US Holder who is not resident or
ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in
the UK will not generally be liable for UK tax
on capital gains recognised on the sale or
other disposition of ADSs or ordinary
shares, unless the ADS holder carries on a
trade, profession or vocation in the UK
through a branch or agency and the ADSs
are, or have been, used, held or acquired
for the purposes of such trade, profession
or vocation or such branch or agency.
US citizens resident or ordinarily resident in
the UK, US corporations resident in the UK
by reason of their business being managed
or controlled in the UK and US citizens who
or US corporations which are trading or
carrying on a trade, profession or vocation in
the UK through a branch or agency and who
or which have used, held or acquired ADSs
or ordinary shares for the purposes of such
trade, profession or vocation or such branch
or agency may be liable for both UK and US
tax in respect of a gain on the disposal of the
ADSs. Such holders may not be entitled to a
tax credit against their US federal income tax
liability for the amount of UK capital gains
tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable
gains, as the case may be, paid in respect of
such gain unless the holder appropriately
can apply the credit against tax due on
income from foreign sources.
For companies, the UK Inland Revenue has
proposed that, in relation to accounting
periods commencing on or after 1 January
2003, UK statutory references to “branch or
agency” should be replaced with references
to “permanent establishment” and the
references to branch or agency above
should be read accordingly.
US information reporting and backup
withholding
In general, information reporting
requirements will apply to dividend
payments (or other taxable distributions) in
respect of ordinary shares or ADSs made
within the US to a non-corporate US
person. Accordingly, individual US Holders
will receive an annual statement showing
the amount of taxable dividends (or other
reportable distributions) paid to them
during the year. “Backup withholding” will
apply to such payments (i) if the holder or
beneﬁcial owner fails to provide an accurate
taxpayer identiﬁcation number in the
manner required by US law and applicable
regulations, (ii) if there has been notiﬁcation
from the Internal Revenue Service of a
failure by the holder or beneﬁcial owner to
report all interest or dividends required to
be shown on its federal income tax returns
or, (iii) in certain circumstances, if the
holder or beneﬁcial owner fails to comply
with applicable certiﬁcation requirements. ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
139
In general, payment of the proceeds from
the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs to or
through a US ofﬁce of a broker is subject to
both US backup withholding and
information reporting requirements, unless
the holder or beneﬁcial owner establishes
an exemption. Different rules apply to
payments made outside the US through an
ofﬁce outside the US.
UK inheritance tax
An individual who is domiciled in the US for
the purposes of the convention between the
US and the UK for the avoidance of double
taxation with respect to estate and gift taxes
(“Estate Tax Convention”) and who is not a
national of the UK for the purposes of the
Estate Tax Convention will not generally be
subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of
the ADSs or ordinary shares on the
individual’s death or on a gift of the ADSs
or ordinary shares during the individual’s
lifetime, unless the ADSs or ordinary shares
are part of the business property of a
permanent establishment of the individual
in the UK or pertain to a ﬁxed base in the
UK of an individual who performs
independent personal services. Special
rules apply to ADSs held in trust. In the
exceptional case where the shares are
subject both to UK inheritance tax and to
US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax
Convention generally provides for the tax
paid in the UK to be credited against tax
paid in the US.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty 
reserve tax
In practice, no UK stamp duty need be paid
on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs
provided that any instrument of transfer is
executed outside the UK and subsequently
remains at all times outside the UK. An
agreement to transfer ADSs will not give
rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
Subject to certain exceptions, a transfer on
sale of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs
will generally be subject to UK stamp duty
at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up, if necessary,
to the nearest £5) of the consideration given
for the transfer. An agreement to transfer
such shares will normally give rise to a
charge to UK stamp duty reserve tax at a
rate of 0.5% of the consideration payable for
the transfer, provided that stamp duty
reserve tax will not be payable if stamp duty
has been paid. Where such ordinary shares
are later transferred to the Depositary’s
nominee, further stamp duty or stamp duty
reserve tax will normally be payable at the
rate of 1.5% (rounded up, if necessary, to
the nearest £5) of the value of the ordinary
shares at the time of the transfer.
A transfer of ordinary shares by the
Depositary or its nominee to the relative
ADS holder when the ADS holder is not
transferring beneﬁcial ownership gives rise
to a UK stamp duty liability of £5 per
transfer.
Taxation of Thus demerger dividend in
specie
Information pertaining to the tax position
of shareholders following the demerger of
Thus can be obtained from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered
ofﬁce and from the company’s website:
www.scottishpower.com. ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
140
Financial Calendar
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at
the Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, Sauchiehall
Street, Glasgow on Friday 25 July 2003 at
11.00 am. Details of the resolutions to be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Quarterly results
Copies of the quarterly results may be
obtained, free of charge, on request from
the Company Secretary at the company’s
registered ofﬁce. Quarterly results will also
be published on the company’s website:
www.scottishpower.com
Half-year results
The company, as permitted by the London
Stock Exchange, publishes its half-year
results in one UK national newspaper. In
2003, it is expected that the half-year
results will be published in The Telegraph
and on the company’s website. Copies of
the half-year results may be obtained, free
of charge, on request from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
Environmental and Social Impact Report
Copies of the Environmental and Social
Impact Report may be obtained, free of
charge, on request from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
This Report, together with fuller information
about environmental, marketplace/community
and workplace issues, is also published on
the company’s website.
Press releases and up-to-date information
on the company can be found on the
company’s website. 
The Annual Review 2002/03 is also
available on CD, free of charge, from the
Company Secretary at the company’s
registered ofﬁce.
16 June 2003 Dividend payment date – US and UK (ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003)
July 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 June 2003 – Q1
25 July 2003 Annual General Meeting
September 2003 Q1 Dividend payable
November 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 September 2003 – Q2
December 2003 Q2 Dividend payable
February 2004 Announcement of results for quarter ending 31 December 2003 – Q3
March 2004 Q3 Dividend payable
May 2004 Announcement of Preliminary Results for the year ending 31 March 2004
June 2004 Q4 Dividend payable (ﬁnal dividend for the year ending 31 March 2004) ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
141
Shareholder Services
Ordinary Shares
Share registration enquiries
The Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland
PO Box 28448
Edinburgh EH4 1WQ
Tel: +44 (0)870 600 3999
Fax: +44 (0)870 900 0030
Textphone: +44 (0)870 600 3950
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides
ordinary shareholders with the facility to
invest cash dividends by purchasing further
ScottishPower shares. For further details,
please contact Lloyds TSB on telephone
number 0870 241 3018.
Share consolidation and ISAs
Share consolidation is a facility which allows
a number of holdings, and especially family
holdings, to be consolidated into one
holding. This service is provided free of
charge.
Individual Savings Accounts (“ISAs”) are
suitable for UK resident private investors
who wish to shelter their ScottishPower
shares from Income and Capital Gains Tax.
Details of the ScottishPower ISA service are
available from Lloyds TSB at the following
address. Alternatively, please call the ISA
helpline on 0870 242 4244.
Lloyds TSB Registrars ISAs
The Causeway
Worthing BN99 6UY
Share dealing
ScottishPower ordinary shares may 
be bought or sold at competitive rates 
by post or telephone. For further 
details, please contact Stocktrade on 0845
601 0979, quoting LOW C0070.
American Depositary 
Shares (“ADSs”)
Exchange and stock transfer enquiries
JPMorgan Chase Bank
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 43013
Providence, RI 02940-3013
Tel: 1 (866) SCOTADR (Toll Free)
1 (866) 726 8237 (Toll Free)
+1 (781) 575 2678 (Outside US 
not Toll Free)
Fax: +1 (781) 575 4082
Website: www.adr.com/shareholder
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Global Invest Direct
Global Invest Direct is the Direct Share
Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan
for ADS holders which allows existing and
ﬁrst time investors to purchase ADSs
without a broker. Global Invest Direct
encourages investors to make initial and
ongoing investments in the company by
providing investors with the convenience of
investing directly in ScottishPower’s ADSs,
with reduced brokerage commissions and
service costs. For further details, please
contact JPMorgan Chase Bank as detailed
above.
Agent for US federal securities laws
The agent for ScottishPower for US federal
securities law purposes is:
Puglisi & Associates,
850 Library Avenue, Suite 204
PO Box 885
Newark
Delaware 19715 Accounting
developments 49
policies and deﬁnitions 50-53, 70-73
Acquisition 86 (11, 12), 90 (15), 112 (32)
American Depositary Shares 141
Annual General Meeting 140
Audit Committee 56, 58
Audit Report 131
Balance sheets
company 127
group 88
Board of Directors 54
Borrowings 93-98 (20)
Business
description of 12-18
reviews – 2002/03 35-39
reviews – 2001/02 40-42
strategy 3, 10, 12
Capital commitments 110 (30b)
Capital expenditure 38, 89 (14b)
Capital gains tax 138
Cash ﬂow
acquisitions and disposals 86 (11, 12)
analysis 85 (9)
commentary 38
group statement 84
US GAAP 119 (35)
Chairman’s Statement 2
Charitable donations 18
Chief Executive’s Review 3-11
Contingent liabilities 110 (29), 129 (42)
Corporate governance 57
Creditor payment policy and practice 49
Creditors 98 (21), 128 (39)
Currencies, accounting policy 73
Debt (net)
analysis 87 (13)
reconciliation to net cash ﬂow 84
Debtors 93 (19), 128 (37)
Deferred income 100 (24)
Deferred tax 82 (6), 100 (23)
Depreciation
accounting policy 72
by segment 78 (1c)
Directors
executive 54
non-executive 54
pensions 63
remuneration 61-68
report 1-69
responsibilities for accounts 69
service contracts 63
share options 62, 67
shareholdings 67
Dividends
in specie 38, 42, 83 (8)
per ADS 135
per ordinary share 2, 3, 83 (8), 135
payment dates 140
Divisions
Infrastructure 5, 14
UK 7, 14
Earnings and dividends
2002/03 37
2001/02 42
Earnings per ordinary share 1, 82 (7)
Employees
numbers and costs 16, 80 (3)
policies, UK and US 17, 26
Environment
accounting policy 73
policy approach 17
regulation 24-26
Exceptional items 34, 81 (4)
Executive Team 55, 58
Financial
commitments 47,110 (30)
guarantees 124-125 (35)
highlights 1
review 33-53
Financial instruments
accounting policies 71
analysis 93-98 (20)
Five Year Summary 132
Fixed assets
intangible 90 (15)
investments 72, 92 (17), 128 (36)
tangible 72, 91 (16)
Glossary
of ﬁnancial terms 133
of general terms 143
Going concern 49
Goodwill
accounting policy 72
analysis 90 (15)
Grants and contributions
accounting policy 73
analysis 100 (24)
Health and safety 3, 27
Inheritance tax 139
Interest charge (net)
accounting policy 71
analysis 81 (5)
Interest and Taxation
2002/03 37
2001/02 41
Internal control 58
Investor information 134-140
Leased assets, accounting policy 72
Litigation 29
Loans and other borrowings 93-98 (20)
Long Term Incentive Plan 62, 67, 72
Minority interests 104 (27)
Net asset value per share 89 (14a)
Net assets by segment 89 (14a)
Nomination Committee 56, 57, 58
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 53
Operating proﬁt
analysis 79 (2)
by segment 78 (1b)
highlights 1
reconciliation to net operating 
cash ﬂows 86 (10)
Own shares held under trust 72
PaciﬁCorp 3-5, 12-14
PPM Energy, Inc. 9, 16
Pensions 
accounting policy 73
analysis 104-109 (28), 120-122 (35d)
costs 2, 28, 35, 49
Post-retirement beneﬁts
accounting policy 73
analysis 108 (28h), 122-123 (35e)
Proﬁt and loss account
company 128 (41)
group 74-76
Property 18
Provisions for liabilities
and charges 99 (22), 100 (23)
Recognised gains and losses 77
Registrar 141
Regulation
electricity and gas UK 22-24
electricity US 19-22
employment 26-27
environmental UK 25-26
environmental US 24-25
Related party transactions 111 (31)
Remuneration Committee
membership 56, 57-58,61
report 61-68
Research and development 17, 79 (2)
Reserves 103 (26), 128 (40)
Risk management 44-47, 59
Segmental information 78 (1), 89 (14)
Share capital 100 (25), 128 (40)
Share options 101 (25b), 134
Share premium 103 (26), 128 (40)
Shareholder services 141
Shareholders’ funds
analysis 103 (26), 128 (40)
reconciliation 77
Shareholdings, analysis 134
Southern Water 3, 16, 86 (11, 12), 113 (33)
Stocks
accounting policy 73
analysis 92 (18)
Substantial shareholdings 135
Taxation
accounting policy 72
analysis 82 (6)
commentary 34, 37, 41
deferred 82 (6), 100 (23)
of dividends 137
Thus 12, 113 (34)
Total assets by segment 89 (14c)
Treasury 42-44
Turnover
accounting policy 71
by segment 78 (1a)
highlights 1
US GAAP 114-126 (35)
US regulatory assets 73, 115 (35)
Figures in brackets refer to Notes to the Accounts
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
142
Index Term – Deﬁnition
ADS – American Depositary Share (US)
The Authority – The Gas and Electricity
Markets Authority, the body which
determines energy market regulation in
Great Britain (UK)
BE – British Energy plc (UK)
BETTA – British Electricity Trading and
Transmission Arrangements (UK)
btu – British thermal unit (UK)
Billion – One thousand million
(1,000,000,000)
British Isles – The United Kingdom and The
Republic of Ireland
Churn – The turnover of existing customers
leaving, and new customers joining, the
company’s customer list
CO
2
– Carbon Dioxide
Combined Code – Guidelines setting out
corporate governance principles regarded as
good practice for UK registered companies
(UK)
Company – Scottish Power plc
Competition Commission – The UK
regulatory body concerned with competition
policy and the abuse of market power (UK)
Demand side management – Encouraging
customers to reduce their electricity
consumption
Distribution – The transfer of electricity
from the transmission system to customers
(US equivalent is Power Distribution)
DTI – Department of Trade and Industry (UK)
EA – Environment Agency (UK)
EBITDA – Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, goodwill amortisation and
deferred income released to the proﬁt and
loss account
EU – European Union
EPA – Environmental Protection Agency (US)
Energy supply – Sales of electricity and gas
to residential, commercial and industrial
customers (UK)
ESOP – Employee Share Ownership Plan (UK)
ExSOP – Executive Share Option Scheme
open to the company’s executive directors
and senior managers
FERC – Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (US)
GAAP – Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles
Gas – Natural gas
Giga (G) – One thousand million
(1,000,000,000) units
Great Britain – England, Scotland and Wales
Group – Scottish Power plc and its
consolidated subsidiaries
Guaranteed Standards – Standards of
performance agreed between the company
and Ofgem for transmission, distribution
and supply (UK)
Home area – The geographical area in which
a company was previously the sole licensed
supplier of residential customers (UK)
Interconnectors – The high voltage links
connecting the transmission system of
Scotland with those of England & Wales 
and Northern Ireland (UK)
ISA – Individual Savings Account (UK)
Kilo (k) – One thousand (1,000) units
LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan
Mega (M) – One million (1,000,000) units
MSP – The multi-state process through
which PaciﬁCorp and the six states it serves
are working to clarify roles and
responsibilities concerning the regulation of
PaciﬁCorps’ business activities (US)
NEA – Nuclear Energy Agreement, between
British Energy, ScottishPower and Scottish &
Southern (UK)
NETA – New Electricity Trading
Arrangements (UK)
NOx – Oxides of Nitrogen
Ofgem – Ofﬁce of Gas and Electricity
Markets, the gas and electricity regulator in
Great Britain (UK)
OFWAT – Ofﬁce of Water Services, the water
regulator in England & Wales (UK)
PED – Public Electricity Distributor (UK)
plc – Public limited company (UK)
Power production – The US term for the
generation of electricity
PSCs – Public Services Commissions, the
individual bodies which regulate utilities in
each of the states (US)
Rates – The US term for Tariffs
Retail sales – Sales of electricity to
residential, commercial and industrial
customers (US)
ROE – Return on Equity (US)
ROSPA – Royal Society for the Prevention of
Accidents (UK)
RPI – Retail Price Index, the equivalent of
the US Consumer Price Index – CPI (UK)
SEC – Securities and Exchange Commission
(US)
SEE – Social, environmental and ethical
SEPA – Scottish Environment Protection
Agency (UK)
SO
2
– Sulphur Dioxide
Tera (T) – Indicates a measure of 10
12
, for
example terawatthours
Transmission – The transfer of electricity
from power stations to the distribution
system
Transportation (of gas) – Transfer of gas
from on-shore terminals to consumers
through the national pipeline network (UK)
UK – United Kingdom, comprising England,
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland 
US – United States of America
Volt (V) – Unit of electrical potential
Watt (W) – Unit of electrical power, the rate
at which electricity is produced or used
Watt hour (Wh) – Unit of electrical energy,
the production or consumption of one Watt
for one hour
WECC – Western Electricity Coordinating
Council (US)
Wholesale – The dealing of bulk power with
another power supplier
Windfarm – A group of wind-driven turbines
intended to generate electricity
(US) or (UK) in the deﬁnitions above indicates that
the term is applicable to the United States or the
United Kingdom, respectively.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002/03
|
143
Glossary of Terms
Metres Yards
0.91 1 1.09
Km Miles
1.61 1 0.62
Litres US Gallons
3.78 1 0.26
Conversion
Factors Designed by CGI BrandSense. Printed by Pillans & Waddies – a member of the ormolu group.
The paper used in this Report is Core Silk, produced inachlorine-free process from 100% virgin pulp, EMAS approved.
Scottish Power plc
Registered ofﬁce
1 Atlantic Quay
Glasgow G2 8SP
Registered in Scotland No 193794
For press releases and up-to-date information visit our website:
www.scottishpower.com ScottishPower annual report & accounts/form 20-F 2002/03
The power 
to perform.
ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 1
Contents
01 Chairman’s Statement
02 Chief Executive’s Review
16 Board of Directors &
Executive Team
18 Financial Review
21 Independent Auditors’
Statement
22 Summary Financial 
Statements
25 Summary Report of the 
Directors
29 Shareholder Information
99
39.7
00
38.0
01
27.9
02
26.1
03
33.7
Earnings per share pence
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
39.6
00
63.7
01
16.8
02
(53.7)
03
26.2
Earnings/(loss) per share pence
99
804
00
961
01
970
02
944
03
1,085
Operating proﬁt £m
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
803
00
662
01
722
02
777
03
946
Operating proﬁt £m
99
0.46
00
0.79
01
(2.07)
02
(17.63)
03
(6.18)
Total shareholder return pence
Capital appreciation plus dividend reinvestment
for £1 invested on 1 April 1998 
Source: Datastream
99
22.50
00
24.80
01
26.04
02*
27.34
03
28.71
Dividends per share pence
*Cash dividends excluding
‘dividend in specie’ on demerger
of Thus
99
0.46
00
0.33
01
(2.84)
02
(15.88)
03
13.90
% Change in total shareholder return
Percentage change in total shareholder return
index in each ﬁnancial year
Source: Datastream
2003 2002
Turnover £5,274m £6,314m
Operating proﬁt £946m £777m
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill and exceptionals £1,085m £944m
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax £697m £(939)m
Proﬁt before tax excluding goodwill and exceptionals £836m £567m
Earnings/(loss) per share 26.17p (53.71)p
Earnings per share excluding goodwill and exceptionals 33.71p 26.12p
Dividends per share* 28.71p 27.34p
*Cash dividends excluding ‘dividend in specie’ on demerger of Thus
Financial Highlights Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the
Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, Sauchiehall Street,
Glasgow on Friday 25 July 2003 at 11.00 am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting are contained in the
Notice of Meeting.
Quarterly results
Copies of the quarterly results may be
obtained, free of charge, on request from the
Company Secretary at the company’s
registered ofﬁce. Quarterly results will also be
published on the company’s website:
www.scottishpower.com
Half-year results
The company, as permitted by the London
Stock Exchange, publishes its half-year results
in one UK national newspaper. In 2003, it is
expected that the half-year results will be
published in The Telegraph and on the
company’s website. Copies of the half-year
results may be obtained, free of charge, on
request from the Company Secretary at the
company’s registered ofﬁce.
Environmental and Social Impact Report
Copies of the Environmental and Social
Impact Report may be obtained, free of
charge, on request from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
This Report, together with fuller information
about environmental, marketplace/community
and workplace issues, is also published on the
company’s website.
Press releases and up-to-date information on
the company can be found on the company’s
website. 
The Annual Review 2002/03 is also available
on CD, free of charge, from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
Ordinary Shares
Share registration enquiries
The Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland
PO Box 28448
Edinburgh EH4 1WQ
Tel: +44 (0)870 600 3999
Fax: +44 (0)870 900 0030
Textphone: +44 (0)870 600 3950
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides
ordinary shareholders with the facility to invest
cash dividends by purchasing further
ScottishPower shares. For further details,
please contact Lloyds TSB on telephone
number 0870 241 3018.
Share consolidation and ISAs
Share consolidation is a facility which allows a
number of holdings, and especially family
holdings, to be consolidated into one holding.
This service is provided free of charge.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) are suitable
for UK resident private investors who wish to
shelter their ScottishPower shares from
Income and Capital Gains Tax. Details of the
ScottishPower ISA service are available from
Lloyds TSB at the following address.
Alternatively, please call the ISA helpline on 
0870 242 4244.
Lloyds TSB Registrars ISAs
The Causeway
Worthing BN99 6UY
Share dealing
ScottishPower ordinary shares may 
be bought or sold at competitive rates 
by post or telephone. For further 
details, please contact Stocktrade on 0845
601 0979, quoting LOW C0070.
American Depositary 
Shares (ADSs)
Exchange and stock transfer enquiries
JPMorgan Chase Bank
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 43013
Providence, RI 02940-3013
Tel: 1 (866) SCOTADR (Toll Free)
1 (866) 726 8237 (Toll Free)
+1 (781) 575 2678 (Outside US not T oll Free)
Fax: +1 (781) 575 4082
Website: www.adr.com/shareholder
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Global Invest Direct
Global Invest Direct is the Direct Share Purchase
and Dividend Reinvestment Plan for ADS holders
which allows existing and ﬁrst time investors to
purchase ADSs without a broker. Global Invest
Direct encourages investors to make initial and
ongoing investments in the company by
providing investors with the convenience of
investing directly in ScottishPower’s ADSs, with
reduced brokerage commissions and service
costs. For further details, please contact
JPMorgan Chase Bank as detailed above.
Agent for US federal securities laws
The agent for ScottishPower for US federal
securities law purposes is:
Puglisi & Associates,
850 Library Avenue, Suite 204
PO Box 885
Newark
Delaware 19715
Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe
Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
Some statements made in this Annual Review are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
“safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements with
respect to us, our corporate plans, future ﬁnancial
condition, future results of operations, future business
plans, strategies, objectives and beliefs and other
statements that are not historical facts are forward
looking. Statements containing the words “may”,
“will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”,
“continue”, “plan”, “project”, “target”, “on track to”,
“strategy”, “aim”, “seek”, “will meet” or other similar
words are also forward looking. These statements are
based on our management’s assumptions and beliefs
in light of the information available to us. These
assumptions involve risks and uncertainties which
may cause the actual results, performance or
achievements to be materially different from any
future results, performance or achievements expressed
or implied by such forward-looking statements.
ScottishPower wishes to caution readers, and others to
whom forward-looking statements are addressed, that
any such forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and that actual
results may differ materially from estimates in the
forward-looking statements. ScottishPower undertakes
no obligation to revise these forward-looking
statements to reﬂect events or circumstances after the
date hereof.  Important factors that may cause results
to differ from expectations include, for example:
– any regulatory changes (including changes in
environmental regulations) that may increase the
operating costs of the group, may require the group
to make unforeseen capital expenditures or may
prevent the regulated business of the group from
achieving acceptable returns;
– future levels of industry generation and supply,
demand and pricing, political stability, competition
and economic growth in the relevant areas in which
the group has operations;
– the availability of acceptable fuel at favorable
prices;
– the availability of operational capacity of plants;
– the success of reorganizational and cost-saving
efforts; and
– development and use of technology, the actions of
competitors, natural disasters and other changes to
business conditions.
Range of No. of 
holdings shareholdings No. of shares
1-100 18,436 732,327
101-200 174,505 28,957,720
201-600 178,703 55,273,513
601-1,000 39,280 30,763,853
1,001-5,000 48,442 90,686,464
5,001-100,000 4,223 62,322,104
100,001 and above 781 1,587,196,821
Total 464,3701,855,932,802
ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 28/29 Designed by CGI BrandSense. Printed by Pillans & Waddies – a member of the ormolu group.
The paper used in this Review is Core Silk, produced in a chlorine-free process from 100% virgin pulp, EMAS approved.
Scottish Power plc
Registered ofﬁce
1 Atlantic Quay
Glasgow G2 8SP
Registered in Scotland No 193794
For press releases and up-to-date information visit our website:
www.scottishpower.com
Financial Calendar
16 June 2003 Dividend payment date – US and UK (ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003)
July 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 June 2003 – Q1
25 July 2003 Annual General Meeting
September 2003 Q1 Dividend payable
November 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 September 2003 – Q2
December 2003 Q2 Dividend payable
February 2004 Announcement of results for quarter ending 31 December 2003 – Q3
March 2004 Q3 Dividend payable
May 2004 Announcement of Preliminary Results for the year ending 31 March 2004
June 2004 Q4 Dividend payable (ﬁnal dividend for the year ending 31 March 2004)
List of UK ﬁnancial terms used in the Annual Review
UK ﬁnancial terms US equivalent or deﬁnition
Accounts Financial statements
Associates Equity investors
Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital
Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due Long-term liabilities
after more than one year
Financial year Fiscal year
Gearing Leverage
Net asset value Book value
Operating proﬁt Net operating income
Proﬁt Income
Proﬁt and loss account (statement) Income statement
Proﬁt and loss account (in the balance sheet) Retained earnings
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year Net income/(loss)
Provisions Long-term liabilities other than debt and speciﬁc accounts payable
Reserves Shareholders’ equity other than paid-up capital
Share premium account Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable)
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity
Turnover Revenues ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 1
Contents
01 Chairman’s Statement
02 Chief Executive’s Review
16 Board of Directors &
Executive Team
18 Financial Review
21 Independent Auditors’
Statement
22 Summary Financial 
Statements
25 Summary Report of the 
Directors
29 Shareholder Information
99
39.7
00
38.0
01
27.9
02
26.1
03
33.7
Earnings per share pence
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
39.6
00
63.7
01
16.8
02
(53.7)
03
26.2
Earnings/(loss) per share pence
99
804
00
961
01
970
02
944
03
1,085
Operating proﬁt £m
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
99
803
00
662
01
722
02
777
03
946
Operating proﬁt £m
99
0.46
00
0.79
01
(2.07)
02
(17.63)
03
(6.18)
Total shareholder return pence
Capital appreciation plus dividend reinvestment
for £1 invested on 1 April 1998 
Source: Datastream
99
22.50
00
24.80
01
26.04
02*
27.34
03
28.71
Dividends per share pence
*Cash dividends excluding
‘dividend in specie’ on demerger
of Thus
99
0.46
00
0.33
01
(2.84)
02
(15.88)
03
13.90
% Change in total shareholder return
Percentage change in total shareholder return
index in each ﬁnancial year
Source: Datastream
2003 2002
Turnover £5,274m £6,314m
Operating proﬁt £946m £777m
Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill and exceptionals £1,085m £944m
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax £697m £(939)m
Proﬁt before tax excluding goodwill and exceptionals £836m £567m
Earnings/(loss) per share 26.17p (53.71)p
Earnings per share excluding goodwill and exceptionals 33.71p 26.12p
Dividends per share* 28.71p 27.34p
*Cash dividends excluding ‘dividend in specie’ on demerger of Thus
Financial Highlights All four ScottishPower businesses produced
good results during 2002/03, sustaining the
recovery that began in the latter months of last
year. This ﬁnancial and commercial progress is
especially pleasing after the challenges the
energy markets have presented in both the US
and the UK. Earnings per share* rose by 29%
to 33.71 pence.
Our regulated businesses in the US and UK
both performed well. PaciﬁCorp’s drive to
increase operational efﬁciency and improve
customer service resulted in a substantial boost
to proﬁtability and remains on track to achieve
its targeted return on equity. Our UK
Infrastructure business delivered another
strong performance, increasing sales and
meeting demanding cost savings objectives. 
In the competitive sectors, the UK Division has
continued to face tough conditions but
succeeded in increasing sales, maintaining
proﬁts and growing customer numbers. Our
newest business, PPM, reported an operating
proﬁt of £28 million and has good
opportunities to grow its successful gas storage
and renewables ventures.
With proﬁts and earnings up, debt and interest
charges down, and satisfactory cash ﬂow,
ScottishPower ended the year in a sound
ﬁnancial position. We have announced our
intention to declare three quarterly dividend
payments of 4.75 pence from April 2003 and
will set the fourth quarter payment to represent
the balance of the dividend for the year to 31
March 2004. After March 2004, we shall aim to
grow dividends in line with earnings.
The last weeks of 2001/02 saw ScottishPower
refocused on energy, and these results prove
clearly that this was the correct strategy. The
testing period we have endured has had a
positive effect on the group’s culture. Today
ScottishPower has an international leadership
team of growing stature and a programme of
development initiatives designed to raise our
skills and competencies further.
We have had to sharpen existing skills and
develop others that will be of lasting value. The
California energy crisis that followed so soon
after our merger with PaciﬁCorp has given us 
a heightened awareness of risk and better
techniques for managing it. We are now
applying this experience in the UK wholesale
market with success. Our grasp and handling of
detailed regulatory issues has improved, boding
well for the next UK price review in 2005. We
are developing a growing portfolio of renewable
energy assets and have successfully
renegotiated the Nuclear Energy Agreement
with British Energy.
Against our peer groups, ScottishPower remains
at or near the top of the environmental and
social impact rankings, and PaciﬁCorp is gaining
ground in the equivalent US benchmarks.
Surveys among our employees, who have borne
the brunt of all the change and upheaval within
the businesses, show morale improving.
Pensions have been much in the news during the
year and neither our US nor UK pension funds
have escaped the downturn in equity markets. We
have resumed contributions to our UK pension
funds and will make the recovery of increased
pension costs through regulatory processes one
of our priorities in both the US and the UK.
Now turning to the Board, there are a number
of changes to report. Nick Rose, Finance
Director of Diageo, joined the Board as a non-
executive director in February 2003. Ewen
Macpherson will retire as a non-executive
director after the AGM. We thank him for his
advice and wish him well. I am grateful that Sir
Peter Gregson, who had planned to retire this
year, has agreed to extend his term of ofﬁce for
another year.
This has been an eventful but ultimately
successful year during which all our employees
in both the US and the UK have given strong
support on a daily basis. On behalf of the Board,
I want to thank them for their efforts and goodwill.
The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive,
with additional improvements in performance
expected from our business and good
opportunities for further growth.
Chairman’s Statement
“Today ScottishPower has an international
leadership team of growing stature.”
Charles Miller Smith Chairman
7 May 2003
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman
* excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 01 Chief Executive’s Review
I am pleased to report that in the past year we delivered a good set of
results, with proﬁts up substantially and earnings per share* for the
year up 29%. The recovery at PaciﬁCorp was particularly pleasing,
with operating proﬁt** up by some 60% in the year. Our dividend for
the year was 28.71 pence per share an increase of 5%. We also
delivered a total return of 13.9% for shareholders during the year.
The sale of Southern Water at the beginning of the year enabled us 
to reduce our net debt by £2 billion, thus strengthening our balance
sheet and ﬁnancial ratios. 
We manage regulated and competitive businesses in the UK and US to serve gas and electricity
customers. We invested over £800 million in our businesses during the year, of which some
£345 million (42%) was in areas of growth, such as additions to our electricity networks, new
generation especially renewables, and gas storage. Investment of this sort is at the heart of our
strategy to become a leading international energy company. We invest only in businesses where
we can deploy proven skills and strong market knowledge.
The safety and well-being of our workforce and the public is our number one priority. Sadly the
year saw two of our colleagues killed at work; one fatal accident in the UK and one in the US.
Tragedies such as these reinforce my conviction that we should put nothing ahead of safety and
that we all have a role and responsibility to ensure that the highest standards are maintained at
all times. 
During the past year we have made good progress in further enhancing the underlying quality
of our business. As Business in the Community’s Company of the Year 2002 we have continued
to contribute signiﬁcantly to the Corporate Social Responsibility agenda in both the UK and the
US and are publishing our ﬁrst combined Environmental and Social Impact Report in July 2003.
Our robust risk management policies and procedures were recognised by the international
ﬁnance magazine, Risk, with the prestigious award of Corporate Risk Manager of the Year. We
have also placed great emphasis on the talent and performance management of our people:
our top international cadre of 250 managers now has clear incentive based performance
agreements linked directly to our strategic objectives. 
PACIFICORP 
PaciﬁCorp is our regulated US business, with a portfolio of over 8,000 MW of power from coal,
gas, renewable and hydro resources, 15,000 miles of transmission lines and a distribution
system serving 1.5 million customers in six states. PaciﬁCorp is a leading regional integrated
utility and is a key player in western energy markets. The strategic priorities of PaciﬁCorp set at
the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
– Transition Plan
• Manage risk and reward balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
Operating proﬁt for PaciﬁCorp increased by £233 million to £463 million for the year to 
31 March 2003. Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill amortisation for PaciﬁCorp for the year
grew by £225 million to £597 million, as a result of regulatory rate increases and recoveries of
excess power costs of £80 million, signiﬁcantly lower net power costs of £257 million and
continued progress in the delivery of Transition Plan beneﬁts of £64 million in the year. These
improvements were partly offset by lower transmission revenues of £19 million from reduced
“This has been a year of delivery based on
our consistent focus on performance.” 
Ian Russell, Chief Executive * excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
** excluding goodwill amortisation 99
00
01
02
03
Earnings per share pence
Excluding goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items  
ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 02/03
use of the transmission system by third parties, higher depreciation charges of £25 million, risk
mitigation and project costs of £41 million, insurance, pensions, and healthcare costs of £46
million and one-off gains in the previous year and foreign exchange of £45 million. 
Net capital expenditure for the year decreased by £1 million to £368 million, with £111 million
invested in network growth and new generation assets, £211 million on network and generation
refurbishment, and £46 million on other capital projects including information technology. 
Net capital expenditure is expected to increase in 2003/04 as a result of higher generation and
mining overhauls and refurbishment spend, environmental initiatives and continued investment
in expanding the network. All expenditure prudently incurred is expected to earn its regulatory
rate of return, and contribute to an increased rate base for PaciﬁCorp.
• Achieve ROE target/$1 billion EBIT by 2004/05 through:
– General rate cases
– Transition Plan
PaciﬁCorp remains on track towards its target of $1 billion EBIT by 2004/05 through a
combination of general rate cases and beneﬁts derived from the Transition Plan.
General rate increases of approximately $160 million per year have been awarded to PaciﬁCorp
from 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2003, with $31 million awarded during the year ended 31
March 2003. PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory strategy includes ﬁling regular rate cases to increase
revenues to recover increasing operational costs and capital expenditure, while realising our full
allowed return on investment. In line with this plan, PaciﬁCorp ﬁled a general rate case in
Oregon in March 2003, for $58 million, representing a 7% rate increase, primarily as a result of
increased costs related to insurance premiums, healthcare, pensions and other costs that are
similarly affecting many other US companies. In California, testimony and hearings in
PaciﬁCorp’s $16 million general rate case request have been scheduled to take place through
May and June of 2003. PaciﬁCorp also plans to ﬁle in the next few weeks for general rate cases
in Wyoming and Utah.
During March 2003, PaciﬁCorp was denied recovery of $91 million in net excess power costs in
Wyoming and is currently seeking a re-hearing of this decision. Additionally, PaciﬁCorp
continues seeking to defer and recover approximately $16 million in net excess power costs in
Washington state. An order on this case is expected by early summer 2003. 
Among the legislative measures approved in PaciﬁCorp’s service territory, Senate Bill 61 in Utah
will go into effect in early summer 2003. This legislation provides an option for the Utah Public
Excerpt from our
Preliminary Results
presentation, 
May 2002
“The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive.” 
39.7
38.0
27.9
26.1
33.7 Service Commission to use a future test-year period in utility rate cases that more appropriately
reﬂects the cost of providing service, which is necessary to reduce the period between capital
investment and recovery in rates – referred to as “regulatory lag”. Reducing regulatory lag
should encourage needed, cost-effective investments in utility infrastructure by companies such
as PaciﬁCorp.
The PaciﬁCorp Transition Plan continues to progress on track as a key driver towards increasing
proﬁtability and supporting PaciﬁCorp’s regulatory objectives. Cumulative Transition Plan
beneﬁts total approximately $217 million, slightly ahead of this year’s target of $204 million
and we are now two-thirds of the way towards our goal of $300 million by 2004/05. These
included new call centre technology and other process changes that helped increase employee
productivity and improve customer service. In distribution, operational efﬁciency improvements
were delivered such as Home Start, which allows overhead line crews to respond more
effectively to faults. Additionally, continuing procurement cost savings and royalties from the
sale of a synthetic fuel operation last year contributed to PaciﬁCorp’s continued delivery of the
Transition Plan in 2002/03. 
PaciﬁCorp’s distribution and transmission
areas cover 135,192 sq miles.
“Cumulative Transition Plan beneﬁts total
approximately $217 million.”  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 04/05
• Manage risk and reward balance
PaciﬁCorp successfully managed power demand during the challenging summer of 2002 and
winter of 2002/03 through a robust combination of existing physical resources, a weather-
related hedge and peaking generation facilities. During the winter, PaciﬁCorp’s base of coal-ﬁred
generating resources and forward gas purchase strategy minimised the risks of natural gas
price volatility. PaciﬁCorp remains well-positioned and is fundamentally balanced for the
summer of 2003. 
Our long-term Integrated Resource Plan (IRP), which seeks to identify new resource
requirements to implement plans to deliver safe, reliable low-cost power to customers over the
next 20 years, was ﬁled with state regulatory commissions in January 2003. The IRP is
progressing with the development of the Request for Proposals (RFP) process, under which
PaciﬁCorp will seek bids for future generation needs. RFPs will be issued for both short- and
long-term electricity requirements, including renewable energy needs. The RFP process is
expected to extend until spring 2004. 
The IRP and the resulting RFP process have been created to identify PaciﬁCorp’s future
resource mix in a coordinated process with the six states in which PaciﬁCorp operates. As
part of these processes, PaciﬁCorp is expecting to add the equivalent of approximately 4,000
MW of capacity through a combination of sources over the next decade. These include the
addition of base load construction capacity or purchases (approximately 2,100 MW),
peaking resources (approximately 1,200 MW) and purchased “shaped” power
(approximately 700 MW). In addition, PaciﬁCorp also plans to implement demand side
management programmes (up to 450 MW on average) and acquire renewable energy
(approximately 1,400 MW). Among the steps involved in the IRP process will be an
evaluation of potential future generation sources such as an additional generating unit at the
Hunter station in Utah. The air quality permitting process has begun to enable PaciﬁCorp to
develop this option. Prudently incurred costs of such investments are expected to be
included in PaciﬁCorp’s future rate base.
Copyright The Times (business)
4 October 2002 Chief Executive’s Review continued
• Deliver excellent customer service
During 2002/03, PaciﬁCorp continued to enhance its customer service commitments, while
maintaining retail rates that are among the lowest in the western US. Improvements include
enhancing PaciﬁCorp’s outage communications technology to provide customers with the ability
to report outages directly, thus helping to speed repairs or pinpoint potential problem areas.
PaciﬁCorp was recognised by TQS Research of Atlanta, Georgia, for improvements with large
commercial and industrial customers. Overall customer satisfaction metrics show positive
results, including improved accuracy and timeliness of customer billing. In addition, PaciﬁCorp
successfully tested a handheld meter reading system that will improve system functionality and
accuracy. The new system is expected to be implemented by the summer of 2003, with further
productivity improvements to follow over the next 12 months that will enhance PaciﬁCorp’s
scheduling technology.
“PaciﬁCorp’s green pricing programme is one of
the most progressive and successful in the US.” 
PaciﬁCorp is expecting to add the equivalent of 4,000 MW
(approximately) of capacity through a combination of sources.  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 06/07
Based on a recent report, PaciﬁCorp was rated third in the US by the Department of Energy as a
marketer of green energy under PaciﬁCorp’s Blue Sky programme. In excess of 21,000
customers have signed up for Blue Sky or other renewable products. PaciﬁCorp’s green pricing
programme is one of the most progressive and successful in the US. 
To improve customer service and reliability, PaciﬁCorp continues its infrastructure improvement
projects in targeted areas, particularly along Utah’s Wasatch Front where there is rapidly
growing demand for electricity. The scope of this $200 million investment through 2005
includes transmission line upgrades, new distribution substations, upgrades to existing
distribution substations and other system enhancements. These projects will provide additional
capacity to meet future load demands throughout PaciﬁCorp’s network, especially in high-
growth areas.
INFRASTRUCTURE DIVISION
Infrastructure Division, our regulated UK wires business, is the UK’s third largest distribution
company and comprises the distribution and transmission networks in our Scottish service area,
and the distribution network in Manweb, over 110,000 circuit km in total. The strategic priorities
of the Infrastructure Division set at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from capex
• Achieve high standards of customer service
• Invest consistently to add value
For the year to 31 March 2003, the Infrastructure Division reported operating proﬁt of £368
million, an increase of £13 million on last year. Higher regulated income of £9 million and net
cost reductions of £18 million were partly offset by higher depreciation, operational rates,
insurance and pension costs of £14 million. 
The Infrastructure Division invested net capital expenditure of £230 million during the year, an
increase of £32 million compared to the year to 31 March 2002. Of this, £141 million was
invested in network refurbishment, £68 million on network expansion and £21 million on other
capital projects. 
Net capital expenditure in 2003/04 is expected to increase modestly, with investment
concentrated on the regulatory asset base, delivering the regulated rate of return. In particular,
further investment will be undertaken in our overhead network modernisation programme. 
ScottishPower share price outperformed the FTSE 100 index of companies by 52.6%*. 
(* calculated for the period 29/03/02 – 31/03/03) Chief Executive’s Review continued
• Be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
– Outperform operating cost targets
– Achieve better than planned output from capex
In line with our strategic priorities, we expect to be at or near the regulatory efﬁciency frontier
for the next price review period beginning in April 2005. As previously stated, targeted cash cost
savings of £75 million due by March 2003 were achieved ahead of schedule by September
2002, reﬂecting our increased commercial focus in the division. As a result, a further target of
£33 million of net cost reductions was identiﬁed for completion by 2003/04, with net cost
reductions of £18 million being achieved in 2002/03 through the initiatives set out below.
We are achieving better outputs from capital expenditure by ensuring that costs are appropriately
allocated to capital projects through our asset manager/service provider model and have seen
procurement savings of over 10% in a number of key purchase areas such as distribution
transformers, overhead lines and cables. Additionally we have conducted a benchmark review of
call centre services, are making more efﬁcient use of contractors, achieving improved staff
ﬂexibility using site start arrangements and adopting a ﬂexible day working system.
• Achieve high standards of customer service
We continue to focus on delivering high standards of customer service. Our network performance
as measured by Customer Interruptions and Customer Minutes Lost indicates that we are on
track to be able to participate in Ofgem’s Information and Incentives Programme (IIP) when the
reward mechanism for outperforming the regulatory targets is put in place by 2004/05.
Our performance against Ofgem’s standard for responding to customers’ written
correspondence has improved signiﬁcantly. In addition, our performance relative to the industry
as measured by Ofgem’s customer satisfaction survey has ensured we are placed in the
incentive reward band under the terms of the IIP. Further, a recent Government report
recognised our good performance during a gale-force storm in the Mersey and North Wales
area on 27 October 2002. We received speciﬁc praise for our performance in emergency
preparation, telephone response and regular and realistic feedback to customers on estimated
times of reconnection.
• Invest consistently to add value
Capital expenditure to date contributes to maintaining the value of our asset base. Progress in
the Berwick and Borders Investment Programme, which represents an investment of £11
million, continues to be made with 65% of the 33kV circuits included in the programme being
completed. Additionally 63% of the 11kV circuits included in the programme have been
completed or are under construction. This part of the overhead line build programme has been
accelerated and is on target for completion by March 2004. 
Reinforcement of the transmission network will improve both the performance and resilience of
our network, with high proﬁle projects at Gretna and Chapelcross representing a £13 million
investment. Beneﬁts of these projects include the strengthening of the network to deal with the
Chapelcross power station closure. These projects are being delivered on time and to budget.
The Government target of 10% of supply from renewable sources by 2010 is an opportunity for
Infrastructure Division to invest in network capacity. Our transmission business has participated
in a recent network study that explored the existing Scottish and Northern England networks’
potential to support increased volumes of new renewable generation. The study identiﬁed three
progressive steps required to upgrade our transmission network and we believe the associated
investment to be valued at roughly £300 million – £400 million over 10 years dependent on
renewable progress. We are currently working to develop detailed plans in relation to this
opportunity. In addition, we believe our distribution networks in Scotland and Manweb are well
positioned to develop network investment opportunities in support of renewable generation,
should Government targets be met. 
“Regulated UK wires business is the UK’s third
largest distribution company.”  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 08/09
The formal price control reviews of SP Transmission, SP Distribution and SP Manweb will
continue during the forthcoming year. We have been working with Ofgem and the rest of the
industry to develop the framework of price controls applying to all network monopoly
companies and lay the foundations for the formal distribution Price Control Reviews.
We believe a key issue for the reviews is the provision of a sufﬁcient and stable return to allow
companies to attract and retain funding from capital markets. A further issue relates to ﬁnding
ways to facilitate renewable energy in line with Government targets. Both have implications for
the working of the regulatory regime and for the long-term safety and integrity of the UK
electricity infrastructure. 
The outcome from the Price Control Review should take account of guidance from the
Government on social and environmental objectives, and recognise any additional expenditure
arising from such objectives. Our performance in the recent asset risk management survey
demonstrated our ability to invest efﬁciently and effectively, and our cost and storm response
performances provide us with the credibility to inﬂuence this important debate. 
We should not lose sight of the fact that the industry is entering a new phase where simple cost-
cutting and moderate investment leading to price cuts for customers will no longer sustain future
performance, and price increases will be required. We are committed to working with Ofgem
and the rest of the industry throughout the Price Control Review process to deliver a successful
outcome that balances the interests of shareholders, customers and all other stakeholders. 
UK DIVISION
The UK Division is our competitive, integrated generation and supply business. The Division
manages activities across the energy value chain, maximising value from a diverse energy
portfolio of some 5,000 MW of coal, gas, hydro and wind powered plants through to our
national customer base of over 3.6 million customers, via an energy management function that
acts to balance and hedge energy needs. The strategic priorities of the UK Division set at the
beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Enhance margins through our integrated operations
• Grow customer numbers and improve customer service
• Make selective investments using proven knowledge and skills
Operating proﬁt for the UK Division increased by £18 million to £73 million for the year to 31
March 2003, mainly due to last year’s results including a £19 million exceptional reorganisation
charge. Operating proﬁt, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, was £78 million
for the year, £1 million lower compared to the previous year. Net energy margins have
performed strongly, increasing by £15 million before higher depreciation, costs to capture and
investment in energy efﬁciency schemes of £12 million and increased pension costs of £4
million. The impact of lower wholesale electricity prices has been mitigated by our integrated
approach to managing the energy value chain whereby our own electricity production is
extensively matched to our customer demand across Great Britain. The renegotiation of the
Nuclear Energy Agreement (NEA) with British Energy (BE) at a market related price has delivered
a beneﬁt of approximately £25 million in the current year and provides a hedge against
revenues which have been impacted by lower wholesale prices. 
During the year the UK Division invested £68 million in capital projects, a £41 million reduction
on the previous year. £29 million was invested in new generation and gas storage assets, £19
million in generation plant overhaul and refurbishment and £20 million on other projects
including business transformation and information technology.
In 2003/04, subject to obtaining planning permission, net capital expenditure for the UK
Division could increase substantially as a result of our commitment to increase our windfarm
capacity. In addition, we plan to invest in gas storage development and upgrades to generation
assets required to maintain our generating capacity. All investments are projected to have
returns signiﬁcantly in excess of the cost of capital and enhance earnings.
• Enhance margins through our integrated operations
During the year we continued to beneﬁt from the ﬂexibility of our plant portfolio. We have
maintained what we believe is a best in class performance in the Balancing Mechanism, in particular from our ﬂexible CCGT plant at Rye House, and our pumped storage facility at
Cruachan which is being upgraded in capacity by 10%. We continue to optimise the operating
regime across our plant portfolio, aiming to deliver the lowest sustainable costs and to position
it to take maximum advantage of commercial opportunities.
The renegotiation of the NEA relieved the Division of a signiﬁcant cost burden during the year,
but the future of the remaining restructuring contracts is still unresolved. We continue to press
the Government strongly on this issue. Whilst we expect wholesale electricity prices to remain
depressed for the next two years, there could be upward price pressure emerging from
tightening of the capacity margin throughout Great Britain, and as environmental measures
such as carbon trading and the Large Combustion Plants Directive start to take effect. We may
see some price volatility before a new equilibrium is reached.
Retail sales revenues increased during the year, in part following an increase in prices to
customers outside our service territories in November 2002. Prices to the majority of electricity
customers in our Scottish and Manweb territories were increased effective 1 April 2003,
although in both instances we have preserved our competitive dual fuel prices and provided
nearly all customers affected by the April 2003 price increase with the opportunity of mitigating
the increase by changing to a more economical product package.
The success of our company lies in the knowledge,
capabilities and skills offered by our employees. ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 10/11
Our business transformation programme, which is underpinned by 6 Sigma methodology,
continues to deliver signiﬁcant savings to the business. In the year to 31 March 2003, we have
delivered revenue and cost beneﬁts of £14 million across our business processes including
sales and marketing, billing and debt. The utilisation of 6 Sigma methodology is now being
extended throughout the UK Division.
• Grow customer numbers and improve customer service
We continue to be successful in growing our customer base. Customer numbers now stand at
3.65 million, up by approximately 150,000 in the year to 31 March 2003. As well as gaining
new customers, we have successfully reduced overall churn by 4 percentage points compared
with the prior year.
Customer retention and win-back continues to be an important part of our marketing activities
and we have deployed TV advertising to good effect, emphasising that our dual fuel customers
can beneﬁt from a competitive price by joining ScottishPower.
In response to customer research we introduced a new bill design, to provide clearer and more
concise communication of charges and have improved the level of service provided by our call
centres during the year. 
ScottishPower was amongst the pioneers of the industry’s EnergySure accreditation scheme for
sales staff, which will be governed by an external code administrator. All ScottishPower’s
domestic sales teams have now been accredited to this customer service and quality standard
and we are now rolling out the scheme to cover all the relevant sales and marketing channels.
In addition we have introduced three new energy products during the year, including Capped
Price and No Standing Charge offers, which have further enhanced the range available to
customers. 
• Make selective investments using proven knowledge and skills
The Renewables Obligation has created a market framework that allows developers to capitalise
on the UK’s rich resource of wind energy with eligible developments attracting Renewables
Training and development is available through ScottishPower Learning
and PaciﬁCorp Learning to all employees.
“Customer numbers now stand at 3.65 million,
up by approximately 150,000 in the year.”  Chief Executive’s Review continued
Obligation Certiﬁcates (ROCs) currently worth approximately £45 for every MWh produced. With
our strong track record in site identiﬁcation and development, we are well placed to deliver
investments with an attractive return and enhanced earnings, and to market effectively the
energy produced from renewable sources.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, we have made planning applications for 279 MW of
windfarm capacity and we now have in excess of 546 MW awaiting planning consent. We have
also begun environmental assessments on around 300 MW of capacity at additional potential
sites. Progress towards planning consent for our Whitelee 240 MW and Black Law 134 MW
developments has been slowed by issues related to radar at Glasgow and Edinburgh airports
respectively. A technical solution to this problem is being progressed and we are conﬁdent that
the issue will be resolved. With 546 MW of windfarm capacity awaiting planning consent and the
300 MW pipeline of projects under assessment, we are making excellent progress towards
alignment with the Government target of 10% of supply from renewable sources by 2010.
We are upgrading ﬁve of our smaller hydro generating stations, totalling 45 MW, to qualify for
ROCs. As part of this, the upgrade to the 11 MW station at Bonnington was completed in
2002/03 with the other four stations to be upgraded over the next 15 months.
Our 60 million therm gas storage planning application at Byley in Cheshire is presently awaiting
the result of a public inquiry, expected to be determined in 2003/04.
PPM
PPM is our competitive US energy company, focused on providing environmentally responsible
energy products to wholesale customers. Its principal assets are thermal and renewable
generation resources and gas storage assets primarily serving western US and Canadian
markets. The strategic priorities of PPM set at the beginning of 2002/03 were:
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio and gas storage/hub services
• Optimise returns through the integration of assets and commercial activities
PPM reported an operating proﬁt of £28 million for the year, compared to a loss of £5 million last
year. The growth in operating proﬁt for the year was due to the increased contribution from long-
term sales contracts and gas storage activities and optimisation beneﬁts of £53 million, partly
offset by higher depreciation charges and other operating costs of £17 million to support business
growth and the beneﬁt from settlement of a £3 million contract in the prior year. 
PPM’s net capital expenditure for the year was £36 million, a decrease of £170 million on last
year, which included investment to complete the Klamath Falls and West Valley generation
projects. In the current year, the business invested £30 million in new generation and £6 million
in other projects. In addition, we acquired the Katy gas storage facility for £101 million.
In 2003/04, PPM’s net capital spend is expected to increase, primarily as a result of the
construction of new windfarms and development opportunities including Moraine and Flying
Cloud, which are expected to deliver favourable rates of return and enhance earnings.
• Grow its renewable/thermal energy portfolio and gas storage/hub services
PPM continues to grow its renewable energy business and has recently announced the
development of the 44 MW Flying Cloud Wind Project in Iowa, which includes a 15 year
agreement to sell power to Interstate Power & Light, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy. In addition,
construction of the 51 MW Moraine Wind Project in Minnesota has commenced. The Moraine
project is fully contracted with a 15 year agreement to sell power to the Northern States Power
Company. This will bring PPM’s total wind power under contract to more than 560 MW, and
total thermal/renewable resource under PPM’s ownership or control to approximately 1,350 MW.
“We are well placed to deliver investments with
an attractive return and enhanced earnings.”  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 12/13
In addition to its renewable generation portfolio, PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic feet (BCF) 
of gas storage capacity under ownership, up from 14 BCF the prior year. This includes the 
21 BCF acquired at the Katy gas storage facility in December 2002 and a 2 BCF expansion of
the Alberta Hub gas storage facility during the year. PPM has successfully integrated the Katy
assets and is on target to deliver expected results. PPM intends to add to its 40% ownership 
in the Alberta Hub gas storage facility with the purchase of an additional ownership interest 
this spring. 
• Optimise returns through integration of assets and commercial activities
Integration of plant operations, contract dispatch and energy management added $7 million in
the year. The optimisation beneﬁts come from displacing plant operations with low-priced
power purchases, selling the displaced gas or placing it in storage, as well as using transmission
and contract delivery ﬂexibility to manage locational price differences in both gas and power. 
PPM has new and expanded terms for energy supply to the Sacramento Municipal Utility
District, one of PPM’s largest customers. Arrangements include revisions to original long-term
contracts executed in 2002/03, as well as sales of up to half the output of the 150 MW High
Winds Energy Center in northern California and 100 MW of summer peaking power supply from
PPM’s portfolio. 
In 2002/03, PPM placed 319 MW under long-term contract. In addition, PPM has effectively
managed its commodity exposure, having sold its positions forward for 5-25 years. Fluctuating
commodity prices have little impact on PPM’s portfolio value, except where increased volatility
gives PPM an opportunity to take advantage of plant options, delivery ﬂexibility, gas storage and
other tactics to maximise value. 
REGULATORY AND GOVERNMENT POLICY ISSUES
Multi-State Process (MSP)
PaciﬁCorp continues work on the MSP, which is designed to resolve how prudently incurred
costs are allocated among the six states in which PaciﬁCorp operates. A collaborative process is
under way to identify possible solutions, conduct technical conferences with participants and
meet with key parties to examine speciﬁc issues. PaciﬁCorp intends to ﬁle a ﬁnal, detailed
regulatory proposal with each state utility commission this summer. 
RTO West
PaciﬁCorp and nine other utilities received initial approval of their RTO West proposal in
September 2002 from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Under the proposal,
which the FERC called "Best in Class" among all the RTO ﬁlings in terms of the proposed design,
structure and thoroughness of approach, the ﬁling utilities will retain ownership of their
transmission assets, but transfer operational control of their system to RTO West. As proposed,
RTO West will help stabilise electricity transmission and guard against market manipulation in
the western part of the United States and Canada, while providing a reasonable level of return
for future transmission investments. The RTO West members are currently planning to ﬁle with
the FERC this summer and expect a response from the FERC by the end of 2003.
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
The FERC continues its various investigations into western US market manipulation related to
the 2000/01 energy crisis. As a regulated utility that participated in these markets primarily to
meet the company’s own power requirements, PaciﬁCorp has responded to various data
requests from the FERC and other market participants. These cases involve trading practices
connected with the California power crisis, as well as spot market refund cases, and complaints
brought by PaciﬁCorp against wholesale power marketers to seek refunds for high-priced power
purchased in 2001. PaciﬁCorp continues to press for economic recovery, while fully responding
to requests for information.
British Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements (BETTA) 
The recently announced delay by the Department of Trade and Industry to the introduction of
BETTA will not have a material effect on ScottishPower in 2003/04. The ﬁnancial impact of the
BETTA Bill is broadly neutral for ScottishPower, but zonal charges for transmission access and
losses would have a negative impact on the generation business in the UK Division. We were
pleased to see that the Trade and Industry Select Committee, in its Fifth Report, recommended delay in the implementation of transmission access reform until the costs and beneﬁts are able
to be assessed on a Great Britain-wide basis. ScottishPower, together with a number of other
companies, has ﬁled for a judicial review of Ofgem’s decision to implement zonal transmission
losses in England and Wales.
Energy White Paper
The recently published White Paper on energy sets out to achieve a lower carbon energy
system, proposing signiﬁcant investment in renewable energy, energy efﬁciency and in
networks. The UK Division is well placed to take early mover advantage on renewable generation
and the Infrastructure Division should beneﬁt from the Government’s commitment to investing
in networks. We are pleased that Ofgem recognises the need to plan and develop networks to
facilitate the transmission of renewable energy from Scotland to centres of demand in the rest
of Great Britain.
LOOKING AHEAD
During 2002/03, we reported each quarter our progress in delivering the key strategic priorities
ScottishPower, the BiTC (Business in the Community) Company of the Year and Ballet Central
(pictured) both believe in affordable access to the arts for as many people as possible. ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 14/15
for each of our four businesses. Some of those priorities have now been achieved and further
new priorities have been identiﬁed. Accordingly, looking ahead our strategic priorities are as
follows:
PaciﬁCorp
• Achieve ROE target / $1 billion EBIT by 2004/05
• Manage energy risk and supply / demand balance
• Deliver excellent customer service
• Invest to grow the regulatory asset base, including delivery of the integrated resource plan
Infrastructure Division 
• Invest consistently to add future value, including supporting renewables
• Optimise our position through the 2005 price control reviews and the introduction of BETTA
• Deliver cost-effective, high quality customer service
UK Division
• Enhance margins through our integrated operations 
• Increase the value of our customer base through targeted sales growth and improved 
customer service
• Progress towards achieving 10% of electricity supply from renewable sources by 2010 
PPM
• Continue to be a leading provider of renewable energy products 
• Grow natural gas storage and hub services business 
• Create additional value by optimising the returns from our capability across gas and power
CONCLUSION
Our consistent focus on performance last year enabled us to deliver a good set of results. 
We will continue to place a premium on leading operational performance, to secure further
improvements in the results of our businesses. There are substantial opportunities to expand
ScottishPower through incremental investments in each of our businesses, particularly in
networks, generation including renewables and gas storage. With as much as 40% of our capital
investment in new assets in these areas, we believe we are well positioned to continue to grow.
The outlook for ScottishPower remains positive, with further improvements expected from our
businesses. We also believe that our continued focus will enable us to take advantage of the
opportunities to create shareholder value that will, over time, arise from the changing structure
of our industry in the UK, the rest of Europe and the US.
Courtesy of The Herald (Glasgow) ©
SMG Newspapers Ltd. 12 July 2002.
Ian Russell Chief Executive
7 May 2003
Photograph by Bill Cooper Board of Directors & Executive Team
01 Ian Russell (50) is Chief Executive,
having been appointed to this position
in April 2001. He joined ScottishPower
as Finance Director in April 1994 and
became Deputy Chief Executive in
November 1998. He is a member of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Scotland, having trained with
Thomson McLintock, and has held
senior ﬁnance positions with Tomkins
plc and HSBC.
02 Charles Berry (51) is Executive
Director UK, responsible in this
capacity for the UK energy businesses
of Generation, Energy Management
and Supply. He joined ScottishPower
in November 1991 and was
appointed to the Board in April 1999.
He is a member of the Board of the
Energy Saving Trust. Prior to joining
ScottishPower, he was Group
Development Director of Norwest
Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie
Générale des Eaux, and prior to that
held management positions within
subsidiaries of Pilkington plc. He
holds a BSc (First Class Hons) in
Electrical Engineering from the
University of Glasgow and a Masters
Degree in Management from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
03 David Nish (43) is Finance
Director, having joined ScottishPower
in September 1997 as Deputy
Finance Director and then being
appointed to the Board as Finance
Director in December 1999. In this
capacity, he also has responsibility at
Board level for performance
management and information
technology. He is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Scotland and its Qualiﬁcations Board,
a member of the Scottish Council of
the CBI and a non-executive director
of The Royal Scottish National
Orchestra. Prior to joining
ScottishPower, he was a partner with
Price Waterhouse. He has a BAcc from
the University of Glasgow.
04 Ronnie Mercer (59) was
appointed Group Director,
Infrastructure in April 2001 and is
responsible in this role for the UK
wires business. He is a member of the
Board of the Electricity Association.
He joined the ScottishPower
Generation Business in 1994 and was
appointed Generation Director in
1996 and then Managing Director of
Southern Water in 1998. Previous
career positions include Scottish
Director and Managing Director roles
in British Steel. He was educated at
Paisley College of Technology.
05 Judi Johansen (44) was appointed
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of PaciﬁCorp in June 2001 and joined
the Executive Team in December
2001. She is responsible for all
PaciﬁCorp’s operations. She joined
PaciﬁCorp as Executive Vice President
of Regulation and External Affairs in
December 2000, having held senior
positions with the Bonneville Power
Administration and Washington Water
Power. She is involved in several civic
and professional activities. She has a
bachelor’s degree in political science
from Colorado State University and a
law degree from Northwestern School
of Law at Lewis & Clark College in
Portland, Oregon.
06 Julian Brown (53) was appointed
Group Director, Strategy in April 1997,
having joined ScottishPower in 1993.
He began his commercial career with
Exxon Chemical in Australia and
subsequently spent seven years with
management consultants McKinsey
and Company. He holds a BSc from
the Australian National University and
a PhD in Chemistry from University
College London. With effect from 1
April 2003, he left the Executive Team
to assume a new position within the
group.
07 Michael Pittman (50) was
appointed Group Director, Human
Resources in November 2001. He has
groupwide responsibility for human
resources, leading the focus on talent
management, one of the group’s main
strategic thrusts. He joined PaciﬁCorp
in December 1979 and was appointed
to the PaciﬁCorp Board in May 2000.
He chairs the PaciﬁCorp Foundation
for Learning Board and is involved in
numerous civic activities. He has held
several positions within PaciﬁCorp,
including safety and health, risk
management and operations. He
holds an advanced degree in
environmental health from the
University of Washington.
08 Dominic Fry (43) joined
ScottishPower in September 2000 as
Group Director, Corporate
Communications. He is responsible
for investor and media relations,
communications with employees,
corporate social responsibility and
management of the group’s overall
reputation. He has held appointments
as Communications Director with J
Sainsbury plc and Eurotunnel plc. He
chairs the Trading Board of the
Glasgow Science Centre and is a
communications adviser to the Royal
Shakespeare Company and Business
in the Community. He was educated
at the Université Paul Valéry III in
Montpellier and the University of
North Carolina.
09 Terry Hudgens (48) was
appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of
ScottishPower’s competitive US
energy business, PPM, in May 2001
and joined the Executive Team in
December 2001. He joined PaciﬁCorp
as Senior Vice President of Power
Supply in April 2000, having
previously spent 25 years with Texaco,
Inc. He was formerly President of
Texaco Natural Gas and served as
Texaco’s senior representative and
elected ofﬁcer in the Natural Gas
Supply Association. He has a
bachelor’s degree in civil engineering
from the University of Houston.
10 James Stanley (48) was appointed
Group Director, Commercial and Legal
in March 1996. He is responsible in
this role for the provision of all legal,
commercial and associated services
throughout the group and particularly
the negotiation, structuring and
delivery of M&A projects such as the
sale of Southern Water plc. In his early
career he specialised in commercial
litigation in private practice. In 1986
he moved to the Trafalgar House
Group and subsequently became both
Commercial Director of John Brown
plc and General Counsel to the Global
Engineering Division of the Group. He
is a graduate in law from Nottingham
University and the College of Law in
Chester where he qualiﬁed as a
solicitor in 1980.
11 Andrew Mitchell (51) was
appointed Group Company Secretary
in July 1993 and is responsible in this
role for corporate governance and
reporting, shareholder services,
compliance and group security. He
also serves as Chairman of the
trustees of the group’s UK pension
schemes and as the company’s e7
representative. Prior to joining
ScottishPower, he held a number of
company secretarial appointments,
latterly as Company Secretary of The
Laird Group plc and then Stakis plc,
now part of the Hilton Group. He is a
graduate in law from the University of
Edinburgh (LLB Hons) and the
London School of Economics (LLM)
and is a member of the Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE TEAM
01 02 03 04 05
06 07 08 09 10 ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 16/17
12 Charles Miller Smith (63) joined
the Board as Deputy Chairman in
August 1999 and was appointed
Chairman in April 2000. Following a
career with Unilever for some 30 years,
during the last ﬁve of which he was
Director of Finance and latterly of the
Food Executive, he was appointed Chief
Executive of ICI in 1995 and then
served as Chairman from 1999 to
2001. He is an international adviser to
Goldman Sachs, a member of the
Board of the Indian company, ICICI
One Source plc, and a member of the
Ministry of Defence Management
Board. He is currently serving on the
committee chaired by Professor Laura
Tyson of London Business School
which is considering, in the light of the
recommendations of the Higgs Review,
ways of broadening the pool of non-
executive directors. He is also a
Governor of the Henley Management
College.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
13 Sir Peter Gregson GCB (66) joined
the Board in December 1996 and is
the company’s senior independent
non-executive director and Chairman
of the Remuneration Committee. He
was formerly a career civil servant,
having served latterly as Permanent
Secretary of the Department of
Energy from 1985 to 1989 and
Permanent Secretary of the
Department of Trade and Industry
until his retirement in June 1996. He
was previously Deputy Chairman of
the Board of Companions of the
Chartered Institute of Management
and a non-executive director of
Woolwich plc. His current term of
ofﬁce has been extended by up to one
year, such that it will expire not later
than the AGM in 2004.
14 Nolan Karras (58) joined the Board
in November 1999. He continues as a
non-executive director of PaciﬁCorp,
having previously (until the merger in
November 1999) served as Chairman
of the PaciﬁCorp Personnel
Committee. He is President of The
Karras Company, Inc., and a
Registered Principal for Raymond
James Financial Services. He is Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of Western Hay
Company, Inc., and a non-executive
director of Beneﬁcial Life Insurance
Company. He is Chairman of the Utah
State Higher Education Board of
Regents and a member of the board
of Ogden-Weber Applied Technology
College. He also served as a member
of the Utah House of Representatives
from 1981 to 1990, and as Speaker of
the Utah House of Representatives
from 1989 to 1990. His current term
of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM in
2006.
15 Ewen Macpherson (61) joined the
Board in September 1996 and is
Chairman of the Audit Committee. He
had a long career with 3i Group plc,
leading to his appointment as Chief
Executive from 1992 until his retirement
in 1997. He is Chairman of Merrill
Lynch New Energy Technology plc and a
non-executive director of Foreign &
Colonial Investment Trust plc and
Pantheon International Participations
plc. He is also Chairman of the Trustees
of GlaxoSmithKline Pension Fund.
Previous appointments include non-
executive directorships of M&G Group
plc, Booker plc and The Law Debenture
Corporation plc. He will retire from the
Board after the AGM in 2003.
16 Euan Baird (65) joined the Board
in January 2001. He served as
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
of Schlumberger Limited from 1986 to
February 2003. He is now non-
executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc
and a non-executive director of Société
Générale and Areva. He is a trustee of
Tocqueville Alexis Trust and Carnegie
Institution of Washington, and a
member of the Comité National de Ia
Science in France and the Prime
Minister’s Council of Science and
Technology in the UK. His current term
of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM in 2004.
17 Mair Barnes (58) joined the Board
in April 1998. She is a non-executive
director of GWR Group plc, Patientline
plc and the South African company,
Woolworths Holdings Limited. She is a
member of the Department of Trade
and Industry’s Strategy Board and
Services Group Board. She was
previously Managing Director of
Woolworths plc in the UK until 1994,
and subsequently became Chairman
of Vantios plc until 1998. She was
also formerly a non-executive director
of Abbey National plc, Littlewoods plc
and George Wimpey plc. Her current
term of ofﬁce will expire at the AGM in
2004.
18 Philip Carroll (65) joined the
Board in January 2002. He was
formerly Chairman and Chief
Executive Ofﬁcer of Fluor Corporation,
a California-based international
engineering, construction and services
company, until his retirement in
February 2002. Previously, he was with
Shell Oil for over 35 years, serving as
President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
from 1993 to 1998. He is an honorary
life member of the Board of the
American Petroleum Institute and
holds various posts with the James A
Baker III Institute for Public Policy of
Rice University and the University of
Houston. His current term of ofﬁce will
expire at the AGM in 2005.
19 Nick Rose (45) joined the Board
in February 2003; he is the Audit
Committee’s “ﬁnancial expert” and
will succeed Ewen Macpherson as
Chairman of the Committee later in
the year. He is Finance Director of
Diageo plc, having been appointed to
this position in July 1999. Previously
he held senior ﬁnance positions with
GrandMet and was latterly Finance
Director of International Distillers &
Vintners in 1996 and then of United
Distillers & Vintners in 1997. He is
also a director of Moët Hennessy. His
current term of ofﬁce, subject to his
election in 2003, will expire at the
AGM in 2006.
Board & Executive Team changes
Allan Leighton resigned from the Board
on 12 June 2002. Nick Rose was
appointed to the Board on 19 February
2003; in accordance with the Articles of
Association, he will retire from ofﬁce at
the Annual General Meeting and, being
eligible, offers himself for election. In
addition, Charles Miller Smith, David
Nish and Ewen Macpherson retire by
rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Charles Miller Smith and David Nish,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-
election. Ewen Macpherson will retire
from the Board and accordingly does
not seek re-election. David Nish has a
service contract terminable by either
party upon one year’s notice.
Julian Brown served as a member of
the Executive Team throughout the year
but assumed a new position within the
group with effect from 1 April 2003.
For US reporting purposes, the
members of the Executive Team are
regarded as ofﬁcers of the company.
Members of the Audit Committee
Ewen Macpherson, Chairman
Philip Carroll
Sir Peter Gregson
Nolan Karras
Nick Rose
Members of the Nomination
Committee
Charles Miller Smith, Chairman
Mair Barnes
Sir Peter Gregson
Nolan Karras
lan Russell
Members of the Remuneration
Committee
Sir Peter Gregson, Chairman
Euan Baird
Mair Barnes
Nolan Karras
Ewen Macpherson
CHAIRMAN
11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 Financial Review
Overview of the Year to March 2003
Group turnover for the year to 31 March 2003
was £5,274 million, a reduction of £1,040 million
on the previous year. From continuing
operations, group turnover was lower by £276
million at £5,247 million including adverse
translation movements of £205 million from the
weaker US dollar. Sales were lower in PaciﬁCorp
as a result of reduced wholesale power prices in
the western US, although this was partially offset
by revenue growth from our other three
businesses. PaciﬁCorp’s turnover for the year
was down by £481 million to £2,499 million
mainly as a result of the lower wholesale prices
experienced for most of the year and a £189
million adverse translation impact of the weaker
US dollar. These reductions were offset in part by
higher wholesale volumes and regulatory rate
increases. Turnover for Infrastructure Division
increased by £66 million for the year to £314
million. This was mainly due to increased
regulated income from higher sales to third party
electricity suppliers. The division also delivered
non regulated revenue growth of £28 million
for the year, principally due to increased new
connections from its Core Utility Solutions joint
venture. For the UK Division, turnover increased
in the year by £26 million to £2,148 million. This
was as a result of higher sales to retail customers,
increased generation agency sales in Scotland
and exports to Northern Ireland which have
offset the impact of low wholesale electricity
prices. Turnover for PPM for the year increased
by £113 million to £286 million, after a £16
million adverse US dollar translation impact, as
the business beneﬁted from the ﬁrst full year of
its long-term power contracts and the growth
of its gas storage business. 
Discontinued operations’ turnover in the year
reduced from £791 million to £27 million
compared to the prior year.
Group operating proﬁt increased by £169
million to £946 million for the year to 31 March
2003. Group operating proﬁt from continuing
operations was £932 million, £296 million higher
than the previous year. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, group
operating proﬁt from continuing operations
increased by £270 million to £1,071 million. Our
US operations delivered the majority of the
increase. PaciﬁCorp contributed operating proﬁt
excluding goodwill amortisation of £597 million
for the year, an increase of £225 million on the
previous year. This was mainly due to lower net
power costs, rate increases, regulatory recoveries
of excess power costs and Transition Plan
beneﬁts. The Infrastructure Division’s operating
proﬁt of £368 million for the year represented an
increase of £13 million mainly due to higher
regulated revenues and net cost savings. The UK
Division’s operating proﬁt, excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, of £78
million was consistent with the prior year with the
impact of low wholesale prices mitigated by our
integrated approach to managing the energy
value chain and the beneﬁt from the settlement
of the Nuclear Energy Agreement (NEA) with
British Energy (BE). PPM reported operating
proﬁt of £28 million for the year compared to a
loss of £5 million in the previous year, with the
full year beneﬁt of assets and contracts acquired
in the prior year and the continued progress made
during the year in growing its portfolio of assets.
Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations
fell by £127 million to £14 million for the year,
compared to the prior year. 
Goodwill amortisation of £139 million for the year
was £10 million lower than for the previous year.
This was due to the demerger of Thus in March
2002 and movements in US dollar exchange
rates reducing the goodwill charge for PaciﬁCorp.
Operating proﬁt for the year to 31 March 2002
included an exceptional reorganisation charge of
£18 million. This arose as a result of restructuring
in the UK Division and included severance and
related costs. There were no exceptional operating
items in the year to 31 March 2003.
The net interest charge of £254 million for the
year was £156 million lower than the charge
for the previous year which included exceptional
interest charges of £30 million, resulting from
the restructuring of the debt portfolio in advance
David Nish, Finance Director
“Our improved operational performance has
contributed to a good set of results.” 
ScottishPower management assesses the underlying performance of its businesses by adjusting 
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) statutory results to exclude items it
considers to be non-recurring or non-operational in nature. In the years presented, these items
are goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. Therefore, to provide more meaningful
information, ScottishPower has focused its discussion of business performance on the results
excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. In accordance with recent guidance from
the UK Auditing Practices Board and UK Listing Authority, where non-GAAP ﬁgures are discussed
comparable UK GAAP ﬁgures have also been provided. The summarised statutory results are
presented in the “Summary Group Proﬁt and Loss Accounts” on pages 22 and 23.  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 18/19
99
00
01
02
03
Operating proﬁt £m
Excluding goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items  
99
00
01
02
03
Turnover £m
of the disposal of Southern Water. Excluding
exceptional interest, the charge was £126 million
lower primarily attributable to substantially
lower net debt following the sale of Southern
Water and our US dollar hedging strategy. 
Proﬁt before tax for the year of £697 million
increased by £1,636 million on last year’s loss
before tax of £939 million. This was primarily
due to the exceptional items charged to the
proﬁt and loss account in the prior ﬁnancial
year, relating to the disposal of Southern Water
and Appliance Retailing. Excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, group
proﬁt before tax for the year to 31 March 2003
increased by £270 million (48%) to £836
million, whilst continuing operations’ proﬁt
before tax, increased by £365 million (79%) to
£825 million as a result of improved group
operating proﬁt and lower interest charges. 
The tax charge for the year increased from £83
million to £209 million on proﬁt before tax of
£697 million compared to a loss before tax of
£939 million in the previous year. The tax
charge represented an effective rate of tax (on
proﬁts excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items) of 25%. This represents an
increase from the prior year rate of 21.5%,
reﬂecting a higher proportion of group proﬁts
being derived from our US operations, taxed at
a rate higher than in the UK.
There were no exceptional items in the year.
Exceptional items in the previous ﬁnancial year,
including interest and tax, were £1,318 million.
Included within this total were exceptional
charges of £1,308 million related to the disposal
of Southern Water, including the write back of
goodwill previously taken to reserves, and the
disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance
Retailing. The other exceptional items in the
previous ﬁnancial year were reorganisation
costs of £18 million, interest of £30 million and
a tax credit on exceptional items of £38 million. 
Net debt reduced in the year by £1,887 million
to £4,321 million. Operating cash ﬂow for the
year was £1,413 million, an increase of £165
million. This was mainly as a result of improved
operational performance in PaciﬁCorp. Group net
capital expenditure in the year was £717 million,
a decrease of £512 million, of which £180
million related to continuing operations and
£332 million related to discontinued operations.
Net inﬂows from acquisitions and disposals of
£1,899 million, including net debt disposed of,
mainly represented proceeds from the sale of
Southern Water partially offset by PPM’s £101
million acquisition of the Katy gas storage facility
from Aquila, Inc. Net debt also beneﬁted from
the weaker dollar which reduced the sterling
value of dollar debt by £290 million. Gearing
(net debt/shareholders’ funds) decreased to
93% from 131% at 31 March 2002 and net
debt/EBITDA excluding exceptionals (earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill
amortisation, deferred income released to the
proﬁt and loss account and exceptional items),
improved from 4.1 times last year to 2.8 times.
EBITDA is a measure of performance often
used in bank facilities.
Group net assets reduced by 2% in the year,
from £4,818 million to £4,712 million with our
balance sheet hedging strategy signiﬁcantly
mitigating the adverse impact of the weaker US
dollar. The impact on net assets of the Southern
Water disposal in April 2002 was offset by lower
net debt following receipt of the sale proceeds. 
Group earnings per share improved from a
loss of 53.71 pence for the year to 31 March
2002 to earnings of 26.17 pence for the year
to 31 March 2003, an increase of 79.88 pence.
Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, group earnings per share for the year were
33.71 pence, an increase of 7.59 pence (29%).
The full year dividends of 28.708 pence per
share, were consistent with our stated aim of a
5% annual increase in dividends to 31 March
2003. As stated at the time of announcing the
proposed disposal of Southern Water, with
effect from the ﬁnancial year commencing 1
April 2003, ScottishPower intends to target
dividend cover, based on full year earnings
excluding goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items, in the range 1.5 – 2.0 times
and ideally towards the middle of that range.
ScottishPower will aim to grow dividends
broadly in line with earnings thereafter. 
To implement this policy, in the absence of
unforeseen circumstances, ScottishPower
intends to pay an identical dividend for each of
the ﬁrst three quarters of each year, with the
dividend for the fourth quarter representing
the balance of the total dividend for each year.
In respect of each of the quarters ending 30
June 2003, 30 September 2003 and 31
December 2003, ScottishPower aims to
declare a dividend of 4.75 pence per share.
Pensions
As required by the transitional arrangements of
Financial Reporting Standard (FRS) 17, our year
end report and accounts disclosed, at 31 March
2003, a deﬁcit of £231 million, net of deferred
tax, for our UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
and a deﬁcit of £214 million ($338 million), net
of deferred tax, for our US schemes. As an
indication of the volatility of these valuations,
the movement in asset market values in April
2003 would have reduced the deﬁcit for the UK
schemes by 40%, and the US schemes by 5%.
The charge in the year for these pension
schemes has increased from £7 million to £16
million in the UK, and from £8 million ($11
804
961
970
944
1,085
3,242
4,115
6,349
6,314
5,274 Financial Review continued
million) to £26 million ($41 million) in the US.
Contribution payments to the UK schemes
have recommenced. Achieving regulatory
recovery of these costs is a priority and we
have a focus on ensuring inclusion of any
increased expense in US rate cases and the
regulatory Price Control Reviews in the UK.
Business Reviews
PaciﬁCorp
PaciﬁCorp turnover was £2,499 million in the
year, a reduction of £481 million on the prior year
mainly due to lower wholesale electricity prices
experienced for most of the year. Excluding the
effect of foreign exchange, wholesale revenues
were £409 million lower than last year. There was
a 63% decrease in average short-term and spot
market wholesale prices in the year ($83/MWh to
$31/MWh) and lower long-term volumes. This
was partially offset by higher short-term and spot
volumes and long-term prices. Factors
contributing to the lower market price included
new generation brought on-line in the western US,
the continuing effect of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) market
mitigation, and milder weather and economic
conditions affecting demand growth. Residential
and commercial revenues increased by £9 million
(1.4%) and £10 million (2.1%) respectively,
mainly as a result of higher prices and growth in
customer numbers, offset by lower average
customer usage due to milder weather. Industrial
revenues were down by £4 million (0.8%) in the
year as the impact of lower volumes, due to a
weaker economy, more than offset higher prices
and increased irrigation revenues. Other
revenue growth, primarily as a result of excess
power cost recoveries in Utah and Oregon, were
more than offset by lower wheeling revenues
and unfavourable foreign exchange movements.
Operating proﬁt for PaciﬁCorp increased by £233
million to £463 million for the year to 31 March
2003. Operating proﬁt excluding goodwill
amortisation for PaciﬁCorp for the year grew by
£225 million to £597 million, as a result of
regulatory rate increases and recoveries of
excess power costs of £80 million, signiﬁcantly
lower net power costs of £257 million and
continued progress in the delivery of Transition
Plan beneﬁts of £64 million in the year. These
improvements were partly offset by lower
transmission revenues of £19 million from
reduced use of the transmission system by third
parties, higher depreciation charges of £25
million, risk mitigation and project costs of £41
million, insurance, pensions and healthcare costs
of £46 million, and one-off gains in the previous
year and foreign exchange of £45 million.
Infrastructure Division
External turnover within the Infrastructure
Division increased by £66 million for the year
to £314 million. Infrastructure Division’s sales are
mainly internal to our UK Division however, the
impact of competition on our home markets has
resulted in an increase in regulated income from
third party electricity suppliers of £38 million.
Other revenue growth of £28 million has also
been delivered from external non regulated sales,
principally due to increased new connections
from its Core Utility Solutions joint venture.
Infrastructure Division reported operating proﬁt
of £368 million for the year, an increase of £13
million on last year. Higher regulated income of
£9 million and net cost reductions of £18 million
were partly offset by higher depreciation,
operational rates, insurance and pension costs
of £14 million. 
UK Division
UK Division turnover increased by £26 million to
£2,148 million for the year. Although wholesale
market prices were down in the year, agency
turnover increased by £17 million due to volume
growth from 4,656 GWh to 6,262 GWh (34%)
and exports to Northern Ireland increased by
£19 million, following the ﬁrst full year of trading.
T otal sales in England & Wales, including exports,
decreased by £13 million due to adverse prices,
partly offset by favourable volumes which
increased by 1,461 GWh to 11,840 GWh.
Wholesale gas volumes increased in the year by
1.4 billion therms, however, lower prices resulted
in sales revenues dropping by £10 million on last
year. Retail supply turnover grew by £11 million
with higher retail gas sales of £52 million and
increased turnover from out-of-area customer
gains of £53 million, partially offset by loss of
market share and lower sales prices in our home
areas which reduced turnover by £94 million.
Other revenues increased by £2 million in the
year. Customer numbers have increased to 3.65
million in the year. Retention of home area
residential customers stands at 61%.
Operating proﬁt for the UK Division increased by
£18 million to £73 million for the year to 31
March 2003, mainly due to last year’s results
including a £18 million exceptional reorganisation
charge. Operating proﬁt, excluding goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, was £78
million for the year, £1 million lower compared to
the previous year. Net energy margins have
performed strongly, increasing by £15 million
before higher depreciation, costs to capture and
investment in energy efﬁciency schemes of £12
million and increased pension costs of £4 million.
The impact of lower wholesale electricity prices
has been mitigated by our integrated approach to
managing the energy value chain whereby our
own electricity production is extensively matched
to our customer demand across Great Britain.
The renegotiation of the NEA with BE at a market
related price has delivered a beneﬁt of
approximately £25 million in the current year and
provides a hedge against revenues which have
been impacted by lower wholesale prices.  ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 20/21
P P M
Turnover for PPM for the year increased by
£ 1 1 3 million to £286 million, after a £16 million
a d ve r s e US dollar translation impact, as the
business b e n e ﬁted from the ﬁrst full year of its
K l a m a t ha n d Stateline long-term power
c o n t racts and g ro w t h of its gas stor a g e
business, including the Katy gas storage f a c i l i t y
a c q u i red in December 2002.
PPM reported an operating pr o ﬁt of £28 million
for the year, compared to a loss of £5 million
last year. The growth in operating pr o ﬁt for the
year was due to the increased contribution fr o m
long-term sales contracts and gas stor a g e
activities and optimisation beneﬁts of £53 million,
partly offset by higher depreciation charges and
other oper a t i n g costs of £17 million to support
business growth and the beneﬁt from settlement
of a £3 million cont ract in the prior year. 
Discontinued Oper a t i o n s
Discontinued oper a t i o n s consisted of Southern
W a t er, Appliance Retailing and Thus for the year
to 31 March 2002 and Southern Water for the
year to 31 M a rch 2003. The disposal of Southern
Water was completed on 23 April 2002 and
turnover and oper a t i n g p ro ﬁt generated in the
period prior to disposal were £27 million and
£14 million r e s p e c t i v e l y. The disposal of and
w i t h d ra wal from Appliance Retailing w a s
completed by 31 March 2002 and the Thus
d e merger was completed in March 2002.
In the year, discontinued operations’ turnover
d e c reased from £791 million to £27 million,
c o m p a red to the prior year. Of this r e d u c t i o n ,
£403 million was due to Southern W a t e r, £229
million to Thus and £132 million to Appliance
R e t a i l i n g .
Discontinued operations’ o p e rating pro ﬁt for
the year reduced by £127 million to £14 million,
with Southern Water pr o ﬁts dec reasing by
£202 million, partly offset by reduced losses in
Thus and Appliance Retailing of £66 mil l i o n
and £9 million re s p e c t i v e l y.
S u m m a r y
We have delivered a good set of ﬁn a n c i a l
results with earnings per share increased fr o m
a loss of 53.71 pence last year to earnings of
26.17 pence. Ex c l u d i n g goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items, earnings per share were
up 29% on last year to 33.71 pence. Our
i n c reased pro ﬁt before tax r e ﬂects impro v e d
business operational performance and lower
i n t e rest charges due to our lower net debt
position, which has also contributed to a
s t ronger balance s h e e t .
David Nish, Finance Dir e c t o r
7 May 2003
Independent Auditors’ Statement to the members of Scottish Power plc 
This statement, including the opinion,
has been prepared for and only for the
company’s members as a body in
accordance with Section 251 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this
opinion, accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any other
person to whom this statement is
shown or into whose hands it may come
save where expressly agreed by our
prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance
with Bulletin 1999/6 ‘The auditors’
statement on the summary ﬁnancial
statement’ issued by the Auditing
Practices Board for use in the United
Kingdom.
Opinion
In our opinion the summary ﬁnancial
statements are consistent with the
Annual Report and Accounts, the
directors’ report and the directors’
remuneration report of Scottish Power
plc for the year ended 31 March 2003,
and comply with the applicable
requirements of Section 251 of the
We have examined the summary
ﬁnancial statements of Scottish Power
plc which comprise the Summary Gro u p
Proﬁt and Loss Accounts, the Summary
Group Cash Flow Statement, the
Summary Group Balance Sheet and the
Summary Information under US GAAP.
Respective responsibilities of directors
and auditors
The directors are responsible for
preparing the Annual Review in
accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our
opinion on the consistency of the
summary ﬁnancial statements within
the Annual Review with the full Annual
Report and Accounts, the directors’
report and the directors’ remuneration
report, and their compliance with the
relevant requirements of Section 251 of
the Companies Act 1985, and the
regulations made thereunder. We also
read the other information contained in
the Annual Review and consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the
summary ﬁnancial statements.
Companies Act 1985, and the
regulations made thereunder.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered
Auditors
Glasgow
7 May 2003
a) The maintenance and integrity of the
Scottish Power plc website is the
responsibility of the directors; the work
carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters
and, accordingly, the auditors accept no
responsibility for any changes that may
have occurred to the Annual Review
since it was initially presented on the
website.
b) Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and
dissemination of ﬁnancial information
may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions. Summary Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2003
Continuing Discontinued
operations operations Total Total
2003 2003 2003 2003
£m £m £m $m
Group turnover 5,247 27 5,274 8,333
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation 1,071 14 1,085 1,714
Goodwill amortisation (139) – (139) (220)
Operating proﬁt 932 14 946 1,494
Share of operating proﬁt in associates and joint ventures 5– 5 8
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before interest 937 14 951 1,502
Net interest and similar charges (251) (3) (254) (401)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation and taxation 825 11 836 1,321
Goodwill amortisation (139) – (139) (220)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 686 11 697 1,101
Taxation (206) (3) (209) (330)
Proﬁt after taxation 480 8 488 771
Minority interests (5) – (5) (8)
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 475 8 483 763
Dividends (530) – (530) (837)
Loss retained (55) 8 (47) (74)
Earnings per ordinary share/per ADS 25.76p 0.41p 26.17p $1.66
Earnings per ordinary share/per ADS before goodwill amortisation 33.30p 0.41p 33.71p $2.13
Dividends per ordinary share/per ADS 28.708p $1.83
Details of directors’ remuneration are set out on page 28.
Exceptional Exceptional
items Total items Total
Continuing -continuing continuing Discontinued -discontinued discontinued
operationsoperationsoperationsoperationsoperationsoperations Total Total
2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m $m
Group turnover 5,523 – 5,523 791 – 791 6,314 8,966
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation 801 (18) 783 143 – 143 926 1,315
Goodwill amortisation (147) – (147) (2) – (2) (149) (212)
Operating proﬁt 654 (18) 636 141 – 141 777 1,103
Share of operating proﬁt in associates and joint ventures 2 – 2––– 2 3
656 (18) 638 141 – 141 779 1,106
Loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing
before goodwill write back –––– (105) (105) (105) (149)
Goodwill write back –––– (15) (15) (15) (21)
Loss on disposal of and withdrawal from Appliance Retailing –––– (120) (120) (120) (170)
Provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water
before goodwill write back –––– (450) (450) (450) (639)
Goodwill write back –––– (738) (738) (738) (1,048)
Provision for loss on disposal of Southern Water –––– (1,188) (1,188) (1,188) (1,687)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before interest 656 (18) 638 141 (1,308) (1,167) (529) (751)
Net interest and similar charges (343) (19) (362) (37) (11) (48) (410) (582)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before goodwill 
amortisation and taxation 460 (37) 423 106 (1,319) (1,213) (790) (1,121)
Goodwill amortisation (147) – (147) (2) – (2) (149) (212)
Proﬁt/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation 313 (37) 276 104 (1,319) (1,215) (939) (1,333)
Taxation (66) 11 (55) (55) 27 (28) (83) (118)
Proﬁt/(loss) after taxation 247 (26) 221 49 (1,292) (1,243) (1,022) (1,451)
Minority interests (7) – (7) 42 – 42 35 50
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year 240 (26) 214 91 (1,292) (1,201) (987) (1,401)
Dividends
– Cash (503) – (503) – – – (503) (714)
– Dividend in specie on demerger of Thus – – – (437) – (437) (437) (621)
(503) – (503) (437) – (437) (940) (1,335)
Loss retained (263) (26) (289) (346) (1,292) (1,638) (1,927) (2,736)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share/per ADS 13.06p (1.41)p 11.65p 4.95p (70.31)p (65.36)p (53.71)p $(3.05)
Earnings per ordinary share/per ADS before exceptional 
items and goodwill amortisation 21.04p – 21.04p 5.08p – 5.08p 26.12p $1.48
Cash dividends per ordinary share/per ADS 27.34p $1.57
Summary Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2002 ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 22/23
Summary Group Proﬁt and Loss Account
for the year ended 31 March 2001
Exceptional
item Total Total
Continuing -continuing continuing discontinued
operationsoperationsoperationsoperations Total Total
2001 2001 2001 2001 2001 2001
£m £m £m £m £m $m
Group turnover 5,410 – 5,410 939 6,349 9,016
Operating proﬁt before goodwill amortisation 815 (121) 694 155 849 1,206
Goodwill amortisation (125) – (125) (3) (128) (182)
Operating proﬁt 690 (121) 569 152 721 1,024
Share of operating loss in associates and joint ventures (9) – (9) – (9) (13)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before interest 681 (121) 560 152 712 1,011
Net interest and similar charges (297) – (297) (36) (333) (473)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation and taxation 509 (121) 388 119 507 720
Goodwill amortisation (125) – (125) (3) (128) (182)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 384 (121) 263 116 379 538
Taxation (148) 46 (102) 7 (95) (135)
Proﬁt after taxation 236 (75) 161 123 284 403
Minority interests (10) – (10) 33 23 33
Proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year 226 (75) 151 156 307 436
Dividends (477) – (477) – (477) (677)
Loss retained (251) (75) (326) 156 (170) (241)
Earnings per ordinary share/per ADS 12.35p (4.09)p 8.26p 8.54p 16.80p $0.95
Earnings per ordinary share/per ADS before exceptional item
and goodwill amortisation 19.19p – 19.19p 8.67p 27.86p $1.58
Dividends per ordinary share/per ADS 26.04p $1.52
Summary Group Cash Flow Statement
for the years ended 31 March 2003, 2002 and 2001
2003 2003 2002 2002 2001 2001
£m $m £m $m £m $m
Cash inﬂow from operating activities 1,413 2,232 1,248 1,772 1,412 2,005
Dividends received from joint ventures 1 2 – – 2 3
Returns on investments and servicing of ﬁnance (297) (469) (377) (535) (374) (531)
Taxation (191) (302) (85) (121) (153) (217)
Free cash ﬂow 926 1,463 786 1,116 887 1,260
Capital expenditure and ﬁnancial investment (705) (1,114) (1,148) (1,630) (1,081) (1,535)
Cash ﬂow before acquisitions and disposals 221 349 (362) (514) (194) (275)
Acquisitions and disposals 1,799 2,843 150 213 483 686
Equity dividends paid (524) (828) (497) (706) (471) (669)
Cash inﬂow/(outﬂow) before use of liquid resources and ﬁnancing 1,496 2,364 (709) (1,007) (182) (258)
Management of liquid resources (161) (254) (39) (55) (12) (17)
Financing (1,184) (1,871) 929 1,319 196 278
Increase in cash in year 151 239 181 257 2 3
(Decrease)/increase in net debt (1,887) (2,981) 923 1,311 444 630 Summary Group Balance Sheet
as at 31 March 2003
2003 2003 2002 2002
£m $m £m $m
Fixed assets 11,600 18,328 14,576 20,698
Current assets 2,355 3,721 1,739 2,469
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (1,994) (3,151) (3,179) (4,514)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 361 570 (1,440) (2,045)
Total assets less current liabilities 11,961 18,898 13,136 18,653
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year (4,777) (7,548) (5,362) (7,614)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (1,913) (3,022) (2,405) (3,415)
Deferred income (559) (883) (551) (782)
Net assets 4,712 7,445 4,818 6,842
Called up share capital 928 1,466 926 1,315
Share premium 2,264 3,577 2,254 3,201
Revaluation reserve 44 70 46 65
Capital redemption reserve 18 28 18 25
Merger reserve 406 642 406 577
Proﬁt and loss account 978 1,545 1,081 1,535
Equity shareholders’ funds 4,638 7,328 4,731 6,718
Minority interests (including non-equity) 74 117 87 124
Capital employed 4,712 7,445 4,818 6,842
Net asset value per ordinary share/per ADS 249.2p $15.75 254.8p $14.47
Summary Information under US GAAP
2003 2003 2002 2002 2001 2001
£ $ £ $ £ $
Net earnings/(loss) per ordinary share (UK pounds/US dollars) 0.43 0.68 (0.48) (0.68) 0.21 0.30
Net earnings/(loss) per ADS (UK pounds/US dollars) 1.71 2.70 (1.93) (2.74) 0.85 1.21
Shareholders’ equity (UK pounds millions/US dollars millions) 5,480 8,658 5,850 8,307 7,463 10,597
Increase in cash and cash equivalents (UK pounds millions/US dollars millions) 301 476 151 214 25 36
As permitted under UK GAAP, earnings/(loss) per share have been presented including and excluding the impact of exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation to provide an additional measure of underlying performance. In accordance with US GAAP, earnings/(loss) per share
have been presented above based on US GAAP earnings, without adjustments for the impact of UK GAAP exceptional items and goodwill
amortisation. Such additional measures of underlying performance are not permitted under US GAAP. 
Approved by the Board on 7 May 2003 and signed on its behalf by
Charles Miller Smith David Nish
Chairman Finance Director
The summary ﬁnancial statements on pages 22 to 24 are only a summary of information in the company’s Annual Report and Accounts.
They do not contain sufﬁcient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the group and state of affairs of the company or
of the group.
The auditors’ report on the full Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003 was unqualiﬁed and did not include a
statement under sections 237(2) (inadequate accounting records or returns or accounts not agreeing with records and returns) or 237(3)
(failure to obtain necessary informations and explanations) of the Companies Act 1985.
For further information, the full Annual Accounts and the Independent Auditors’ Report on those Accounts should be consulted. Copies of the
full Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, free of charge, on request from the Company Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
Amounts for the ﬁnancial years ended 31 March 2003, 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2001 have been translated, solely for the convenience
of the reader, at the closing exchange rates on 31 March of $1.58 to £1.00, $1.42 to £1.00 and $1.42 to £1.00 respectively. Dividends per
American Depositary Share (“ADS”) are shown based on the actual amounts in US dollars. One ADS represents four ordinary shares. ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 24/25
Summary Report of the Directors
Activities and review
The principal activities of the
ScottishPower group cover electricity
generation, transmission, distribution and
supply services both in the UK and US. In
Great Britain, ScottishPower also stores
and supplies gas whilst the company’s
US activities extend to coal mining and
gas storage.
Results and dividends
The proﬁt of the group for the year
amounted to £483 million, details of
which are set out in the Summary Group
Proﬁt and Loss Account. A ﬁnal dividend
of 7.177 pence per share will be paid on
16 June 2003 to those shareholders
whose names appear in the register of
members on 16 May 2003. Together with
three quarterly dividends each of 7.177
pence per share paid on 16 September
2002, 16 December 2002 and 14 March
2003, this makes total dividends for the
year of 28.708 pence per share. These
dividends amount in aggregate to £530
million. The retained loss for the year of
£47 million has been transferred to
reserves.
Corporate governance statement
The company is committed to the
highest standards of corporate
governance. This report describes the
extent to which, in respect of the ﬁnancial
year ended 31 March 2003, the
company has been in compliance with
the principles of good governance set out
in Section 1 of the Combined Code (as
appended to the Listing Rules of the UK
Listing Authority) in the UK and with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and associated
rules (to the extent they apply to the
company) in the US.
Board of directors
There is a well-established division of
authority and responsibility at the most
senior level within the company through
the separation of the roles of Chairman
and Chief Executive. In addition to the
Chairman, there are currently three
executive and seven non-executive
directors on the Board. All the non-
executive directors are considered by the
Board to be independent and Sir Peter
Gregson is the senior independent
director. 
Board meetings are held on a regular
basis, twelve times a year, and otherwise
as required. The Board has a schedule of
matters concerning key aspects of the
company’s activities which are reserved to
it for decision. The Board exercises full
control over strategy, investment and
capital expenditure. In addition, individual
executive directors have speciﬁc
responsibilities for matters such as health,
safety, environment and regulation.
Board committees
The Board has three principal standing
committees: namely, the Nomination,
Remuneration and Audit Committees. In
addition, authority (as described below)
is delegated to the Executive Team.
Details are as follows:
Nomination Committee 
The Nomination Committee is chaired by
the Chairman of the Board with, as
members of the Committee, the Chief
Executive and three independent non-
executive directors. It has a remit to
consider and make recommendations to
the Board on all new appointments of
directors, having regard to the overall
balance and composition of the Board; to
consider and approve the remit and
responsibilities of the executive directors;
and to review and advise upon issues of
succession planning and organisational
development.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired
by Sir Peter Gregson and all members of
the Committee are independent non-
executive directors. It has a remit to
consider and make recommendations on
Board remuneration policy and, on behalf
of the Board, to determine speciﬁc
remuneration packages for each of the
executive directors. In discharging its
remit, the Committee has regard to the
provisions of the Combined Code and has
as an objective the aim of providing
packages to attract, retain and motivate
executive directors of the quality required;
to judge the company’s position in
matters of remuneration policy and
practice relative to other companies; and
to take into account wider issues of pay-
setting. It also has responsibility for the
company’s bonus and incentive schemes.
The Remuneration Report of the Directors
for 2002/03 is set out in the Annual
Report & Accounts.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Ewen
Macpherson and all members of the
Committee are independent non-
executive directors. Nick Rose has been
identiﬁed as the Committee’s “ﬁnancial
expert” and, following Ewen
Macpherson’s retirement, will become
Chairman of the Committee. 
It has a remit to review the effectiveness
of the company’s system of internal
controls, its ﬁnancial statements, the
activities and effectiveness of the internal
audit function, the relationship with the
external auditors, compliance with legal
and regulatory requirements and
litigation and claims affecting the group.
Executive Team 
The Executive Team comprises the Chief
Executive and other executive directors,
together with the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer,
PaciﬁCorp; Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, PPM;
Group Director, Infrastructure; Group
Director, Commercial and Legal; Group
Director, Corporate Communications;
Group Director, Human Resources;
Group Director, Strategy and the Group
Company Secretary. Operational control
and implementation of group strategy
and policy are responsibilities delegated
by the Board to the Chief Executive, who
is supported by the Executive Team (and
by divisional and business boards) in the
discharge of these functions. Major issues
and decisions are reported to the Board.
Internal control
The directors of ScottishPower have
overall responsibility for the system of
internal controls and for reviewing the
effectiveness of the system. The system
of internal control is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives. In pursuing
these objectives, internal control can only
provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement
or loss.
The Executive Team is responsible for
implementing the risk management
strategy; ensuring that an appropriate
risk management framework is operating
effectively across the company;
embedding a risk culture throughout the
group; and providing the Board and the
Audit Committee with a consolidated
view of the risk proﬁle of the company
identifying any major risk exposures and
mitigating actions.
The risk management framework and
internal control system across the group,
which is subject to continuous
development, provides the basis on
which the company has complied with
the Combined Code provisions on
internal control.
Social, environmental and ethical risks
and opportunities
Information regarding the social,
environmental and ethical policies and
practices of the company can be found in
the Annual Report & Accounts and in the
separate Environmental and Social
Impact Report.  Summary Report of the Directors continued
Political donations and expenditure
ScottishPower is a politically neutral
organisation, but is required to comply
with the Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000. This legislation
deﬁnes political “donations” and
“expenditure” in wider terms than would
be commonly understood by these
phrases. The deﬁnitions include
expenditure which the Board believes it is
in the interests of the company to incur.
The Act also requires companies to
obtain prior shareholder approval of this
expenditure; at the Annual General
Meeting in 2002, the company obtained
authorisation up to a maximum amount
of £100,000.
During the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March
2003, the company paid a total of £9,500
for activities which may be regarded as
falling within the terms of the Act. These
activities comprised the sponsorship of
brieﬁngs, receptions and fringe meetings
at party conferences. These occasions
present an important opportunity for the
company to represent its views on a non-
partisan basis to politicians from across
the political spectrum. The payments do
not indicate support, and are not
intended to inﬂuence support, for any
particular political party.
Remuneration of directors
The ScottishPower Board is responsible
for determining the remuneration policy
for the ScottishPower group. The
Remuneration Committee, with delegated
authority from the Board, determines the
detail of remuneration arrangements for
the Executive Team, including the
executive directors, and reviews
proposals in respect of other senior
executives. The relationship between the
Board and the Committee is based on
formal Terms of Reference, which are
regularly reviewed to ensure that they
reﬂect best practice.
The Remuneration Committee consists
solely of independent non-executive
directors. Its members are Sir Peter
Gregson (Chairman), Euan Baird, Mair
Barnes, Nolan Karras and Ewen
Macpherson. These members have no
personal ﬁnancial interest, other than as
shareholders, in the matters considered
by the Committee. Details of the
payments made to all non-executive
directors are set out on page 28. 
Statement of remuneration policy
Philosophy and policy
ScottishPower seeks to ensure that
remuneration and incentive schemes are
in line with best practice, provide a strong
link to individual and company
performance and promote a community
of interest between employees and
shareholders. 
Rewards for executives and directors are
designed to attract and retain individuals
of high quality, who have the requisite
skills and are incentivised to achieve
levels of performance which exceed that
of competitor companies. As such,
remuneration packages must be market-
competitive and capable of rewarding
exceptional performance. All senior
management remuneration packages are
set according to a mid-market position,
with packages above the mid-market
level provided only where supported by
demonstrably superior personal
performance. Remuneration packages
will be developed to reﬂect the prevailing
market practice in each business
environment.
Annual bonus arrangements have been
structured so that stretching targets are
based on corporate, business unit and
individual performance.
The company operates a Personal
Shareholding Policy, requiring executives
and senior managers to build-up and
retain a shareholding in the company in
proportion to their annual salaries. These
proportions are three times base salary
for the Chief Executive and two times
base salary for other executive directors.
The Committee considers this policy to
be in line with evolving best practice and
in the interests of shareholders.
In setting remuneration levels, the
Committee commissions an independent
evaluation of the roles of the Executive
Team, and also of the next levels of
management within the company. The
Committee takes independent advice
from Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
on market-level remuneration, based on
comparisons with utility and other
companies of similar size and complexity
with which the company competes for
executive talent. 
The Committee recognises the
importance of linking rewards to
business and personal performance and
believes that the arrangements detailed
below provide an appropriate focus on
performance and balance between short-
and long-term incentives. At target level,
base salary is expected to deliver around
45% of total reward excluding beneﬁts
and pension. The annual bonus plan and
long-term incentive arrangements are
expected to provide 55% of total reward
for the achievement of stretching target
level business and personal performance
objectives. Higher proportions of
performance based reward are available
for the delivery of exceptional personal
and business performance resulting in
enhanced shareholder value. 
The Committee constantly monitors
market practice in order to remain
competitive and to reﬂect good corporate
governance practice. At this time, no
substantial changes to the company’s
policies with regard to directors’
remuneration are envisaged over the next
year. However, the Committee may
develop policy and, should it determine
any changes to be appropriate, will report
such changes to shareholders through
established channels of consultation and
reporting. For example, the Committee
and the Board will consider carefully the
recommendations of the Higgs Report
and may amend policy accordingly. 
Executive share plans
The company operates a performance
share plan, known as the Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP), and an Executive
Share Option Plan 2001 (ExSOP) for
executive directors and other senior
managers. 
Under the LTIP awards to acquire shares
in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost
are made to the participants up to a
maximum value equal to 75% of base
salary. The award will vest only if the
Committee is satisﬁed that there has
been an underlying improvement in the
performance of the company and, to this
end, certain gateway performance targets
are measured and the Committee reviews
performance against these measures
when determining if awards vest. The
measures relate to the key ﬁnancial
performance indicators of the company
and customer service standards, including
those published by Ofgem, Energywatch
and the US Public Utility Commissions.
These measures provide a mechanism to
safeguard stakeholder interests and
provide an overview of the ﬁnancial and
operational success of the business.
The number of shares which actually vest
is dependent upon the company’s
comparative Total Shareholder Return
(TSR) performance, over a three-year
performance period. TSR measures
ScottishPower’s comparative
performance against key competitors
and only provides rewards if
ScottishPower exceeds the median
performance of appropriate comparators. ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 26/27
The Committee chose TSR as the
performance measure for the LTIP as it
believes that it provides a clear link to
the creation of shareholder value.
LTIP awards were granted to 48 directors
and senior executives during the year
(Award 7). TSR performance is measured
against an international comparator
group of 39 major energy companies.
No shares vest unless the company’s
TSR performance is at least equal to the
median performance of the comparator
group, at which point 40% of the initial
award vests. 100% of the shares vest if
the company’s performance is equal to
or exceeds the top quartile. The number
of shares that vest for performance
between these two points is determined
on a straight-line basis.
For LTIP awards which had the potential
to vest during the year, performance
was measured against that of the FTSE
100 index and an index of the Electricity
and Water sectors of the FTSE All Share
Index. As the performance criteria were
not achieved, Award 4 of the LTIP (May
1999 – May 2002) lapsed with no
vesting of shares.
The Committee has approved the
operation of the LTIP for 2003/04 and 
no signiﬁcant changes have been
implemented.
Options were granted at market value to
285 directors and other executives
across the company during the year.
Options granted to UK executives under
the ExSOP are subject to the
performance criterion that the average
annual percentage increase in the
company’s earnings per share* (EPS)
be at least 3% (adjusted for any
increase in the Retail Price Index). The
Committee believes that EPS* is an
appropriate measure for the purposes
of testing the ExSOP because it is
based on the underlying ﬁnancial
performance of the company. This
criterion is assessed at the end of the
third ﬁnancial year, the ﬁrst year being
the ﬁnancial year starting immediately
before the date of grant. If not satisﬁed
on the third anniversary, the criterion
may be retested, from the same base,
on the fourth and ﬁfth anniversaries of
grant. Unvested options lapse at the
ﬁfth anniversary.
The Committee has approved the
operation of the ExSOP for 2003/04
and no changes have been
implemented.
Performance graph
The new Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations require that a graph
be presented showing the company’s
TSR performance against the TSR
performance of a broad equity market
index over a ﬁve-year period. The FTSE
100 has been chosen because it is the
principal index in which the company’s
shares are quoted. The graph below
presents the comparative TSR
performance of the company during
the period 1 April 1998 – 31 March
2003. The graph shows that
ScottishPower has outperformed the
index over this period.
This graph looks at the value, by 31 March
2003, of £100 invested in ScottishPower on
31 March 1998 compared with that of £100
invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other
points plotted are the values at intervening
ﬁnancial year-ends.
Service contracts
ScottishPower has reviewed its policy on
service contracts and, in accordance with
the best practice recommendation of the
Combined Code, has resolved that new
appointees to the Board be offered
rolling contracts with notice periods of
one year. The Committee recognises
however that exceptional circumstances
may arise and that it may be necessary,
in the case of appointments from outside
the company, to offer a longer initial
notice period. In such cases the intent
would be to subsequently reduce this
period to one year following an agreed
initial period. 
The Committee’s policy on early
termination is to emphasise the duty to
mitigate to the fullest extent practicable.
Senior managers within the company
have notice periods ranging from six
months to one year.
Executive directors, Charles Berry and
David Nish, were appointed to the Board
on or after 1 April 1999; these
appointments have rolling service
contracts terminable on one year’s
notice from both parties. Charles Berry
has a service contract dated 30 July
1999 (and subsequently varied) and
David Nish has a service contract dated
13 December 1999 (and subsequently
varied). Both contracts include a clause
enabling the company, at its sole
discretion, to make a payment in lieu of
notice equal to the value of the salary
and contractual beneﬁts the executive
director would have received during the
notice period.
The Chief Executive, Ian Russell, has a
service contract dated 30 July 1999
terminable by the executive on one
year’s notice and by the company on
two years’ notice. The Chief Executive
has chosen to reduce the notice period
from the company to one year. Whilst
the contract includes a clause enabling
the company, at its sole discretion, to
make a payment in lieu of notice equal
to the value of the salary and
contractual beneﬁts the Chief Executive
would have received during the notice
period. The company would, however
pursue mitigation to minimise, as far as
possible, costs to the company on
termination.
Charles Miller Smith is a non-executive
director and he does not have a service
contract with the company. 
Remuneration policy for non-executive
directors
The remuneration of non-executive
directors is determined by the Board
and, during the year consisted of a base
fee of £24,000 p.a., a committee
membership fee of £3,500 p.a., a fee of
£7,500 p.a. for chairing the Audit
Committee and the Remuneration
Committee, and an international travel
fee of £1,000 for attending a tranche of
meetings that involve a Transatlantic
journey. In line with best practice, the
independent non-executive directors do
not have service contracts, are not
members of the company’s pension
schemes and do not participate in any
bonus, share option or other proﬁt or
long term incentive plan. Details of the
remuneration of the non-executive
directors are set out on page 28.
Total shareholder return
Source: Datastream
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
98 99 00 01 02 03
Scottish Power plc FTSE 100 Index
*excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Summary Report of the Directors continued
Directors’ interests in shares as at 31 March 2003
Ordinary shares Share options (Executive) Share options (Sharesave) Long Term Incentive Plan
1.4.02
(or date of
appointment 31.3.03 1.4.02
31.3.03 if later) 31.3.03 1.4.02 31.3.03 1.4.02 **Vested *Potential **Vested *Potential
Charles Miller Smith 11,000 11,000 ––––––––
Ian Russell •87,741 •86,817 498,678 227,743 4,371 4,371 12,682 238,675 12,682 175,063
Charles Berry •22,553 •18,958 255,443 107,660 2,941 903 – 124,328 4,433 87,904
David Nish •12,742 •7,294 296,636 124,223 2,509 2,509 – 137,954 4,191 85,030
Euan Baird 110,770 100,000 ––––––––
Mair Barnes 1,400 1,400 ––––––––
Philip Carroll 4,000 –––––––––
Sir Peter Gregson 1,186 1,093 ––––––––
Nolan Karras 36,346 31,286 ––––––––
Ewen Macpherson 5,000 5,000 ––––––––
Nick Rose (appointed 19 February 2003) ––––––––––
None of the directors has an interest in ordinary shares which is greater than 1% of the issued share capital of the company.
* These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance
criteria as approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
** These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the Long Term Incentive Plan award is exercisable after the fourth
anniversary of grant calculated according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
• These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free Partnership Matching Dividend
shares shares shares shares Total
Ian Russell 50 799 799 135 1,738
Charles Berry 50 799 799 135 1,738
David Nish 50 799 799 135 1,738
Between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003, Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish each acquired 32 Partnership Shares and 32 Matching Shares 
as part of the regular monthly transactions of the Employee Share Ownership Plan; and Nolan Karras acquired 20 ScottishPower ADSs 
(80 Ordinary shares) as part of the PaciﬁCorp Compensation Reduction Plan. Otherwise, there have been no changes in the directors’ interests 
between 31 March 2003 and 7 May 2003.
Footnote
Awards granted to directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 129,568; Charles Berry 62,790; and 
David Nish 82,724.
Options granted to directors under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 on 10 May 2003 were as follows: Ian Russell 345,514; Charles Berry 167,441; 
and David Nish 220,598.
Summary of total emoluments 2002/03 – 
Chairman and executive directors
Basic Total
salary £k emoluments £k
Charles Miller Smith (Non-Executive Chairman) 235.0 249.0
Ian Russell 550.0 995.3
Charles Berry 300.0 550.8
David Nish 350.0 643.7
Total 1,435.0 2,438.8
Summary of total emoluments 2002/03 – 
Non-executive directors (fees and expenses)
Fees Total fees &
£k expenses £k
Euan Baird 29.5 29.8
Mair Barnes 33.0 33.6
Philip Carroll 31.5 36.5
Sir Peter Gregson 44.0 45.2
Nolan Karras 35.9 50.7
Allan Leighton (resigned 12 June 2002) 5.5 5.5
Ewen Macpherson 40.5 40.5
Nick Rose (appointed 19 February 2003) 3.7 3.7
Total 223.6 245.5
The total emoluments of the directors during the year were £2.68 million (2002 £2.40 million). 
During the year, retirement beneﬁts were accrued under the deﬁned beneﬁts pension scheme in respect of three directors (2002 five directors).
During the year, the performance period for the awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in 1999 ended and, on the basis of the company’s
total shareholder return, none of the awards vested.
Total gains made on exercise of directors’ share options and awards during the year were £33,580 (2002 £295,205). Shareholder Information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the
Glasgow Royal Concert Hall, Sauchiehall Street,
Glasgow on Friday 25 July 2003 at 11.00 am.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting are contained in the
Notice of Meeting.
Quarterly results
Copies of the quarterly results may be
obtained, free of charge, on request from the
Company Secretary at the company’s
registered ofﬁce. Quarterly results will also be
published on the company’s website:
www.scottishpower.com
Half-year results
The company, as permitted by the London
Stock Exchange, publishes its half-year results
in one UK national newspaper. In 2003, it is
expected that the half-year results will be
published in The Telegraph and on the
company’s website. Copies of the half-year
results may be obtained, free of charge, on
request from the Company Secretary at the
company’s registered ofﬁce.
Environmental and Social Impact Report
Copies of the Environmental and Social
Impact Report may be obtained, free of
charge, on request from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
This Report, together with fuller information
about environmental, marketplace/community
and workplace issues, is also published on the
company’s website.
Press releases and up-to-date information on
the company can be found on the company’s
website. 
The Annual Review 2002/03 is also available
on CD, free of charge, from the Company
Secretary at the company’s registered ofﬁce.
Ordinary Shares
Share registration enquiries
The Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland
PO Box 28448
Edinburgh EH4 1WQ
Tel: +44 (0)870 600 3999
Fax: +44 (0)870 900 0030
Textphone: +44 (0)870 600 3950
Website: www.shareview.co.uk
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan provides
ordinary shareholders with the facility to invest
cash dividends by purchasing further
ScottishPower shares. For further details,
please contact Lloyds TSB on telephone
number 0870 241 3018.
Share consolidation and ISAs
Share consolidation is a facility which allows a
number of holdings, and especially family
holdings, to be consolidated into one holding.
This service is provided free of charge.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) are suitable
for UK resident private investors who wish to
shelter their ScottishPower shares from
Income and Capital Gains Tax. Details of the
ScottishPower ISA service are available from
Lloyds TSB at the following address.
Alternatively, please call the ISA helpline on 
0870 242 4244.
Lloyds TSB Registrars ISAs
The Causeway
Worthing BN99 6UY
Share dealing
ScottishPower ordinary shares may 
be bought or sold at competitive rates 
by post or telephone. For further 
details, please contact Stocktrade on 0845
601 0979, quoting LOW C0070.
American Depositary 
Shares (ADSs)
Exchange and stock transfer enquiries
JPMorgan Chase Bank
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 43013
Providence, RI 02940-3013
Tel: 1 (866) SCOTADR (Toll Free)
1 (866) 726 8237 (Toll Free)
+1 (781) 575 2678 (Outside US not T oll Free)
Fax: +1 (781) 575 4082
Website: www.adr.com/shareholder
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
Global Invest Direct
Global Invest Direct is the Direct Share Purchase
and Dividend Reinvestment Plan for ADS holders
which allows existing and ﬁrst time investors to
purchase ADSs without a broker. Global Invest
Direct encourages investors to make initial and
ongoing investments in the company by
providing investors with the convenience of
investing directly in ScottishPower’s ADSs, with
reduced brokerage commissions and service
costs. For further details, please contact
JPMorgan Chase Bank as detailed above.
Agent for US federal securities laws
The agent for ScottishPower for US federal
securities law purposes is:
Puglisi & Associates,
850 Library Avenue, Suite 204
PO Box 885
Newark
Delaware 19715
Cautionary statement for purposes of the “Safe
Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 
Some statements made in this Annual Review are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
“safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements with
respect to us, our corporate plans, future ﬁnancial
condition, future results of operations, future business
plans, strategies, objectives and beliefs and other
statements that are not historical facts are forward
looking. Statements containing the words “may”,
“will”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “estimate”,
“continue”, “plan”, “project”, “target”, “on track to”,
“strategy”, “aim”, “seek”, “will meet” or other similar
words are also forward looking. These statements are
based on our management’s assumptions and beliefs
in light of the information available to us. These
assumptions involve risks and uncertainties which
may cause the actual results, performance or
achievements to be materially different from any
future results, performance or achievements expressed
or implied by such forward-looking statements.
ScottishPower wishes to caution readers, and others to
whom forward-looking statements are addressed, that
any such forward-looking statements are not
guarantees of future performance and that actual
results may differ materially from estimates in the
forward-looking statements. ScottishPower undertakes
no obligation to revise these forward-looking
statements to reﬂect events or circumstances after the
date hereof.  Important factors that may cause results
to differ from expectations include, for example:
– any regulatory changes (including changes in
environmental regulations) that may increase the
operating costs of the group, may require the group
to make unforeseen capital expenditures or may
prevent the regulated business of the group from
achieving acceptable returns;
– future levels of industry generation and supply,
demand and pricing, political stability, competition
and economic growth in the relevant areas in which
the group has operations;
– the availability of acceptable fuel at favorable
prices;
– the availability of operational capacity of plants;
– the success of reorganizational and cost-saving
efforts; and
– development and use of technology, the actions of
competitors, natural disasters and other changes to
business conditions.
Range of No. of 
holdings shareholdings No. of shares
1-100 18,436 732,327
101-200 174,505 28,957,720
201-600 178,703 55,273,513
601-1,000 39,280 30,763,853
1,001-5,000 48,442 90,686,464
5,001-100,000 4,223 62,322,104
100,001 and above 781 1,587,196,821
Total 464,3701,855,932,802
ScottishPower annual review 2002/03 28/29 Designed by CGI BrandSense. Printed by Pillans & Waddies – a member of the ormolu group.
The paper used in this Review is Core Silk, produced in a chlorine-free process from 100% virgin pulp, EMAS approved.
Scottish Power plc
Registered ofﬁce
1 Atlantic Quay
Glasgow G2 8SP
Registered in Scotland No 193794
For press releases and up-to-date information visit our website:
www.scottishpower.com
Financial Calendar
16 June 2003 Dividend payment date – US and UK (ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003)
July 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 June 2003 – Q1
25 July 2003 Annual General Meeting
September 2003 Q1 Dividend payable
November 2003 Announcement of results for quarter ending 30 September 2003 – Q2
December 2003 Q2 Dividend payable
February 2004 Announcement of results for quarter ending 31 December 2003 – Q3
March 2004 Q3 Dividend payable
May 2004 Announcement of Preliminary Results for the year ending 31 March 2004
June 2004 Q4 Dividend payable (ﬁnal dividend for the year ending 31 March 2004)
List of UK ﬁnancial terms used in the Annual Review
UK ﬁnancial terms US equivalent or deﬁnition
Accounts Financial statements
Associates Equity investors
Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital
Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due Long-term liabilities
after more than one year
Financial year Fiscal year
Gearing Leverage
Net asset value Book value
Operating proﬁt Net operating income
Proﬁt Income
Proﬁt and loss account (statement) Income statement
Proﬁt and loss account (in the balance sheet) Retained earnings
Proﬁt/(loss) for the ﬁnancial year Net income/(loss)
Provisions Long-term liabilities other than debt and speciﬁc accounts payable
Reserves Shareholders’ equity other than paid-up capital
Share premium account Additional paid-in capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable)
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity
Turnover Revenues
