 Senior plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Senior plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Contents STRATEGIC REPORT
1 Chairman’s statement
2 Group at a glance
4 Market overview
5 Key growth drivers
6 Our business model
8 Portfolio
9 Customer alignment
10 Operational excellence
11 People
12 Strategic objectives
13 Risks and uncertainties
16 Key performance indicators
18 Group Chief Executive’s summary  
of the year 2013 performance
 20 Aerospace Division
 22 Flexonics Division
 24 Financial review
27 Executive Committee
GOVERNANCE
28 Board of Directors
30 Report of the Directors
32 Corporate governance report
35 Nominations Committee report
36 Audit Committee report
40 Remuneration report:
 40 Annual statement
 41 Policy report
 47 Annual report on remuneration
56 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
57 Independent auditor’s report  
to the members of Senior plc
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
60 Consolidated income statement
60 Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
61 Balance sheets
62 Statements of changes in equity
63 Cash flow statements
64 Notes to the financial statements
104 Five-year summary
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
105 Principal Group undertakings
106 Additional shareholder information
107 2014 Financial calendar
108 Officers and advisers
Finan Cial highlights £775.1m
Revenue
(2)
 +6%  
(2012 – £729.8m)
13.9%
Adjusted operating margin
(1)
 – unchanged 
(2012 – 13.9%)
£98.1m
Adjusted profit before tax
(1)
 +8% 
(2012 – £91.1m)
£83.8m
Profit before tax
(2)
 -3% 
(2012 – £86.7m)
19.00p
Adjusted earnings per share
(1)
 +7% 
(2012 – 17.75p)
17.22p
Basic earnings per share +1% 
(2012 – 17.11p)
5.12p
Dividends per share +10% 
(2012 – 4.65p)
26.7%
Return on capital employed -0.2ppts 
(2012 – 26.9%)
£63.8m
Free cash flow
(3)
 +11% 
(2012 – £57.6m)
£59.2m
Net debt
(3)
 £11.7m decrease 
(2012 – £70.9m)
(1)
  Before loss on disposal of fixed assets of £nil (2012 – £0.1m), acquisition costs of £0.4m (2012 – £0.6m), 
amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions of £4.2m (2012 – £4.3m), restructuring costs of 
£1.9m (2012 – £nil), goodwill impairment charge of £12.7m (2012 – £nil), reversal of contingent consideration 
payable of £3.8m (2012 – £nil), pension curtailment gain of £1.1m (2012 – £1.9m charge) and profit on disposal 
of discontinued operation of £nil (2012 – £2.5m).
(2)
  The comparative amounts for 2012 include the results from discontinued operations (Senior Hargreaves) 
up to date of disposal.
(3)
  See Notes 34(b) and 34(c) for derivation of free cash flow and of net debt, respectively. 
The Group’s principal exchange rates for the US dollar and the Euro, applied in the translation of revenue, profit  
and cash flow items at average rates were $1.57 (2012 – $1.59) and €1.18 (2012 – €1.23), respectively. The  
US dollar and Euro rates applied to the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 were $1.66 (2012 – $1.63) and  
€1.20 (2012 – €1.23), respectively.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
The Group has five core priorities to its corporate 
responsibility programme. These are the areas 
which management can best influence and 
generate value for the Group by creating 
business development opportunities, reducing 
operating costs and improving productivity.
1. Developing People – attracting and 
retaining the best employees
2. Community Engagement – investing in 
the communities where the Group operates
3. Operating with Integrity – always 
conducting Senior’s business responsibly 
and ethically
4. Environment – reducing the Group’s 
energy usage and environmental impact
5. Health and Safety – maintaining a safe 
and healthy workplace
 Within this Annual Report whenever 
this icon is seen, content refers to 
Corporate Responsibility.
To find out more visit www.seniorplc.com
Cautionary Statement
The Annual Report & Accounts 2013 contains certain forward-looking statements. Such statements are made 
by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the date of this Report and they should 
be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking statements.
OVERVIEW 2013 PERFORMANCE
Senior delivered another strong operating 
performance during 2013, with adjusted profit 
before tax increasing by 8% to £98.1m, largely 
as a result of organic revenue growth in large 
commercial aerospace and the inclusion of 
GAMFG Precision (“GA”), a precision-machining 
business acquired towards the end of 2012. 
Group cash generation also remained strong, 
with free cash flow of £63.8m being 11% 
ahead of the prior year. Accordingly, the Board 
is proposing a final dividend of 3.60 pence per 
share. This would bring total dividends, paid and 
proposed, for 2013 to 5.12 pence per share, an 
increase of 10% over 2012 and slightly ahead 
of the increase in adjusted earnings per share, 
reflecting the Group’s encouraging prospects 
and healthy dividend cover.
These best ever results, achieved against an 
often challenging economic backdrop, reflect 
Senior’s strong niche market positions, its 
focus on tough-to-make, highly engineered 
products and the continued emphasis on 
serving its customers by delivering excellent 
operational performance where on-time 
delivery, quality and value are all key measures. 
In this regard, one of the privileges of being the 
Chairman of Senior is being able to undertake 
visits to the individual operating companies, 
meeting the Group’s enthusiastic and 
dedicated employees and witnessing, 
first-hand, the ever improving standard of 
the factories and the embedded culture of 
continuous improvement across the Group.
ACQUISITIONS
As well as growing organically, Senior also 
seeks to increase shareholder value through 
the acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its 
existing portfolio and two UK-based businesses 
were acquired during 2013. Atlas Composites 
(“Atlas”), a developer of structural composite 
solutions for the Formula 1 and aerospace 
markets, was acquired for £2.4m in February 
and Thermal Engineering (“Thermal”) joined 
the Group at the end of November for £28.3m. 
Thermal specialises in manufacturing hot- and 
cold-formed components, complex fabricated 
assemblies and thermal insulation heat shields 
and systems for the aerospace market. Both 
businesses have made encouraging starts 
with Senior and I would like to extend a warm 
welcome to their employees.
SUSTAINABILITY
Employees, customers, suppliers and investors 
want to work with businesses that operate 
safely, ethically, fairly and in a way that 
minimises environmental impact. Accordingly, 
Senior places its values and corporate 
responsibility programmes at the heart of 
how it runs its businesses and it is, therefore, 
pleasing to report continued success at 
reducing employee injury rates, water usage 
and carbon emissions during 2013.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD
2013 saw a number of changes to the Board. 
In September, Derek Harding was appointed as 
Group Finance Director, succeeding Simon 
Nicholls who had left at the end of April after five 
years with the Group to take up a similar position 
at Cobham plc. Derek, a Chartered Accountant, 
joined Senior from Wolseley plc, where he 
had worked for 11 years in a broad range of 
head office and operating company financial 
roles and he brings extensive experience 
and a fresh perspective to the Group.
As part of Board succession planning, two of 
the Group’s non-executive Directors, David 
Best and Ian Much, who would have served for 
seven and eight years respectively by the end 
of 2013, indicated early in the year their desire 
to step down from the Board around the end 
of 2013. In order to ensure a smooth handover, 
two new non-executive Directors, Celia Baxter 
and Giles Kerr, were recruited and joined the 
Board at the beginning of September. Giles, 
who will take over as Chair of the Audit 
Committee in April 2014 when David Best 
steps down from the Board, is currently the 
Director of Finance at Oxford University and 
was previously Group Finance Director of 
Amersham plc. Celia, the Director of Group 
HR of Bunzl plc, became the Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee when Ian Much 
left the Group in December 2013. 
Senior has made significant progress in recent 
years and I would like to extend the Board’s 
thanks to Ian, David and Simon for their strong 
contribution during this time. 
EMPLOYEES
Senior’s strong results are a reflection of the 
quality of people across the Group and, on behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank all the Group’s 
employees for their significant contribution to 
Senior’s success over the past year.
OUTLOOK
The Group continues to operate in its five 
strategic market sectors: three in Aerospace 
(Fluid Conveyance Systems, Gas Turbine 
Engines and Structures) and two in Flexonics 
(Land Vehicle Emission Control and Industrial 
Process Control), with each strategic market 
sector offering healthy and deliverable growth 
opportunities. The Group’s strategy has proven 
to be successful over recent years and, whilst 
evolving as the Group gets larger and market 
conditions change, it continues to provide 
a solid foundation for the Group’s future 
growth aspirations.
The year has started satisfactorily and, with the 
large commercial aerospace market remaining 
strong and some early signs of an economic 
recovery taking place, progress is expected to 
be made across the Group’s operations during 
2014. However, volatile foreign exchange 
movements add more uncertainty to the 
reported Group outcome for the year. Looking 
further ahead, a healthy number of new 
aerospace programmes going into production, 
together with further economic recovery and 
expected market share gains in both the 
Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions, mean 
the outlook for Senior remains encouraging.
CHARLES BERRY
Chairman
Another ye Ar  
of progress.  
senior delivered 
A strong oper Ating 
perform Ance 
during 2013.
1 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT s enior is an international, market-leading, engineering solutions 
provider with 31 operations in 13 countries.
s enior designs, manufactures and markets high-technology components and systems for the principal 
original equipment producers in the worldwide aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets. 
t he group is split into two divisions, Aerospace and f lexonics, servicing five key sectors.
AEROSPACE FLUID SYSTEMS
Bird Bellows, UK
Bosman, Netherlands
BWT (incl Atlas Composites), UK
Calorstat, France
Composites, USA
Ermeto, France
Metal Bellows, USA
SSP , USA
Thermal Engineering, UK
AEROSPACE STRUCTURES
Absolute Manufacturing, USA
AMT, USA
Capo Industries, USA
Connecticut, USA
Damar, USA
Jet Products, USA
Ketema, USA
Mexico
Weston, UK
Thailand
f luid convey Ance 
systems 
•	 High-pressure and low-pressure 
engineered ducting systems  
(metal and composite)
•	 Engineered control bellows,  
sensors and assemblies
gA s turbine 
engines 
•	 Precision-machined and fabricated engine 
components (rotating and structural)
•	 Fluid systems ducting and control 
products
structures
•	 Precision-machined airframe and  
system components and assemblies
Wh At W e do
s erving both the commercial aerospace and defence markets with a range of  
products and systems for structures, fluid conveyance, and gas turbine engines.
perform Ance
65%
of Group revenue
+6%
(1)
Revenue £506.6m
+5%
(1)
Adjusted operating profit £76.5m
15.1%
Adjusted operating margin 
4,082
Employees worldwide
fluid systems structures
Aerosp Ace
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 2
GROUP AT A GLANCE  READ THE GROUP 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE‘S 
SUMMARY OF THE 
YEAR ON PAGE 18
READ THE FINANCIAL 
REVIEW ON PAGE 24
FLEXONICS
Bartlett, USA
Blois, France
Canada
Cape Town, South Africa
Joint venture, China
Crumlin, UK
GA, USA
Germany
New Delhi, India
Olomouc, Czech Republic
Pathway, USA
São Paulo, Brazil
•	 Exhaust gas recycling coolers
•	 Fuel mixing and distribution systems
•	 Flexible couplings
•	 Engineered expansion joints, dampers 
and diverters
•	 Flexible hose assemblies and control bellows
•	 Fuel cells and heat exchangers
lA nd vehicle 
emission control
industri Al process 
control
Wh At W e do
s erving markets with products for land vehicle emmision control  
and industrial process control applications.
The Group’s primary performance objective is to create 
long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value. It 
aims to achieve this objective through the development 
of a portfolio of collaborative high value-added 
engineering manufacturing companies within its five 
market sector framework that are capable of producing 
sustainable real growth in operating profit and cash flow, 
and that consistently exceed the Group’s cost of capital. 
(1)
 At constant exchange rates.
flexonics
perform Ance
35%
of Group revenue
+11%
(1)
Revenue £269.3m
+10%
(1)
Adjusted operating profit £40.4m
15.0%
Adjusted operating margin
2,532
Employees worldwide
3 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION t he group services diverse markets with a wide range 
of products for blue-chip customers. diversity is a key 
strategic advantage for s enior.
Aerosp Ace 65% flexonics 35%
customers
c ummins 16%
c aterpillar 8%
f ord 5%
psA 4%
renault 3%
s auer danfoss 3%
gm 3%
o ther l and v ehicle 14%
bloom energy 6%
Abengoa 2%
o ther industrial 34%
Woodward 2%
rolls- royce 17%
boeing 17%
s pirit 10%
utc 8%
Airbus 5%
bombardier 5%
s afran g roup 2%
gK n 2%
ge 2%
o ther Aerospace 23%
o ther n on-Aerospace 9%
geogr Aphy – s Ales by origin
north America 63%
r est of europe 22%
uK 2%
s outh Africa 6%
brazil 5%
india 2%
products
mAr Kets
l arge c ommercial 55%
m ilitary/d efence 21%
business Jets 9%
r egional Jets 4%
space 1%
n on-military h elicopters 1%
o ther n on-Aerospace 9%
c ooling and emission c ontrol 
c omponents
25%
f lexible m echanisms for v ehicle 
exhaust s ystems
14%
f uel d istribution pipework 14%
o ff h ighway h ydraulics 3%
power & energy 19%
petrochemical 8%
h eating, v entilation and s olar 5%
o ther industrial 10%
Aerospace 2%
engine s tructures and m ounting 
s ystems
30% 
Airframe & other s tructural parts 27%
m etallic d ucting s ystems 18%
c omposite d ucting s ystems 6%
h elicopter m achined parts 5%
f luid c ontrol s ystems 5%
o ther n on-Aerospace 9%
t ruck & o ff h ighway 35%
passenger v ehicles 21%
power & energy 19%
petrochemical 8%
h eating, v entilation and s olar 5%
o ther industrial 10%
Aerospace 2%
north America 67%
r est of europe 7%
uK 22%
t hailand 4%
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 4
MARKET OVERVIEW  s enior designs, manufactures and markets high-technology components and 
systems for the principal original equipment producers in the worldwide 
aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets. 
t he group has identified six key drivers that will support growth over the 
coming years.
GLOBAL GDP
Growth in global GDP will have a direct impact 
on a number of the Group’s market demand 
drivers. The most notable of these are global 
passenger air kilometres flown, which will drive 
higher demand for new commercial aircraft. 
In addition, increased consumer demand 
will result in increased sales of trucks and 
passenger vehicles as well as higher energy 
usage. Medium-term forecast trends in these 
areas are positive, supporting increases in 
Group revenue.
MARKET SHARE GAINS
Provision of market-leading engineering 
solutions and high-technology components 
in its chosen markets are key Group objectives. 
The Group places significant emphasis on 
operational excellence, driven by Lean 
techniques, as an essential component of 
delivering performance that is consistently 
ahead of its peers. In combination, achievement 
of these objectives is a key driver of market 
share gains, evidenced by increasing shipset 
content on a number of major commercial 
aircraft platforms achieved in recent years that 
will continue to support future growth. 
CONTENT ON NEW PROGRAMMES
Securing programme wins, in particular content 
on new aircraft or land vehicle programmes 
with significant growth prospects, is a key 
focus for Senior that drives sustainable 
long-term growth in revenue and profit. The 
Group has developed strong relationships with 
its key customers in order to be positioned 
to bid for new opportunities as they emerge. 
Examples in this area include the Boeing 787, 
B737 MAX, the Airbus A350, A320neo and 
both Bombardier’s and Gulfstream’s next 
families of business jets. The new engine 
versions of the leading narrow-bodied aircraft, 
the B737 (MAX) and A320neo are due 
to come into service in 2015 and 2017 
respectively. Senior has significantly higher 
content on these platforms than the current 
aircraft. Senior is developing new heat 
exchanger and other exhaust gas recycling 
solutions within its land vehicle businesses 
for the next generation of heavy-duty diesel 
engines, and is also pursuing potential growth 
opportunities for both heavy-duty diesel 
engine components and industrial products 
in a number of emerging markets.
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION 
Demand for the majority of the Group’s 
products is linked either directly or indirectly 
to the increasingly stringent global 
requirements for reduced carbon emissions. 
This arises either through environmental 
regulation, principally evident today in the 
form of reduction targets for emissions from 
industrial process plants and from land 
vehicles, or through the drive for cost savings 
via increased fuel efficiency in engines that 
power aircraft, trucks and passenger vehicles. 
These regulatory factors and cost-reduction 
motives are expected to increase in the coming 
years, which in turn should support increased 
demand for the Group’s existing products and 
its product development portfolio, such as fuel 
cell and heat exchanger technologies. 
LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT BUILD RATES
The Group has healthy shipset content on all 
key large commercial aircraft platforms, and the 
Boeing and Airbus order books have continued 
to grow in 2013, now standing at record levels 
and representing over eight years’ production 
at current build rates. The Group’s most 
significant existing platforms include Boeing’s 
B737, B777, and the Airbus A320 and A330. 
The expected higher build rates of these 
aircraft will shortly be complemented by the 
B787, where the Group has its largest shipset 
content ever, the Airbus A350 and Bombardier’s 
CSeries aircraft as production of these platforms 
increases in the coming years.
ACQUISITIONS
In line with its stated strategy, the Group 
continued to utilise available balance sheet 
capacity to enhance its overall portfolio via the 
acquisitions of Atlas Composites and Thermal 
Engineering in February and November 2013 
respectively. These acquisitions bring new 
capabilities such as structural composite 
and manufacturing hot- and cold-formed 
components, complex fabricated assemblies 
and thermal insulation heat shields and 
systems. Further details are given on page 8. 
With net debt at low levels, and the Group 
expecting to be highly cash generative, 
acquisitions are expected to remain a key 
growth driver in the future.
WORLD ANNUAL TRAFFIC – REVENUE PASSENGER KM
Forecast annual growth in global passenger air traffic is the key driver of demand for 
new commercial aircraft, and hence for many of Senior’s core aerospace products.
WORLD ENERGY OUTLOOK
Projected increases in global energy usage will drive higher revenue for Senior 
through increased sales of large industrial expansion joints and other emission-
related products (amounts are in quadrillion Btu).
 
non- oecd
 
oecd
Source: EIA Source: ICAO Airbus
154.4
171.5
281.7
375.3
460.0
535.1
200.5
234.5
242.3
254.6
269.2
284.6
1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040
Quadrillion Btu
World annual RPK (trillion)
0
1972 1977 1982 1987 1992 1997 2002 2007 2012 2017 2022 2027 2032
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Air trafﬁc has doubled
every 15 years  
Airbus GMF 2013 ICAO total trafﬁc
Air trafﬁc will double
in the next 15 years
2012–2022
5.1%
2022–2032
4.4%
2012–2032
4.7%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
5 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.SENIORPLC.COM
KEY GROWTH DRIVERS Working with our customers 
to provide innovative market-
leading solutions. 
Effective customer alignment means: 
•	 P u tt i n g 	 t h e 	 c u s t o m e r 	 fi r s t
•	 Ex c e e d i n g 	 e xp e c ta t i o n s
•	 I n c r e a s i n g 	 m a r k e t 	 s h a r e
•	 	 B e i n g 	 o n 	 t h e 	 r i g h t 	 p r o g r a m m e s	
and platforms
•	 C o n t i n u i n g 	 t o 	 e xp a n d 	 c a p a b i l i t i e s
•	 C r e a t i n g 	 s u s ta i n a b l e 	 l o n g - t e r m 	 g r o w t h
•	 O p t i m i s i n g 	 v a l u e 	 f o r 	 a l l 	 s ta k e h o l d e r s
developing our portfolio of 
autonomous, but collaborative, 
business units. 
The Senior portfolio provides: 
•	 	 3 1 	 o p e r a t i o n s 	 i n 	 1 3 	 c o u n t r i e s 	 c o v e r i n g	
5 market sectors
•	 A 	 c u l t u r e 	 o f 	 c o l l a b o r a t i v e 	 a u t o n o m y
•	 C o m p l e m e n ta r y 	 c a p a b i l i t i e s
•	 Th e 	 o p p o r t u n i ty 	 t o 	 s h a r e 	 b e s t 	 p r a c t i c e s
•	 L e v e r a g e 	 o f 	 c u s t o m e r 	 r e l a t i o n s h i p s
•	 An 	 i n t e g r a t e d 	 g l o b a l 	 f oo t p r i n t
•	 	 F i n a n c i a l 	 s t r e n gt h 	 s u p p o r t i n g 	 i n v e s t m e n t	
and innovation for customer benefit
customer 
Alignment
CONTINUE READING ABOUT OUR CUSTOMER 
ALIGNMENT ON PAGE 9
CONTINUE READING ABOUT OUR 
PORTFOLIO ON PAGE 8
 
portfolio
s enior’s primary strategic objective is to create long-term sustainable growth 
in shareholder value. t his is achieved through a culture of empowerment of 
autonomous, but collaborative, operations working within a well-defined 
control framework.
t he major elements of value creation for the group can be classified into four 
primary drivers as follows:
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 6
OUR BUSINESS MODEL – HOW WE CREATE VALUE r ecruiting and developing our  
people, to deliver sustainable growth. 
Our people make the difference.  
They operate in a culture of: 
•	 E m p o w e r m e n t 	 o f 	 l o c a l 	 m a n a g e m e n t
•	 “ T e l l 	 i t 	 a s 	 i t 	 i s ” 	 p h i l o s o p h y
•	 I n t e g r i ty 	 a n d 	 h i g h 	 e t h i c a l 	 s ta n d a r d s
•	 M a i n ta i n i n g 	 a 	 s a f e 	 a n d 	 h e a l t h y 	 w o r k p l a c e
•	 	 O n g o i n g 	 p e r s o n a l 	 d e v e l o p m e n t 	 t h r o u g h o u t	
the business
•	 	 I n v e s t i n g 	 i n 	 l o c a l 	 c o m m u n i t i e s
• 	 D e v e l o pi ng 	 s t r o ng 	 c u s t om e r 	 r e l a t i o n s h i p s
being passionate about operational 
excellence, driving continuous 
improvement.
Effective operational excellence results in: 
•	 Q u a l i ty 	 p r o d u c t s 	 d e l i v e r e d 	 o n 	 t i m e
•	 Th e 	 p r o v i s i o n 	 o f 	 c o s t - c o m p e t i t i v e 	 s o l u t i o n s
•	 E f fi c i e n t 	 l e v e l s 	 o f 	 w o r k i n g 	 c a p i ta l
•	 A 	 s a f e 	 w o r k i n g 	 e n v i r o n m e n t
•	 	 A 	 r e d u c t i o n 	 i n 	 e n v i r o n m e n ta l 	 i m p a c t
•	 G oo d 	 g o v e r n a n c e 	 a n d 	 r i s k 	 m a n a g e m e n t
•	 	 Sa t i s fi e d 	 c u s t o m e r s 	 p l a c i n g 	 m o r e 	 w o r k 	
with Senior
 
people
CONTINUE READING ABOUT OUR 
PEOPLE ON PAGE 11
oper Ation Al 
excellence
CONTINUE READING ABOUT  
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ON PAGE 10
 
7 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION developing a portfolio of autonomous but 
collaborative business units, within a well-defined 
control framework, whilst promoting best practice 
sharing and developing complementary capabilities 
is the foundation of senior’s business model.
EXPANDING CAPABILITIES
The Group’s strong level of free cash flow 
generation allows it to target a select 
number of complementary strategic 
acquisitions in growth markets to expand 
its capabilities, accelerate growth and 
enhance its asset portfolio.
PORTFOLIO ENHANCEMENT
Portfolio enhancement through focused 
acquisitions and disposal of non-core 
assets, with decisions in both cases being 
subject to strict financial criteria, the 
operations’ long-term outlook and the 
Group’s anticipated funding position.
The Group has a good track record of 
acquiring and successfully integrating new 
businesses, and also of rationalising and 
enhancing the overall asset portfolio 
through disposals, utilising a framework 
that has been developed as part of the 
strategic planning process. The key 
enabler of this programme is the 
significant balance sheet capacity that has 
been generated in recent years through 
strong free cash flow generation. 
DEVELOPING AN INTEGRATED  
GLOBAL FOOTPRINT
Senior continues to develop an integrated 
global commercial and operational 
footprint to enable it to supply key 
programmes to its OEM customers 
cost-effectively and to meet growing 
domestic demand in emerging markets.
NEW FACILITIES
In 2014, the Group is investing in 
expanding a number of existing facilities 
within its portfolio. For example at SSP 
an additional 59,000 sq ft building is under 
construction to support growth, principally 
for the A320neo. In Thailand we are 
expanding capacity threefold adding 
processing capability at a total cost 
of £6m over the next three years.
ATLAS CASE STUDY 
In February 2013, Senior acquired Atlas 
Composites (“Atlas“) a small UK-based 
developer and manufacturer of composite 
structural products. Atlas brings 
complementary capabilities into the 
Group and is managed through one 
of the Group’s existing UK operations, 
Senior Aerospace BWT.
THERMAL ENGINEERING CASE STUDY
In November 2013, Senior acquired Thermal 
Engineering Ltd (“Thermal“). Thermal is a 
leading aerospace components manufacturer, 
supplying aero engine and airframe OEMs 
and their Tier 1 suppliers globally.
Using high-technology processes, the 
business specialises in:
•	 hot- and cold-formed components in 
high temperature aerospace alloys;
•	 complex fabricated assemblies; and
•	 thermal insulation heat shields and 
systems
Thermal has 20 years of experience of 
the quality standards in the aerospace 
industry with certification to AS9100 
rev C and is accredited by NADCAP for 
its special processes.
CONTRIBUTING TO COMMUNITIES
The Group’s operations are encouraged  
to involve themselves in their local 
communities and to support local charities. 
These relationships are normally managed 
at a local level, where the employees 
typically select non-profit-making 
organisations and charitable interests 
active within their community. These are 
often long-standing relationships and 
involve employees volunteering their time, 
making financial donations and raising 
funds to help those in need of support 
within their local communities.
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 8
PORTFOLIO 0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
A350 A380 A330 A320 787 777 737
Dec-06
+3%
+3%
+11%
+8%
+26%
+7%
+3%
Dec-07
Dec-08
Dec-09
Dec-10
Dec-11
Dec-12
Dec-13
$k
SHIPSET VALUE
(1)
 PROGRESSION – LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT
% CAGR
(1)
 Average based on programme share and estimated engine variant.
OPTIMISING VALUE AND 
EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS
The Group seeks to deliver competitive 
products utilising its engineering expertise 
to optimise customer value and exceed 
their expectations whilst continuing to 
meet its performance objectives.
This is achieved through advanced process 
engineering and excellent operational 
execution, leading to market differentiation 
and continued growth in organic revenue, 
operating margins and cash flow delivery.
TARGETED INVESTMENT
Targeted investment in new product 
development, technologies and 
geographic regions, for markets having 
higher than average growth potential, 
to further enhance organic growth 
opportunities.
Many of the Group’s products are 
developed to help customers to achieve 
their objectives for improved operating 
costs, particularly fuel efficiency in aircraft 
platforms and land vehicle engine 
applications, and to meet increasingly 
stringent global emission regulations. 
The Group’s level of investment in these 
growth areas and on expanding its 
geographic footprint, which now includes 
Thailand and China, continues to increase.
Working with customers to provide market-leading 
solutions in the group’s chosen principal markets is  
the primary objective of customer alignment.
EDUCATING TOMORROW’S WORKFORCE 
Education and skills, particularly Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(“STEM”) are key to the future success 
of both Senior and its customers. Several 
Senior businesses focus their community 
activities on educational outreach programmes 
supporting local schools, technical colleges 
and universities. For instance, Senior 
Aerospace BWT works on STEM initiatives 
with several local schools. Two BWT 
employees are National STEM Ambassadors 
whose work includes supporting STEM 
Clubs in local schools, mentoring and 
supporting students with Career Academies, 
and helping students gain invaluable work 
experience through paid work placements. 
OPERATING ETHICALLY
Senior is committed to conducting its 
business with integrity, honesty and fairness 
and operating with the highest degree of 
ethical standards in everything it does. The 
cornerstone of management’s commitment 
to ethics is the Senior Code of Business 
Conduct that provides a clear framework 
for decision-making, highlighting the values 
and behaviours it expects its employees 
to demonstrate at all times. 
The Codes applies Group-wide including 
its agents and joint ventures and defines 
standards in areas such as: anti-bribery, 
corruption and fraud, managing conflicts 
of interest and engaging in fair competition.
t hrough A ligning  
With our customers 
We Are A ble to 
incre Ase our shipset 
vAlue on m AJor 
pl Atforms, for 
ex Ample o n l Arge 
commerci Al A ircr Aft. 
9 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
CUSTOMER ALIGNMENT  LOOKING AFTER THE ENVIRONMENT
Reducing the Group’s environmental impact 
helps to reduce cost and to improve 
efficiencies and makes us more agile.
The Group’s main impacts on the 
environment are: energy consumption 
(and associated CO2 emissions), waste 
generation and recycling, and water 
consumption. 
The Group’s objective is to improve energy 
efficiency by 10% between 2011 and 2015 
and it remains on track to fulfil this goal. 
All of the Group’s operations develop 
energy conservation projects, tailored to 
their main energy consumption, and regularly 
monitor performance through energy usage. 
Senior’s Lean programme also continues 
to help to reduce energy demand by 
improving the efficiency of how the 
Group manufactures and streamlines 
the process to eliminate waste.
WASTE
In 2013, the total amount of waste generated 
by the Group was 12,124 tonnes, a 3% 
decrease on the 2012 levels (12,476 tonnes). 
Over three-quarters of Senior’s waste 
material is recycled and the Group continues 
to “design-out” the waste or find alternative 
ways to reuse the material. 
SENIOR’S EGR COOLERS REDUCE NOX 
EMISSIONS BY 80%
Many of the Group’s products play a vital 
role in improving the environment, such 
as the Exhaust Gas Recirculation (“EGR”) 
coolers that are designed and manufactured 
at Senior Flexonics Bartlett. EGR coolers are 
installed on diesel engines and significantly 
reduce pollutants by cooling and recirculating 
a proportion of the exhaust gas back into 
the engine. 
This results in lower NOx levels, a cause 
of air pollution and a significant contributor 
to global warming. With the use of natural 
gas set to rise, as a result of the shale gas 
discoveries, Senior Flexonics Bartlett is now 
working with customers to develop EGR 
coolers for natural gas engines and help 
ensure the “dash for gas” does not come at 
the expense of air pollution and increased 
greenhouse gas emissions.
WATER
Further improvements have been made 
in water conservation, resulting in a 5% 
reduction in water consumption. When 
normalised to sales, the Group’s water usage 
reduced to 0.36 megalitres per £m sales 
(2012 – 0.39).
ISO 14001
Across the Group, 90% of its manufacturing 
locations are certified to the ISO 14001 
environmental management standard and 
the remainder, all of which are businesses 
acquired in the last three years, are in the 
process of obtaining certification.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
The Group has achieved great progress 
in this area in recent years, driving value 
creation through the implementation of  
its operational excellence initiatives based 
around Lean principles and sustained 
superior performance in the eyes of its 
customers. This is the principal reason 
that, at 13.9% in 2013, the Group’s 
adjusted operating margin is at record 
levels, having more than doubled 
since 2006. 
Each operation is challenged to deliver 
operational improvements as part of the 
annual planning cycle, using Kaizen events 
and other Lean practices to reduce costs, 
improve product flow and velocity and 
optimise use of resources. Planned 
introduction of Kanban systems in 
Mexico will strengthen our position 
with a key customer there. 
Engineering teams at multiple locations 
are identifying technical improvements 
in CNC machine programs and cutter 
technologies to speed throughput 
benefiting capacity load and lead times. 
Value stream mapping activities are 
frequently undertaken to reduce set-up 
time, manufacturing lead times and 
inventory levels. A good example of this 
is at SSP, where the team is in the process 
of transforming the production process 
to a one-piece flow from the current batch 
and queue process for an estimated 
80% of the items produced.
GOOD GOVERNANCE
Governance procedures are designed 
to allow each operation to embrace 
and manage key operational excellence 
effectively, and to comply with all legal and 
regulatory requirements, without imposing 
an unnecessary administrative burden. 
They also aim to ensure that employees 
act at all times safely, with integrity and 
in an ethical manner.
CO2 TO TURNOVER  
(TONNES OF CO2 EMITTED PER £M REVENUE)
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13
85
92
94
97
99
104
110
114
Tonnes
senior’s long-standing emphasis on operational 
excellence is based on the principles of l ean, striving  
at all times for continuous improvement and the 
elimination of non-value-added activities and processes. 
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE 
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 10 developing the capabilities and competencies 
of senior’s employees to meet tomorrow’s 
customer requirements is critical to the future 
success of the group.
EMPOWERED LOCAL MANAGEMENT
The Group benefits from having 
empowered, entrepreneurial, local 
management. In recent years, the Group 
has increased its investment in 
management development and training 
significantly, seeking to enhance underlying 
performance and in particular strengthen 
business development and operational 
management whilst also maintaining the 
strength of Senior’s culture.
EXPANDING CAPABILITIES 
The Group’s employees are one of its 
most valuable assets, with the financial 
and operational progress made during 
2013, and earlier years, largely due to their 
hard work and dedication. In recognition, 
Senior has sought to improve employee 
development at all levels of the 
organisation, from increasing the 
frequency and range of shop-floor health 
and safety “tool-box talks” to expanding 
the Group Development Programme for 
its future leaders and investing in specialist 
strategic leadership courses for its most 
senior executives. Employee development, 
together with a renewed emphasis on 
the recruitment and succession planning 
processes, will remain an important focus  
for the Group in the future.
c ASe STUDY – Appren Tice SHip
Like many Senior businesses, Senior 
Aerospace Weston has a track record of 
training apprentices spanning back over 50 
years. In 2013 Weston apprentice Daniel 
Harland received the Regional Apprentice 
of the Year Award. Daniel is not alone and 
Weston currently has 25 apprentices 
completing advanced apprenticeship 
programmes to gain recognised 
qualifications. Weston also sponsors and 
supports apprentices in completing degree 
courses. The programme plays a key part 
in the succession planning process, with 
the majority of Weston’s engineering and 
manufacturing management teams being 
former apprentices.
PEOPLE 
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE
The quality of Senior’s people is a core 
competency of the Group and how it recruits, 
trains and motivates its staff is pivotal. Each 
of Senior’s businesses operates a training and 
development plan and the skills of employees 
are typically reviewed through a performance 
review and development process. 
For the last five years, Senior has operated a 
Leadership Development Programme aimed 
at developing mid- to senior-level managers 
so that they acquire the broader skills 
essential to operate at higher management 
levels. The training provides an intensive 
learning and development forum for current 
high-potential senior managers.
EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY 
As a global business, Senior employed some 
6,655 people at the end of 2013 (6,171 – 2012) 
in 13 countries; its management grades 
alone comprise over fifteen nationalities. 
Diversity is therefore an integral part of how 
Senior operates. To achieve this, the Group 
promotes a policy of equal opportunity in 
employment and believes that employment-
related decisions should always be based on 
relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities. The 
Group promotes this policy, without unlawful 
consideration of sex, race, nationality, age, 
disability, religion or any other category 
protected by law.
PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE
Safety standards strengthen our business by 
producing higher performing teams, lowering 
costs and creating more resilient operations.
The Board’s commitment to safety starts 
with the Group Chief Executive who chairs 
the HSE Committee, setting the Group’s 
objectives for safety. 
All operations are required to prepare an 
improvement plan for HSE to further progress 
their safety and environmental performance. 
The Group’s safety performance improved in 
2013. The overall number of injuries declined 
14% to 2.97 per 100 workers, (2012 – 3.47), 
primarily as a result of reduced lacerations 
and muscular strain injuries. Similarly, the 
number of lost time declined by 31% to 0.95 
per 100 workers (2012 – 1.36). 
The Group operates a zero-harm policy. To 
improve the consistency of our approach and 
resilience of the safety controls, in 2013 we 
finalised the introduction of a series of global 
standards for the common HSE hazards. 
Audits have been conducted against these 
standards and improvements are ongoing. 
These standards have complemented the 
process of organisational learning, including 
sharing the lessons of incidents and best 
practice and use of the Group online 
training forum. 
INJURY RATE 2007–2013  
(INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES)
DIVERSITY
 
t otal recordable injury rate
 l ost time injury time
 
f emale
 male
Per 100 employees
07 08 09 10 11 12 13
0.95
2.97
1.36
3.47
0.98
3.59
1.61
3.75
1.94
4.44
2.55
4.96
2.77
6.51
Number of employees %
13
87
14
86
19
81
A C B
A total g roup
B executive c ommittee
C plc b oard
 
11 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROGRESS
STRUCTURES
•	 Extend customer value proposition via increased collaboration
•	 Continue to focus on operational excellence to drive customer 
satisfaction and increase market share
•	 Develop capabilities and build a business of increased scale 
in Thailand
•	 Expand process capabilities to enhance added value for customers
•	 Invest in new technologies necessary for substantial growth
•	 New programme wins with Boeing and Spirit have resulted from leveraging 
existing relationships within the Group
•	 On-time delivery improvements have been achieved through continuous focus 
and improvement programmes
•	 New facility being built in Thailand for expansion of Structures operation in 
SE Asia including a specialist treatment capability
•	 Developing additional treatment capabilities where it makes sense, for example, 
currently evaluating magnesium hard coatings
•	 New Weston UK facility is driving operational excellence using new 
technologies such as Viper grinding
•	 A 3D printing working party has been established to monitor developments 
in this area
FLUID CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS
•	 Continue to develop products for new platforms
•	 Further develop strategic customer relationships
•	 Successful execution of new development programmes
•	 Expand engineered product portfolio
•	 Acquire new or adjacent technologies
•	 Development contracts for ducting components secured for the engines that 
will power the A320neo and B737 MAX, due to enter service in 2015 and 
2017, respectively
•	 Additional contracts won for ECU related ducts on the new Embraer E2-Jet
•	 Continued investment in engineering and programme management to ensure 
new programmes enter production profitably
•	 Acquisitions of Atlas in February 2013 and Thermal in November 2013 bring 
additional capabilities to Senior
•	 Work has commenced on expanding the facilities at SSP in order to satisfy 
increased customer demand
GAS TURBINE ENGINES
•	 Target higher value-added engineered or flight critical parts 
(e.g. rotating)
•	 Develop cross-business customer relationships
•	 Further develop low-cost country footprint
•	 Secure additional content on engines for next generation  
narrow-body and wide-body commercial aircraft
•	 Expand process capabilities via new technology investment
•	 First rotating parts in production as part of outsourcing contract from 
Rolls-Royce. GE 737 MAX centre frame is in development at Ketema
•	 Further investment in Thailand results in additional opportunities being 
developed with existing and new customers. The business has recently 
won content on Rolls-Royce’s XWB and Trent 1000 engines
•	 Engine rings and engine control bellows contracts secured in 2013
LAND VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL
•	 Develop product portfolio as emission regulation thresholds 
increase globally
•	 Build programmes with new truck and off-highway customers
•	 Invest further in emerging market footprint, in growth markets
•	 Investment in passenger car niches to support development of 
global platform capabilities
•	 Development of a new design heavy-duty cooler has resulted in orders for 
natural gas applications as well as mid-range and smaller engine applications
•	 China JV assisted with a win for orders of flexes which will be satisfied by 
our operations in Cape Town and Brazil
•	 The production of common rails has commenced within China and is 
expected to increase during H2 of 2014
•	 New programme wins mean the Group’s French land vehicle operation is 
expected to see improving financial performance in the future
INDUSTRIAL PROCESS CONTROL
•	 Expand global presence as emerging markets add local refining 
and processing facilities
•	 Secure growth from tightening emission standards in 
developed markets
•	 Seek proprietary adjacent products
•	 Participate in new technology developments and applications 
(e.g. combined heat and power fuel cells, concentrated solar power, 
micro turbines)
•	 Secure new major process projects as their capital funding 
becomes available
•	 Collaboration between Group operations in USA, Canada and Brazil is resulting 
in improved competitiveness and broadening of product offerings
•	 Increase in new work awarded as a result of tightening emission regulations 
leads to additional damper and fabric expansion joint contracts
•	 Increased sales of fuel cell components in USA in 2013, although new lower 
cost Senior design is expected to be introduced in 2014
•	 Anticipate large expansion joint contract for US Catofin project
t he application of the group’s four key elements of value creation has resulted in the 
development of the following strategic objectives in each of the group’s five key market 
sectors. t he group’s progress against these objectives is also included in the table below:
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 12
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT  
AND GROUP RISK PHILOSOPHY
The Board is ultimately responsible for 
managing risk, and for the implementation of 
effective risk management procedures and 
internal control systems. Across the Group, 
these are designed to align with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code’s guidance on 
Risk Management and Internal Control. The 
Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing 
the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control 
systems that were in operation during the year, 
and the fulfilment of this responsibility is 
described in the Audit Committee report 
on pages 36 to 39.
An integrated risk management framework 
continues to evolve within the Group, aimed 
at improving the efficiency and effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management procedures. 
This initiative is sponsored by the Board, 
aligned with industry best practice and is 
designed to take account of the Group’s 
internal culture. As a result of this initiative, 
examples of process areas previously identified 
for increased focus were strategic planning and 
objective setting, and the Group’s approach to 
internal audit, business continuity, IT policies, 
internal controls over financial reporting and 
risk reporting. Good progress has been made 
with the implementation of these process 
improvements, which are becoming 
embedded in the Group’s operations.
Senior’s risk philosophy, embodied in a Risk 
Philosophy Statement which has been rolled 
out across the Group, is based around an 
acknowledgement that profits are in part the 
reward for risk taking, and therefore risk should 
be embraced and managed effectively within 
each business unit. The Group aims to take 
a relatively conservative approach to risk 
management, targeting a developmental 
approach that is evolutionary rather than 
revolutionary. Pursuit of opportunities is 
encouraged, within an effective risk 
management framework, as an essential 
component of a high-performance culture. 
It is acknowledged that strong risk 
management procedures are likely to enhance 
senior leadership decision-making capabilities, 
strengthen accountability and enhance 
stewardship of the Group’s assets. In turn this 
can be expected to result in management 
teams being able to embrace increased levels 
of risk and pursue more opportunities, which 
should also allow the Group to increase its rate 
of performance delivery without exceeding its 
risk appetite.
The Group aims to embed its risk management 
procedures within its existing business 
processes and corporate governance structure, 
rather than impose an inefficient administrative 
burden on its operations. At a minimum, the 
Group aims to ensure that any individually 
significant event that:
i)  has or may result in the potential to 
compromise its ability to achieve its 
objectives; or
ii)  could lead to a material breach of policies 
and procedures; or
iii)  could impact the delivery of earnings 
materially at a local operational level
is identified, reported on and dealt with through 
the Group’s risk management procedures.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK  
REPORTING PROCEDURES
The Group has a well-established annual 
process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing its significant risks. This process 
starts in April each year with a risk review  
and assessment conducted at each of the 
Group’s operations, facilitated by local senior 
management. A Principal Risk list is generated 
from each review, with individual risks assigned 
to the categories of Strategic, Operational, 
Compliance or Financial Reporting in nature. 
Local management is required to record details 
of controls that are in place to mitigate each 
risk, make an assessment of the residual 
likelihood and impact of each risk having a 
material impact on the operation’s ability 
to achieve its objectives, and to record any 
improvement measures that are targeted 
to strengthen the operation’s internal control 
environment around each risk. The results 
of these reviews are consolidated at divisional 
level with an accompanying divisional overlay, 
and divisional Principal Risk lists are then 
submitted for review and discussion 
by the Executive Committee.
Following review by the Executive Committee, 
a risk questionnaire is compiled and circulated 
to each Board member, who is required 
to make an individual assessment of the 
potential significance of each risk. Completed 
questionnaires are subsequently reviewed and 
discussed at the Group’s June Board meeting 
each year, following which a Group Principal 
Risk list is compiled and presented for review 
and discussion by the Board at the July Board 
meeting. The final step in the process is an 
update of all Principal Risk lists, which is 
performed late in each calendar year by 
each operation as part of the annual budget-
setting process and ultimately presented to 
the Board at its January meeting. In between 
formal updates, the Board monitors progress 
in the management of individual risks via 
regular executive and divisional reporting 
procedures and review and discussion of 
these reports at Board meetings.
PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS
Overall, the Group’s risk profile was largely 
unchanged in 2013 when compared to 2012. 
The principal potential risks and uncertainties 
which could have a material impact on the 
Group’s future performance and ability to 
deliver on its stated strategic objectives, 
together with actions that are being taken 
to mitigate each risk, are set out on pages 
14 and 15.
13 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK
PRICE-DOWN PRESSURES
Customer pricing pressure is expected 
to increase, driven by the expectations of 
airlines and Governments of purchasing more 
competitively priced aircraft in the future.  
This can be expected to put pressure on 
the Group’s future operating margins.
•	The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products 
at a lower cost thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
•	The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer 
pricing challenges. 
•	Where appropriate, the Group is able to pass work to some of its lower cost facilities such 
as Thailand and Mexico, with a view to help satisfy customer challenges.
IMPORTANCE OF EMERGING MARKETS
Customers’ desire to move manufacture of 
components to lower cost countries could 
render the Group’s operations uncompetitive 
and have an adverse impact on profitability.  
In addition, certain customers require global 
programme support as they respond to 
increasing domestic demand in a number  
of these emerging markets.
•	The Group’s strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering manufacturing 
companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from products where the 
direct threat of lower cost country manufacture is significant.
•	The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering expertise close 
to customers’ locations, principally in North America and Europe. This enables effective support to 
be readily given to its customers, whilst increasing manufacturing at above-average growth rates 
in lower cost country locations where it makes sense to do so and with customer agreement.
•	The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, 
Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India and China. Each of these operations, individually and 
in combination, has a healthy number of viable opportunities for further expansion either to 
supply domestic markets or to support customers’ increasingly global needs.
ACQUISITIONS
Failure to execute an effective acquisition 
programme would have a significant impact 
on the Group’s ability to generate long-term 
value for shareholders.
•	Consistently strong free cash flow generation gives the Group capacity to continue to execute  
a targeted acquisition programme.
•	The Group has a well-established acquisition framework that includes proven valuation,  
due diligence and integration processes.
•	Post-acquisition reviews are performed on all acquisitions, comprising a full retrospective  
review of each deal process, integration effectiveness, operational performance compared  
to expectation and sharing of lessons learned with the Board and across the senior 
management team.
STRATEGY
An appropriately formulated, communicated 
and effectively executed strategy is essential 
to avoid the risk of inappropriate allocation of 
resources and failure to deliver on long-term 
performance goals.
•	Focus is placed on the strategic planning process, to ensure that the Group formulates the most 
appropriate strategy to capitalise, over time, on the significant breadth of potential 
growth opportunities in its chosen market sectors.
•	The process includes regular strategy sessions at operational, Executive Committee and 
Board level.
•	A Capital Markets day, held in October, included a presentation on certain aspects of the 
Group’s strategy to enhance further the external communication process. This presentation  
is available on the Company’s website.
PROGRAMME PARTICIPATION
Long-term growth in demand, including 
participation in future development 
programmes in the Group’s major markets,  
is an essential foundation for future growth. 
Failure to secure profitable new programme 
wins could have a severe impact on 
Group performance.
•	The Group has developed a portfolio of businesses that are exposed to markets which exhibit 
fundamental long-term growth characteristics.
•	Customer value is driven through constructive and co-operative relationships with key customers 
in each market, providing innovative customer solutions and quality products delivered on 
time and in line with specifications.
•	The Group ensures that its operations are sufficiently well capitalised to be able to bid competitively 
on new programme opportunities, and maintains close control over operating costs to ensure that 
operations remain competitive on existing programmes.
•	The Group utilises an internal contract approval process, comprising both financial and non-financial 
analyses, to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels.
KEY
INCREASED RISK DECREASED RISK CONSTANT RISK
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 14
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued  RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK
NEW AIRCRAFT PLATFORM DELAYS
Significant shipset content has been secured 
on a number of new aircraft platforms 
currently under development or in initial 
phases of production. These include 
Bombardier’s CSeries regional jet, the Airbus 
A350, A320neo and Boeing 737 MAX. Delays 
in the launch or ramp up in production of 
these platforms could have a material adverse 
impact on the Group’s rate of organic growth.
•	The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft platforms  
very closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
•	A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to minimise the time 
between installation and utilisation of new capital equipment, and to the projected build rates and 
associated revenue in financial projections.
•	The growing breadth of Senior’s exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of aerospace 
and land vehicle platforms, together with its broad exposure in global industrial markets, means 
that the Group’s future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new 
aircraft platform.
EMPLOYEE RETENTION
An inability to attract, develop and retain 
high-quality individuals in key management 
positions could severely affect the long-term 
success of the Group.
•	Capable, empowered and highly engaged individuals are a key asset of the business. The strong 
reputation of the Group helps attract experienced senior executives from within the industry.
•	The Group sponsors the development and training of key managers, at all levels, through 
an increasingly comprehensive in-house management development programme.
•	Senior management turnover ratios remain low, a further indication of success in this 
important area.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BREACH
Corporate governance legislation (such as the 
UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act), regulations and guidance (such 
as the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
global health and safety regulations) are 
increasingly complex and onerous. A serious 
breach of these rules and regulations could 
have a significant impact on the Group’s 
reputation, lead to a loss of confidence on 
the part of investors, customers or other 
stakeholders and ultimately have a material 
adverse impact on the Group’s 
enterprise value.
•	The Group has well-established governance policies and procedures in all key areas, including a 
Group Code of Business Conduct, a Health and Safety Charter, anti-bribery procedures and various 
policies and procedures over the review and reporting of risk management and internal control 
activities.
•	The Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit 
collectively retain principal responsibility for maintaining and reporting on governance changes 
that may have an impact on the Group.
•	Periodic governance updates are provided to the Board and Executive Committee at 
appropriate intervals, and to key operational management. Recent examples of developments 
in this area include formulation of a Business Continuity Framework, IT Policy Guidelines, 
and anti-bribery training.
FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY
The Group could have insufficient financial 
resources to fund its growth strategy or meet 
its financial obligations as they fall due.
•	The Group’s overall treasury risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability 
of financial markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s 
financial performance.
•	Compliance with financial policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Group’s Treasury 
Committee on a regular basis.
•	The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising 
on operations’ trading activities in foreign currencies and does not enter into or trade financial 
instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
•	The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve 
borrowing facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, matching the 
maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and paying close attention to the projected level 
of headroom under the covenants contained in its committed borrowing facilities. For further 
details see Note 21.
GLOBAL CYCLICAL DOWNTURN
The potential adverse impact on the Group  
of significant demand declines in key markets 
arising from the consequences of either 
future sovereign debt issues, ongoing 
government austerity measures, and/or 
political instability in the Middle East or 
elsewhere remains significant.
•	The Group is well positioned in its key aerospace, industrial, and emission-related sectors of land 
vehicle markets, where increasingly stringent legislation should ensure that long-term demand for 
the Group’s products remains healthy.
•	The Group’s financing position improved again in 2013 as cash conversion remained strong 
with no major borrowing facilities expiring before October 2014.
•	Through diversity of its end-market exposures and a robust financing position, the Group remains 
well placed to be able to withstand potential negative consequences that may arise from 
a further global cyclical downturn.
 
15 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION org Anic revenue (£m) 
+3.3% 
13
717.4
741.2
12
The main drivers of organic revenue 
growth in the Aerospace Division 
were increased build rates on large 
commercial aircraft programmes, 
offset partially by lower military volumes. 
In Flexonics, demand for truck engine 
components in Europe marginally 
improved but European passenger 
vehicles markets were weaker and 
the large one-off project for expansion 
joints in 2012 was not repeated in 2013.
Ad Justed e Arnings per sh Are (p) 
+7.0%
13
17.75p
19.00p
12
Increased revenue, resulting 
from strong market demand in large 
commercial aerospace and the 
incremental contribution of the 
acquisition of GA, combined with 
continued effective operational 
execution and a slight reduction 
in the tax rate, resulted in a healthy 
increase in adjusted earnings per 
share in 2013. 
•	 to achieve organic sales growth (at constant 
exchange rates) in excess of the rate of 
inflation;
•	 to increase adjusted earnings per share 
on an annual basis by more than the rate 
of inflation;
•	 to increase the Group’s return on revenue 
margin each year;
•	 to generate sufficient cash to enable the 
Group to fund future growth and to follow 
a progressive dividend policy; and
•	 to maintain an overall return on capital 
employed in excess of the Group’s cost 
of capital and to target a pre-tax return 
in excess of 15%.
These financial objectives are supported by 
two non-financial objectives:
•	 to reduce the Group’s rate of energy intensity 
by 10% in the five-year period to 2015; and
•	 to reduce the number of recordable injuries 
which incur lost time by 20% in the five-year 
period to 2015.
Senior continued to deliver strong operating 
performance in 2013 and met four out of five 
of the Group’s financial targets. During 2013 
improvements were made in the Group’s 
energy and water intensity performance and 
lost time injury rates were also significantly 
reduced. The Group remains on track to 
meet its 2015 safety, energy and water 
usage improvement goals. Further details 
of the Group’s performance record in this 
regard, including its long-term performance 
trends, are shown on pages 10 and 11.
A summary of the year-on-year movements 
in these key performance indicators (”KPIs”) 
and the main drivers of the changes are 
described below.
t he group uses five financial and two non-financial metrics to measure progress 
in implementing its strategy; the group’s financial objectives are as follows:
r eturn on revenue m Argin (%) 
consistent W ith 2012
13
13.9 13.9
12
A record Group adjusted operating 
profit margin was achieved in 2012. 
This was repeated in 2013 with 
improved operational efficiencies 
and favourable raw material pricing 
in Flexonics, offset by facility move 
and higher development costs in 
new programmes in Aerospace.
n et c Ash from oper Ating 
Activities (£m) 
+10.9%
13
83.3
92.4
12
The Group’s cash conversion was 
again very strong, with net cash 
from operating activities increasing 
to a record level in 2013. The 
main driver of this result was 
the increase in Group earnings. 
As a result, the Group has been 
able to fund an increased level 
of capital expenditure of 1.3 times 
depreciation, continue to make 
strategic acquisitions and 
propose a 10% increase in the 
annual dividend. 
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 16
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS  r eturn on c Apit Al employed (%) 
-0.2ppts
13
26.9 26.7
12
The Group’s return on capital 
employed reduced slightly in 2013. 
The impact of increased earnings 
was offset by increased capital 
expenditure and additional working 
capital requirements due to growth 
in large commercial aerospace and 
anticipated growth in North 
American trucks in Flexonics.  
environment, sA fety, 
ethics And compli Ance
l ost time in Jury frequency r Ate 
(incidents per 100 employees p . A.) 
30.1% improvement
13
1.36
0.95
12
The number of lost time injuries 
reduced significantly in 2013. This 
represents good progress, reversing 
the disappointing results of 2012. 
The Group continues to take a 
proactive approach to the health and 
safety of all employees, and has 
reduced the number of lost time 
injury incidents by 63% since 2007. 
cA rbon dioxide emissions 
(tonnes/£m revenue)  
7.6% improvement
13
92
85
12
Through more efficient use of 
resources and improved asset 
utilisation, the Group continues 
to make good progress on its 
published five-year target of 
improving energy efficiency by 
10% between 2011 and 2015. 
This is the eighth consecutive 
year that Senior has reduced 
its environmental impact.
OUR PERFORMANCE
environment 2012 2013 Objectives and targets
Energy efficiency 
(MWh/£m turnover) 203 204
≤ 207MWh/£m 
turnover by 2014
Scope 1 GHG (tCO2e) 10,582 9,466
Incorporated 
within energy 
efficiency target
Scope 2 GHG (tCO2e) 49,707 51,151 As per Scope 1
Scope 3 GHG (tCO2e) 7,214 5,631 As per Scope 1
Tonnes CO2 emitted  
per £m of revenue 92.49 85.47
Water usage 
(in megalitres) 289 276
Water usage per £m  
of revenue 0.39 0.36
Waste generated 
(in tonnes) 12,476 12,124
Percentage of waste 
recycled or recovered
78% 78%
To increase the 
percentage of  
waste recycled  
or recovered to  
80% by 2015
Safety
Total Recordable Injury 
Rate measures the 
number of injuries per 
100 employees 3.47 2.97
Reduce the 2010 Total 
Recordable Injury Rate 
by 20% by 2015 to ≤ 
3.00
Lost Time Injury Rate 
tracks the number of 
injuries per 100 
employees with one day 
or more away from work 1.36 0.95
Reduce the 2010 Lost 
Time Injury Rate by 
20% by 2015 to ≤ 1.28
Business ethics and 
compliance
Revise and reissue 
Business Code of 
Conduct Completed
Investigate 100% of  
all complaints received 
regarding whistle-
blowing Achieved
METHODOLOGY:
The Group collects its environmental data in accordance with the 
guidelines specified by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to the 
extent that this is currently practicable, and has applied the 
greenhouse gas conversation factors contained within the GRI 
Guidelines and the Defra / DECC’s 2013 Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting. The Group has used the financial control 
approach to define its organisational boundary and reports data from 
its wholly-owned or majority-owned operations. Billed or metered 
sources represent the basis of the majority of our emissions; 
however, Scope 3 emissions which represent less than 10% of the 
total, are calculated on a pro-rata basis which are believed to be an 
accurate representation of use.
 
17 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2013 FINANCIAL RESULTS SUMMARY
2013 2012 Change
Revenue £775.1m £729.8m +6%
Adjusted 
Operating Profit
£107.6m £101.4m +6%
Adjusted 
Operating Margin
13.9% 13.9% -ppts 
Adjusted Profit 
before Tax
£98.1m £91.1m +8% 
Adjusted Earnings 
per Share
19.00p 17.75p +7% 
Total Dividend 
per share
5.12p 4.65p +10% 
Free Cash Flow £63.8m £57.6m +11%
Net Debt £59.2m £70.9m £12m
decrease
2013 was another year of solid progress 
for Senior.
Total Group revenue increased by 6.2% to £775. 1m 
(2012 – £729.8m). Revenue from continuing 
operations (excluding the sale of Senior Hargreaves 
in October 2012, which contributed £17.8m of 
revenue in 2012), increased by £63.1m (8.9%), 
including an incremental £33.9m from three 
acquisitions: Thermal acquired in November 
2013 (£1.0m); Atlas acquired in February 2013 
(£3.0m); and the full-year effect of the 
acquisition of GA in November 2012 (£29.9m). 
If the effect of acquisitions and a year-on-year 
favourable exchange impact of £5.4m are 
excluded, underlying revenue from organic 
operations increased by 3.3% on a constant 
currency basis. In 2013, 66% of sales from 
continuing operations originated from North 
America, 15% from the UK, 12% from the Rest 
of Europe and 7% from the Rest of the World.
Adjusted operating profit increased by £6.2m 
(6.1%) to £107.6m (2012 – £101.4m), due to a 
combination of the increase in organic 
operations’ revenue, further operational 
improvements and year-on-year acquisition 
contributions of £2.3m. Overall exchange rate 
movements had no impact on 2013 adjusted 
operating profit compared to 2012. Adjusted 
profit before tax increased by £7.0m (7.7%) 
to £98.1m (2012 – £91.1m). 
Excluding acquisitions, underlying adjusted 
operating profit from organic continuing 
operations increased by 4.7% on a constant 
currency basis. The Group achieved an 
adjusted operating margin of 13.9% in 2013 
(2012 – 13.9%). 
Total Group reported operating profit from 
continuing operations was broadly similar to 
the prior year at £93.3m (2012 – £93.7m).
The underlying tax rate in 2013 was 19.7% 
(2012 – 20.4%) and adjusted earnings per share 
increased by 7% to 19.00 pence (2012 – 17.75 
pence). Basic earnings per share rose by 1.0% 
to 17.22 pence (2012 – 17.11 pence).
The Group continues to be highly cash-
generative and delivered free cash flow of 
£63.8m (2012 – £57.6m) after increased net 
investment in capital expenditure of £28.8m 
(2012 – £26.0m). As a result, the level of net 
debt at the end of 2013 of £59.2m was 
comfortably below the £70.9m at the start 
of the year, even after spending £30.5m on 
acquisitions and investing a further £0.5m in 
the Group’s joint venture in China during 2013. 
This year-end net debt level leaves the Group 
well placed to fund future organic and 
acquisitive growth.
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 3.60 pence per share (2012 – 3.27 pence). 
If approved, this will bring the total dividends, 
paid and proposed, in respect of 2013 to 5.12 
pence per share, an increase of 10% over 
2012, slightly ahead of the increase in adjusted 
earnings per share. 
DELIVERY OF GROUP STRATEGY
Significant progress was made in delivering 
the strategy during 2013 with: the Group’s 
portfolio enhanced through two acquisitions; 
a healthy level of business being won on new 
programmes and market share gains being 
secured on existing platforms; the Group’s 
culture of operational excellence providing high 
levels of customer satisfaction and safer, more 
efficient factories; and the Group’s employees 
working enthusiastically and innovatively to 
deliver a strong performance in 2013 and to 
enhance the growth prospects for the Group.
The acquisitions of Atlas and Thermal in 2013 
have added the complementary capabilities of 
structural composites and hot-forming and 
aerospace insulation to the Group. When 
combined with the global reach, customer 
relationships and financial strength of the 
existing Senior operations, these additional 
capabilities are expected to provide healthy 
long-term growth opportunities for the 
Aerospace Division. Indeed, Atlas is already 
working together with Senior Aerospace BWT 
to provide cabin air-supply ducting systems for 
the future Bombardier CSeries, Mitsubishi 
Regional Jet and Embraer E2-Jet aircraft. 
Operating in successful end markets and 
being aligned with the right customers is 
an important determinate to Senior’s future 
growth prospects. The Group’s most important 
market is large commercial aircraft, now 
representing 36% of Group sales, where 
Boeing and Airbus collectively delivered 1,274 
aircraft in 2013, 7% more than the prior year, 
and booked 2,858 net orders. Their combined 
order book of 10,639 aircraft represents a very 
healthy eight years’ production at current build 
rates, meaning good growth can be expected 
in the future. The Group’s customers 
increasingly operate on a global basis and it is 
important that Senior is able to support them 
across the world. Accordingly, during 2013 
further investment was made in the Group’s 
Chinese Joint Venture, with heavy-duty engine 
common-rail production commencing at the 
year end, and a new factory set up in Mexico to 
serve the North American land-vehicle market 
for flexible exhaust connectors. In Aerospace, 
having world-class production capabilities in 
Asia will be very important in the future as 
the region represents the fastest growing 
air-passenger market in the world. In its 
Thailand facility, Senior has a good foundation 
to build upon to meet this customer demand, 
signific Ant progress in delivering 
the g roup’s str Ategy in 2013 provides 
Another strong set of results. 
t he g roup’s reput Ation A nd the 
opportunities it is developing, me An 
future prospects rem Ain encour Aging. MARK ROLLINS
Group Chief Executive
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 18
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S SUMMARY  
OF THE YEAR 2013 PERFORMANCE  with 2014 planned to see the construction of 
significant additional capacity, including the 
installation of a specialist treatments facility, 
at a total cost of some £6m over the next 
three years.
In industries where customers have choices 
with whom they do business, Senior’s on-time 
delivery and quality record and its cost 
competitiveness are key to the Group gaining 
market share and winning work on new 
programmes. Accordingly, great focus is placed 
at each operation on using “Lean” principles, 
such as Kaizen events, to deliver operational 
improvements to reduce costs, improve 
product flow, optimise use of resources 
and improve safety. Investment in modern 
equipment and fit-for-purpose facilities, such 
as the new factory built for the structures 
business at Senior Aerospace Weston in 2013, 
are also ongoing requirements in an 
environment where technology and customer 
expectations are always advancing. Senior’s 
financial strength allows the Group to remain 
at the forefront in this regard with increases in 
the shipset value on the B787 and A350 during 
2013, and the fact that the Group now has 
30% more content on the B737 MAX and 56% 
more on the A320neo than the current B737 
and A320 aircraft respectively, providing 
tangible evidence of Senior’s success in 
delivering its strategy. 
Recruiting and developing good leaders is 
arguably the most critical aspect to the Group’s 
future success. Senior’s culture is one of 
empowered entrepreneurial leadership 
operating within a fixed control framework 
where communication of good and bad news is 
encouraged, and equally accepted, and success 
is recognised and fairly rewarded. Over the past 
five years, the Group Development Programme, 
which is personally important to me, has been 
successfully expanded and increasingly focused 
on leadership development. During 2014, the 
Programme is to be further enhanced with the 
introduction of a senior executive programme 
for potential future leaders and “Driving 
Innovation” workshops for all of the Group’s 
operating company CEOs, both in conjunction 
with Ashridge Business School. 
Whilst the historic performance of Senior 
over recent years, and the strong platform 
the Group has built for the future, clearly 
demonstrates healthy progress in 
implementing the Group’s strategy, the Board 
is cognisant of the need for strategy to evolve 
as markets and technologies change and the 
Group gets larger and more complex. As a 
consequence, the Board and Executive team 
increased their focus on strategy during 2013 
and can be expected to do so throughout 2014. 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate responsibility is a key part 
of how we do business at Senior and I am 
pleased to report excellent progress on a 
number of fronts this year. 
We have enhanced our training and 
development programme and improved 
collaboration and sharing of good practices 
across the Divisions. During the year, we also 
improved the communication of our anti-
bribery and corruption measures and 
strengthened compliance through our internal 
audit processes. The Group has further 
reduced its carbon emissions and our core 
environmental metrics also demonstrated 
healthy improvement, as we invest to reduce 
energy and water consumption. Sustainability 
drives demand for many of our services and 
operating in an ethical and responsible manner 
is integral to our customer relationships. 
Improvements have also been made to our health 
and safety programme through the roll-out of 
technical standards for the core health and 
safety risks. These have helped to identify 
potential hazards and contributed towards 
improving our two key safety metrics, see 
table on page 17.
OUTLOOK 
The year has started satisfactorily and, with the 
large commercial aerospace market remaining 
strong and some early signs of an economic 
recovery taking place, progress is expected to 
be made across the Group’s operations during 
2014. The second half of the year is expected 
to benefit in particular from civil aircraft build 
rates continuing their upward trend, the A350 
aircraft being delivered to customers and an 
anticipated large expansion joint contract 
commencing delivery. However, whilst solid 
progress is expected to be made locally in 
2014, volatile foreign exchange movements 
add more uncertainty as to the reported Group 
outcome for the year.
Looking further ahead, the entry into service 
of the A350 in late 2014, and its subsequent 
production ramp-up, together with Boeing’s 
and Airbus’ plans to increase the build rates 
of their B787, B737 and A320 aircraft, mean 
the outlook for the large commercial aerospace 
sector is both strong and visible. This is 
Senior’s most important market, representing 
36% of Group revenue in 2013. However, price 
pressure remains ongoing across the 
commercial aerospace industry and is being 
managed in line with expectations. As well as 
increases in build-rates, Senior expects to 
benefit from the greater content it has on the 
new-engine versions of the high volume 
narrow-bodied aircraft, the A320neo and B737 
MAX, which are scheduled to enter service in 
2015 and 2017, respectively. Having a world-
class aerospace facility in Asia is also expected 
to lead to increases in market share as the 
recent contract awards to the Group’s Thailand 
operation, from Rolls-Royce for the A350 XWB 
engine and from Spirit AeroSystems on the 
B787, clearly demonstrate. This facility is now 
being significantly expanded.
Whilst a much smaller part of the Group, 
prospects also remain encouraging in the 
regional and business jet sector, with 
Bombardier’s CSeries aircraft, on which the 
Group has healthy content, commencing its test 
programme during 2013 and Senior winning the 
low-pressure ducting package for the Embraer 
E2-Jet. Less encouraging, is the outlook for 
military and defence, representing 14% of 
Group sales in 2013, with increases in the 
build rates of new programmes, such as the 
A400M military transporter and the P-8 naval 
reconnaissance aircraft, not expected to entirely 
offset the impact of reduced defence spending 
by the USA and European Governments.
In Flexonics, the longer-term outlook for 
Senior’s land vehicle operations is showing 
some early signs of improvement, with 
volumes of passenger vehicles in Europe 
anticipated to gradually improve from the 
six-year low seen in 2013, production of 
heavy-duty engine common-rails now 
commencing in China, and the Group’s global 
footprint leading to more customer enquiries 
for flexible exhaust connectors. Progress also 
continues to be made in winning additional 
heavy-duty exhaust gas recycling cooler 
programmes, although this has been slower 
than hoped for and the much improved life of 
the current product is resulting in lower 
revenue from spare-parts. Whilst the future 
level of the Group’s industrial activity is less 
visible, given its often one-off project nature, 
the Group’s industrial end-markets such as 
power generation, oil and gas, chemical 
processing, medical and semi-conductor are 
likely to grow broadly in line with global 
economic activity. In addition, environmental 
legislation continues to tighten across the 
globe which can be expected to provide 
greater demand for the Group’s products.
As well as the organic growth opportunities 
mentioned above, Senior’s cash-generative 
nature, strengthening market and financial 
position provide a solid platform from which 
the Group can continue to pursue acquisitive 
growth opportunities on a targeted basis. 
Consequently, whilst Senior will undoubtedly 
face a number of challenges as it pursues 
its growth agenda, the Group’s reputation 
and opportunities it is developing, mean the 
prospects for the future remain encouraging.
MARK ROLLINS
Group Chief Executive
 
19 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW
The Aerospace Division represents 65% 
(2012 – 66%) of Group revenue and consists 
of 19 operations. These are located in North 
America (11), the United Kingdom (4), 
continental Europe (3) and Thailand. 
On 8 February 2013, the Group acquired 
Atlas Composites Limited (“Atlas”), a small 
UK-based developer and manufacturer of 
composite structural products, for £2.4m. 
Atlas brings complementary capabilities into 
the Group and is managed through one 
of the Group’s existing UK operations, 
Senior Aerospace BWT.
On 28 November 2013, the Group acquired 
Thermal Engineering Holding Limited 
(“Thermal”), an aerospace components 
manufacturer, for consideration of £28.3m 
(including the repayment of £6.5m of debt). 
Thermal specialises in manufacturing hot- and 
cold-formed components, complex fabricated 
assemblies and thermal insulation heat 
shields and systems.
In November 2013, the decision was taken 
to merge Capo Industries into our Ketema 
operation. This decision has resulted in 
one-off costs of £1.9m charged in 2013; savings 
of over £1.2m p.a. are anticipated from 2015. 
In Thailand, the Group is expanding capacity 
threefold and adding processing capability at 
a total cost of £6m over the next three years.
The Aerospace Division’s main products are 
engine structures and mounting systems 
(30% of 2013 divisional sales), airframe and 
other structural parts (27%), metallic ducting 
systems (18%), composite ducting systems 
(6%), fluid control systems (5%) and helicopter 
machined parts (5%). The remaining 9% of 
divisional sales were to non-aerospace, but 
related technology markets, including the 
energy, semi-conductor and medical markets. 
The Division’s largest customers include 
Rolls-Royce representing 17% of 2013 
divisional sales, Boeing (17%), Spirit 
AeroSystems (10%), United Technologies (8%), 
Airbus (5%), Bombardier (5%), Safran (2%), 
GKN (2%) and GE (2%).
The Aerospace Division’s operating results on a 
constant currency basis are summarised below:
2013
£m
2012
(1)
£m Change
Revenue 506.6 476.2 +6.4%
Adjusted 
operating profit 76.5 72.8 +5.1%
Operating 
margin 15.1% 15.3% -0.2ppts
(1)
  2012 results translated using 2013 average 
exchange rates.
Divisional revenue increased by £30.4m (6.4%) 
to £506.6m (2012 – £476.2m)
(1)
 and adjusted 
operating profit increased by £3.7m to £76.5m 
(2012 – £72.8m)
(1)
. Excluding the impact of 
acquisitions, organic revenue for the Division 
increased by £26.4m (5.5%) and the increase 
in adjusted operating profit was the same 
at £3.7m.
The operating margin declined slightly to 15.1% 
(2012 – 15.3%). This was mainly attributable to: 
Aerosp Ace division
mAr Ket o vervie W
Senior continues to enjoy strong demand from 
the large commercial aircraft sector, where 
order books are at record levels. The regional 
and business jet markets are satisfactory but, 
as anticipated, the military and defence sector 
remains challenging. 
CAPABILITIES
•	 Design and manufacture of systems for delivery of 
air, hydraulic fluids and fuel to critical airborne system 
functions in composite and metallic materials.
•	 Design and manufacture of maintenance-free 
solutions for harsh operating environments.
•	 Precision-machined complex products and 
assemblies for airframe structures and systems.
•	 Provision of engine core, ancillary systems and 
related structural products to major gas turbine 
engine manufacturers.
•	 Manufacturing hot- and cold-formed components, 
complex fabricated assemblies and thermal 
insulation heat shields and systems.
507 4
503
(2)
(13) 6
36
£m
476
A H G F E D C B
A 2012
B l arge c ommercial
C r egional & business Jets
D military
E other
F 2013 o rganic
G Acquisitions
H 2013 t otal 
AEROSPACE REVENUE 
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 20
2013 PERFORMANCE continued  www.seniorplc.com/aerospace/index.cfm
the notable effect of the reduction in military 
and non-aerospace revenue on two of the 
Group’s operations; costs associated with 
the Weston factory relocation; and increased 
investment in engineering necessary to deliver 
a higher than usual level of new aircraft 
programmes at the Group’s operation 
in Los Angeles. 
55% (2012 – 51%) of the Aerospace Division’s 
revenues are derived from the large commercial 
aerospace market, comprising the aircraft 
manufactured by Airbus and Boeing and the 
engines that go on those aircraft. This market 
remained very strong during 2013, with Boeing 
and Airbus collectively delivering 1,274 aircraft, 
a 7% increase over the prior year (2012 – 1,189 
deliveries). Boeing and Airbus also recorded 
strong aircraft orders during 2013 which, at 
a combined net order intake of 2,858 aircraft 
(2012 – 2,036 aircraft), was well ahead 
of aircraft deliveries for the fourth year in 
succession. As a consequence, their combined 
order book grew by 1,584 aircraft during 2013 
to 10,639 aircraft at the end of the year, 
representing over eight years of deliveries at 
current production rates. Senior grew its sales 
to the large commercial aircraft market by 15% 
during 2013.
Senior won additional content in the period 
on the A350 and B787, two significant future 
programmes for the Group. The Airbus 
A350, which flew for the first time in June, 
is expected to commence customer deliveries 
late in 2014 and Boeing’s B787 production 
rate is now at 10 per month. 
Equally encouraging was the progress Senior 
made in increasing its content on the A320neo 
and B737 MAX, the re-engined, more 
fuel-efficient versions of the two highest 
volume commercial aircraft platforms. These 
aircraft are scheduled to come into service in 
2015 and 2017, respectively. The Group already 
has 56% more content on the A320neo than 
the A320 and 30% more content on the B737 
MAX than on the current B737. 
Overall, the production of regional and business 
jet aircraft remained weak, but broadly stable. 
Against this backdrop, Senior’s revenue derived 
from the business jet sector (9% of divisional 
revenue) increased by 8% in the period, due to 
increased activity on newer and larger business 
jet programmes. In the regional jet sector  
(4% of divisional revenue), Group revenue was 
13% higher as a result of a strong second half, 
particularly with increases in Bombardier’s CRJ 
series and increased invoicing for engineering 
costs and development parts. Bombardier’s 
largest ever passenger aircraft, the CSeries, 
flew for the first time in 2013, although testing 
challenges have resulted in some delays.  
The Group has significant content on this 
aircraft ($501k per aircraft) and its future 
commercial success would be advantageous 
for the Group.
Revenue from the military and defence sector 
fell by 11% in 2013, reducing its contribution to 
divisional revenue from 25% to 21%. This was 
due to the anticipated reduction in production 
volumes for the C-130J military transport 
aircraft and the Black Hawk helicopter, as well 
as lower spares demand for the latter. These 
declines were partially offset by growing 
volumes on newer platforms, such as the 
A400M transporter, P-8 reconnaissance 
aircraft and Joint Strike Fighter.
Around 11% of the Aerospace Division’s 
revenue was derived from other markets such 
as space, non-military helicopters, power and 
energy, medical and semi-conductor, where 
the Group manufactures products using very 
similar technology to that used for certain 
aerospace products. Overall, revenues in 
these markets were £0.7m higher than 2012, 
with £2.3m of acquisition contribution 
offsetting £1.6m of organic decline from 
weaker semi-conductor and power and 
energy markets.
LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT
•	Total revenue growth of 50% including 
acquisitions, with organic revenue growth of 
15% underpinned by increasing build rates in 
Airbus and Boeing large commercial 
aircraft platforms
•	Build rates on most major platforms expected 
to increase in 2013 and beyond
•	Boeing delivered 46 B787s in 2012 as the build 
rate increased to five per month during the year 
as planned
•	Strong order intake for Boeing and Airbus again 
in 2012, in particular for re-engined narrow 
body A320neo and B737 MAX platforms, 
where total orders now stand at 2,798 aircraft, 
and which are due for delivery in 2015 and 2017 
respectively
•	Total OEM order books remain at record levels, 
representing over seven years of production at 
current build rates
MILITARY AEROSPACE
•	Revenue increased by 7%, reflecting a  
robust footprint on well-established 
platforms and increased activity on 
new programmes such as the F-35 
Joint Strike Fighter
•	Demand on the Group’s main military 
programmes, the C-130J transport aircraft 
and the Black Hawk helicopter, held up well 
for most of the year although began to 
weaken in the fourth quarter
•	Short-term outlook on a number of platforms 
is weaker, with likelihood of reduced build 
rates due to downward pressure on US 
defence expenditure
•	Healthy shipset content on new programmes 
such as the A400M transport aircraft, the 
P-8A Poseidon naval reconnaissance aircraft 
and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter should 
partially mitigate the impact of any reduction 
in funding that may affect established 
programmes
REGIONAL AND BUSINESS JETS
•	Business jet revenue growth of 12%, ahead of 
the market, due to increased demand from 
large cabin platforms (e.g. Bombardier 
Challenger and Gulfstream G650)
•	Revenue from regional jet sector broadly 
unchanged with markets weaker but Senior’s 
performance aided by recoverable development 
expenditure on new platforms
•	Continued modest recovery in business jet 
sector is forecast for 2013, with regional 
demand remaining subdued
•	Senior’s regional jet market revenue is likely to 
increase in the medium-term as new platforms 
come to market, such as the Bombardier 
CSeries and Mitsubishi MRJ
LARGE COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT
•	 Revenue growth of 15% underpinned by 
increasing build rates of Airbus and Boeing 
large commercial aircraft platforms.
•	 Build rates on many platforms will increase 
in 2014 and beyond.
•	 Boeing delivered 65 B787s in 2013 with 
production now at 10 per month.
•	 Strong order intake for Boeing and Airbus 
again in 2013, not only for re-engined narrow 
body A320neo and B737 MAX platforms, 
but also the A350 and B787.
•	 Airbus A350 testing is going to plan with 
first delivery into service expected before 
the end of 2014.
•	 At current build rates it will take over eight 
years to fulfil existing OEM order books.
MILITARY AEROSPACE
•	 Revenue decreased by 11%, reflecting the 
anticipated reduction in demand for the 
Black Hawk helicopter and the C-130J 
transport aircraft.
•	 Build rates in 2014 will be broadly in line 
with the 2013 exit rate following 
downward pressure on US and European 
defence expenditure.
•	 Further declines in build rates of certain 
programmes such as the Black Hawk and 
the V22 Osprey helicopter are expected 
after 2014.
•	 Healthy shipset content on the A400M 
transport aircraft and build rate increases 
for this and the P-8 naval reconnaissance 
aircraft should partially mitigate the 
otherwise lower demand.
REGIONAL AND BUSINESS JETS
•	 Business jet revenue growth of 8%, ahead 
of the market, due to increased demand 
from large cabin platforms (e.g. Bombardier 
Global 5000/6000 and Gulfstream G650).
•	 Revenue from regional jet sector increased 
by 13% with improvements coming from 
the Bombardier CRJ series.
•	 Continued modest recovery in business jet 
sector is forecast for 2014, with regional jet 
demand remaining stable.
•	 Senior’s regional jet market revenue is likely 
to increase in the medium-term as new 
platforms come to market, such as the 
Bombardier CSeries, Mitsubishi MRJ and 
Embraer E2-Jet.
 
21 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW 
The Flexonics Division represents 35% 
(2012 – 34%) of Group revenue and consists of 
12 operations which are located in North 
America (four), continental Europe (three), the 
United Kingdom, South Africa, India, Brazil and 
a joint venture in China. 
56% of the Flexonics Division’s revenues in 
2013 were derived from demand for land 
vehicle components, 42% from industrial 
markets and 2% from aerospace markets.
The land vehicle sales comprise cooling and 
emission control components (25% of 2013 
divisional sales), flexible mechanisms for vehicle 
exhaust systems (14%), diesel fuel distribution 
pipework (14%) and off-highway hydraulics 
(3%). The industrial product revenue is derived 
from the power and energy markets (19%), oil 
and gas and chemical processing industries 
(8%), HVAC and solar markets (5%) and a range 
of other markets (10%).
The Division’s largest individual end users are 
land vehicle customers, including Cummins 
(representing 16% of 2013 divisional sales), 
Caterpillar (8%), Ford (5%), PSA (4%), and 
Renault (3%). Individual industrial customers 
rarely account for more than 1 or 2% of 
divisional sales and, given the generally 
bespoke and project nature of the Group’s 
industrial products, the customers vary 
significantly each year. Bloom Energy (6%) 
and Abengoa (2%) were the largest industrial 
customers in the period. Woodward (2%) 
accounted for the majority of aerospace 
revenue within the Flexonics Division in 2013.
The Flexonics Division’s operating results on a 
constant currency basis are summarised 
below:
c ontinuing
operations
2013
£m
2012
(1)
£m Change
Revenue 269.3 241.7 +11.4%
Adjusted 
operating profit 40.4 36.6 +10.4%
Operating 
margin 15.0% 15.1% –0.1ppts
(1)
  2012 results translated using 2013 average  
exchange rates.
Divisional revenue increased by £27.6m 
(11.4%) to £269.3m (2012 – £241.7m)
(1)
 and 
adjusted operating profit increased by £3.8m 
to £40.4m (2012 – £36.6m)
(1)
. Excluding the 
incremental contribution from the GA 
acquisition (completed in November 2012), 
organic revenue declined by £2.3m (1.0%) 
while adjusted operating profit increased 
by £1.5m (4.1%). 
The operating margin declined slightly to 
15.0% (2012 – 15.1%), primarily due to the 
inclusion of the lower-margin GA business. 
Underlying margins in organic operations 
improved by 0.8 percentage points to 15.9% 
(2012 – 15.1%) as a result of improved 
operational efficiencies and favourable raw 
material pricing.
flexonics division
269 30
239
(3) (1)
1 242
£m
G F E D C B A
FLEXONICS REVENUE
A 2012
B t ruck & o ff-h ighway
C passenger v ehicles
D industrial
E 2013 o rganic
F Acquisitions
G 2013 t otal 
mAr Ket o vervie W
Senior’s principal end-market exposures in 
the Flexonics Division are medium- and 
heavy-duty diesel engine markets in North 
America, passenger cars in Europe and global 
industrial process control markets including 
petrochemical, HVAC and power and 
energy markets.
CAPABILITIES
•	 Development and production of emission control 
and fuel distribution products for the truck and 
off-road transport sector and for select passenger 
car applications.
•	 Design and manufacture of engineered expansion 
joints and dampers for industrial process control 
applications, to meet an increasingly stringent 
regulatory environment.
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 22
2013 PERFORMANCE continued  Sales to the truck and off-highway market 
increased by 37%, primarily due to the full 
year contribution of GA, acquired in November 
2012. GA has a particular focus on machined 
components for fuel systems, pumps and 
hydraulic systems for off-road medium- and 
heavy-duty diesel applications. Organic sales to 
this market increased by 2%, with strong sales 
to the European truck market up £4.0m (35%) 
as new programmes ramped up. This was 
partially offset by weakness in North America 
and India, where organic sales decreased by 
£2.1m (4%) and £0.4m (43%), respectively.
During 2013, the Group continued to work 
towards winning a second major customer, 
in addition to Cummins, for the Group’s EGR 
cooler product. Whilst the anticipated 
opportunity recently failed to materialise, the 
Group remains confident that new customers 
and applications can be developed, as 
illustrated by the recent award of a cooler for 
natural gas engines on commercial vehicles. 
Sales to the passenger vehicle market declined 
by 1% in 2013, primarily as a result of continued 
weakness in the European passenger car 
market (where new car registrations reduced 
by 1.7%). The Group was also impacted by the 
decline in the Indian and Brazilian domestic 
passenger vehicle markets but saw revenue 
increase to North America and China.
Despite generally weak land vehicle markets, 
tightening emission legislation, combined with 
the Group’s operational excellence and product 
development skills, mean market share 
opportunities regularly arise. The Group’s 
operations in the Czech Republic and South 
Africa benefited from new programme wins 
from existing and new customers, resulting in 
increased volumes in turbo oil drain products 
and exhaust products, creating positive 
momentum that has helped offset some of 
the weakness observed elsewhere in the 
marketplace.
Further investment of £0.5m was made in the 
Group’s joint venture in China, where 
manufacture of heavy-duty diesel common 
rails started at the end of 2013 and the 
production of exhaust flexes is scheduled to 
commence during 2014. Progress of this 
operation continues to be pleasing.
LAND VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL
•	 Full year contribution of GA, acquired in 
November 2012, bringing precision-machining 
capabilities and potential customer synergies.
•	 Organic truck and off-highway sales increased 
by 2%, with growth in the European markets 
offset by weakness in North America 
and India.
•	 Good progress and further investment in our 
joint venture in China. Production of heavy-
duty diesel engine common rails started at 
the end of 2013 and exhaust flex production 
is expected to commence in 2014.
•	 Further investment in Mexico to supply 
flexible exhaust connectors and engine 
bellows to a key customer’s local production 
plant and its US facilities.
•	 Sales in the passenger car sector declined 
by 1%, due to reduced demand in many 
European markets as well as in Brazil 
and India. North America and China saw 
healthy growth.
•	 The Group’s operations in the Czech Republic 
and South Africa benefited from new 
programme wins from existing and 
new customers.
INDUSTRIAL PROCESS CONTROL
•	 Organic Industrial revenues were down  
3% year on year, as a result of weaker 
performance in the petrochemical sector, 
offset partially by strong sales in the power 
and energy market.
•	 In 2012, the Group’s petrochemical business 
enjoyed the benefits of a very large 
expansion joint project in Tianjin, China,  
which was not repeated in 2013.
•	 The Group expects to benefit in H2 2014 
from an anticipated large expansion joint 
project for a US Catofin plant.
•	 Additional contracts were won in 2012 for 
concentrated solar power plants in the USA 
and Europe for the benefit of 2013, although 
as Governmental subsidies continue to 
decline this activity is due to reduce in 2014.
The Division’s Industrial activities were down 
3% year on year on an organic basis as a 
result of a weaker performance from the 
petrochemical sector, partially offset by strong 
sales to the power and energy market.
Power and energy growth was driven by 
increases in demand for products for 
concentrated solar power plants and fuel cell 
bellows, although this business is anticipated 
to decline in 2014 as Governmental subsidies 
decline and a lower cost fuel cell bellow is 
introduced. In addition, during 2012, the 
Group’s petrochemical business enjoyed the 
benefits of a large expansion joint project in 
Tianjin, China, which was not repeated in 
2013. The Group expects to benefit in H2 
2014 from an anticipated large expansion joint 
project for a US Catofin plant.
 
23 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION continuing operations increased by 4.7%  
on a constant currency basis. The Group 
achieved an operating margin of 13.9%  
in 2013 (2012 – 13.9%).
Total Group reported operating profit from 
continuing operations was broadly similar 
to the prior year at £93.3m (2012 – £93.7m).
FINANCE COSTS
Total finance costs, net of investment income 
of £0.2m (2012 – £0.3m), decreased by 
7.8% to £9.5m (2012 – £10.3m). Net interest 
costs on borrowings increased to £8.1m 
(2012 – £7.7m) mainly due to the foreign 
exchange impact on Group borrowing facilities. 
The Group has fixed rate, fully-drawn, US 
private placement facilities of $185m (£111.4m) 
which attract a fixed interest payment each 
year. The Group’s total net debt was below 
this level for the whole of 2013 and 2012. 
Therefore, fluctuations in the Group’s net 
interest costs only arise due to changes in cash 
amounts on deposit, deposit interest rates and 
variations in the rate of foreign exchange 
translation, principally between the Pound 
Sterling and the US dollar.
Pension-related finance charges decreased to 
£1.4m in 2013 (2012 – £2.6m), principally due 
to a mandated change in accounting policy 
whereby the interest cost and expected return 
on plan assets has been replaced with a net 
interest charge on the net defined benefit 
liability, as detailed in Note 2. Essentially, the 
expected rate of return on assets has been 
replaced by the discount rate and scheme 
running costs (£0.8m in 2013 and 2012) are 
now recognised within operating profit. Given 
that an increasing proportion of the Group’s 
pension assets are invested in fixed income 
securities as part of the continuing 
implementation of liability-driven investment 
strategies in the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans, this new accounting 
requirement led to a net reduction in 
finance costs relating to retirement benefits. 
A reduction in the discount rate at the start of 
the year also led to a reduction in the pension-
related finance charges.
f in Anci Al revie W 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
A summary of the Group’s operating results is set out in the table below. Further detail on the 
performance of the Group and of each Division is set out on pages 18 to 23.
Revenue
Adjusted
Operating
Profit
(1)
  Margin
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
%
2012
%
Aerospace 506.6 470.5 76.5 72.1 15.1 15.3
Flexonics 269.3 242.0 40.4 37.3 15.0 15.4
Share of results of joint venture – – (0.3) (0.1) – –
Inter-segment sales (0.8) (0.5) – – – –
Central costs – – (9.0) (8.7) – –
Continuing operations 775.1 712.0 107.6 100.6 13.9 14.1
Discontinued – 17.8 – 0.8 – 4.5
Group total 775.1 729.8 107.6 101.4 13.9 13.9
(1)
  See table below.
Adjusted operating profit may be reconciled to the operating profit that is shown in the 
Consolidated Income Statement as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Adjusted operating profit 107.6 101.4
Profit for the period from discontinued operations – (3.3)
Loss on sale of fixed assets – (0.1)
Exceptional pension credit/(charge) 1.1 (1.9)
Reversal of contingent consideration payable 3.8 –
Impairment of goodwill (12.7) –
Restructuring costs (1.9) –
Amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions (4.2) (4.3)
Acquisition costs (0.4) (0.6)
Profit on disposal of business – 2.5
Operating profit per Financial Statements 93.3 93.7
FINANCIAL DETAIL
REVENUE
Group revenue increased by £45.3m (6.2%) to 
£775.1m (2012 – £729.8m).
Total Group revenue from continuing operations 
(excluding the sale of Senior Hargreaves in 
October 2012, which contributed £17.8m of 
revenue) increased by £63.1m (8.9%) including 
an incremental £33.9m from three acquisitions: 
Thermal acquired in November 2013 (£1.0m); 
Atlas acquired in February 2013 (£3.0m); and 
the full year effect of the acquisition of GA 
made in November 2012 (£29.9m).
If the effect of acquisitions and a year-on-year 
favourable exchange impact of £5.4m are 
excluded, underlying revenue from organic 
operations increased by 3.3% on a constant 
currency basis. In 2013, 66% of sales from 
continuing operations originated from North 
America, 15% from the UK, 12% from the Rest 
of Europe and 7% from the Rest of the World.
OPERATING PROFIT
Adjusted operating profit increased by £6.2m 
(6.1%) to £107.6m (2012 – £101.4m), due to 
a combination of the increase in organic 
operations’ revenue, further operational 
improvements and year-on-year acquisition 
contributions of £2.3m. There was no year-on-
year foreign exchange impact.
If the incremental profit contribution of £2.3m 
from acquisitions is excluded, underlying 
adjusted operating profit from organic 
A strong b Al Ance sheet A nd continued 
c Ash gener Ation provides A solid 
pl Atform for the g roup’s future 
gro Wth  Aspir Ations.
DEREK HARDING
Group Finance Director
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 24
2013 PERFORMANCE continued  PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 7.7% to 
£98.1m (2012 – £91.1m). Reported profit before 
tax from continuing operations increased by 
0.5% to £83.8m (2012 – £83.4m). The 
reconciling items between these two 
measures are shown in Note 9.
TAX CHARGE
The total tax charge decreased to £12.4m 
(2012 – £16.8m), despite the increase in the 
Group’s taxable profits. Net tax benefits of 
£6.9m (2012 – £1.8m) arose from the 
amortisation of intangible assets from 
acquisitions, impairment of goodwill, 
exceptional pension credit and restructuring 
costs. If these are added back, the resultant tax 
charge of £19.3m (2012 – £18.6m) represented 
an underlying rate of 19.7% (2012 – 20.4%) 
on the adjusted profit before tax of £98.1m 
(2012 – £91.1m).
EARNINGS PER SHARE
The weighted average number of shares, 
for the purposes of calculating undiluted 
earnings per share, increased to 414.7 million 
(2012 – 408.5 million). Adjusted earnings 
per share increased by 7.0% to 19.00 pence 
(2012 – 17.75 pence). Basic earnings per 
share increased by 0.6% to 17.22 pence 
(2012 – 17.11 pence). See Note 12 for 
details of these calculations.
DIVIDENDS
A final dividend of 3.60 pence per share 
is proposed for 2013 (2012 – 3.27 pence), 
payment of which, if approved, would total 
£15.0m (2012 final dividend – £13.6m) and 
would be paid on 30 May 2014 to shareholders 
on the register at close of business on 2 May 
2014. This would bring the total dividends paid 
and proposed in respect of 2013 to 5.12 pence 
per share, an increase of 10% over 2012 and 
slightly ahead of the increase in adjusted 
earnings per share. At the level recommended, 
the full-year dividend would be covered 
3.7 times (2012 – 3.8 times) by adjusted 
earnings per share. The cash outflow incurred 
during 2013 in respect of the final dividend for 
2012 and the interim dividend for 2013 was 
£19.9m (2012 – £16.4m).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The Group’s expenditure on research and 
development increased slightly to £12.9m 
during 2013 (2012 – £12.8m). Expenditure was 
incurred mainly on designing and engineering 
products in accordance with individual customer 
specifications and developing specific 
manufacturing processes for their production.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Gross capital expenditure increased by 14% 
in 2013 to £29.7m (2012 – £26.1m), principally 
representing investment in future growth 
programmes and necessary replacement 
and compliance expenditure. The Group’s 
operations remain well capitalised. The 
disposal of assets no longer required raised 
£0.9m (2012 – £0.1m). A higher level of capital 
expenditure is anticipated for 2014, although 
the extent will be dependent primarily on the 
timing of build rate increases in the large 
commercial aircraft segment and the Group 
securing the expected new programme wins 
in both Divisions.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 
December 2013 may be summarised as follows: 
Assets
£m
l iabilities
£m
net
 assets
£m
Property, plant and 
equipment 142.6 – 142.6
Goodwill and 
intangible assets 242.5 – 242.5
Investment in joint 
venture 1.0 – 1.0
Current assets and 
liabilities 213.7 (144.1) 69.6
Other non-current 
assets and liabilities 7.5 (16.9) (9.4)
Retirement benefit 
obligations – (25.6) (25.6)
Total before net debt 607.3 (186.6) 420.7
Net debt 53.1 (112.3) (59.2)
Total at 
31 December 2013 660.4 (298.9) 361.5
Total at 
31 December 2012 624.3 (311.4) 312.9
FREE CASH FLOW BRIDGE (£M)
The Group continues to generate significant free  
cash flow by focusing on continuous improvements  
in all areas of the business and by maintaining tight 
controls over discretionary expenditure.
A Adjusted operating proﬁt
B  d e p r e c i a t i o n a n d 
amortisation
C o ther non-cash items
D Working capital
E n et capital expenditure
F  pensions in excess 
of service cost
G n et interest paid
H tax paid
I f ree cash ﬂow
J  s hare purchase net 
of issue proceeds
K  A c q u isi t io n s a n d 
Jv investment
L d ividends paid
M n et cash ﬂow
I H G F M L K J E D C B A
(0.8) 63.8
(6.0)
(7.9)
12.1
(19.9)
(31.0)
(7.7)
(28.8)
(19.1) 3.4
22.3
107.6
£m
Net assets increased by 15.5% in the year 
to £361.5m (2012 – £312.9m), in the main 
as a result of an increase in working capital 
of £19.1m, in property, plant and equipment 
of £7.8m and goodwill of £5.8m and by a 
reduction in the retirement benefit obligation 
of £11.5m and in net debt of £11.7m. These 
positive movements were partially offset by 
an increase in the net deferred tax liability of 
£4.4m and an increase in current tax liability 
of £2.8m. Net assets per share increased by 
14.9% to 86.9 pence (2012 – 75.6 pence). 
There were 415.9 million ordinary shares in 
issue at the end of 2013 (2012 – 413.9 million).
PENSIONS
Retirement benefit obligations, as calculated in 
accordance with IAS 19, decreased by £11.5m 
to £25.6m (2012 – £37.1m) principally due to 
the positive impact of an increase in the value 
of assets, with asset returns in excess of 
expectations, £7.7m cash contributions in 
excess of service costs and a £1.1m 
curtailment credit in respect of the closure 
of one of the US pension schemes, partially 
offset by an increase in inflation assumptions.
Following consultation with the members of 
the Senior plc Pension Plan, the Group has 
decided to close the Plan to future accrual 
from April 2014.
CASH FLOW
The Group generated significant free cash 
flow (whose derivation is set out in the table 
overleaf) of £63.8m in 2013, £6.2m above the 
£57.6m achieved in 2012. The main driver of 
the year’s performance was cash generated 
from operations of £106.5m, which is stated 
after taking into account additional pension 
contributions in excess of service costs of 
£7.7m (2012 – £13.7m), and a working capital 
outflow of £19.1m (2012 – £10.2m outflow).
The positive cash flow from operations was 
offset by net capital expenditure of £28.8m 
(2012 – £26.0m) and tax and interest payments 
totalling £13.9m (2012 – £16.2m).
The strong cash flow enabled the Group to 
fund the acquisitions of Atlas and Thermal 
from existing cash and debt facilities, for total 
consideration (net of cash acquired) of £2.4m 
and £28.1m, respectively, and still resulted in 
a satisfactory decline in net debt of £11.7m 
during the year. Net debt at the year-end 
was £59.2m (2012 – £70.9m).
 
25 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating profit from 
continuing operations 93.3 93.7
Discontinued operations 
profit before tax – 0.8
Depreciation and 
amortisation 26.5 25.1
Share of loss in joint venture 0.3 0.1
Working capital movement (19.1) (10.2)
Pension payments above 
service cost (7.7) (7.7)
Additional discretionary 
pension payments – (6.0)
Impairment of goodwill 12.7 –
Reversal of contingent 
consideration payable (3.8) –
Other items 4.3 4.0
Cash generated from 
operations 106.5 99.8
Interest paid (net) (7.9) (7.6)
Tax paid (6.0) (8.6)
Capital expenditure (29.7) (26.1)
Sale of fixed assets 0.9 0.1
Free cash flow 63.8 57.6
Dividends (19.9) (16.4)
Acquisitions (30.5) (28.1)
Investment in joint venture (0.5) (0.9)
Proceeds on disposal 
of subsidiary – 4.5
Share issues 0.1 2.3
Purchase of shares held 
by employee benefit trust (0.9) (1.0)
Foreign exchange variations (0.4) 4.1
Opening net debt (70.9) (93.0)
Closing net debt (59.2) (70.9)
NET DEBT
Net debt decreased by £11.7m in the year 
to £59.2m (2012 – £70.9m). The main reason 
for this reduction was cash generated from 
operations of £106.5m (2012 – £99.8m), 
partially offset by expenditure on acquisitions of 
£30.5m and investing a further £0.5m in the 
Group’s joint venture in China totalling £31.0m 
(2012 – £29.0m), and gross capital expenditure 
of £29.7m (2012 – £26.1m). At the year-end, net 
debt comprised gross borrowings (including 
finance leases of £0.7m) of £112.3m 
(31 December 2012 – £115.4m), with 99% 
of the Group’s gross borrowings in US dollars 
(31 December 2012 – 99%), and cash and 
cash equivalents of £53.1m (31 December 
2012 – £44.5m).
The Group’s committed borrowing facilities 
contain a requirement that the ratio of EBITDA 
(adjusted profit before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation) to net interest costs must 
exceed 3.5x, and that the ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA must not exceed 3.0x. At 31 December 
2013, the Group was operating well within these 
covenants as the ratio of EBITDA to net interest 
costs was 15.4x (31 December 2012 – 15.7x) 
and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 0.5x 
(31 December 2012 – 0.6x).
LIQUIDITY
As at 31 December 2013, the Group’s gross 
borrowings excluding finance leases were 
£111.6m (2012 – £114.4m). The maturity of 
these borrowings, together with the maturity 
of the Group’s committed facilities, can be 
analysed as follows:
Gross
borrowings
(1)
£m
Committed
facilities
£m
Within one year 21.2 21.0
In the second year 15.1 27.3
In years three to five 63.3 123.3
After five years 12.0 12.0
111.6 183.6
(1)
  Gross borrowings include the use of bank overdrafts, 
other loans and committed facilities, but exclude 
finance leases of £0.7m.
At the year-end, the Group had committed 
facilities of £183.6m with a weighted average 
maturity of 3.1 years. The Group is in a strong 
funding position, with headroom of £124.4m 
under these facilities and no borrowings due 
for repayment until a private placement loan 
of £21.0m matures in October 2014.
GOODWILL
A goodwill impairment charge of £12.7m was 
taken in the first half of 2013 in respect of the 
January 2008 acquisition of Capo Industries, 
as the anticipated recovery in its key business 
and regional jet engine markets has not yet 
materialised and expectations for future 
operating margins are consequently lower. 
In November 2013, the decision was taken 
to merge Capo Industries into our Ketema 
operation. This decision has resulted in one-off 
costs of £1.9m being taken in 2013; savings 
of £1.2m p.a. are anticipated from 2015. 
In addition, the contingent consideration of 
£3.8m is no longer payable to the sellers of GA 
and was consequently released to profit in the 
period. Both the goodwill impairment charge 
and contingent consideration amounts are 
excluded from adjusted profit before tax.
GOING CONCERN BASIS
The Group’s business activities, performance 
and position are set out above in the Financial 
Review and the Divisional Business Reviews. 
These include a description of the financial 
position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities. In addition, 
a review of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that are likely to affect the Group’s future 
development is set out on pages 14 and 15. 
A summary of the Group’s policies and 
processes in respect of capital and financial 
risk management, including foreign exchange 
and liquidity risks, is included in Note 21.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital 
and other funding requirements through a 
combination of long-term funding, in the form 
of revolving credit and private placement 
facilities, and short-term overdraft borrowing. 
At 31 December 2013, 99% of the Group’s 
gross debt was financed via revolving credit 
and private placement facilities, with an 
average maturity of 3.1 years. The Group is 
profitable, cash generative and well funded 
with net debt of £59.2m compared to £183.6m 
of committed borrowing facilities, and has no 
major borrowing facility renewal before 
October 2014.
However, economic conditions inevitably 
vary and so potentially create uncertainty, 
particularly over the level of demand for the 
Group’s products and the exchange rate 
between the Pound Sterling and the US dollar. 
This exchange rate is important to the Group’s 
financial performance given that around 66% 
of the Group’s profits in 2013 were earned in 
the USA and 99% of its gross borrowings at 
31 December 2013 were denominated in 
US dollars. For these reasons, a sensitivity 
analysis has been performed on the Group’s 
forecasts and projections, to take account of 
reasonably possible changes in trading 
performance together with foreign exchange 
fluctuations under the hedging policies that 
are in place. This analysis shows that the Group 
will be able to operate well within the level 
of its current committed borrowing facilities 
and banking covenants under all reasonably 
foreseeable scenarios. As a consequence, the 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence 
for the foreseeable future, and the Board has 
continued to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Group’s Annual Report & 
Accounts 2013.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies adopted in the 
Financial Statements are consistent with those 
followed in the preparation of the Group’s 
Annual Report & Accounts 2012, except for the 
adoption of Standards and Interpretations that 
are effective for the current financial year. 
These are highlighted in Note 2 of the Financial 
Statements, and do not have a material impact 
on the presentation of the Group’s results.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group’s related party transactions are 
between the Company and its subsidiaries, 
and have been eliminated on consolidation.
DEREK HARDING
Group Finance Director
Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 26
2013 PERFORMANCE continued The Executive Committee, although not 
formally appointed as a Committee of the 
Board, oversees the running of all Senior 
Group operations. 
The purpose of the Executive Committee  
is to assist the Group Chief Executive in 
the performance of his duties, including:
•	 the development and implementation 
of strategy, operational plans, policies, 
procedures and budgets;
•	 the monitoring of operating and financial 
performance;
•	 the assessment and control of risk;
•	 the prioritisation and allocation of 
resources; and
•	 the monitoring of competitive forces 
in each area of operation.
The Committee is also responsible for 
the consideration of all other matters not 
specifically reserved for consideration by 
the Board. A report on the activities of the 
Executive Committee is provided to the 
Board by the Group Chief Executive at 
each Board meeting.
The Committee is comprised of two 
members of the Board, Mark Rollins and 
Derek Harding, together with Launie 
Fleming (Chief Executive of Aerospace 
Fluid Systems), Jerry Goodwin (Chief 
Executive of Aerospace Structures), Mike 
Sheppard (Chief Executive of Flexonics), 
Peter Woolfrey (Group Head of Business 
Development) and Bindi Foyle (Group 
Financial Controller). Simon Nicholls, the 
former Group Finance Director, sat on the 
Executive Committee until he resigned 
from the Board in April 2014 to take up a 
new role. Biographies of the Committee 
members are set out opposite. Bindi Foyle 
also acts as Secretary to this Committee.
HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT  
(“HSE”) COMMITTEE
The HSE committee is also not formally 
appointed as a Committee of the Board, 
but officially oversees all health, safety and 
environmental matters across the Group.
Throughout 2013, the members of this 
committee were: Mark Rollins (Chairman), 
Mike Sheppard (Chief Executive of 
Flexonics), Jerry Goodwin (Chief Executive 
of Aerospace Structures), Launie Fleming 
(Chief Executive of Aerospace Fluid 
Systems) and James Pomeroy (Group HSE 
Manager). The Committee met four times 
during the year.
1 MARK ROLLINS
See biography on page 29 
2 DEREK HARDING
See biography on page 28
3 LAUNIE FLEMING
A US citizen, he has worked for the Group  
for around 15 years. He joined the Executive 
Committee upon his appointment as Chief 
Executive of Aerospace Fluid Systems in 
September 2008. Prior to that appointment  
he had been Chief Executive of Senior 
Aerospace SSP.
4 JERRY GOODWIN 
A US citizen, he joined the Group in June  
2007 as the Chief Executive of Senior 
Aerospace AMT. He was appointed Chief 
Executive of Aerospace Structures in 
December 2010. Prior to joining Senior, Jerry 
served as Vice President and General Manager 
at C & D Zodiac, a composites aerospace 
manufacturing company.
5 MIKE SHEPPARD 
A US citizen, he has worked for the Group 
for 30 years and is the Chief Executive  
of Flexonics. A qualified engineer, Mike’s 
previous positions within the Group  
included operational roles at the two  
largest Flexonics businesses, Pathway  
and Bartlett.
6 BINDI FOYLE
A Chartered Accountant, she joined the Group 
in 2006 as the Group Financial Controller. She 
is a member of the Executive Committee and 
acts as its Secretary; she also sits on the 
Group’s Treasury Committee. Prior to joining 
Senior, she held a number of finance positions 
at Amersham plc and GE Healthcare.
7 PETER WOOLFREY
The Group Head of Business Development, 
he joined the Group in 2009. He has an 
engineering background with extensive 
international experience in the aerospace 
industry, having worked for Smiths 
Aerospace and GE Aviation in a number  
of business development roles.
In early 2014, Peter Woolfrey is to take up  
a newly created divisional role in Business 
Development, which will be on a part-time 
transitional basis leading up to his retirement.
David Beavan will become the Group  
Head of Business Development. David joined 
the Group in 2004, when he was appointed 
the Chief Executive of Senior Aerospace 
BWT. Prior to joining Senior, David had 
general management experience within 
automotive and commercial aircraft 1st  
tier supplier industries.
APPROVAL
The Strategic Report from pages 1 to 27  
was approved by the Board of Directors on 
28 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by
MAr K rollin S
Group Chief Executive
7 
1 
3
5
2
4
6
 
27 Senior plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 www.seniorplc.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Charles Berry  
Chairman
Appointment to the Board Charles Berry 
was appointed to the Board in March 2012 
and became non-executive Chairman and 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
on 27 April 2012.
External Appointments Chairman of Drax 
Group plc and of The Weir Group PLC.
Previous Experience He was an Executive 
Director of Scottish Power plc from 1999 
to 2005 and Chief Executive of their UK 
Operations between 2000 and 2005. 
Prior to joining Scottish Power, he was Group 
Development Director of Norwest Holst, a 
subsidiary of Compagnie General des Eaux, 
and held management positions within 
subsidiaries of Pilkington plc. He is a former 
non-executive director and Chairman of Eaga plc 
and Thus Group plc, and a former non-executive 
director of Impax Environmental Markets PLC 
and Securities Trust of Scotland plc.
Qualifications BSc (Hons) in Electrical 
Engineering and MSc in Management.
Davi D Best* 
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board David Best joined 
the Board in May 2007. David is the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee.
Previous Experience 
He was formerly Group Finance Director of 
Xansa plc and worked in the United States  
for a number of years, most recently with 
Lockheed Martin.
Qualifications Chartered Accountant 
and Certified Public Accountant (USA).
* David Best is to retire from the Board in April 2014.
Celia Ba Xter 
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board Celia Baxter 
joined the Board on 2 September 2013. She 
became Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
in December 2013 when Ian Much retired from 
the Board. 
External Appointments She is the Director 
of Group HR of Bunzl plc.
Previous Experience Her early HR career was 
with Ford Motor Company and KPMG. She has 
held executive HR positions with Hays plc, 
Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc.
Qualifications Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) 
and Member of Chartered Institute of 
Personnel & Development.
Giles Kerr 
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board Giles Kerr joined 
the Board on 2 September 2013. Giles will 
become Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
when David Best retires in April 2014.
External Appointments He is Director of 
Finance of Oxford University and is a non-
executive director of BTG Plc and Victrex plc.
Previous Experience Giles held a number of 
positions with Amersham PLC within finance 
and corporate development, culminating in 
his role as Group Finance Director. He was 
formerly a Partner with Arthur Andersen & Co.
Qualifications BA (Hons) in Economics 
and a Chartered Accountant.
Ian Much joined the Board in 2005 and 
retired from it on 5 December 2013; he was 
an independent non-executive Director of 
the Company during that period.
Dere K h ar Din G  
Group Finance Director
Appointment to the Board Derek Harding 
joined the Board on 2 September 2013.
Previous Experience He joined Senior from 
Wolseley plc, where he had worked for 11 years, 
most recently as Finance Director of Wolseley 
UK. Prior to this, he undertook a number of 
group roles including Director of Group Strategy 
& Investor Relations and Head of Mergers 
& Acquisitions. He qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant with PricewaterhouseCoopers 
in 1998 following which he fulfilled audit 
and transaction services roles in the UK 
and USA before joining Wolseley in 2002.
Qualifications BSc (Hons) in Banking & 
Finance and a Chartered Accountant.
Simon Nicholls joined the Board in 2008, 
when he was appointed Group Finance 
Director. He left Senior at the end of April 
2013 to become Chief Financial Officer 
of Cobham plc.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 28
Boar D of D ire Ctors Mar K r ollins 
Group Chief Executive
Appointment to the Board Mark Rollins 
became Group Finance Director in 2000, when 
he joined the Board. He became Group Chief 
Executive in March 2008. 
External Appointments Non-executive 
director of The Vitec Group PLC.
Previous Experience He joined the Group 
in 1998 from Morgan Crucible plc. He was 
formerly a non-executive director of 
WSP Group plc.
Qualifications BEng (Hons) in 
Civil & Structural Engineering and 
a Chartered Accountant.
Boar D an D Co MMittee M e MBershi P
Membership and the attendance record of the main Board and its Committees is shown in the 
table below.
Main Board
Audit 
c ommittee
n ominations
 c ommittee
remuneration
 c ommittee
c hair Charles Berry David Best Charles Berry
Ian Much/
Celia Baxter
Total number of meetings 9 3 3 6
Charles Berry 9/9 – 3/3 6/6
Celia Baxter
(1)
3/3 1/1 1/1 1/1
David Best 9/9 3/3 3/3 6/6
Andy Hamment 9/9 3/3 3/3 6/6
Derek Harding
(2)
3/3 – – –
Giles Kerr
(3)
3/3 1/1 1/1 1/1
Ian Much
(4)
8/9 3/3 3/3 6/6
Simon Nicholls
(5)
3/3 – – –
Mark Rollins 9/9 – – –
Mark E. Vernon 8/9 – 2/3 5/6
(1)  
Celia Baxter – appointed a non-executive Director on 2 September 2013 and became chair of the Remuneration 
Committee on 5 December 2013 following the retirement of Ian Much.
(2)
   Derek Harding – appointed as Group Finance Director on 2 September 2013 to replace Simon Nicholls.
(3)
  Giles Kerr – appointed a non-executive Director on 2 September 2013. Will become Chairman  
of the Audit Committee upon David Best’s retirement from the Group in April 2014.
(4)
  Ian Much – Senior Independent non-executive Director until he retired from the Board on 5 December 2013. 
(5)
 Simon Nicholls – Group Finance Director until he left the Board on 30 April 2013.
Mar K e . v ernon  
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board Mark E. Vernon 
joined the Board in April 2011. 
External Appointments He is a director 
of LiqTech International, Inc.
Previous Experience He was the Group Chief 
Executive of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc until 
his retirement in January 2014. He has had a 
long career in the industrial engineering industry, 
serving previously as Group Vice-president of 
Flowserve’s Flow Control Business Unit, Group 
Vice-president of Durco International and 
President of Valtek International, a global 
controls business. 
Qualifications BSc in Chemistry. 
a n Dy h a MMent  
Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Appointment to the Board Andy Hamment 
joined the Board in April 2011. In December 
2013 he became the Senior Independent 
Director, when Ian Much retired from 
the Board. 
External Appointments He is a non-
executive director of Chemring Group plc.
Previous Experience He was formerly Group 
Marketing Director of Ultra Electronics plc. He 
has worked in the aerospace and defence 
industry for most of his career, mainly in 
business development and management roles. 
He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director 
of the Controls business and participated in 
the management buyout that created 
Ultra Electronics.
Qualifications BA (Hons) in Economics.
a n Drew Bo Denha M  
Group Company Secretary
Andrew Bodenham, joined as Group 
Company Secretary in 2002. He acts as 
Secretary to the Senior plc Board and its 
Committees and also sits on the Group’s 
Treasury Committee.
Qualifications LLB (Hons) and 
a Chartered Secretary.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
29 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com The Directors present their Report and 
supplementary reports, together with the 
audited Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2013.
aC tivities an D Business r eview Senior plc is a holding company. The nature 
of the Group’s operations and its principal 
activities are set out in the Strategic Report 
on pages 1 to 27. Its Principal Group 
undertakings are shown on page 105. The 
Strategic Report includes details of the 
market overview; key growth drivers; our 
business model; strategic objectives; risk 
and uncertainties; key performance indicators 
and a summary of 2013 performance.
aC quisitions an D DisP osals On 8 February 2013 Senior acquired 100% of 
the issued share capital of Atlas Composites 
Limited, together with its holding company. 
On 29 November 2013 Senior acquired 
100% of the issued share capital of Thermal 
Engineering Limited, together with its holding 
company, for a total consideration of £28.3m 
less cash acquired of £0.2m. Further details of 
these businesses are given on pages 8 and 95.
r esults anD Divi DenDs The results for the year are shown in the 
Consolidated Income Statement on page 60.
An interim dividend of 1.52 pence per share 
(2012 – 1.38 pence) has already been paid and 
the Directors recommend a final dividend of 
3.60 pence per share (2012 – 3.27 pence). The 
final dividend, if approved, will be payable on 
30 May 2014 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 2 May 2014. This 
would bring the total dividend for the year to 
5.12 pence per share (2012 – 4.65 pence).
s hare Ca Pital
The Company has one class of ordinary 
shares, which carries no right to a fixed 
income. Each share carries the right to vote at 
general meetings of the Company. Changes 
in the Company’s issued share capital during 
2013 were:
Shares in issue at 1 January 2013 413,851,869
Senior plc Long-term Incentive Plan 2,039,740
Senior plc Savings-Related  
Share Option Plan 42,422
Shares in issue at  
31 December 2013 415,934,031
Further share capital details are given in 
Note 26.
Details of employee share plans are set out 
on pages 98 to 100.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of 
a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which 
are both governed by the general provisions 
of the Company’s Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation. The Directors are not 
aware of any agreements between holders 
of the Company’s shares that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights. No person has any special 
rights of control over the Company’s share 
capital, and all issued shares are fully paid. 
With regard to the appointment and 
replacement of Directors, the Company is 
governed by its Articles of Association, the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Companies 
Act 2006 and related legislation. The Articles 
may be amended by special resolution of the 
shareholders. The powers of Directors are 
described in the Matters Reserved for the PLC 
Board, which may be found on the Company’s 
website. Each year, shareholder approval is 
sought to renew the Board’s authority to allot 
relevant securities. 
There are also a number of other agreements 
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a 
change of control of the Company, such as 
commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, 
property lease arrangements, and employees’ 
share plans. None of these are considered  
to be significant in terms of their likely impact 
on the business of the Group as a whole. 
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of 
any agreements between the Company and  
its Directors or employees that provide for 
compensation for loss of office or employment 
that occurs because of a takeover bid. 
f inanC ial instru Ments Note 21 contains disclosures on 
Financial Instruments.
Dire Ctors Details of the Directors who served throughout 
the year can be found on pages 28 and 29. 
The Directors’ interests in the shares of the 
Company are included in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 53. None of the 
Directors has any interest in contracts with the 
Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
The provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code require that all Directors of 
FTSE 350 companies should be subject to 
annual election by shareholders. Charles Berry, 
Andy Hamment, Mark Rollins and Mark E. 
Vernon will all stand for re-election at the 
Annual General Meeting (the “AGM”) in 
April 2014. Celia Baxter, Derek Harding and 
Giles Kerr were all appointed to the Board in 
September 2013 and offer themselves for 
election at the AGM.
Boar D Diversity The Board remains committed to diversity, 
previously having an aspirational goal of 15% 
female Board representation by the end of 
2013. The appointment of Celia Baxter to the 
Board means this goal was broadly met. The 
engineering sector suffers from a shortage  
of female personnel and as a result it can be 
hard to find appropiate candidates. It should be 
noted that Senior takes into account all aspects 
of a potential candidate, not just diversity.
Dire Ctors’ i n De Mnities Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for 
the benefit of the Directors were renewed by 
the Company during the year and remain in 
force at the date of this Report.
r esearC h an D DeveloPM ent In 2013, the Group incurred £12.9m 
(2012 – £12.8m) on research and development, 
before recoveries from customers of £3.1m 
(2012 – £1.3m). Product development and 
improving manufacturing techniques represent 
the primary focus of the Group’s research and 
development activities.
PolitiC al Donations No political donations were made during 
the year.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 30
re Port of the Dire Ctors So far as is known, no other shareholder had a 
notifiable interest amounting to 3% or more of 
the issued share capital of the Company, and 
the Directors believe that the close company 
provisions of the Income and Corporation 
Taxes Act 1988 (as amended) do not apply 
to the Company.
Co MPlian Ce with the u K Cor Porate 
GovernanC e Co De The statements of compliance with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council 
are set out on page 32.
Dire Ctors’ r e Muneration r e Port an D Poli Cy The Company’s policy on executive Directors’ 
remuneration is set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 55. The  
Annual Report on Remuneration is to be put  
to shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy is also to 
be put to shareholder vote at the forthcoming 
AGM; the Remuneration Policy is set out on 
pages 41 to 46.
annual General Meetin G
The Notice of Meeting describes the business 
to be considered at the AGM to be held 
at 11.30 am on Friday 25 April 2014 at 
Watersmeet, High Street, Rickmansworth 
WD3 1EH. 
aC quisition of the Co MPany’s 
own shares The Company purchased no ordinary shares  
of 10p each in the capital of the Company 
during the year. At the end of the year, the 
Directors had authority, under the shareholders’ 
resolutions dated 26 April 2013, to make 
market purchases of the Company’s shares 
up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£41m, which represented approximately 10% 
of the issued share capital of the Company. 
A resolution to renew this authority will be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
a u Ditor
Each of the persons who is a Director of  
the Company at the date of approval of this 
Annual Report confirms that:
•	 so far as the Director is aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s Auditor is unaware; and 
•	 the Director has taken all steps that he/she  
ought to have taken as a Director in order  
to make himself/herself aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s Auditor is aware of  
that information.
This information is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions  
of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as  
the Company’s Auditor and to authorise the 
Directors to set the Auditor’s remuneration  
will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By Order of the Board
a n Drew Bo Denha M
Group Company Secretary
28 February 2014
eMP loyees The Group promotes the dissemination of 
relevant information, so that employees are 
kept regularly advised of Group and local 
operation developments. Where appropriate, 
local briefing sessions are held concerning 
such matters as health and safety, pension 
plans and healthcare benefits.
Poli Cy on Pay Ment of Cre Ditors The Group’s policy is to set the terms of 
payment with its suppliers when agreeing 
the terms of each transaction, and to seek to 
adhere to those terms. In 2013 the Company 
signed up to the UK Prompt Payment Code, 
which promotes the fair treatment of suppliers. 
Based on the ratio of Company trade creditors 
at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced 
during the year by suppliers, the number of 
days outstanding at the year-end was 18 days 
(2012 – 12 days). Payment terms adhered to 
by the Company are typically in the range of 
30 to 45 days.
Greenhouse G as e Missions The Group has followed 2013 UK Government 
reporting guidance on greenhouse gas 
emissions; details of the Group’s emissions 
can by found on page 17.
Major sharehol Din Gs The Company had been notified that  
the following shareholders were interested  
in 3% or more of the issued share capital  
of the Company:
12.02.14
%
31.12.13
%
BlackRock Investment 
Management 14.05 14.52
Henderson Global 
Investors 7.44 7.44
Legal & General 
Investment Management 4.98 5.09
Scottish Widows 
Investment Partnership 4.32 4.32
Schroder Investment 
Management 3.79 3.84
Kames Capital 3.52 3.52
Old Mutual Asset Managed 3.32 3.35
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
31 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com Chair Man’s l etter I am pleased to present the Group’s 
Corporate Governance Report for 2013  
on behalf of the Board. This report is 
intended to provide shareholders with a 
clear and meaningful explanation of what 
governance means to the Board and how 
this guides its decision-making process. 
Good corporate governance is taken 
seriously across the Group; the Board  
sets the tone and takes the lead on all 
governance matters.
I am pleased to confirm that the Board 
reviewed the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code in 2013 and  
I confirm that the Company complies,  
and will continue to comply with it. A more 
detailed report is set out on pages 32 to 34.
Charles Berry Chairman
se Ction a : l ea DershiP
The Board is structured under a non-executive 
Chairman, and currently includes two executive 
Directors and five independent non-executive 
Directors, who were selected for appointment 
because of their wide industrial and 
commercial experience. One independent 
non-executive Director is to retire from the 
Board at the close of the 2014 AGM as 
previously announced, following a handover 
period; the details are given on page 28.
In addition, there is an Executive Committee, 
chaired by the Group Chief Executive, 
comprising the executive Directors and  
other key executives within the Group.  
Details of the members of the Board  
and of the Executive Committee are  
summarised on pages 27 to 29.
The Directors consider that an effective Board 
is in place which leads and controls the Group, 
with clear divisions of responsibility between 
the running of the Board and the running of  
the Group’s businesses. 
The Board is responsible for strategic decisions 
affecting the Group, including the setting of 
commercial strategy and the approval of Group 
budgets and financial statements. It also 
approves significant financial and contractual 
commitments made by the Group. The Board’s 
Terms of Reference more fully describe the 
responsibilities of the Board and may be  
found on the Company’s website.
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities 
to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations,  
and Health, Safety & Environment (“HSE”) 
Committees. The Group Chief Executive, 
together with the Executive Committee, is 
responsible for the implementation of the 
decisions made by the Board and for the 
day-to-day conduct of the Group’s operations. 
The Board meets formally on a regular basis  
(nine times in 2013); in addition there were 
three meetings of the Audit Committee in 
2013, together with six meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee and three meetings  
of the Nominations Committee. There was  
full attendance at every Board meeting and 
Committee of the Board during the year  
with the exceptions noted on page 29. Other 
committees are appointed by the Board to deal 
with treasury matters and specific issues such 
as acquisitions and disposals.
The minutes arising from all Committee 
meetings are made available to the Board. 
Procedures are in place to ensure that all 
Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions 
taken by the Board are based on the fullest 
available information. The non-executive 
Directors are encouraged to visit the Group’s 
operations to meet the local management 
teams and discuss any issues that they may 
face. At every Board meeting there are reviews 
of operational, financial and administrative 
matters. Health, safety and environmental 
performance is reviewed by the Board on a 
regular basis; social and ethical issues, the 
agreement of budgets and levels of insurance 
cover are reviewed whenever appropriate.
There is a procedure by which all Directors can 
obtain independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense in furtherance of their 
duties, if required.
se Ction B: e ffe Ctiveness The Company’s Nominations Committee  
leads the process for Board appointments,  
and supervises management development  
and succession planning. It also makes 
recommendations to the Board on all new 
Board appointments and re-appointments, 
further details of which can be found on 
page 35. The Committee, which consists 
entirely of non-executive Directors, is chaired 
by Charles Berry, and its composition is shown 
on page 28 its Terms of Reference may be 
found on the Company’s website. The Board 
considers all non-executive Directors of the 
Company  to be independent, having taken 
into account  a list of relationships and 
circumstances  that may appear relevant in 
determining independence, in accordance 
with the Corporate Governance Code.
When appointing new Directors, the 
Nominations Committee is fully cognisant of 
the benefits of diversity; the Board’s policy on 
diversity is described on page 30.
Simon Nicholls left the Group at the end of 
April 2013 and Derek Harding succeeded him 
as Group Finance Director in September 2013. 
Also in September 2013, Celia Baxter and Giles 
Kerr were appointed non-executive Directors  
replacing Ian Much, who retired from the Board 
in December 2013, and David Best who will 
step down from the Board at the conclusion 
of the AGM in April 2014. All three Directors’ 
appointments were made in accordance with 
the Company’s formal and rigorous Board 
appointment procedures described above. 
Zygos Partnership was the consultancy firm 
appointed to manage the recruitment process 
for the Group Finance Director and Korn Ferry 
Whitehead Mann managed the recruitment of 
the two new non-executive Directors; neither 
recruitment consultancy firm has any connection 
with the Company. A summary of the Directors’ 
biographies appears on pages 28 and 29. All 
Directors receive induction upon joining the 
Board and are encouraged to update their 
knowledge and skills on a regular basis.
Cor Porate G overnan Ce re Port This Corporate Governance Report describes 
the manner in which the Company has 
applied the Main Principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Corporate 
Governance Code”).
s tate Ment of Co MPlian Ce with the 
Cor Porate Governan Ce Co De The Company has been in compliance with  
the Principles set out in Sections A to E of  
the Corporate Governance Code throughout 
the year.
aPP liC ation of the PrinC iP les of the 
Cor Porate Governan Ce Co De The Principles of good corporate governance 
are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code 
under five areas. These Principles have each 
been reviewed by the Directors and are 
commented upon as follows:
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 32
Cor Porate G overnan Ce re Port  To enable the members of the Board and its 
Committees to discharge their duties 
effectively, the Group Company Secretary 
seeks to ensure that all relevant information  
is provided to the Directors in a timely manner, 
in advance of meetings.
Following a formal review of the Board and its 
Committees by Independent Audit Limited in 
2012, the Board undertook a self-assessment 
exercise in 2013, guided by Independent Audit 
Limited. The review’s findings showed that the 
Board operated effectively throughout the 
period and made some suggestions for its 
future development. The findings will be used 
to help support the development of the Board 
as the Group continues with its strategy to 
grow profitability, both organically and by 
acquisition. Independent Audit Limited has  
no other connection with the Company.
In addition, the Chairman undertook a review  
of the performance of individual Directors;  
this process involved one-on-one appraisal 
interviews. The results of the evaluation 
process are used to improve Board 
performance and to determine the training 
needs of the Directors. Ian Much, in 
consultation with the Directors, undertook  
an evaluation of the Chairman’s performance, 
and concluded that Charles Berry provided 
effective leadership of the Board. Based on the 
results of the performance evaluation process, 
the Chairman considers that all members  
of the Board, the Board collectively, and its 
Committees, continue to contribute effectively 
to the running of the Company.
In compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Code, all Directors offered themselves for 
re-election at the Company’s AGM 2013. At 
the forthcoming AGM, all Directors will again 
offer themselves for election or re-election, 
with the exception of David Best, who is to 
retire from the Board at the conclusion of 
the Meeting.
se Ction C: aCC ounta Bility 
The Board determines the nature and extent  
of the significant actions necessary to achieve 
its strategic objectives and maintains a sound 
system of internal control. The Company’s 
Audit Committee reports to and, for certain 
matters, advises the Board of Directors.  
The Audit Committee Report on pages 36 to 
39 describes the role and activities of the Audit 
Committee, together with the significant 
issues that it considered in relation to the 2013 
Financial Statements and its relationship with 
the internal and external auditor. 
An explanation of how the Board assessed  
the effectiveness of the external audit process, 
the approach taken to reappoint the external 
Auditor and the Company’s policy on the 
tendering of the external audit are to be  
found on pages 38 and 39.
c ommunicating the c ode 
Senior trains its employees on the 
requirements of its Code of Business Conduct 
upon induction, educating them what they can 
and cannot do, and how to address any ethical 
dilemmas they may face. The Code is re-issued 
periodically to remind employees of the 
required level of conduct. The Group’s ethical 
procedures and Code of Business Conduct 
(the “Code”) were reviewed in the light of the 
UK Bribery Act 2010 and anti-bribery training 
was rolled out across the Group in 2012; 
this training is now routinely operated on 
an ongoing basis to new employees and 
as a refresher course to existing employees, 
as and when appropriate.
The Board verifies compliance with the Code 
through its internal audit programme, ensuring 
that employees have received the mandatory 
training and its businesses operate with 
integrity at all times and in compliance with 
the Code. 
o perating with integrity
Operating with integrity and in an ethical 
manner builds trust with customers and other 
stakeholders and underpins the Board’s 
strategic objectives.
Human rights
The Group recognises the importance of the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
(“UDHR”) and adheres to the core principles 
and values defined within it. The majority of 
countries in which Senior operates have their 
own laws banning child labour and promoting 
human rights. We monitor the age of our 
workforce across the world to ensure 
compliance and identify any potential 
succession issues.
Senior does not restrict any of its employees in 
any of the countries in which it operates from 
joining a trade union if they wish to do so. 
Senior also works closely with its suppliers to 
ensure that they at least meet internationally 
recognised minimum requirements 
for workers’ welfare and conditions 
of employment.
r eporting and investigating concerns 
and whistle-blowing
The Company encourages Group employees 
to discuss any ethical concerns that they  
may have with local management. In addition, 
employees are able to report any illegal and 
unethical concerns confidentially and 
anonymously within the Group. 
As part of its internal control procedures,  
the Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy 
that is communicated throughout the Group. 
This policy provides employees with the 
opportunity to report unethical or illegal 
corporate conduct. Andy Hamment is the 
Company’s Senior Independent Director, 
succeeding Ian Much, who retired from  
the Board in December 2013. His position 
provides employees with an alternative 
channel of communication to resolve issues  
if they have a concern that the Chairman, 
Group Chief Executive or Group Finance 
Director have failed to resolve, or where  
such contact is not appropriate. 
All reports are independently investigated  
and tracked from inception to resolution and, 
where necessary, actions are taken to rectify 
any weakness in systems that may have been 
identified. These actions, and the overall 
integrity of the reporting system, are subject 
to regular scrutiny by the Audit Committee. 
This process is also available to third parties, 
such as suppliers and customers. Subject to 
confidentiality considerations, the outcome  
of each investigation is provided in so far  
as is possible, to the complainant.
Managing external sales agents
The Board recognises the potential bribery  
and corruption risks posed by the markets in 
which the Group operates and, in particular,  
the use of third-party intermediaries it 
engages. All external sales agents working  
on behalf of Senior across the globe are being 
required to operate in compliance with the 
Supplier Code of Business Conduct. Local 
management conducts a due diligence and 
risk assessment process prior to engaging  
or re-appointing any sales agent and issues 
them with the Code, ensuring that they 
understand, acknowledge and accept its 
requirements. In 2013, the Board updated  
the Supplier Code of Business Conduct and 
improved the guidance it provided to  
the Group’s operations, giving detailed 
information on how they should conduct  
due diligence and risk assess sales agents.
Managing gifts and hospitality
The Board recognises that gifts and 
hospitality have the potential to create  
a conflict of interest, or the perception of  
a conflict of interest. As a result, there is  
a Group policy restricting the receiving and 
giving of gifts and hospitality from, and to, 
third parties. This policy requires that all gifts 
and hospitality must be recorded. The Head 
of Internal Audit assesses compliance with 
the Group’s gifts and hospitality policy  
during audit visits.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
33 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com Finance Director undertake a series of meetings 
with the Company’s major shareholders, 
following the announcement of the preliminary 
full-year and interim results, to discuss both the 
Board’s strategic objectives and the detailed 
performance of the business. During 2013, 
the Company’s non-executive Chairman also 
attended the preliminary full-year and interim 
results announcements made to analysts, in 
March and August respectively. No major 
shareholder requested a meeting with any of 
the non-executive Directors during the year. 
The Senior Independent Director is also available 
to attend meetings with major shareholders 
upon request, so providing an alternative 
channel of communication between the 
Company and its shareholders.
The Company makes constructive use of 
its AGMs to communicate with its private 
shareholders. A presentation on the Company’s 
annual performance is given following 
completion of the formal business at each 
AGM, and a copy of the presentation, together 
with other investor relations material, is 
available on the Company’s website.
improvements for 2014
In 2014, the Board will continue with the 
measures already established, ensuring that 
all employees and sales agents understand the 
Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code 
of Business Conduct, as appropriate, and 
comply with it, and ensuring that all ethical 
concerns raised are thoroughly investigated. 
The Board will also give increased focus to 
this area, by strengthening internal audits 
on compliance with these Codes, ensuring 
that the training and awareness of employees 
is fully effective and that the Code has been 
issued and acknowledged by all sales agents.
se Ction D: r e Muneration
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 40 to 55 describes the Board’s approach 
to remuneration matters.
se Ction e : r elations with sharehol Ders The Company maintains regular contact  
with its institutional shareholders and consulted 
with its major shareholders during 2013 when 
formulating its Remuneration Policy. Twice  
a year, the Group Chief Executive and Group 
Pro Xy votin G for the a GM 2013 resolutions 
Resolution
Number Resolution
Number 
of Votes
For
Number 
of Votes
 Against
Number 
of Votes
 Discretionary Abstentions
Total 
Votes Cast
 (Including
 Withheld)
1 To receive Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 301,926,756 6,000 230,813 4,172,793 306,336,362
2 To approve Directors’ remuneration report 2012 299,801,288 1,208,046 239,034 5,087,994 306,336,362
3 To declare final 2012 dividend 306,092,957 1,500 239,105 2,800 306,336,362
4 To re-elect Charles Berry 305,459,854 627,995 237,613 10,900 306,336,362
5 To re-elect Andy Hamment 305,320,464 773,285 232,213 10,400 306,336,362
6 To re-elect Mark Vernon 305,894,581 200,064 231,317 10,400 306,336,362
7 To re-elect David Best 305,294,964 773,285 232,213 35,900 306,336,362
8 To re-elect Ian Much 300,920,871 975,085 232,213 4,208,193 306,336,362
9 To re-elect Mark Rollins 306,037,590 22,400 240,972 35,400 306,336,362
10 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor 299,357,861 2,057,525 264,739 4,656,237 306,336,362
11 To determine the Auditor’s remuneration 303,791,226 1,640,843 253,477 650,816 306,336,362
12 General power to allot shares 303,601,235 2,278,181 233,215 223,731 306,336,362
13 General power to disapply pre-emption rights 305,210,452 834,619 235,205 56,086 306,336,362
14 To renew the share buy-back authority 305,741,209 150,225 237,650 207,278 306,336,362
15 To retain 14 day notice period 296,822,390 9,202,868 237,624 73,480 306,336,362
The total issued share capital of the Company 
as at 1 March 2013 (the date of the Notice of 
Meeting for the 2013 AGM), was 415.9 million 
ordinary shares of 10p each. The total number 
of proxy votes received for the AGM 2013 
represented approximately 73.73% 
(2012 – 75.47%) of the issued share capital 
of the Company. 
All resolutions put to shareholders at the 
AGM 2013 were passed on a poll. Details  
of the proxy voting received by the Company 
for the AGM 2013 resolutions are set out in  
the table below.
Details of the proxy voting received by the 
Company for the AGM 2014 resolutions will  
be made available on the Company’s website 
following the close of the meeting.
Charles Berry Chairman
28 February 2014
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 34
Cor Porate G overnan Ce re Port CONTINUED The Nominations Committee is chaired by 
myself, and comprised of all the non-executive 
Directors. The Committee attendance record 
is shown on page 29.
The Committee is tasked with administering 
the process for appointments, debating 
succession planning, regularly reviewing such 
processes and overseeing the composition of 
the Board. The Nominations Committee’s full 
Terms of Reference can be found on the 
Company’s website. 
The Nominations Committee enlists external 
consultancy firms to assist in the appointment 
of Directors to the Board. The Company 
provides the appointed consultancy firm with a 
role description, the required skills and personal 
attributes to be considered. The consultancy 
firm then filters a list of candidates down to a 
number of those that it feels meet the skills 
and attributes required. The consultancy firm 
then conducts preliminary interviews with the 
selected candidates, then referring them to 
Senior for interview together with a written 
analysis on each candidate. Candidates are 
interviewed by a number of members of the 
Board, with the final recruitment decision 
being taken by the Board as a whole.
Following the appointment of a Director, a 
full induction programme is provided by the 
Company. Within the induction process, areas 
such as financial forecasts, Group strategy and 
philosophy are explained, together with other 
relevant topics. Visits to the Group’s operations 
are also undertaken; this involves the new 
Director meeting local management teams 
and learning about the key issues faced by 
each operation.
The Nominations Committee and the Board 
has regard to Lord Davies’ review into Women 
on Boards (February 2011) and this has been 
reflected in the appointment of Celia Baxter to 
the Board. The Board is dedicated to promoting 
diversity and equality throughout the Group, 
regardless of geography or position.
The Nominations Committee met three times 
in 2013 and a particular focus of its efforts 
was the appointment of a new Group Finance 
Director and the recruitment of two new 
non-executive Directors:
aPP oint Ment of Grou P f inan Ce Dire Ctor Simon Nicholls, Senior’s former Group Finance 
Director, tendered his resignation in November 
2012, having been invited to take up a similar 
role at Cobham plc. It was agreed that he 
would leave Senior after the conclusion of 
the Company’s AGM held on 26 April 2013. 
A comprehensive recruitment process was 
undertaken with the support of The Zygos 
Partnership, based on a detailed candidate 
and person specification. 
The Committee, after taking into account all 
relevant factors concerning the candidates 
presented, recommended to the Board that 
Derek Harding be appointed as Group Finance 
Director. Derek is a Chartered Accountant, 
having qualified with PricewaterhouseCoopers 
in 1998, and had most recently worked as 
Finance Director of Wolseley UK, a £1.7bn 
revenue business. Prior to this, he had 
undertaken a number of roles within Wolseley, 
including Director of Group Strategy & Investor 
Relations and Head of Mergers & Acquisitions. 
The Board agreed the Committee’s 
recommendation and Derek Harding accepted 
the offer of employment in March 2013, to 
commence on 2 September 2013, when he 
was appointed to the Board.
aPP ointM ent of non-e Xe Cutive Dire Ctors Having served as a non-executive Director 
since December 2005, Ian Much retired from 
the Board in December 2013. David Best also 
notified the Company of his intention to retire 
from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 
AGM, having served as a non-executive 
Director since May 2007. 
As their replacements, the Company announced 
on 29 July 2013 the appointments of Celia 
Baxter and Giles Kerr as non-executive 
Directors with effect from 2 September 2013. 
Celia Baxter is the Director of Group HR of 
Bunzl plc. Her early HR career was with Ford 
Motor Company and KPMG. She has held 
executive HR positions with Hays plc, 
Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc. Giles 
Kerr is Director of Finance of Oxford University. 
He is a non-executive director of BTG Plc and 
Victrex plc. Giles held a number of positions 
with Amersham PLC within finance and 
corporate development, culminating in his role 
as Group Finance Director. He was formerly  
a partner with Arthur Andersen & Co. Senior 
was supported in the recruitment process for 
Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr by Korn Ferry 
Whitehead Mann.
I am very pleased to welcome Derek Harding, 
Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr to Senior. Derek’s 
time at Wolseley plc makes him an invaluable 
asset to the Group and his range of experience 
will be utilised here at Senior. Celia brings 
experience and competencies from her 
executive career in HR which will be of great 
value to Senior; Celia replaced Ian Much as 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee upon 
his retirement from the Board in December 
2013. Giles’ industry and financial experience 
make him an ideal addition to the Board and a 
suitably skilled Chair of the Audit Committee  
to replace David Best, when he retires from  
the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
Simon, Ian and David for their guidance and 
strong contributions to the Group’s success 
during their time as Directors of Senior.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee 
28 February 2014 
Dere K h ar Din G Celia Ba Xter Giles Kerr STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
35 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
n o Minations Co MMittee re Port Dear s harehol Der The Audit Committee has been established by 
the Board and consists entirely of independent 
non-executive Directors. The primary role of 
the Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity 
of the financial reporting of the Group and to 
ensure appropriate risk management and 
internal control procedures. To enable the 
Audit Committee to fulfil this role, its main 
responsibilities include:
•	 considering and making recommendations 
to the Board, and ultimately shareholders for 
approval, of the appointment of the external 
auditor, the audit fee, initiating tender 
processes in accordance with regulatory 
requirements, and any questions relating 
to the resignation or dismissal of the 
external auditor;
•	 assessing annually the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor, its 
compliance with regulatory requirements 
and authorising the provision, if any, of 
non-audit services;
•	 monitoring the integrity of the half-year  
and annual Accounts and related formal 
Company announcements, and reviewing 
significant financial reporting judgements 
contained within them, before their 
submission to the Board;
•	 discussing with the external auditor issues 
and reservations, if any, arising from the 
interim review and final audit and any other 
matters the external auditor may raise;
•	 reviewing and approving the terms of the 
management representation letter 
addressed to the external auditor;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of the internal 
audit function; considering the major findings 
of internal audit activities and management’s 
response; ensuring co-ordination between 
the Head of Internal Audit and the external 
auditor and ensuring that the internal audit 
function is adequately resourced and has 
appropriate standing within the Group;
•	 reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal controls and risk management 
systems ensuring that the process is active 
and dynamic; 
•	 understanding the strategy at both Group 
and operational levels to ensure that 
business risks and other relevant issues are 
effectively identified and communicated to 
the Board; 
•	 reviewing the Group’s Whistle-blowing 
Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures 
are in place for employees to raise, in 
confidence, any concerns that they may 
have relating to suspected malpractice, 
illegal acts, omissions or other unethical 
corporate conduct, regarding financial or 
other matters; and ensuring that 
arrangements are in place for investigation 
of such matters and follow-up action; and
•	 considering any other topics specifically 
delegated to the Committee by the Board 
from time to time.
The Audit Committee is required to report its 
findings to the Board, identifying any matters 
which it considers that action or improvement 
is needed, and to make recommendations as 
to the steps taken.
Co MPosition of the au Dit Co MMittee Member Appointment Date
David Best  
(Committee Chairman) 1 May 2007 
Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 
Andy Hamment 8 April 2011
Giles Kerr 2 September 2013 
Ian Much 21 December 2005 
Retired from the 
Audit Committee on  
5 December 2013
There was full attendance at each of the 
three meetings of the Audit Committee held 
in 2013, subject to the appointment dates 
shown above. Two members constitute a 
quorum for the Audit Committee. The Group 
Company Secretary acts as Secretary to 
the Audit Committee. 
David Best is to retire from the Board at the 
conclusion of the AGM 2014, at which point 
Giles Kerr will be appointed Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. Succession planning for this 
transfer commenced in early 2013, culminating 
in the appointment of Giles Kerr in September 
2013 as a non-executive Director.
Collectively the members of the Audit 
Committee have significant commercial and 
financial experience at a senior management 
level. Both David Best and Giles Kerr have the 
recent and relevant financial experience 
required by the UK Corporate Governance 
Code to chair the Audit Committee. For details 
of the qualifications of members of the Audit 
Committee, please refer to the Board Directors’ 
biographies shown on pages 28 and 29.
a u Dit Co MMittee’s t er Ms of r eferen Ce The Board expects the Audit Committee 
to have an understanding of:
•	 the principles, contents, and 
developments in financial reporting, 
including the applicable accounting 
standards and statements of 
recommended practice;
•	 the key aspects of the Group’s 
operations, including corporate policies, 
its products and services, Group 
financing, and systems of 
internal control;
•	 the matters that could influence or 
distort the presentation of accounts 
and key figures;
•	 the principles of, and developments in, 
company law, sector-specific laws and 
other relevant corporate legislation;
•	 the roles of internal and external auditing 
and risk management; and
•	 the regulatory framework for the Group’s 
businesses.
The full Terms of Reference of the Audit 
Committee may be found on the Company’s 
website or may be obtained from the Group 
Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee normally invites the 
non-executive Chairman, Group Chief 
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 
Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit, and 
senior representatives of the external audit firm 
to attend its meetings, although it reserves the 
right to request any of these individuals to 
withdraw from any meeting.
The Audit Committee also holds separate 
discussions with the Head of Internal Audit 
and external auditor without executive 
management being present. In addition, 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee holds 
separate meetings with the internal and 
external auditor during the course of the 
year to discuss both routine and business 
relevant matters. 
During 2013, the Audit Committee’s Terms 
of Reference were updated as required by 
the UK Corporate Governance Code to enable 
the Audit Committee to advise the Board on 
whether it believes that taken as a whole the 
Annual Report & Accounts is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s business model and strategy.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 36
au Dit C o MMittee re Port aC tivities of the a u Dit Co MMittee 
The Audit Committee met on 14 February 2013 to consider the 2012 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the 
following business on the meeting dates indicated below:
Meeting Date 18 July 2013 24 o ctober 2013 21 February 2014
Standing 
items
•	Considered the external auditor’s 
Interim Review for the half-year 
ended 30 June 2013;
•	Reviewed and approved the terms 
of the management representation 
letter addressed to the external 
auditor;
•	Reviewed key accounting 
judgements; 
•	Discussed the Group’s Preliminary 
Announcement and the Interim 
Report 2013, together with the 
slides for the analysts’ presentation 
on the Group’s interim results; 
•	Reviewed and agreed the going 
concern basis to be adopted for the 
2013 Interim Report and Accounts; 
and
•	Received and considered an internal 
audit activity report, which provided 
an update on ongoing matters under 
review by the Head of Internal Audit 
and the Audit Committee.
•	Discussed and approved the 
external auditor’s audit planning 
report, including the scope of work, 
audit approach and fees for the  
2013 audit;
•	Considered potential areas requiring 
key accounting judgments;
•	Considered the appropriate level of 
materiality and noted the implication 
of applying different levels of 
materiality; the Audit Committee 
agreed to maintain the level at 7.5% 
of adjusted profit before tax;
•	Received an update from the 
external auditor on accounting, 
reporting and governance 
developments;
•	Received and considered a further 
update from the Head of Internal 
Audit, noting the progress made 
during the year, and agreed the 
operations’ activities that would 
be the key focus for review in the 
coming months;
•	Undertook a performance evaluation 
of the Audit Committee;
•	Carried out an appraisal exercise on 
the effectiveness of the external 
audit process;
•	Reviewed and updated the Audit 
Committee Terms of Reference; and
•	Approved an updated Group 
Whistle-blowing Procedure.
•	Reviewed and accepted the Report to the Audit 
Committee on the 2013 audit made by the 
external auditor;
•	Reviewed and approved the terms of the 
management representation letter addressed to 
the external auditor;
•	Reviewed key accounting judgements, including 
consideration of those significant issues outlined 
on page 38;
•	Considered the materiality of any unadjusted 
audit findings;
•	Reviewed and discussed the Group’s Preliminary 
Announcement and the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2013 and the slides for the analysts’ 
presentation on the Group’s 2013 results;
•	Reviewed and agreed the going concern basis to 
be adopted for the 2013 Accounts;
•	Approved the Audit Committee Report for 2013;
•	Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and 
disclosures made in the Annual Report 2013;
•	Reviewed the Notice of Meeting for the 2014 
Annual General Meeting and the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting Proxy Form;
•	Received and considered a report presented by 
the Head of Internal Audit, which included the 
proposed 2014 internal audit plan, and approved 
the Group Internal Audit Charter;
•	Reviewed the status of the Business 
Continuity Plans and IT Risk Assessments 
against Group policy;
•	Received an update on the progress of the 
Group’s anti-bribery training programme;
•	Approved the scope of the external auditor’s 2014 
interim review;
•	Considered the re-tendering of external audit 
services, which is discussed in detail on page 39; and
•	Held separate private meetings with the external 
auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, without 
executive management being present.
Special items •	Discussed the financial performance 
of Capo Industries in order to assess 
executive management’s proposal 
for an impairment of goodwill. This is 
detailed further on page 38 overleaf;
•	Received an update on the audit 
partner rotation process; and
•	Received and considered a report on 
the impact of revisions to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
•	Discussed the financial performance of Capo 
Industries and its ongoing consolidation with 
another of the Group’s operations to consider 
executive management’s assertion that a further 
impairment of goodwill was not required at the 
point of consolidation. This is detailed further on 
page 38 overleaf.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
37 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com s i Gnifi Cant ris Ks Consi Dere D By the a u Dit Co MMittee 
Significant risks considered by the c ommittee How the risk was addressed by the c ommittee
Goodwill impairment
The carrying value of goodwill relies on assumptions and judgements 
made by executive management. 
Executive management had posted a £12.7m impairment charge 
against Capo Industries goodwill in the first half of the year.
Management performed an annual impairment assessment for 
all operating businesses at 31 December 2013.
The Audit Committee recognises the carrying value of goodwill as a key 
area of judgement and as such closely reviews executive management’s 
assumptions at both year-end and the half-year. 
During the first half of 2013 a number of key contracts were not 
awarded to Capo Industries, such that at the half year management 
concluded that the position had changed sufficiently to warrant an 
impairment of the Capo Industries goodwill in the amount of £12.7m. 
The Audit Committee discussed the updated assumptions with 
management and Deloitte and concluded that the impairment was 
reasonable and justified.
In November 2013, the decision was taken to merge Capo Industries 
with Ketema in order to enhance the operational management of Capo 
Industries. The Committee agrees with management and the external 
auditor’s view that no further impairment was triggered at this time.
Following the annual impairment assessment of all the other operating 
businesses, the Audit Committee was satisfied that no additional 
charge for impairment was required.
Acquisition accounting
The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Thermal 
Engineering Holding Limited (“Thermal”) on 29 November 2013 for a 
cash consideration of £28.3m, less cash acquired of £0.2m and including 
the repayment of £6.5m of debt in the business at acquisition.
There is judgement in determining the valuation of the intangible assets 
and associated goodwill with the acquisition.
The Group recognised goodwill of £19.0m and intangible assets  
of £1.8m on the acquisition of Thermal. The Audit Committee held 
discussions with executive management regarding the procedures 
performed to fair value the assets and liabilities acquired.
The external auditor provided the Audit Committee with details of the 
audit work performed to assess that the assets and liabilities acquired 
are held at fair value. The Audit Committee was satisfied that the 
assumptions used were appropriate and that the assets and liabilities 
are valued at fair value.
Provisions
Provisions or accruals are held where management considers there is an 
obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can be reliably 
estimated.
Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to:
•	Those held against inventory;
•	Central UK & US tax provisions;
•	Centrally held, primarily warranty-related; and
•	Workers’ Compensation.
The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management  
had made its accounting judgements to determine the level of provisions. 
These were further discussed with the external auditor.
The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising  
from these significant areas of judgement.
eX ternal a u Dit 
i n De Pen Den Ce of the eX ternal a u Ditor 
an D PoliC y on non-au Dit serviC es To fulfil its responsibility regarding the 
independence of the external auditor, the Audit 
Committee reviewed:
•	 a report from the external auditor describing 
the arrangements that had been made to 
identify, report and manage any conflicts of 
interest and to maintain its independence; 
•	 the overall extent of non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor; and
•	 the FRC’s Audit Inspection Unit public report 
on Deloitte.
The Audit Committee’s policy in respect of 
services provided by the external auditor is 
as follows:
•	 the external auditor is invited to provide 
services which, in its position as auditor, it 
must or is best placed to undertake. This 
includes formalities relating to borrowings, 
shareholder and other circulars, various 
other regulatory reports and certain work in 
respect of larger acquisitions and disposals;
•	 the auditor may provide tax compliance and 
advice where it is best suited, but otherwise 
such work is put out to tender; and
•	 other services may not be provided where 
precluded by ethical standards or where 
the Audit Committee believes that it 
would compromise audit independence 
and objectivity.
All proposed contracts for services to be 
provided by the auditor in excess of £25,000 
require the Audit Committee’s approval.
In 2012 the Group had seen an increase in the 
level of non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte 
as a result of due diligence work on an aborted 
acquisition. In 2013 the level of non-audit fees 
returned to normal, historical, rates. Fees for 
each category of non-audit work undertaken in 
the year are shown in the table below:
Tax compliance services
Fees
£000
Other tax advisory services 0.1
Total non-audit fees 0.1
Non-audit fees as a % of total audit fees 19%
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 38
au Dit C o MMittee re Port CONTINUED The Audit Committee considers that it was 
beneficial for the Company to retain Deloitte  
for this non-audit work because of the firm’s 
expertise in this area and knowledge of the 
Group. The Audit Committee continues to 
closely monitor the nature and level of such 
non-audit work, in order to balance objectivity 
and value for money. 
PoliC y on t en DerinG 
The Committee notes that current FRC 
transitional guidance and Competition 
Commission rules which will come into force 
from 1 October 2014 indicate that the Company 
should tender the audit, at the latest, at the 
time of the next audit partner rotation currently 
scheduled for 2019. The Committee also notes 
the latest EU proposals under which it is likely 
that audit firms in the UK will need to rotate 
every twenty years with a tender after ten 
years. The Company may put the audit out to 
tender at any time, however, for the reasons 
noted below it will not be tendered in 2014 and 
the matter will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Deloitte was appointed the Company’s auditor 
in August 2000. Its performance is reviewed 
annually by the Audit Committee. In deciding 
not to put in place a tender process in 2013 and 
2014, the Committee considered:
•	 the Deloitte audit partner, Gregory Culshaw, 
will be rotated off the audit on 25 April 2014 
and the new audit partner’s five-year term 
will end in 2019, in accordance with the 
FRC’s Ethics Standard 3 (Revised); 
•	 the change of the Group Finance Director 
during the year; 
•	 the upcoming change in the Chair of the 
Audit Committee; and 
•	 the Audit Committee’s assessment of 
the external auditor’s effectiveness 
and independence.
a ssess Ment of eX ternal a u Dit 
e ffe Ctiveness As in prior years, the Audit Committee 
reviewed the effectiveness of the external 
auditor, by assessing a range of key areas.  
In 2013, the Secretary presented the Audit 
Committee with a framework of questions  
to facilitate a debate and to assist the Audit 
Committee in assessing the level of auditor 
effectiveness. The framework required Audit 
Committee members to consider which areas 
of performance needed future focus by the 
auditor, the areas where the auditor was 
meeting expectations and those where 
the auditor was considered to have a 
special strength. 
The Audit Committee discussed: the audit 
partner and the team as a whole; the audit 
planning approach and its execution; the role  
of executive management in the audit process; 
communications by the auditor to the Audit 
Committee and how it supported the work  
of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee 
also discussed what insights the auditor had 
provided and where it had added value to  
the overall audit process. The Committee 
concluded that the auditor had challenged  
the thinking of the Company and the Audit 
Committee on a number of significant issues 
and maintained its independence. 
Feedback about the effectiveness of the audit 
process from the local management teams 
was also considered by the Audit Committee.
Following completion of the assessment 
process, the Audit Committee concluded that  
it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the 
external auditor; as a consequence the Audit 
Committee has recommended to the Board 
that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor 
in 2014.
i nternal a u Dit The Audit Committee is required to assist the 
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to 
the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the 
Group internal audit function. 
The Group’s risk management and internal 
control procedures are reviewed by the Group’s 
Head of Internal Audit, who has direct access 
to the Chairman of the Board and the Audit 
Committee respectively. The Group’s internal 
audit function is a key element of the Group’s 
risk management system and it operates 
independently of the external auditor to 
enhance the audit services utilised by 
the Company.
In 2013, the Audit Committee discussed the 
resourcing of the internal audit function and the 
Head of Internal Audit highlighted the context 
and background to the audit work undertaken. 
During the year, the Head of Internal Audit 
received additional resource from the Group’s 
central Finance function, from internal 
secondees and from an independent audit firm. 
The Head of Internal Audit provided, to the 
Audit Committee, reports on the progress 
made on delivering the 2013 internal audit plan, 
the status of internal audit recommendations 
and a small number of additional risk and 
internal audit activities that had also been 
scheduled. Upon completion of the 2013 
internal audit plan, 19 internal audit projects/
reviews had been undertaken to support the 
business in improving the management of risk 
and internal control; the audits were mostly 
focused on the Group’s operations within 
the Aerospace and Flexonics Divisions, 
but also included corporate functions, 
including treasury.
The non-executive Directors are actively 
encouraged to visit the Group’s operating 
businesses unaccompanied by executive 
Directors. This enables them to meet the  
local management teams and employees and 
also undertake site tours to review matters 
including production methods, health and 
safety and the status of internal audit findings. 
In 2013, a total of 37 site visits were undertaken 
by the Chairman and non-executive Directors. 
These visits by the non-executive Directors  
are viewed by the Audit Committee as making 
a positive contribution to the internal 
control framework.
In 2013, the Audit Committee also approved 
minor amendments to the Group Internal 
Audit Charter.
ConC lusion
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit 
Committee has concluded that it has acted in 
accordance with its Terms of Reference. At 
the meeting on 21 February 2014, the Audit 
Committee considered each section of and 
the Annual Report and Accounts as a whole, 
as proposed by the Company; it reached 
a conclusion and advised the Board that it 
considered the Annual Report and Accounts 
2013 to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and that it provided the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
business model and strategy. The Chairman 
of the Audit Committee will be available at  
the 2014 AGM to answer any questions  
about the work of the Committee.
aPP roval This Report was approved by the Audit 
Committee and signed on its behalf by:
Davi D Best Chairman of the Audit Committee 
28 February 2014
 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
39 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com Dear Shareholder
From 6 December 2013, I took over the 
responsibility of chairing the Senior plc 
Remuneration Committee (the “Committee”) 
from Ian Much who retired in December having 
contributed greatly to the Committee over the 
last six years. I am very grateful for the work 
that Ian led during 2013 relating in particular to: 
reviewing the executive remuneration policies 
and practices; developing the remuneration 
policy for executive Directors that will be 
operated from 2014 to 2017; formulating the 
proposals for a replacement Long-term 
Incentive Plan (‘the 2014 Plan’); and overseeing 
the composition of the remuneration package 
for the recruitment of Derek Harding, 
Group Finance Director.
In accordance with the 2013 Regulations, 
resolutions inviting shareholders to approve 
the remuneration policy and this 
Remuneration Report will be put to the 
Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2014.
The past few years have seen Senior deliver 
robust performance against a background 
of mixed markets. While the civil aerospace 
industry continues to grow strongly, the 
markets for land vehicles have been more 
challenging, particularly for passenger 
vehicles in Western Europe. Adjusted EPS 
has increased by nearly 80% over the most 
recent five financial years and Senior’s share 
price has grown by over 680% from the 
end of 2008 to the end of 2013. We believe 
that Senior’s remuneration package for the 
executive Directors has been supportive 
of this growth as it has incentivised 
management to deliver sustained earnings 
growth and strong cash flow performance.
As preparation for the publication of the first 
Remuneration Report under the new BIS 
regulations, the Committee conducted a 
detailed review of its remuneration policy 
for executive Directors. The conclusion 
of the review was that Senior’s current 
remuneration policies have served the  
business well and only a small number  
of changes are being proposed to the  
existing remuneration practices. 
We decided, for administrative ease, to 
bring forward proposals to replace the 2005 
Long-term Incentive Plan (”2005 Plan”) which 
expires in April 2015. We, therefore, seek 
approval for a replacement long-term incentive 
plan at the same time as the Company’s first 
binding vote on Senior’s Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM. The 
2014 Plan will be substantially the same as the 
2005 Plan, except for the following changes:
•	 An amount equivalent to the dividends that 
would have accrued on vested shares during 
the vesting period will be paid to executives 
upon the vesting of the award. In line with 
current investor thinking, no dividend 
equivalent will be paid in respect of the 
period between vesting and exercise where 
awards are delivered as nil cost options.
•	 Consistent with current best practice, 
the Remuneration Committee will have 
the power to claw back all or part of 
the awards/payments for three years 
following vesting in the event of material 
misstatement, error or inaccurate or 
misleading information or gross misconduct.
It remains the Committee’s policy to provide 
executive and senior management 
remuneration packages which reward 
performance and are competitive, but not 
market leading. Taking into consideration 
both the performance of Senior and current 
levels of remuneration for Senior’s executive 
Directors, the Committee wishes to have the 
flexibility to increase, as it feels appropriate,  
the normal award limit under the LTIP from 
100% to 150% of salary. The exceptional limit 
will remain at 200% of salary. The quantum 
of awards and shareholding guidelines will 
remain unchanged in 2014.
Assuming that our proposals for the  
2014 Plan are approved, we would intend  
to grant performance shares using the  
new plan from 2015. 
It is proposed that in the future the maximum 
pension allowance offered in lieu of joining a 
retirement plan will be 20%. However, there 
are no plans to amend the overall quantum of 
pension contribution/pension allowances 
currently in place. 
In line with the new disclosure regulations, 
in 2013 we formalised our recruitment and 
termination policies. Derek Harding was 
appointed as Group Finance Director from 
2 September 2013. The recruitment policy 
was used as the basis for determining the 
remuneration package to facilitate his 
recruitment as detailed on page 52. By joining 
Senior, Derek forfeited entitlements from his 
previous employer, which had no 
performance conditions attaching  
and were close to vesting or maturity.  
In structuring his recruitment package,  
the Committee sought to partly compensate 
him with awards that vest over longer time 
periods, some of which are subject to 
performance conditions based on the 
longer-term performance of Senior,  
and take into account the expected  
value of the awards foregone. 
Finally, in 2012 we made various changes  
to the Remuneration Report in preparation  
for the introduction of the new reporting 
regulations and following the finalisation  
of these regulations we have once again 
amended our reporting to meet these 
requirements. We have endeavoured to ensure 
that our remuneration arrangements are 
described in a succinct and transparent manner.
This year’s Remuneration Report consists of 
three sections:
1.  this Annual Statement;
2.   a Policy Report, which describes the 
Company’s policy for the remuneration  
of executive and non-executive Directors 
for the coming year and which is not 
subject to audit; and
3.  the Annual Report on Remuneration on 
pages 47 to 55, produced in accordance 
with the Large and Medium Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Amendment Regulations and the 
relevant provisions of the Listing Rules of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Parts of 
the Annual Report on Remuneration are 
subject to audit, which provides details of 
the Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, 
long-term incentive awards and pensions 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 and 
intentions for 2014.
Celia Ba Xter Chair of the Remuneration Committee
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 40
re Muneration re Port: 
annual s tate Ment In determining remuneration for the executive Directors and other senior managers, the Remuneration Committee seeks to maintain  
a competitive programme which enables the Company to attract and retain the highest calibre of executive. 
Performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of each executive Director, 
details of which are set out below. These performance-related elements, which take into account the Company’s risk policies and systems,  
are designed to align the Directors’ interests with those of shareholders and to reward executive Directors for performance at the highest levels.
Poli Cy for eX e Cutive Dire Ctors The table below summarises the Committee’s policy for the remuneration of executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM, will become binding from that date.
Element
Purpose and link 
to strategy o peration Maximum Performance assessment
Salary •	Reflects the 
performance of the 
individual, their skills 
and experience  
over time and the 
responsibilities  
of the role
•	Provides an 
appropriate level  
of basic fixed pay 
avoiding excessive 
risk arising from 
over-reliance on 
variable income
•	Will normally be reviewed annually 
with effect from 1 January
•	Benchmarked periodically against 
companies with similar characteristics 
and sector companies
•	Normally positioned within a range 
around the mid market level taking 
into account the experience and 
performance in the role of the 
individual, complexity of the role, 
market competitiveness and the 
impact of salary increases on  
total remuneration
•	Other than to reflect change 
in the size and complexity  
of the role/company, the 
Committee will have regard 
to the basic salary 
percentage increases taking 
place across the Company 
more generally when 
determining salary increases 
for the executive Directors
•	No maximum salary cap
•	Individual performance in the 
role and Group performance 
are among the factors taken 
into consideration when 
awarding increases
Bonus •	Incentivises annual 
delivery of corporate 
financial and 
non-financial goals
•	Delivery of a 
proportion of bonus 
in deferred shares 
provides alignment 
with shareholders 
and assists 
with retention
•	Up to 70% of salary paid in cash with 
up to a further 35% of salary paid as a 
conditional award of deferred shares
•	Maximum bonus only payable for 
achieving demanding targets
•	Deferred shares are released three 
years after award but are subject to 
forfeiture by a “bad leaver” 
•	Executives are entitled to receive the 
value of dividend payments that would 
have otherwise been paid in respect of 
vested deferred shares
•	All bonus payments are at the 
discretion of the Committee
•	Different performance conditions  
may be set when recruiting an 
executive Director
•	Committee may review the 
performance conditions from 
time to time
•	Overall maximum of 105% 
of salary
•	The Committee determines 
performance conditions and 
weightings at the start of 
each year
•	For 2014, the financial metrics 
include free cash flow (first 
half and full-year performance 
against budget) and adjusted 
earnings per share (year-on-
year growth and performance 
compared to budget) 
measures over a year
•	The Committee may include 
non-financial metrics up to 
25% of the overall award
•	Performance below 
threshold results in zero 
payment. Payment rises from 
0% to 100% of the maximum 
opportunity for levels of 
performance between 
the threshold and 
maximum targets
•	Typically threshold is around 
90% of target, and on-target 
performance delivers 
approximately 50% of 
the maximum opportunity
•	Subject to clawback at the 
Committee’s discretion over 
unvested deferred shares in 
the event of material 
misstatement or gross 
misconduct and, if required, 
over any unvested 
LTIP awards
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
41 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
re Muneration re Port: 
PoliC y r e Port Element
Purpose and link 
to strategy o peration Maximum Performance assessment
l ong-term 
incentive Plan 
(“l TiP”)
•	Incentivises 
sustained 
performance over 
the longer term
•	The use of 
longer-term 
performance targets 
and delivery of 
awards in shares 
rewards the 
achievement  
of the Company’s 
strategic goals and 
increases in 
shareholder value
•	Annual grants of performance shares 
which vest subject to performance 
measured over three years and 
continued service
•	Executives are entitled to receive  
the value of dividend payments that 
would have otherwise been paid in 
respect of vested deferred shares
•	All awards are subject to the 
discretions contained in the  
plan rules
•	Committee may review the 
performance conditions from  
time to time
•	100% of salary for LTIPs 
to be awarded in 2014
•	150% of salary thereafter
•	200% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances, 
such as upon recruitment
•	The Committee determines 
performance conditions and 
weightings at the start of 
each year providing that 
the targets are not 
materially less challenging
•	For 2014, the awards will be 
based on a mix of:
•	Relative Total Shareholder 
Return (50% of the 
award); and
•	Group earnings growth 
targets (50% of the award)
•	In respect of each 
performance element, 
performance below the 
threshold target results in 
zero vesting. Vesting of each 
performance element starts 
at the 25% threshold and 
rises to 100% for maximum 
level of performance
•	Subject to claw back at the 
Committee’s discretion during 
the period of three years 
following the date of vesting
All-Employee 
Share Schemes
•	All employees 
including executive 
Directors are 
encouraged to 
become 
shareholders 
through the 
operation of the 
Sharesave Plan, the 
HMRC-approved 
all-employee 
share plans
•	The Sharesave Plan has standard 
terms under which participants can 
normally enter a savings contract in 
return for which they are granted 
options to acquire shares at the 
market value of the shares at  
the start of the performance period
•	The rules for this plan were  
approved by shareholders  
at the 2006 AGM
•	Employees can normally 
elect for a three-year 
savings contract under 
standard terms and within 
HMRC limits
•	The option price for 
Sharesave awards can be set 
at a discount of up to 20% to 
the market value of the 
shares at the start of the 
savings contract, although 
no awards granted under the 
2006 Sharesave Plan have 
been set at a discount
•	N/A
Pension •	Provides 
competitive 
retirement benefits 
for the Group’s 
employees
•	The Group’s UK final salary pension 
plan will close to future accrual from 
6 April 2014. Thereafter, the executive 
Directors may participate in the 
Senior plc Group Flexible Retirement 
Plan (“Senior GFRP”), a contract-
based, money purchase pension plan, 
and/or receive cash allowances
•	Bonuses are not included 
in calculating retirement benefits
•	20% of basic salary either  
as Company contribution  
to GFRP or as salary in lieu  
of pension
•	N/A
o ther
Benefits
•	Provides a 
competitive 
package of benefits 
that assists with 
recruitment  
and retention
•	Benefits include provision  
of a fully expensed car or car 
allowance, private medical  
insurance, life insurance and income 
protection, tax equalisation and 
relocation benefits
•	The value of benefits is 
based on the cost to the 
Company and is not 
pre determined
•	There is no monetary 
cap on Other Benefits
•	N/A
Shareholder 
Guidelines
•	Aligns executive 
Directors’ interests 
with that of other 
shareholders in the 
Company
•	Executive Directors to retain at least 
50% of the shares that vest under the 
LTIP and Deferred Bonus Award, after 
allowing for tax liabilities, until a 
shareholding equivalent in value to 
100% of base salary is built up
•	N/A •	N/A
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 42
r e Muneration re Port:  
Poli Cy r e Port CONTINUED r e Cruit Ment of eX e Cutive Dire Ctors Salaries for newly appointed Directors will be set to reflect their skills 
and experience, the Company’s intended pay positioning and the market 
rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the 
Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases 
over time for newly appointed Directors, even though this may involve 
increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other employees, 
with national or international relocation expenses/arrangements (e.g. 
schooling, tax equalisation) provided for if necessary. 
The aggregate incentive offered to new recruits will be no higher than 
that outlined in the Policy Report on pages 41 and 42. The Remuneration 
Committee has flexibility to grant share awards of up to 200% of salary 
upon recruitment. Different performance measures may be set initially 
for the annual bonus and LTIP, taking into account the responsibilities of 
the individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined. Any 
increases in incentive quantum offered above this limit would be 
contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an 
amendment to its approved policy at its next General Meeting.
Current entitlements (benefits, bonus, share schemes) may be bought 
out on terms that are no more favourable than a like-for-like basis 
(with a comparable time horizon, fair value and subject to performance 
conditions). Existing incentive arrangements will be used to the fullest 
extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these 
schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in 
relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms 
of grant (adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment). 
Derek Harding joined the Company as Group Finance Director during the 
year and his recruitment package is set out on page 52.
r ationale B ehin D Perfor ManC e M etriC s an D tarG ets The performance-related elements take into account the Company’s  
risk policies and systems and are designed to align the Directors’ 
interests with those of shareholders. Variable pay elements aim  
to reward executive Directors for performance at the highest levels  
and as such, the Committee aims to set targets that are both stretching 
and achievable. All targets are set on a sliding scale. The Committee 
reviews the annual bonus measures set for all of the Company’s senior 
executives (not only the executive Directors) every year in order to 
ensure that they are aligned with the Company’s strategy and annual 
goals and to ensure that bonus arrangements amongst the Company’s 
senior executive team are consistent. 
The annual bonus may include a mix of financial and non-financial 
measures reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group. The financial 
metrics currently include two of the Company’s KPIs: cash flow which 
is a key measure of the business’s ability to fund future acquisitions; 
and EPS which will reflect the Group’s ability to expand into new 
regions and product markets and increase the profitability of the existing 
operations. If non-financial measures are selected these may include 
reference to the Group’s environmental, safety and organisational goals.
The measures currently used in the LTIP are EPS and relative TSR.  
EPS is a measure of the Company’s overall financial success and TSR 
provides an external assessment of the Company’s performance against 
its competitors. It also aligns the rewards received by executives with 
the returns received by shareholders. The Committee will review the 
choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the 
performance targets prior to each LTIP grant. In particular, the EPS 
targets are reviewed prior to each grant by the taking account of internal 
and external expectations of future EPS growth for the business.  
The Committee reserves the discretion to set different targets for  
future awards, without consulting with shareholders, providing that,  
in the opinion of the Committee, the new targets are no less challenging 
in light of the circumstances at the time than those used previously.  
The targets for awards granted under this Remuneration Policy are set 
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
r elationshi P Between e Xe Cutive Dire Ctor an D e MPloyee P ay The remuneration policy for the executive Directors is designed  
with regard to the policy for employees across the group as a whole. 
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy 
for the executive Directors and other senior employees, which the 
Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different 
levels of responsibility of employees across the Company and reflect 
different market norms for different roles. The key differences in 
remuneration policy between the executive Directors and employees 
across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance-related 
pay and the inclusion of a share-based long-term incentive plan for 
executive Directors.
Executive Directors are provided with a competitive package  
of benefits that includes (depending on role) participation in the  
Group’s occupational pension arrangements, provision of a fully 
expensed car or car allowance, private medical insurance,  
life insurance and income protection.
The majority of Senior’s managers are eligible to participate in annual 
bonus arrangements with targets linked to challenging targets tied to 
the performance of their employing entity and Division.
Long-term incentives are provided to the most senior executives 
and those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence 
performance levels within the Company. Lower aggregate incentive 
quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by the 
impact of the role and market comparatives.
In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company 
operates a Sharesave Plan in which UK and US employees, including 
executive Directors, have participated. During 2013, the Sharesave Plan 
was offered to employees in other territories so that a greater proportion 
of the Group’s employees may participate.
h ow e MPloyees’ P ay is ta Ken into a CCount when settin G 
e Xe Cutive Dire Ctor re Muneration The Committee also reviews the salaries of more than 200 senior 
managers and therefore is fully cognisant of pay levels in the Group 
when determining the pay of the executive Directors.
In addition, the Committee’s policy is that salary increases for the 
executive Directors and senior executives should not normally be greater 
than the general level of increases awarded to other senior managers in 
Europe and North America, other than when an executive changes role 
or when it is necessary in order to ensure levels of remuneration remain 
market competitive. Increases for the general workforce in Europe and 
North America for 2014 were approximately 2.5%.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up 
the Directors’ remuneration policy set out in this part of the 
Remuneration Report.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
43 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com o verall Balan Ce of Measures for v aria Ble Pay r e Muneration sC enarios for e Xe Cutive Dire Ctors The chart below shows how the composition of each of the executive 
Directors’ remuneration packages varies at different levels of 
performance under the Remuneration Policy set out previously.
Threshold Target
Salary
Beneﬁts & Pension
Max Threshold Target Max
Group Chief Executive Finance Director
0
300
600
900
1,200
1,500
£000s
15%
532
867
1,461
340
562
955
85%
9%
26%
13%
52%
5%
31%
33%
31% 88% 54% 32%
4%
33%
31%
13%
26%
7% 12%
Annual Bonus
Long-Term Share Awards
The chart above is based on the following assumptions
Threshold Target Maximum
Fixed pay Salary is the basic salary as at 1 January 2014
The value of Benefits and Pension is taken from the 
single total figure of remuneration for 2013
Annual 
bonus
Nil Approximately 
50% of the 
maximum payout
100% of the 
maximum payout
l ong-term 
share awards
Nil 25% vesting under  
the LTIP (i.e. 25%  
of 2014 basic 
salary) and set out 
at face  
value, with 
no share  
price growth 
or dividend 
assumptions
100% vesting 
under the LTIP 
(i.e. 100% of 2014 
basic salary) 
and set out at face 
value, 
with no share price 
growth or dividend 
assumptions
PoliC y on outsi De a PPoint Ments The Remuneration Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the 
individual and the Company for an executive Director to take up one 
external non-executive appointment. Fees paid for the appointment may 
be retained by the executive.
eX e Cutive Dire Ctors’ s ervi Ce aG ree Ments an D loss of 
offi Ce P ay Ments The table below summarises the key provisions of each executive 
Director’s contract:
Provision Detailed terms
c ontract dates Mark Rollins – 9 November 2007
Derek Harding – 2 September 2013
n otice period 12 months from both the Company and the 
executive Director
Termination 
payment
Contracts may be terminated without notice by the 
payment of a sum equal to the sum of salary due for 
the unexpired notice period, and the value of pension 
contributions and other benefits such as use of 
company car, life cover and private healthcare
In addition, Mark Rollins’ contract provides for the 
payment of a performance-related bonus calculated 
pro rata to the termination date
There are no provisions in the agreements, or 
otherwise, for additional termination payments
Payments may be made in monthly instalments 
and, in these circumstances, there is a requirement 
for the Director to mitigate loss
c hange of 
control
There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a 
change of control
Copies of the executive Directors’ service contracts are available from 
the Company Secretary at the Company’s Registered Office during 
normal business hours. The Committee’s policy in the event of early 
termination of employment is set out on page 45.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 44
r e Muneration re Port:  
Poli Cy r e Port CONTINUED Poli Cy on P ay Ment for D e Parture fro M offi Ce On termination of an executive Director’s service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing Director’s duty to mitigate his loss 
when determining the amount of compensation. The Committee’s policy in respect of the treatment of executive Directors leaving the Group is 
described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders:
component  
of pay
Voluntary resignation  
or termination for cause
Death, ill health, disability, retirement
excluding redundancy
Departure on
agreed terms
Base salary, 
pension & 
benefits
Paid for the proportion of the 
notice period worked and any 
untaken holidays prorated to 
the leaving date
Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken 
holidays pro rated to such date. In the case of ill health, a 
payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to 
circumstances, may be subject to mitigation. In such 
circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical 
insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period
Treatment will normally fall 
between the two treatments 
described in the previous 
columns, subject to the discretion 
of the Committee and the terms 
of any termination agreement
Annual  
bonus cash
Cessation of employment 
during a bonus year will 
normally result in no cash 
bonus being paid
Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the year 
end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will result in 
cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro rated for the 
relevant portion of the financial year worked and 
performance achieved
Annual bonus  
deferred shares
Unvested deferred share 
awards will lapse
In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares will 
be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death. In 
all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, 
unvested deferred shares will be transferred to the individual on 
a date determined by the Committee
l TiP share 
awards
Unvested LTIP share awards 
will lapse
Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested LTIP  
share awards will remain subject to the relevant performance 
conditions and normally be measured at the original vesting 
date. The awards will normally be prorated for the relevant 
proportion of the performance period worked. However in the 
case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine 
the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death
o ptions under 
Sharesave
As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations
o ther None Statutory payments and disbursements such as any legal costs 
and outplacement fees
Notes 
a)  The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company e.g, for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
b) There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control.
PoliC y for non- eX e Cutive Dire Ctors Element
Purpose and link  
to strategy o peration Maximum
Performance 
assessment
n on-executive 
Directors and 
c hairman fees
•	Takes account of 
recognised practice and 
set at a level that is 
sufficient to attract and 
retain high-calibre 
non-executive Directors
•	The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his 
responsibilities as determined by the Remuneration 
Committee. The non-executive Directors are paid 
a basic fee. The Senior Independent Director and 
the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees receive additional fees to reflect 
their extra responsibilities
•	When reviewing fee levels account is taken of market 
movements in non-executive Director fees, Board 
Committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments 
and the general economic environment
•	Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective 
from January
•	The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not 
participate in any pension, bonus, share incentive  
or other share option plans
•	The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is 
determined by the Board of Directors. The non-executive 
Directors do not participate in any discussion or decisions 
relating to their own remuneration
•	Other than when a non-
executive Director changes 
role or where benchmarking 
indicates fees require 
realignment, fee increases 
will not normally exceed the 
general level of increases for 
the Group’s employees
•	N/A
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
45 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com n on- eX e Cutive Dire Ctors’ l etters of aPP oint Ment The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not have service 
agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time 
commitment expected are recorded in letters of appointment which 
are available to view upon request. The Chairman’s appointment may 
be terminated on providing 12 months’ notice by either party. The 
appointments of the other non-executive Directors may be terminated 
by the Company or non-executive Director on providing one month’s 
notice. Copies of the non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment are 
available from the Company Secretary at the Company’s Registered 
Office during normal business hours.
n on- eX e Cutive Dire Ctors’ ter Ms of aPP oint Ment n ame
Date of 
o riginal Term
 commenced
Date
c urrent Term 
commenced
Expected  
Expiry Date of  
c urrent Term
Charles Berry 
(Chairman)
Joined the Board 
in March 2012 
and became 
Chairman in 
April 2012
– –
Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 – September 2016
David Best May 2007 December 2012
(1)
April 2014
Andy Hamment April 2011 New term to
commence
April 2014
(2)
April 2017
Giles Kerr 2 September 2013 – September 2016
Mark E. Vernon April 2011 New term to
 commence 
April 2014
(2)
April 2017
(1)
  In December 2012, David Best’s term of appointment was extended to April 2014 to 
provide continuity and support for Derek Harding who joined the Company as Group 
Finance Director on 2 September 2013.
(2)
  The initial 3-year terms of appointment of Andy Hamment and Mark E. Vernon had 
been due to expire in April 2014. In February 2014, the Nominations Committee 
agreed to extend their appointments, in accordance with their original letters of 
appointment, for a further 3-year term expiring in April 2017.
h ow sharehol Der views are ta Ken into a CCount The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received 
in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder 
representative bodies more generally. Shareholders were consulted 
when formulating the Remuneration Policy. Consultation with 
shareholders was constructive and did not result in any significant 
changes being made to the proposed Remuneration Policy or to the 
2014 Plan rules.
The Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders and 
intends to continue working closely with shareholders in future. 
le Ga Cy arran Ge Ments
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, authority 
is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with 
current or former Directors (such as the payment of a pension or the 
unwinding of legacy share schemes) that have been disclosed to 
shareholders in previous remuneration reports and the recruitment 
arrangements entered into with Derek Harding. Details of any 
payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration as they arise.
Dis Cretions of the r e Muneration Co MMittee The Committee operates the Group’s various incentive plans according to 
their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant. 
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may 
apply certain operational discretions. These include the following:
•	 selecting the participants for the annual bonus plan and LTIP awards;
•	 determining the timing of grants and/or payments;
•	 determining the quantum of grants and/or payments (within the limits 
set out in the policy table above);
•	 adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group;
•	 determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of 
performance;
•	 determining “good leaver” status and extent of vesting in the case 
of the LTIP and deferred shares;
•	 determining the extent of vesting in the case of the LTIP in the event 
of a change of control;
•	 making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances 
(e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital 
and special dividends); and
•	 undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance 
measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP 
from year-to-year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions to apply to LTIP 
awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that 
it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided 
the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable 
and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would 
have been but for the event in question.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 46
r e Muneration re Port:  
Poli Cy r e Port CONTINUED s u MMary of the Co MMittee’s ter Ms of referen Ce The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, available 
in full on the Company’s website, are summarised below:
•	 determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy 
for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the executive 
Directors and other members of the executive management as it 
is designated to consider;
•	 within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the 
Chairman and/or Group Chief Executive, as appropriate, determine 
the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, each 
executive Director, and other designated senior executives including 
bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other 
share awards;
•	 approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance-
related pay plans operated by the Company and approve the total 
annual payments made under such plans;
•	 review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the 
Board and shareholders. For any such plans, determine each year 
whether awards will be made and if so, the overall amount of such 
awards, the individual awards to executive Directors, and other 
designated senior executives and the performance targets to 
be used;
•	 determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for 
each executive Director and other designated senior executives;
•	 ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments 
made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not 
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is recognised; and
•	 oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures 
throughout the Group.
MeMB ers The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive 
Directors.
Member
Number of
meetings
during term
Number of
meetings
attended
Celia Baxter 
(1)
 – Chair 1 1
David Best 6 6
Charles Berry 6 6
Andy Hamment 6 6
Giles Kerr
 (2)
1 1
Ian Much
 (3)
6 6
Mark Vernon 6 5
(1)
  Appointed to the Board on 2 September 2013 and became Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee on 5 December 2013.
(2)
 Appointed to the Board on 2 September 2013.
(3)
  Ian Much was Chair of the Remuneration Committee until his retirement from  
the Board on 5 December 2013.
o ther atten Dees at re Muneration Co MMittee Meetin Gs The Group Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation and the 
Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but 
no executive Director or other employee is present during 
discussions relating to their own remuneration.
aDvisers Before recommending proposals for Board approval, the Remuneration 
Committee may seek advice from external remuneration consultants 
to ensure that it is fully aware of comparative external remuneration 
practice as well as shareholder, legislative and regulatory developments. 
The Committee also considers publicly available sources of information 
relating to executive remuneration.
All advisers to the Remuneration Committee are appointed and 
instructed by the Committee. During the year, the Committee was 
advised by New Bridge Street (an Aon Hewitt company, part of Aon plc) 
in relation to the new 2014 Plan and the drafting of the rules, on the 
updating of the Remuneration Policy and on the new Annual Report 
disclosure requirements, and Lane Clark & Peacock (“LCP”) in relation 
to the review of the remuneration packages of the executive Directors 
and senior managers, and the executive Directors’ pension 
arrangements. New Bridge Street has no other connection with the 
Company; LCP is appointed by the Trustee of the Senior plc Pension 
Plan to act as the Plan’s Actuary and Investment Adviser. During 2013, 
the Company incurred fees of £31,484 from New Bridge Street and 
£19,015 from LCP in relation to advice on executive remuneration and 
these costs were based on hourly rates.
The Committee does not have a formal policy of subjecting its 
remuneration consultants to a regular fixed-term rotation, although the 
Committee remains cognisant of the need to achieve objective advice 
and good value whilst also benefiting from the consultants’ knowledge 
of the Company. The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has 
received during 2013 has been objective and independent.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
47 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
re Muneration re Port: 
a nnual r e Port on r e Muneration Prin Ci Pal a Ctivities an D Matters a DDresse D Durin G 2013
The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year. 
The Committee typically meets four times each year, or more as required. It met six times in 2013. The table below shows the standard items 
considered at each meeting, leading up to the meeting in February where the key decisions regarding performance, outcomes and grants for 
the coming year are determined.
Standard agenda items Ad hoc items
January Performance update on outstanding incentive awards
February Review of performance and outcomes under the Annual Bonus and 
Deferred Bonus Award.
Formulation and negotiation of remuneration package for new 
Group Finance Director
Review of performance and vesting under long-term incentives.
Determining incentive structure for the next financial year including 
finalisation of targets.
Remuneration report.
March Confirmation of LTIP and Deferred Bonus Awards.
December Review and approval of Directors’ and senior managers’ salary and total 
remuneration packages for the following financial year.
Review and approve Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Performance update on outstanding incentive and bonus awards.
Review of Long-term Incentive Plan structure and participants for the 
next financial year.
Review of the Chairman’s fee.
s tate Ment of votin G at G eneral M eetin G
At last year’s AGM, held on 26 April 2013, votes on the Directors’ Remuneration Report were cast as follows:
Remuneration Report Voting For Against Withheld 
(1)
Total
Reason for 
vote against,
if known
Action taken
by Committee
2012 Votes 300,040,322 1,208,046 5,087,994 306,336,362 N/A N/A
 % 99.6% 0.4% N/A 100.0%
(1) 
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast ‘For’ and ‘Against’ a resolution.
The disclosure in the 2014 Remuneration Report will include details of the binding shareholder vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the 
adoption of the new LTIP rules.
s tate Ment of iMP le Mentation of r e Muneration Poli Cy in 2013
The differences between the remuneration policy for 2013 and the policy on which shareholders will vote at the 2014 AGM are set out below.
Component Operation of the component Maximum potential value
Performance metrics 
used, weighting and time 
period applicable
Base salary No difference No difference No difference
Pension During the year, Mark Rollins was a member of the 
Senior plc Pension Plan, Senior’s UK defined benefit 
pension scheme. To the extent that his annual 
pension accrual in the final salary pension scheme 
was above the Government-imposed Annual 
Allowance, he received a salary supplement equal 
to the pension benefit accrual foregone.
For executive Directors who are not members of the 
defined benefit retirement plan, there is a choice of 
joining the defined contribution Group Flexible 
Retirement Plan with a choice of contribution rates 
namely, 3% employee, 15% employer; or 5% 
employee, 20% employer; or a pension allowance 
of 15% of salary.
Subject to final consultation, from April 2014, the 
Senior plc Pension Plan will be closed to future 
accrual for all active members. All executive 
Directors will be able to participate in the Group 
Flexible Retirement Plan.
It is proposed that in the future, the maximum 
pension allowance offered in lieu of joining a 
retirement plan will be 20% to executive Directors.
The overall quantum of pension contribution/pension 
allowances currently in place remain unchanged.
N/A
Benefits No difference No difference N/A
Annual 
bonus
No difference No difference No difference
LTIP 100% of salary for awards awarded in 2013.
An amount equivalent to the dividends that would 
have accrued on vested shares during the vesting 
period will not be paid to Executives upon the vesting 
of the award.
100% of salary for awards to be awarded in 2014, 
but maximum level of grants thereafter will be 
increased from 100% up to 150% of salary.
No difference
Details of performance targets are provided on pages 50 to 52. 
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 48
re Muneration re Port :  
a nnual r e Port on r e Muneration CONTINUED sinG le t otal f i Gure of r e Muneration ( au Dite D infor Mation)
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2013 financial year for each executive 
Director, together with comparative figures for 2012. Aggregate directors’ emoluments are shown at the end of the Single Total Figure of 
Remuneration section.
Salaries 
and fees
£000s
Taxable
benefits and
allowances
(7)
£000s
Bonus
(8)
£000s
Recruitment
award
£000s
Long-term 
Incentives
(9)
£000s
Pension benefits
including cash in
lieu of pension
£000s
Total
£000s
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Executives
Mark Rollins 
(1)
400 390 19 18 310 424 – – 896 662 61 34 1,686 1,528
Simon Nicholls 
(2)
87 270 4 13 – 174 – – – 435 17 61 108 953
Derek Harding 
(3)
100 – 5 – 68 – 325 – – – 18 – 516 –
n on-executives
Charles Berry 
(4)
(Chairman) 144 117 3 2 – – – – – – – – 147 119
Celia Baxter 
(5)
13 – – – – – – – – – – – 13 –
David Best 53 52 – – – – – – – – – – 53 52
Andy Hamment 40 39 – – – – – – – – – – 40 39
Giles Kerr 
(5) 
13 – – – – – – – – – – – 13 –
Ian Much 
(6)
45 47 – – – – – – – – – – 45 47
Mark E. Vernon 40 39 1 1 – – – – – – – – 41 40
Total remuneration
(1)  
Mark Rollins’ 2013 base salary was £453,000 (2012 – £440,000) although he elected to waive £53,000 (2012 – £50,000) of his salary and therefore received a salary 
of £400,000 (2012 – £390,000), representing an increase of 2.9%. His bonus for both years was based on salary before waiver. Mark Rollins originally waived part of his 
salary increase in 2011 so that his percentage increase was broadly in line with the average percentage increase awarded to Group employees.
(2)  
Simon Nicholls’ 2013 total reflects him leaving part way through the year, on 30 April 2013. No compensatory payment was made. Simon Nicholls’ 2013 salary increased 
by 2.9% to £278,000.
(3)  
Derek Harding’s 2013 total reflects him joining part way through the year, on 2 September 2013. His single figure remuneration total includes his Sign-on Awards consisting 
of a £100,000 cash award and a deferred share award with a face a value of £225,000. Further information on his Sign-on Award can be found in Sign-on Awards on page 52.
(4) 
The 2012 comparator reflects Charles Berry joining part way through the year, on 1 March 2012.
(5) 
Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr’s 2013 totals reflect their joining part way through the year, on 2 September 2013.
(6) 
Ian Much’s 2013 total reflects him leaving part way through the year, on 5 December 2013. 
(7) 
Taxable benefits include the provision of a fully expensed company car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
(8)  
Awards under the deferred bonus award, the Enhanced SMIS, in respect of 2013 performance will be granted in March 2014. The deferred bonus element that is to be granted  
in the form of shares to Mark Rollins and Derek Harding in March 2014 is included in the cash bonus figure and will be equivalent in value to 22.8% of 2013 base salary, namely 
£103,284 and £22,800 respectively.
(9)
   100% of the 2011 LTIP Award is due to vest in March 2014. As the award had not vested at the date this report was signed, the average market value of the shares over the 
last three months of 2013 of 284.7p has been used to determine the value for the purposes of the single total figure. The 2012 comparator figure was calculated using the 
share price on the date of vesting of the 2010 LTIP Award of 240.4p. Further details on the performance conditions can be found on page 51.
f ees re Ceive D for outsi De a PPoint Ments Mark Rollins was appointed a non-executive director of The Vitec Group plc on 2 October 2013 and received total fees of £9,855 during the year.
a nnual fees of non-e Xe Cutive Dire Ctors The non-executive Directors do not participate in any pension, bonus, share incentive or other share option plans. Their remuneration reflects both 
the time given and the contribution made by them to the Company’s affairs during the year, including membership or chairmanship of the Board 
or its Committees. The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board of Directors. The non-executive Directors do not 
participate in any discussion or decisions relating to their own remuneration. Annual fees for the non-executive Directors were increased on 
1 January 2013 and are shown below:
Fees
2013
£
2012
£
Percentage
change
Chairman 144,000 140,000 2.9%
Non-executive Director 
(1)
40,400 39,250 2.9%
Chair of Audit Committee 5,500 5,250 4.8%
Chair of Remuneration Committee 
(2)
5,500 5,250 4.8%
Chair of Trustee Board of the Senior plc Pension Plan 7,500 7,250 3.4%
Senior Independent Director 
(3)
2,750 2,500 10.0%
(1) 
Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr were appointed to the Board on 2 September 2013.
(2) 
Celia Baxter was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee upon the retirement from the Board of Ian Much in December 2013.
(3) 
Andy Hamment was appointed the Senior Independent Director upon the retirement from the Board of Ian Much in December 2013.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
49 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com senior M ana Gers’ e Molu Ments In addition to setting the remuneration of the executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee oversees the remuneration of more than 200 other 
senior managers. The table below shows the cumulative benefits of the six Divisional Directors and the four most senior corporate managers.
2013
Total
£000s
2012
Total 
£000s
Short-term employee benefits 2,391 2,581
Post-employment benefits 196 182
Share-based payments 1,018 826
Total 3,605 3,589
Perfor ManC e a Gainst P erfor ManC e tarG ets for annual B onus ( au Dite D infor Mation)
Bonuses are earned by reference to the financial year and paid in March following the end of the financial year. Consistent with recent years, the 
bonuses accruing to the executive Directors in respect of 2013 have been determined by adjusted EPS and cash flow performance as set out in 
the table below. Maximum payouts under each measure require at least 15% outperformance of the target or prior year benchmark.
The 2013 scheme provided a maximum bonus potential of 105% of salary (2012 – 105%), of which 70% would be payable in cash and 35% would 
be payable in deferred shares. The 2013 bonus award for the executive Directors delivered a bonus of 68.4% of salary (2012 – 96.45%), of which 
45.6% of salary was payable in cash (2012 – 64.3% of salary) and 22.8% of salary was paid in deferred shares (2012 – 32.15%).
A summary of the measures, weightings and performance achieved in 2012 and 2013 is provided in the table below.
2013 2012
KPI
Maximum
bonus
achievable
Percentage of 
maximum
achieved
cash bonus 
payable 
(% of 
2013 salary)
Bonus 
payable in
deferred
shares 
(% of 
2013 salary)
Maximum
 bonus
achievable
Percentage
of max
achieved
Cash bonus 
payable 
(% of 
2012 salary)
Bonus 
payable in
deferred
shares 
(% of 
2012 salary)
Cash flow targets
Interim 15.0% 100% 10.0% 5.0% 15.0% 100% 10.0% 5.0%
Full year 22.5% 100% 15.0% 7.5% 22.5% 100% 15.0% 7.5%
EPS targets
Internal target 30.0% 59.0% 11.8% 5.9% 30.0% 71.5% 14.3% 7.2%
Year-on-year growth 37.5% 35.2% 8.8% 4.4% 37.5% 100% 25.0% 12.5%
Totals 105.0% 65.1% 45.6% 22.8% 105.0% 91.9% 64.3% 32.2%
No 2013 bonus was payable to Simon Nicholls as he resigned from the Board on 30 April 2013 to take up a similar role with Cobham PLC.
Derek Harding joined the Board on 2 September 2013 and received a prorated 2013 bonus to reflect the time served during the year.
Mark Rollins’ bonus for both years was based on salary before waiver.
t otal Pension e ntitle Ments ( au Dite D infor Mation)
Following consultation with the members of the Senior plc Pension Plan (“the Plan”) the Group has decided to close the Plan to future accrual for 
all active members on 6 April 2014. Executive Directors who are not members of the Plan are able to participate in the Senior plc Group Flexible 
Retirement Plan (“Senior GFRP”), a contract-based Group personal pension arrangement with Standard Life, or receive a pension allowance of 
15% of unrestricted salary.
Mark Rollins’ pension arrangements are provided by the Plan and are based upon his restricted pensionable salary for the 2013/14 Plan year of 
£131,165 (2012/13 – £128,000) with him contributing 9% of his restricted pensionable salary. The normal retirement date of the Plan for Directors 
is 60 years. His single figure remuneration for pension benefits was £60,885 (2012 – £34,451) which consisted of pension accrued (net of his 
contribution to the Plan) of £53,613 (2012 – £34,043) and a cash allowance of £7,272 (2012 – £408). No additional benefit will become receivable 
by him in the event that he retires early. Mark Rollins is a member of the Plan but only to the extent that his annual pension accrual is at or below 
the Government-imposed Annual Allowance (£50,000 for tax years 2012/13 and 2013/14). In lieu of accrual above this Annual Allowance, he has, 
since 6 April 2011, been eligible to receive a salary supplement equal to the pension benefit accrual foregone. Included within his single figure 
remuneration for pension benefits of £60,885, Mark Rollins received a supplement in 2013 of £7,272 (2012 – £408).
Simon Nicholls left service on 30 April 2013 and his pension accrued over the year was based on his deferred Plan benefits at that date. His single 
figure remuneration for pension benefits in 2013 was £17,470 (2012 – £61,219) which included a supplement of £4,227 (2012 – £11,616).
Derek Harding joined the Senior GFRP on 2 September 2013. His single figure remuneration for pension benefits in 2013 of £17,500 (2012 – £nil) 
consisted of: a contribution of £10,000 made to the Senior GFRP on his behalf, being 20% on half his salary received; and of a cash allowance of 
£7,500, being 15% over the other half of his salary received.
No salary cap is applied in the calculation of Senior GFRP contribution rates for executive Directors; there is a choice of contribution rates for 
executive Directors, namely: 3% executive, 15% employer; or 5% executive, 20% employer.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 50
re Muneration re Port :  
a nnual r e Port on r e Muneration CONTINUED Pay Ments for loss of offi Ce ( a u Dite D i nfor Mation)
There were no payments made in the year for loss of office.
Perfor ManC e a Gainst P erfor ManC e C on Ditions for ltiP vestinG
By referenC e to P erfor ManC e in the finanC ial year ( au Dite D infor Mation)
2011 Award, vesting March 2014
Performance measure
Target
(25% vesting)
Maximum
(100% vesting) Actual
Percentage
of total award
achieved
Total shareholder return ranking 16.5 6.9 4 50%
Annual average growth above RPI in earnings per share 3% 8% 15.75% 50%
The award held by Mark Rollins was as follows:
2011 Conditional share award 
 (1)
Number
of shares
awarded
Percentage
vesting
Number
of shares
vesting
Value
of shares
vesting 
(2)
£000s
Mark Rollins 314,814 100% 314,814 896
(1) 
Simon Nicholls’ 2011 award lapsed upon his resignation from the Board on 30 April 2013.
(2)
  As Mark Rollins’ award had not vested at the date this report was signed, the average market value of the shares over the last three months of 2013 of 284.7p has been used 
to determine the value for the purposes of the single total figure.
sC he Me interests a war De D DurinG the f inanC ial y ear ( au Dite D infor Mation)
Directors Scheme 
Basis of
award
Face value
£000s
Percentage
vesting at
threshold
performance
Number
of shares
Performance
period end
date
Mark Rollins LTIP Annual award 453 25% 188,044 31 December 2015
Derek Harding LTIP Annual award 300 25% 107,875 31 December 2015
The face value of Mark Rollins’ award was calculated using the closing share price on 22 March 2013, being the trading day immediately prior 
to the date of the award, which was 240.9p per share. The face value of Derek Harding’s award was calculated using the closing share price on 
3 September 2013, being the trading day immediately prior to the date of the award, which was 278.1p per share. In addition to the above, 
Derek Harding received awards to the value of 100% of salary upon his recruitment as set out under Sign-on Awards on page 52.
Current P osition on outstan DinG ltiP awar Ds (non -au Dite D infor Mation)
The following tables show the current position against performance targets for LTIP awards outstanding from 2012 and 2013.
c onditional share awards in 2013 Conditional share awards in 2012
Performance measure
Target
(25% vesting)
Maximum
(100% vesting)
Actual
to date
Target
(25% vesting)
Maximum
(100% vesting)
Actual
to date
Total shareholder return ranking 16.5 6.9 8 16.5 6.9 9
Annual average growth above RPI  
in earnings per share 4% 10% 4.37% 3% 8% 12.37%
The TSR comparator group applicable to the 2013 LTIP award consists of manufacturing companies within the following FTSE All Share sectors: 
Aerospace & Defence; Automobiles & Parts; Electronic & Electrical Equipment; and Industrial Engineering. The constituent comparator companies 
for the 2013 award, broadly similar to those used for each year of award from 2009 onwards, are listed below:
Avon Rubber Fenner Oxford Instruments Spirax-Sarco
BAE Systems GKN Qinetiq Group TT Electronics
Bodycote Halma Renishaw Ultra Electronics
Chemring Group Hill & Smith Rolls-Royce Group Vitec Group
Cobham IMI Rotork Volex
Dialight Meggitt Senior Weir Group
Domino Printing Sciences Melrose Severfield-Rowen Xaar
e2v technologies Morgan Advanced Materials Spectris XP Power
TSR is averaged over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
51 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com si Gn-on awar Ds Derek Harding was appointed as Group Finance Director from 2 September 2013. By joining Senior, Derek forfeited entitlements from his previous 
employer which had no performance conditions and were close to vesting on maturity. In structuring his recruitment package, the Committee 
sought as much as possible to partly compensate him with awards that vest over longer time periods which are subject to performance conditions 
based on the longer-term performance of Senior and take into account the expected value of the awards. The estimated value of the benefits 
foregone by Derek Harding at his previous employer was £775,000 based on the share price of his former employer on the date he joined Senior. 
In recognition of the fact that Derek Harding was relinquishing awards from his previous employment which were close to vesting or maturity, a 
cash payment of £100,000 was paid to Derek Harding in December 2013 and the Committee granted him the following awards:
Form of award
Face value
of award
Number
of Shares
Vesting
conditions
Deferred Share Award under Listing Rule 9.4.2R £225,000 82,720 No performance conditions
4/9ths vest on 2 September 2014
3/9ths vest on 2 September 2015
2/9ths vest on 2 September 2016
Performance shares under the 2005 LTIP £300,000 107,874 Subject to the same performance conditions as awards granted to other 
senior executives in 2013. Award is due to vest in September 2016. 25% 
 vesting at threshold performance
The face value of the deferred share award was calculated using the average closing share price on the three trading days immediately prior 
to Derek Harding’s appointment on 2 September 2013, which was 272.0p per share. The face value of the LTIP award was calculated using 
the closing share price on 3 September 2013, being the trading day immediately prior to the date of the award, which was 278.1p per share.
The deferred share award will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment as to unvested parts except in certain “good leaver” circumstances.  
In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company (not being an internal corporate reorganisation) the award will vest early at such time to 
such extent as considered appropriate by the Remuneration Committee. No amendments to the advantage of Derek Harding will be made to the 
material terms of the award without shareholder approval other than any minor alteration to: (i) benefit the administration of the award; (ii) take 
account of a change in legislation; or (iii) obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange or regulatory treatment for him or the Company. The award is 
not pensionable or transferable (except on death). The award may only be satisfied with market purchased shares. No newly issued or treasury 
shares will be used in connection with the award.
s harehol Der D ilution
Percentage of issued shares
3.33% 1.67%
Discretionary schemes
(Maximum 5%)
All schemes
(Maximum 10%)
6.39% 3.61%
Shares awarded as % of issued shares
Headroom
The Company complies with the dilution guidelines contained within “Executive Remuneration – ABI Guidelines on Policies and Practices”. At 
31 December 2013, awards outstanding and shares issued in the previous 10 years under all share plans (the Senior plc 2005 Long-term Incentive 
Plan (“the LTIP”), Derek Harding’s Share Award and the 2006 Savings-Related Share Option Plan (the “Sharesave Plan”)) amounted to 6.39% 
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company. At 31 December 2013, awards outstanding and shares issued in the previous 10 years under 
executive (discretionary) plans (the LTIP and Derek Harding’s Share Award) amounted to 3.33% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Typically, share awards are satisfied by the issue of new shares, except for the Enhanced SMIS deferred bonus share award where market 
purchased shares are used. The Remuneration Committee monitors the flow rates of the Company’s share plans, in particular before new 
share awards are made, to ensure the flow rates remain within the ABI dilution guidelines.
s tate Ment of D ire Ctors’ sharehol Din G an D share interests (au Dite D infor Mation)
The Remuneration Committee encourages Directors to own shares in the Company and, in support of this policy, it expects executive 
Directors to retain at least 50% of the shares that vest under the LTIP, after allowing for tax liabilities, until a shareholding equivalent in value 
to 100% of base salary is built up. Based on the executive Directors’ 2013 base salaries, Mark Rollins had a holding of 509% of base salary 
and Derek Harding had a holding of 20% of base salary in the Company’s shares.
Deferred share awards are not taken into account for these purposes. Shares are valued using the Company’s closing share price 
on 31 December 2013 of 307.2p. 
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 52
re Muneration re Port :  
a nnual r e Port on r e Muneration CONTINUED The table below shows how each director complies with this requirement.
Directors
Share ownership
requirements
(% of 2013
base salary)
Number of shares
required to be held
Number of shares
owned outright
(including
connected 
persons)
Share ownership
requirements met
Deferred share
awards not subject
to performance
conditions 
Weighted average
period to vest of
deferred share
awards
Derek Harding 100% 97,657 20,000 No – 20% 82,720 1.45 years
Mark Rollins 100% 147,461 750,000 Yes – 509% 134,785 1.69 years
Legally owned (no. of shares)
31 December
2013
31 December
2012
Executive Directors
Mark Rollins 750,000 700,000
Derek Harding
 (1)
20,000 N/A
non-executives Directors
Charles Berry 10,000 –
Celia Baxter
 (1)
10,000 N/A
David Best 40,195 40,195
Andy Hamment 19,877 19,877
Giles Kerr
 (1)
– N/A
Mark E. Vernon 18,063 18,063
(1)
 Derek Harding, Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr were appointed to the Board on 2 September 2013.
Perfor Man Ce G ra Ph s hare P ri Ce P erfor Man Ce The closing middle market price of the shares at 31 December 2013 was 307.2p (2012 – 199.6p). During 2013, the shares traded in the range 
of 197.7p to 311.2p.
s enior P l C t otal s harehol Der r eturn The following graph compares the Total Shareholder Return of the Company’s shares against the “FTSE All-Share, Aerospace & Defence index”, 
and the FTSE250 index over a five-year period (where dividends are included gross of tax). This graph allows a comparison to be made against 
organisations facing broadly similar economic and market conditions as the Company.
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13
FTSE All Share Aerospace & Defence Senior FTSE250
r e Muneration of Grou P Chief eX e Cutive 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
CEO single figure of total 
remuneration (£000s) 578 899 1,805 1,529 1,686
Annual variable element 
award rates against 
maximum opportunity (%) 38
(1)
100 100 92 65
Long-term incentive 
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity (%) 100 82 100 100 100
(1)
  Given the difficult time faced by many of the Group’s employees in 2009, Mark Rollins chose to waive, in full, his entitlement to his 2009 performance bonus.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
53 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com PerC enta Ge C hanG e in re Muneration of the Grou P Chief eX e Cutive The table below shows how the percentage change in Mark Rollins’ salary, benefits and bonus between 2012 and 2013 compares with the 
percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees. The Committee has selected approximately 
200 of the Group’s senior managers in Europe and North America, as the operations in these territories deliver approximately 92% of the Group’s 
revenue and operating profit before tax, and these senior managers have broadly similarly structured remuneration packages. Businesses acquired 
by Senior during the year, leavers and joiners in either year have been excluded to prevent distortion. 
Salary
Taxable
Benefit Bonus
Percentage
change
Percentage
change
Percentage
change
Mark Rollins
 (1)
3.0% 5% -27%
Pay of senior managers in Europe and the USA 3.2% 8%
(2)
-16%
(1)
  Salary increase based on change in full basic salary from £440,000 in 2012 to £453,000 in 2013. In 2012, Mark Rollins waived £50,000 of his salary and received £390,000; 
he waived £53,000 of his salary in 2013 and received £400,000.
(2)
  For the purposes of making a more valid comparison, the comparator group for the Taxable Benefit figure consisted of nine UK-based senior managers that had a broadly 
similar benefits structure as Mark Rollins that included the use of a company car and receipt of private healthcare.
r elative i MPortan Ce of s Pen D on P ay The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year ended 31 December 2013 
compared to the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Percentage
change
Employee remuneration costs (excluding social security) 189.5 177.7 6.6%
Adjusted profit before tax 98.1 91.1 7.7%
Dividends paid 19.9 16.4 21.3%
s tate Ment of iMP le Mentation of re Muneration P oliC y in the followinG finanC ial year If approved, the Remuneration Policy will be implemented with effect from the AGM in 2014.
s alaries an D fees for 2014
Increases in the salaries and fees for the Directors in 2014 were broadly in line with the annual rate of inflation as measured by the Consumer 
Price Index at the time they were approved in early December 2013. No additional fees were payable for Committee membership.
2014
£
2013
£
Percentage
change
Executives
Mark Rollins
(1)
410,000 400,000 2.2%
Derek Harding
(2)
307,500 300,000 2.5%
n on-executives
Chairman 147,600 144,000 2.5%
Non-executive Director 41,400 40,400 2.5%
Chair of Audit Committee
(3)
6,500 5,500 18.2%
Chair of Remuneration Committee
(3)
6,500 5,500 18.2%
Chair of Pension Trustee Board 7,700 7,500 2.7%
Senior Independent Director
(3)
3,250 2,750 18.2%
(1)  
Mark Rollins’ 2013 base salary was £453,000 although he elected to waive £53,000 of his salary and therefore received a salary of £400,000. In 2014, he was awarded a 
salary of £463,000, representing a 2.2% increase on his 2013 salary of £453,000. He has decided to also waive £53,000 of his 2014 salary, so taking a salary of £410,000.
(2)  
Derek Harding’s 2013 annual salary of £300,000 was used for the purposes of calculating the percentage change in his salary, although he joined the Company on 
2 September 2013.
(3)  
A bench marking exercise found the fees paid for the Chairs of Audit and Remuneration and for the role of the Senior Independent Director were well below the rates paid 
for such roles in similar organisations and consequently increases in excess of inflation were considered appropriate. After these increases, the fees remain below median.
SEnior P lc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 54
re Muneration re Port :  
a nnual r e Port on r e Muneration CONTINUED w ei Ghtin G of a nnual Bonus KP i s for 2014
The individual weightings of the KPIs for the executive Directors for the Annual bonus are as set out in the following table.
2014 2013
Maximum
possible cash
award
Enhanced
SMIS
– maximum
share award
Maximum
possible
cash award
Enhanced
SMiS
– maximum
share award
Cash flow targets:
 Interim 10.0% 5.0% 10.0% 5.0%
 Full year 15.0% 7.5% 15.0% 7.5%
EPS targets:
 Internal target 15.0% 7.5% 20.0% 10.0%
 Year-on-year growth 30.0% 15.0% 25.0% 12.5%
Totals 70.0% 35.0% 70.0% 35.0%
The weightings of the performance conditions have been amended, year-on-year operating profit performance has been increased to 30% 
(previously 25%) whilst the weighting for performance against budgeted operating profit has reduced to 15% (previously 20%). Although there is 
no overall change in the combined total, there is a greater emphasis on delivering year-on-year performance improvement.
The actual targets are currently considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Company’s competitors.
Perfor Man Ce C on Ditions for 2014 awar Ds Conditional share awards to be granted in 2014
The performance conditions for awards which will be made in 2014 will again be based on growth in EPS (50% weighting) and relative TSR 
measured against a peer group (50% weighting) and will have the same performance scale as for 2013, as set out below:
Performance measure Weighting
Target 
 (25% vesting)
Maximum
 (100% vesting)
Total shareholder return ranking 50% 
Median 
or higher
Upper 
quintile or
 higher
Average annual growth in  
earnings per share 50% 4% over RPI 10% over RPI
The TSR group applicable to the 2014 LTIP awards will broadly reflect the list of the 2013 LTIP award constituent comparator companies shown 
on page 51.
aPP roval of the Dire Ctors’ re Muneration re Port The Directors’ Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 28 February 2014.
Signed on behalf of the Board
Celia Ba Xter Chair of the Remuneration Committee
28 February 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
55 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European 
Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to 
prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements under IFRS as 
adopted by the EU. Under company law the Directors must not approve 
the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the 
Company for that period. In preparing these Financial Statements, 
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
•	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•	 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of 
the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking 
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
•	 the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face; and
•	 the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
By order of the Board
m a Rk Rollins   De Rek ha RDing
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director
28 February 2014 28 February 2014
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 56
s tatement of Di Recto Rs’ R esponsibilities  opinion on financial statements of senio R plc In our opinion:
•	 the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 
and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
•	 the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union;
•	 the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006; and
•	 the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Consolidated Income 
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the 
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent 
Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes 1 to 38. The 
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as 
regards the parent Company Financial Statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
g oing conce Rn As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
statement on page 26 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
•	 we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis 
of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is 
appropriate; and
•	 we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
o u R assessment of R isks of mate Rial misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those 
that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of 
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk h ow the scope of ou R au Dit R espon De D to the R isk g oo Dwill impaiR ment As outlined in the Audit Committee Report on page 38, management 
recorded a £12.7m impairment charge against Capo Industries goodwill 
following under plan performance. 
The carrying value of goodwill, a material balance for the Group, relies 
on assumptions and judgements made by management which requires 
estimates concerning the estimated future cash flows, associated 
discount rates, and growth rates based on management’s view of  
future business prospects. 
We challenged management’s assumptions used in the impairment 
model for goodwill, described in note 13 to the Financial Statements, 
including, but not limited to:
•	 the cash flow projections, by considering the consistency of the 
forecasts with industry trends, historical budgeting accuracy and 
comparing the estimated margins to other operating companies  
of a similar nature; 
•	 discount rates, by engaging our internal valuation specialists  
to review assumptions made against external market data; 
•	 perpetuity rates, by benchmarking against industry and GDP  
growth rates; 
•	 sensitivities adopted; and
•	 the impact of restructuring the Capo Industries business.
w a RRanty an D employee- Relate D p Rovisions The Group holds provisions in respect of warranty claims and workers’ 
compensation claims.
These require significant management judgements around failure rates 
and estimated cost of repairs for warranty claims; the workers’ 
compensation provision also uses actuarial development factors to 
determine the quantum of claims which are likely to arise in respect  
of past services but are not yet known to the Company. 
We evaluated and tested the key judgements made by management, 
including reviewing underlying data behind failure rates, average cost  
of repairs and comparing to the assumptions used to calculate the 
Group’s estimate. 
In addition, we used our internal actuarial experts to assess the 
assumptions used in calculating the development factors for the 
workers’ compensation provision. This involved creating an  
independent estimate of the provision and evaluating the valuation 
methodology applied.
t ax p Rovisions an D Defe RRe D tax R ecognition
As the Group operates in a number of different tax jurisdictions, 
judgement is required over the levels of tax provisions held at year-end 
principally in the US and UK which are the Group’s most significant 
trading countries. 
In addition to this, deferred tax asset recognition depends on the future 
profitability of the Company and therefore requires judgement over the 
level of the asset that can be recognised. 
We assessed the tax position in conjunction with our internal tax 
experts in the local jurisdictions who have knowledge of local tax laws. 
This included a review of prior year open computations, assumptions 
made and related correspondence with the tax authorities. 
We evaluated management’s judgements in respect of deferred tax 
assets by considering future forecasts of profitability, past results,  
length of forecast period and risk factors applied and used these to 
assess the probability that sufficient future taxable profits will arise.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
57 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
inD epenD ent au Dito R’s R epo Rt 
to the membe Rs of senio R plc  Risk h ow the scope of ou R au Dit R espon De D to the R isk invento Ry levels an D p Rovisions Inventory, a material balance for the Group, requires a significant level  
of management judgement in determining an appropriate costing basis 
and assessing if this is lower than the net realisable value of the 
inventory on hand at year end.
There are also judgements required in determining inventory provisions 
as these are based on forecast inventory usage and assessing if the 
provision level is adequate to cover any obsolescence. 
We attended inventory counts at all significant locations, and performed 
detailed substantive testing on a sample of items to assess the cost 
basis and realisable value of inventory.
We compared the inventory provision to the Group’s policy (see n ote 2), 
and challenged management’s judgement of the adequacy of this policy 
by performing a review of the level of provisions on an aggregate and by 
unit basis as well as understanding the levels of demand for significant 
items. We investigated manual adjustment made to the mechanical 
application of the inventory provisioning policy, and assessed whether 
they were valid and the appropriateness of the final provision.
a cquisition accounting 
As outlined in the Audit Committee Report on page 38, Group 
management exercised judgement in determining their provisional 
valuation of the intangible assets and goodwill associated with the 
Thermal Engineering Holding Limited acquisition. These judgements 
could have a material impact on the financial statements and as such,  
this is a key audit risk.
We evaluated and tested the acquisition accounting, including using 
internal valuation experts in the consideration of the recognition and 
valuation of intangible assets and goodwill. o ur audit procedures 
included, but were not limited to: agreeing the cash flow projections to 
supporting audit evidence on a sample basis; assessing the 
appropriateness of the valuation methodology and discount rate applied; 
and performing substantive testing on a sample of the underlying assets 
and liabilities of the business.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of certain of these risks is set out 
on page 38.
o ur audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the 
context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to 
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. o ur opinion  
on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the 
risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these 
individual matters.
ou R application of mate Riality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial 
Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.  
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and  
in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £7.0m, which is 
approximately 7.5% of pre-tax profit, adjusted to exclude the impact  
of the impairment charge for Capo Industries and the release of the 
GAMFG Precision LLC deferred consideration. These items have been 
excluded in our determination of materiality as they are exceptional  
and non-recurring. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £140,000, as well as 
differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting 
on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on 
disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall 
presentation of the Financial Statements. 
a n ove Rview of the scope of ou R au Dit o ur Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group 
and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on that 
assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit 
work at 25 key operating locations. 18 of these were subject to full 
scope audit procedures, of which seven were performed through 
a combination of work completed by the local component auditors  
and work completed by the Group team. The other seven key  
operating locations were subject to specified audit procedures 
on certain balances. 
Together with the Group Functions, which were also subject to  
full scope audit procedures, the 25 locations represent the principal 
business units within the Group’s two reportable segments and account 
for 94% of the Group’s net assets, 90% of the Group’s revenue and 
Full scope audit procedures 75%
Specified audit procedures 15%
Reviewed at Group level 10%
a u Dit cove Rage by site as a 
p Ropo Rtion of 2013 R evenue Full scope audit procedures 80%
Specified audit procedures 12%
Reviewed at Group level 8%
a u Dit cove Rage by site as a 
p Ropo Rtion of 2013 p Rofit befo Re tax Full scope audit procedures 79%
Specified audit procedures 15%
Reviewed at Group level 6%
a u Dit cove Rage by site as a 
p Ropo Rtion of 2013 net assets Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 58
i n Depen Dent au Dito R’s R epo Rt  
to the membe Rs of s enio R plc continued  92% of the Group’s profit before tax. They were also selected to provide 
an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks 
of material misstatement identified above. o ur audit work at the 
25 locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each 
individual entity which were lower than Group materiality. 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and 
carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there 
were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not subject to full 
scope audit procedures or specified audit procedures.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits 
that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit 
team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was 
focused at least once every three years. In years when we do not visit a 
significant component we will include the component audit team in our 
team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation 
of the findings from their work.
opinion on othe R matte Rs p Resc Ribe D by the  
c ompanies a ct 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006; and
•	 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
m atte Rs on which we a Re R equi Re D to R epo Rt by exception aD equacy of explanations R eceive D an D accounting R eco RDs Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit; or
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DiR ectoR s’ R emune Ration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our 
opinion certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited 
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
c o Rpo Rate g ove Rnance s tatement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have 
nothing to report arising from our review.
o u R Duty to R ea D othe R info Rmation in the a nnual Repo Rt Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual 
Report is:
•	 materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial 
statements; or
•	 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•	 otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any 
inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and 
the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, 
balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the 
audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We 
confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or 
misleading statements.
Respective R esponsibilities of D i Recto Rs an D au Dito R
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial 
Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
o ur responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us  
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for 
Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 
1 (UK and Ireland). o ur audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that 
our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.  
o ur quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional 
standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews 
and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
o ur audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for 
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
s cope of the au Dit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures 
in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that 
the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the 
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the overall presentation of the 
Financial Statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
gR egoR y c ulshaw aca (s enioR statutoR y au DitoR ) 
fo R an D on behalf of Deloitte llp Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Southampton, United Kingdom
28 February 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
59 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com n otes
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
c ontinuing operations
Revenue 3 775.1 712.0
Trading profit before one-off items 104.4 93.9
Goodwill impairment 13 (12.7) –
Reversal of contingent consideration payable 3.8 –
Restructuring costs (1.9) –
Trading profit 5 93.6 93.9
Loss on sale of fixed assets – (0.1)
Share of joint venture loss (0.3) (0.1)
o perating profit
(1)
93.3 93.7
Investment income 7 0.2 0.3
Finance costs 8 (9.7) (10.6)
Profit before tax
(2)
83.8 83.4
Tax 10 (12.4) (16.8)
profit for the period from continuing operations 71.4 66.6
Discontinued operations
o perating profit 33 – 0.8
Profit on disposal 33 – 2.5
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 33 – 3.3
profit for the period 5 71.4 69.9
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 71.4 69.9
Earnings per share
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic
(3)
 12 17.22p 17.11p
Diluted
(4)
12 17.00p 16.69p
From continuing operations
Basic 12 17.22p 16.30p
Diluted 12 17.00p 15.90p
(1)
 Adjusted operating profit 9 107.6 101.4
(2)
 Adjusted profit before tax 9 98.1 91.1
(3)
 Adjusted earnings per share 12 19.00p 17.75p
(4)
 Adjusted and diluted earnings per share 12 18.76p 17.31p
 c onsoli Date D statement of comp Rehensive income Fo R the yea R ended 31 d ecembe R 2013
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Profit for the period 71.4 69.9
o ther comprehensive income: 
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges during the period (2.4) 1.2
Reclassification adjustments for losses included in profit and loss 1.5 0.8
(Losses)/gains on cash flow hedges (0.9) 2.0
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (7.8) (11.1)
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified (0.3) (0.5)
(9.0) (9.6)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension schemes 4.3 (12.3)
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified (2.1) 3.1
2.2 (9.2)
o ther comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax (6.8) (18.8)
Total comprehensive income for the period 64.6 51.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 64.6 51.1
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 60
c onsoliD ate D income statement Fo R the yea R ended 31 d ecembe R 2013 n otes
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
non-current assets
Goodwill 13 225.9 220.1 – –
o ther intangible assets 14 16.6 18.7 0.2 0.2
Investments in subsidiaries 15 – – 259.9 251.8
Investment in joint venture 16 1.0 0.8 – –
Property, plant and equipment 17 142.6 134.8 0.2 0.2
Deferred tax assets 22 7.0 12.5 – –
Trade and other receivables 19 0.5 0.5 5.1 4.7
Total non-current assets 393.6 387.4 265.4 256.9
current assets
Inventories 18 99.4 91.2 – –
Trade and other receivables 19 114.3 101.2 134.0 139.0
Cash and cash equivalents 34c 53.1 44.5 0.1 2.3
Total current assets 266.8 236.9 134.1 141.3
Total assets 660.4 624.3 399.5 398.2
c urrent liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 127.4 122.4 111.4 120.0
Current tax liabilities 15.1 12.3 0.2 0.2
o bligations under finance leases 23 0.4 0.5 – –
Bank overdrafts and loans 20 21.2 0.8 23.8 2.5
Provisions 25 1.6 6.1 – –
Total current liabilities 165.7 142.1 135.4 122.7
n on-current liabilities
Bank and other loans 20 90.4 113.6 90.4 113.5
Retirement benefit obligations 37 25.6 37.1 15.6 23.3
Deferred tax liabilities 22 16.5 17.6 – –
o bligations under finance leases 23 0.3 0.5 – –
o thers 0.4 0.5 – –
Total non-current liabilities 133.2 169.3 106.0 136.8
Total liabilities 298.9 311.4 241.4 259.5
n et assets 361.5 312.9 158.1 138.7
equity
Issued share capital 26 41.6 41.4 41.6 41.4
Share premium account 27 13.8 13.7 13.8 13.7
Equity reserve 28 5.2 3.8 5.2 3.8
Hedging and translation reserve 29 (13.6) (4.6) (0.3) (0.3)
Retained earnings 30 316.4 259.6 99.7 81.1
o wn shares 31 (1.9) (1.0) (1.9) (1.0)
equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 361.5 312.9 158.1 138.7
Total equity 361.5 312.9 158.1 138.7
The Financial Statements of Senior plc (registered number 282772) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 
28 February 2014. They were signed on its behalf by:
c ha Rles b e RRy De Rek h a RDing 
Director Director
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
61 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
b alance sheets aS at 31 d ecembe R 2013 a) gRoup All equity is attributable to equity holders of the parent
Issued
share
 capital
£m
Share
premium 
account
£m
Equity
reserve
£m
 Hedging
and
translation
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
o wn
shares
£m
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2012 40.2 12.3 2.7 4.5 216.6 – 276.3
Profit for the year 2012 – – – – 69.9 – 69.9
Gains on cash flow hedges – – – 2.0 – – 2.0
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – – (11.1) – – (11.1)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes – – – – (12.3) – (12.3)
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – – – 2.6 – 2.6
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – (9.1) 60.2 – 51.1
Issue of share capital 1.2 1.4 (0.3) – – – 2.3
Share-based payment charge – – 2.0 – – – 2.0
Tax relating to share-based payments – – – – (1.4) – (1.4)
Purchase of shares held by employee benefit trust – – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Transfer to retained earnings – – (0.6) – 0.6 – –
Dividends paid – – – – (16.4) – (16.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 41.4 13.7 3.8 (4.6) 259.6 (1.0) 312.9
Profit for the year 2013 – – – – 71.4 – 71.4
Losses on cash flow hedges – – – (0.9) – – (0.9)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – – (7.8) – – (7.8)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes – – – – 4.3 – 4.3
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – – (0.3) (2.1) – (2.4)
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – (9.0) 73.6 – 64.6
Issue of share capital 0.2 0.1 (0.2) – – – 0.1
Share-based payment charge – – 3.0 – – – 3.0
Tax relating to share-based payments – – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Purchase of shares held by employee benefit trust – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Transfer to retained earnings – – (1.4) – 1.4 – –
Dividends paid – – – – (19.9) – (19.9)
Balance at 31 December 2013 41.6 13.8 5.2 (13.6) 316.4 (1.9) 361.5
b) c ompany
All equity is attributable to equity holders of the Company
Issued
share 
capital
£m
Share
premium 
account
£m
Equity
reserve
£m
 Hedging
and
translation
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
o wn
shares
£m
 
Total
equity
£m
Balance at 1 January 2012 40.2 12.3 2.7 (0.3) 71.0 – 125.9
Profit for the year 2012 – – – – 32.5 – 32.5
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes – – – – (6.6) – (6.6)
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – 25.9 – 25.9
Issue of share capital 1.2 1.4 (0.3) – – – 2.3
Share-based payment charge – – 2.0 – – – 2.0
Purchase of shares held by employee benefit trust – – – – – (1.0) (1.0)
Transfer to retained earnings – – (0.6) – 0.6 – –
Dividends paid – – – – (16.4) – (16.4)
Balance at 31 December 2012 41.4 13.7 3.8 (0.3) 81.1 (1.0) 138.7
Profit for the year 2013 – – – – 35.2 – 35.2
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes – – – – 1.9 – 1.9
Total comprehensive income for the period – – – – 37.1 – 37.1
Issue of share capital 0.2 0.1 (0.2) – – – 0.1
Share-based payment charge – – 3.0 – – – 3.0
Purchase of shares held by employee benefit trust – – – – – (0.9) (0.9)
Transfer to retained earnings – – (1.4) – 1.4 – –
Dividends paid – – – – (19.9) – (19.9)
Balance at 31 December 2013 41.6 13.8 5.2 (0.3) 99.7 (1.9) 158.1
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 62
s tatements of changes in equity Fo R the yea R ended 31 d ecembe R 2013 n otes
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
n et cash from/(used in) operating activities 34a 92.4 83.3 (19.1) (25.8)
investing activities 
Interest received 0.2 0.3 2.4 2.3
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 48.1 50.0
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.1 – –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (28.7) (25.3) (0.1) (0.1)
Purchases of intangible assets (1.0) (0.8) – (0.1)
Acquisition of Thermal (net of cash acquired of £0.2m) 32 (28.1) – – –
Acquisition of Atlas 32 (2.4) – – –
Acquisition of GA – (28.1) – –
Investment in subsidiaries – – (8.1) –
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary – 4.5 – –
Investment in joint venture (0.5) (0.9) – –
n et cash (used in)/from investing activities (59.6) (50.2) 42.3 52.1
Financing activities 
Dividends paid (19.9) (16.4) (19.9) (16.4)
Repayment of borrowings (0.2) (0.2) – –
Repayments of obligations under finance leases (0.5) (0.6) – –
Share issues 0.1 2.3 0.1 2.3
Purchase of shares held by employee benefit trust (0.9) (1.0) (0.9) (1.0)
n et loans advanced to subsidiaries – – (5.0) (13.0)
n et cash inflow on forward contracts – – – 0.7
n et cash used in financing activities (21.4) (15.9) (25.7) (27.4)
n et increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.2 (2.5) (1.1)
c ash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 43.9 28.5 (0.2) 0.9
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (2.2) (1.8) – –
c ash and cash equivalents at end of period 34c 53.1 43.9 (2.7) (0.2)
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
63 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
c ash flow statements Fo R the yea R ended 31 d ecembe R 2013 1. g ene Ral info Rmation
Senior plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under 
the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given on 
the inside back cover. The nature of the Group’s operations and its 
principal activities are set out in n ote 4 and on pages 2 to 26.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities 
are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (the functional currency). These Financial 
Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Company’s 
functional and the Group’s presentation currency.
2. significant accounting policies b asis of accounting
These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) adopted by the 
European Union and they therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS 
Regulation. They have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except 
for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments. They 
have also been prepared on the going concern basis as set out in the 
Financial Review on pages 24 to 26. The Directors have, at the time of 
approving these Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the 
Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these 
Financial Statements.
In the current financial year, the Group and Company have adopted  
the following standards and amendments:
IFRS 7 (Amendments) improves disclosure in netting arrangements 
associated with financial assets and financial liabilities. This amendment 
does not represent a material impact on these Financial Statements.
IFRS 13 defines fair value and replaces the requirements contained in 
individual accounting standards. The standard does not change the 
requirements regarding which items should be measured or disclosed 
at fair value and as such has no material impact on these 
Financial Statements.
IAS 1 (Amendments) improves how items of other income should be 
presented in the statement of other comprehensive income (o CI). o ther 
than having to separate items of o CI into items that may be reclassified 
subsequently to the profit or loss account and those that will not be 
reclassified to the profit or loss account, these amendments do not 
materially impact these Financial Statements.
IAS 19 (Amendments) changes the accounting and valuation of defined 
benefit plans and termination benefits. The interest cost and expected 
return on plan assets has been replaced with a net interest charge on 
the net defined benefit liability and scheme running costs are now 
recognised within operating profit. The amendments also enhance  
the disclosure requirements of defined benefit plans. The impact of 
retrospectively applying the accounting changes is not considered  
to have a material impact on these Financial Statements and so the  
prior year results have not been restated. If the changes were applied 
retrospectively as at 31 December 2012, the Group’s and Company’s 
profit before tax for 2012 would have increased by £0.7m. The required 
enhanced disclosures are presented in these Financial Statements.
IAS 32 (Amendments) addresses inconsistencies relating to the 
offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities criteria. This 
amendment does not represent a material impact on these 
Financial Statements.
IAS 36 (Amendments) clarifies the disclosure requirements of changes 
made by the introduction of IFRS 13. The Group has early adopted 
this standard.
The Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle incorporated 
necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to five International Financial 
Reporting Standards. The amendments most relevant to the Group and 
Company are:
IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” amendments clarify the 
requirement for additional comparative information and do not represent 
a material impact on these Financial Statements.
IAS 34 “Interim Financial Reporting” amendments clarify the disclosure 
requirements for segment information and fair value of Financial 
Instruments. The Interim Financial Statements as at 30 June 2013 
reflected these amendments, where applicable.
The remaining three amendments in the Improvements to IFRSs 2009 
– 2011 Cycle do not currently impact these Financial Statements.
The following amendments to Standards and Interpretations are also 
effective from the current financial year, but currently do not impact 
these Financial Statements: IFRS 1 (Amendments) “Government 
Loans” and IFRIC 20: Stripping Costs in the Production of a Surface 
Mine are currently not relevant to the Group’s operations.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following 
Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these 
Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective, and in some 
instances not yet endorsed by the EU:
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The mandatory effective date will  
be no earlier than 1 January 2017.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. Effective for annual periods beginning on 
or after 1 January 2014. Endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in o ther Entities. Effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 (Amendments) Investment Entities. 
Effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. 
Endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Consolidated Financial Statements, Joint 
Arrangements and Disclosure of Interests in o ther Entities – Transition 
Guidance. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2014. Endorsed by the EU.
IAS 19 (Amendments): Employee Contributions. Effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements. Effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Endorsed by the EU.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. Effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Endorsed by 
the EU.
IAS 39 (Amendments): n ovation of Derivatives and Continuation of 
Hedge Accounting. Effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2015. Endorsed by the EU.
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies. Effective for reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2014.
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 64
n otes to the financial statements  2. significant accounting policies continued
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010–2012 Cycle as published in 
December 2013. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2014.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011–2013 Cycle as published in 
December 2013. Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 July 2014.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and 
Interpretations in future period will not have a material impact on these 
Financial Statements, except for additional disclosures, when the 
relevant standards come into effect.
The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as 
required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted by the Act, the 
separate Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRS. They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for 
the revaluation of certain financial instruments. The principal accounting 
policies adopted are the same as those set out below, except in respect 
of investments in subsidiaries, which are stated at cost less, where 
appropriate, provisions for impairment.
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”). Accordingly, in the 
year ending 31 December 2014, the Company intends to transition to 
reporting under FRS 101 as issued by the FRC. The Company intends to 
take advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that 
standard. Any shareholder who objects to this proposal should write to 
the Company Secretary at the Registered o ffice as set out at the back 
of the Annual Report & Accounts 2013.
The principal accounting policies under IFRS are set out below.
b asis of consoli Dation
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the Financial 
Statements of Senior plc and the entities controlled by it (its subsidiaries) 
made up to 31 December. Control is achieved when Senior plc has the 
power to govern the financial and operating policies of an invested entity 
so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using 
the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for each acquisition 
is the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets 
transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity interests issued 
by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any 
asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured 
initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. o n an acquisition by 
acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are 
included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date 
of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. 
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
accounting method.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements 
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated on consolidation.
goo Dwill Goodwill arising on consolidation is measured as the excess of the 
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous 
equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Group’s share 
of the identifiable net assets acquired. It is recognised as an asset and 
reviewed for impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately through the Consolidated Income Statement and is not 
subsequently reversed.
If the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling 
interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any previous 
equity interest in the acquiree is less than the fair value of the net assets 
acquired (i.e. bargain purchase), the difference is credited to the 
Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, 
to the cash-generating units (“CGUs”) that are expected to benefit from 
that business combination. CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated 
are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is 
an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount 
of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is 
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated 
to the CGU and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the 
basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment 
loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
o n disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the 
attributable amount of goodwiII is included in the determination of the 
profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS  
has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves 
under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not 
included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal. 
Revenue R ecognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services 
provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and 
other sales-related taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the sale. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ 
legal rights to receive payment have been established.
c onst Ruction cont Racts Senior Hargreaves Limited, which was disposed of on 16 o ctober  
2012 was the only operating company in the Group to be involved in 
construction contracts.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, 
revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage 
of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date. This 
is normally calculated in accordance with the proportion that contract 
costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total 
contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the 
stage of completion. Variations in contract work and claims are 
included to the extent it is highly probable that they will be recovered 
from the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated 
reliably, contract revenue is only recognised to the extent that contract 
costs incurred will probably be recoverable. 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
65 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 2. significant accounting policies continued
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract 
revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
l easing
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease 
substantially transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the 
Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum 
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The 
corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as 
a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between 
finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligation in order to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability. Finance charges are charged directly to the Income Statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into an operating 
lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
f o Reign cu RRencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are 
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the date of the 
transaction. At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates 
prevailing on the balance sheet date. n on-monetary items carried at 
fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at 
the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
n on-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign 
currency are not retranslated. Gains and losses arising on retranslation 
are included in net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange 
differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the 
changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, subject to 
meeting the requirements under IAS 21.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the 
Group enters into forward contracts (see section below on Derivative 
financial instruments and hedging for details of the Group’s accounting 
policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments).
o n consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance 
sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average 
exchange rates for the period. Exchange rate differences arising, if 
any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Group’s translation 
reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or 
expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate on the relevant balance sheet date.
The exchange rates for the major currencies applied in the translation  
of results were as follows:
Average
 rates
2013
Average
rates
2012
Year-end
rates
2013
Year-end
rates
2012
US dollar 1.57 1.59 1.66 1.63
Euro 1.18 1.23 1.20 1.23
g ove Rnment g Rants Government grants received for items of a revenue nature are 
recognised as income over the period necessary to match them with 
the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to investment in property, plant and 
equipment are deducted from the initial carrying value of the related 
capital asset.
ope Rating p Rofit
o perating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs 
relating to external borrowings and retirement benefit obligations.
RetiR ement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement plans are charged as an 
expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement 
benefit plans are dealt with as payments to defined contribution plans 
where the Group’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to those 
arising in a defined contribution retirement plan.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits 
is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with full actuarial 
valuations being carried out on a triennial basis, and updated at each 
balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in 
full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside 
the Income Statement and are presented in the Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the 
benefits are already vested. o therwise, it is amortised on a straight-line 
basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet 
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the 
fair value of scheme assets. Any net asset resulting from this calculation 
is limited to the past service cost plus the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
t axation
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that 
are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax 
is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 66
n otes to the financial statement continued 2. significant accounting policies continued
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities  
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used 
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax 
assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits  
will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than 
in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction 
that affects neither the Group’s taxable profit nor its accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences 
arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in 
joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance 
sheet date and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the 
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply 
in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based  
on tax laws and rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except 
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which 
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
pR ope Rty, plant an D equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods 
or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Balance 
Sheet at their historical cost, or at modified historical cost, being a 
revaluation undertaken in 1988 which has been taken as the effective 
cost on transition to IFRS. Land and buildings were revalued to fair  
value at the date of revaluation.
The Group does not intend to conduct annual revaluations.
Fixtures, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of an asset on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and is charged from the 
time an asset becomes available for its intended use. Annual rates are 
as follows:
Freehold land   nil
Freehold buildings  2%
Improvements to   according to remaining lease term 
leasehold buildings 
Plant and equipment 5%–33%
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected 
useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is 
determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset at disposal and is recognised in income.
o the R intangible assets o ther intangible assets include computer software and customer 
relationships acquired in a business combination. Computer software 
is measured initially at purchase cost and the cost of customer 
relationships acquired in a business combination is generally based on 
fair market values. Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives, being between three and 
five years.
i nte Rnally gene Rate D intangible assets – R esea Rch an D 
Development expen DituR e An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Group’s 
development activities is recognised if all of the following conditions 
are met:
i an asset is created that can be separately identified;
ii  it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic 
benefits; and
iii the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line 
basis over their useful lives.
Development work is also carried out on a funded basis. In such 
circumstances the costs are accumulated in inventory and are 
recognised when the related billings are made. Any amounts held 
in inventory are subject to normal inventory valuation principles. 
o therwise expenditure on research and development activities 
is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
i mpai Rment of tangible an D intangible assets 
exclu Ding goo Dwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts 
of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset 
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss 
(if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable 
amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less the costs 
to sell and the value in use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of 
future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its 
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense 
immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount,  
in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
67 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 2. significant accounting policies continued
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount 
of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable 
amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the 
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an 
impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the 
relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the 
reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
i nvento Ries Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs 
comprise direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and 
an appropriate allocation of production overheads. Cost is calculated 
using the first-in, first-out method. n et realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the 
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
f inancial inst Ruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes 
a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and 
derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are classified as cash and cash equivalents, 
bank overdrafts and loans, obligations under finance leases, trade 
receivables, trade payables, deferred consideration receivable, 
other receivables and other payables, as appropriate.
n on-derivative financial assets are categorised as “loans and 
receivables” and non-derivative financial liabilities are categorised 
as “other financial liabilities”. Derivative financial assets and liabilities 
that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are 
categorised as “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” 
and “financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss”, respectively. 
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial 
assets and liabilities and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their 
nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated 
irrecoverable amounts. These are recognised in the Income Statement 
when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired. Significant 
financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter 
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in 
payments are considered indicators that the asset is impaired. The 
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance 
account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written 
off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously written off are credited against the allowance account. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account 
are recognised in the Income Statement.
c ash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and other short-
term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known 
amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value.
n on-derivative financial liabilities
n on-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method 
of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating 
interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through 
the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter 
period, to the net carrying amount on inital recognition. For borrowings, 
their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as 
unamortised issue costs.
equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value 
of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes 
in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group uses 
foreign exchange contracts and, on occasion, interest rate swap 
contracts to hedge these exposures. The use of financial derivatives is 
governed by the Group’s Treasury Policies as approved by the Board of 
Directors, which provides written principles on the use of derivatives. 
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative 
purposes.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
These are categorised as at “fair value through profit or loss” and are 
stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income 
Statement.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments in respect of 
foreign currency risk as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge 
relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management 
objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. 
The Group also documents, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing 
basis, whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging 
relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or 
cash flows of the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are 
designated and are effective as a cash flow hedge are recognised 
directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately 
in the Income Statement. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment 
or forecasted transaction results in the recognition of an asset or 
a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the 
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been 
recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the 
asset or liability. For hedges that do not result in the recognition of 
an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in 
the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item 
affects net profit or loss.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the 
hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk 
being hedged with the corresponding entry in the Income Statement. 
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative are also recognised 
in the Income Statement. If the hedge is effective, these entries will 
offset in the Income Statement.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 68 2. significant accounting policies continued
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not 
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement 
as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument 
expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for 
hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the 
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until 
the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged transaction is no 
longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised 
in equity is transferred to the Income Statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised in the Income 
Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
pRovisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate 
can be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are measured 
at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. They are not discounted to 
present value if the effect is not material.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group 
has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and the plan has been 
communicated to the affected parties. Provisions for the expected 
cost for warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation 
are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products.
s ha Re-base D payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based 
payments. 
The Group has issued equity-settled and cash-settled share-based 
payments to certain employees. The fair value (excluding the effect 
of non-market-related conditions), as determined at the grant date, 
is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based 
on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually 
vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-related conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for the share 
option plans, and a binomial model for the share awards under the 
2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The liability in respect of equity-settled amounts is included in equity, 
whereas the liability in respect of cash-settled amounts is included 
in current and non-current liabilities as appropriate.
cR itical accounting ju Dgements an D key sou Rces of 
estimation unce Rtainty In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
management has made a number of judgements. Estimates and 
assumptions concerning the future are also made by the Group. 
These are continually evaluated and are based on historical 
experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the related actual results.
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of 
estimation uncertainty and judgements at the balance sheet date that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are 
as follows:
Goodwill
The Group reviews the carrying values of its goodwill balances by 
carrying out impairment tests at least on an annual basis. These tests 
require estimates to be made of the value in use of its CGUs which are 
dependent on estimates of future cash flows and long-term growth 
rates of the CGUs. The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 
2013 was £225.9m (2012 – £220.1m). Further details on these 
estimates are set out in n ote 13.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired on acquisition
o n acquisition of a business, the Group reviews the potential for 
recognising intangible assets and to date has recognised amounts in 
respect of customer relationships acquired. The fair values of these 
intangible assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future 
revenues, profitability and cash flows. The carrying amount at 
31 December 2013 of intangible assets in respect of customer 
relationships acquired was £14.3m (2012 – £16.7m).
income taxes
In determining the Group provisions for income tax and deferred tax 
it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax 
jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 
To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that has 
been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred 
tax provisions held in the period the determination is made. The 
carrying amount of net current tax liability and deferred tax liability 
at 31 December 2013 was £14.5m (2012 – £12.0m) and £9.5m 
(2012 – £5.1m), respectively. Further details on these estimates 
are set out in n otes 10 and 22.
retirement benefit obligations
The asset or liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit 
obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those 
relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases, and the rate at which 
liabilities are discounted. Any change in these assumptions would 
impact the retirement benefit obligation recognised. The carrying 
amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 was a 
liability of £25.6m (2012 – £37.1m). Further details on these estimates 
are set out in n ote 37.
3. Revenue
An analysis of the Group’s revenue is as follows:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Sales of goods – continuing operations 775.1 712.0
Sales of goods – discontinued operations – 5.7
Revenue from construction contracts – 
discontinued operations – 12.1
775.1 729.8
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
69 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 4. segment info Rmation
The Group reports its segment information as two operating Divisions according to the market segments they serve, Aerospace and Flexonics. 
For management purposes, the Aerospace Division is managed as two sub-divisions, Aerostructures and Fluid Systems, in order to enhance 
management oversight; however, these are aggregated as one reporting segment in accordance with IFRS 8. The Flexonics Division is managed 
as a single division.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in n ote 2 and sales between 
segments are carried out at arm’s length. Adjusted operating profit, as described in n ote 9, is the key measure reported to the Group’s Executive 
Committee for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance. Investment income, finance costs and tax are not 
allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central tax and treasury function.
Segment assets include directly attributable computer software assets, property, plant and equipment, and working capital assets. Goodwill, 
intangible customer relationships, cash, deferred and current tax and other financial assets (except for working capital) are not allocated to 
segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to the Group’s Executive Committee.
Segment liabilities include directly attributable working capital liabilities. Debt, finance leases, retirement benefit obligations, deferred and current 
tax and other financial liabilities (except for working capital) are not allocated to segments for the purposes of reporting financial performance to 
the Group’s Executive Committee.
Segment information for revenue, operating profit and a reconciliation to entity net profit is presented below:
Aerospace
Year ended
2013
£m
Flexonics 
Year ended
2013
£m
eliminations/
central
costs
Year ended
2013
£m
Total 
Year ended
2013
£m
Aerospace
Year ended
2012
£m
Flexonics 
Year ended
2012
£m
Eliminations/
central
costs
Year ended
2012
£m
Total
Year ended
2012
£m
Continuing operations
External revenue 506.1 269.0 – 775.1 470.3 241.7 – 712.0
Inter-segment revenue 0.5 0.3 (0.8) – 0.2 0.3 (0.5) –
Total revenue 506.6 269.3 (0.8) 775.1 470.5 242.0 (0.5) 712.0
Continuing adjusted trading profit 76.5 40.4 (9.0) 107.9 72.1 37.3 (8.7) 100.7
Share of joint venture loss – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.1) – (0.1)
Continuing adjusted operating profit 76.5 40.1 (9.0) 107.6 72.1 37.2 (8.7) 100.6
Loss on sale of fixed assets – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Exceptional pension credit/(charge) – – 1.1 1.1 – – (1.9) (1.9)
Reversal of contingent consideration 
payable – 3.8 – 3.8 – – – –
Impairment of goodwill (12.7) – – (12.7) – – – –
Restructuring costs (1.9) – – (1.9) – – – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 
from acquisitions (3.0) (1.2) – (4.2) (4.1) (0.2) – (4.3)
Acquisition costs (0.4) – – (0.4) – (0.6) – (0.6)
o perating profit 58.5 42.7 (7.9) 93.3 68.0 36.3 (10.6) 93.7
Investment income 0.2 0.3
Finance costs (9.7) (10.6)
Profit before tax 83.8 83.4
Tax (12.4) (16.8)
Profit for the period from continuing 
operations 71.4 66.6
Discontinued operations
o perating profit – 0.8
Profit on disposal – 2.5
Profit for the period from 
discontinued operations – 3.3
Profit after tax and discontinued 
operations 71.4 69.9
Continuing operations adjusted 
operating profit 107.6 100.6
Discontinued operations adjusted 
operating profit – 0.8
Adjusted operating profit 
(See n ote 9) 107.6 101.4
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 70 4. segment info Rmation continued
Segment information for assets, liabilities, additions to non-current assets and depreciation and amortisation is presented below:
Assets
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Aerospace 251.5 219.5
Flexonics 103.7 107.4
Corporate 2.3 1.8
Segment assets for reportable segments 357.5 328.7
Unallocated
Goodwill 225.9 220.1
Intangible customer relationships 14.3 16.7
Cash 53.1 44.5
Deferred and current tax 7.6 12.8
o thers 2.0 1.5
Total assets per balance sheet 660.4 624.3
Liabilities
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Aerospace 74.6 63.3
Flexonics 37.3 41.8
Corporate 14.1 21.1
Segment liabilities for reportable segments 126.0 126.2
Unallocated
Debt 111.6 114.4
Finance leases 0.7 1.0
Deferred and current tax 31.6 29.9
Retirement benefit obligations 25.6 37.1
o thers 3.4 2.8
Total liabilities per balance sheet 298.9 311.4
Additions to
non-current
assets
Year ended
2013
£m
Additions to
non-current
assets
Year ended
2012
£m
Depreciation
and
amortisation
Year ended
2013
£m
Depreciation
and
amortisation
Year ended
2012
£m
Aerospace 21.7 16.4 17.0 17.6
Flexonics 7.8 9.4 9.3 7.2
Subtotal continuing operations 29.5 25.8 26.3 24.8
Unallocated corporate amounts 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1
Discontinued operations – 0.1 – 0.2
Total 29.7 26.1 26.5 25.1
The Group’s revenues from its major products and services is presented below:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Aerospace – Structures 305.2 282.7
Aerospace – Fluid Systems 200.9 187.6
Aerospace total 506.1 470.3
Land vehicles 152.3 128.9
Industrial and others 116.7 112.8
Flexonics total 269.0 241.7
Group continuing 775.1 712.0
Discontinued – 17.8
Group total 775.1 729.8
Included in revenues arising from the Aerospace segment are revenues of approximately £85.2m (2012 – £68.7m) which arose from sales to the 
Group’s largest customer and revenues of approximately £84.1m (2012 – £73.1m) which arose from sales to the Group’s second largest customer.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
71 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 4. segment info Rmation continued
g eog Raphical info Rmation
The Group’s operations are located principally in n orth America and Europe.
The following table provides an analysis of the Group’s sales by geographical market, irrespective of the origin of the goods/services. The carrying 
values of segment non-current assets are analysed by the geographical area in which the assets are located.
Sales
revenue
Year ended
2013
£m
Sales
revenue
Year ended
2012
£m
Segment
non-current
assets
Year ended
2013
£m
Segment
non-current
assets
Year ended
2012
£m
USA 405.6 372.2 233.4 251.2
UK 129.1 110.0 111.6 87.0
Rest of the World 240.4 229.8 41.6 36.7
Subtotal continuing operations 775.1 712.0 386.6 374.9
Unallocated amounts – – 7.0 12.5
Discontinued operations – 17.8 – –
Total 775.1 729.8 393.6 387.4
The unallocated amounts on non-current assets relate to deferred tax assets.
5. tR a Ding p Rofit an D p Rofit fo R the pe Rio D
Trading profit for continuing operations can be analysed as follows:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Revenue 775.1 712.0
Cost of sales (578.5) (530.2)
Gross profit 196.6 181.8
Distribution costs (4.2) (3.3)
Administrative expenses (98.8) (84.6)
Trading profit 93.6 93.9
Trading profit for the period (continuing and discontinued) has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
n et foreign exchange losses 2.7 1.1
Research and development costs 12.9 12.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.6 20.1
Amortisation of intangible assets included in administration expenses 4.9 5.0
Cost of inventories recognised as expense 578.5 544.8
Provision for impairment for doubtful receivables 0.5 0.1
Staff costs (see n ote 6) 223.1 210.9
Government grants received – (0.1)
All research and development costs were expensed during the year.
 
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 72 5. tR a Ding p Rofit an D p Rofit fo R the pe Rio D continued
The analysis of the Auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and their associates for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.1 0.1
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and their associates for other services to the Group
– The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.5 0.5
Total audit fees 0.6 0.6
– Taxation compliance services – 0.1
– o ther taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1
– Corporate finance services – 0.3
Total non-audit fees 0.1 0.5
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the Consolidated 
Financial Statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. In 2012, fees payable for corporate finance services relate to 
services provided in respect of potential acquisitions.
Details of the Company’s policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the Auditor was used rather than another supplier 
and how the Auditor’s independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 36 to 39. n o services 
were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
6. s taff costs The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) was:
Group
Year ended
2013
number
Group
Year ended
2012
n umber
Production 5,441 5,198
Distribution 43 57
Sales 292 318
Administration 586 508
6,362 6,081
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 189.5 177.7
Social security costs 23.0 21.7
o ther pension costs – defined contribution (see n ote 37a) 6.2 5.4
o ther pension costs – defined benefit (see n ote 37e) 2.0 1.9
Share-based payments (see n ote 36) 3.5 2.3
Aggregate remuneration 224.2 209.0
Exceptional pension (credit)/charge (see n ote 37) (1.1) 1.9
Total 223.1 210.9
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
73 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 7. i nvestment income Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Interest on bank deposits 0.2 0.3
Total income 0.2 0.3
The Company earned investment income of £2.2m (2012 – £2.1m) on financial assets all of which relate to the “Loans and receivables” category.
8. f inance costs Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 0.4 0.4
Interest on other loans 7.9 7.6
n et finance cost of retirement benefit obligations (n ote 37e) 1.4 2.6
Total finance costs 9.7 10.6
The Company incurred finance costs of £9.8m (2012 – £10.1m) on financial liabilities all of which relate to the “o ther financial liabilities” category.
9. aD juste D ope Rating p Rofit an D a Djuste D p Rofit befo Re tax The provision of adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax, derived in accordance with the table below, has been included to identify 
the performance of operations, from the time of acquisition or until the time of disposal, prior to the impact of gains or losses arising from the sale 
of fixed assets, amortisation of intangible assets acquired on acquisitions, reversal of contingent consideration payable, impairment charges, 
restructuring costs, exceptional pension credit or charge, gains or losses from disposal of operations and acquisition costs. 
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
o perating profit from continuing operations 93.3 93.7
o perating profit from discontinued operations – 0.8
o perating profit 93.3 94.5
Loss on sale of fixed assets – 0.1
Exceptional pension (credit)/charge (1.1) 1.9
Reversal of contingent consideration payable (3.8) –
Impairment of goodwill 12.7 –
Restructuring costs 1.9 –
Amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions 4.2 4.3
Acquisition costs 0.4 0.6
Adjustments to operating profit 14.3 6.9
Adjusted operating profit 107.6 101.4
Profit before tax from continuing operations 83.8 83.4
Profit before tax from discontinued operations – 3.3
Profit before tax 83.8 86.7
Adjustments to profit as above before tax 14.3 6.9
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations – (2.5)
Adjustments to profit before tax 14.3 4.4
Adjusted profit before tax 98.1 91.1
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 74 10. t ax cha Rge Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Current tax:
Current year 12.6 14.4
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (3.7) 0.7
8.9 15.1
Deferred tax (n ote 22):
Current year 0.3 3.7
Adjustments in respect of prior periods 3.2 (2.0)
3.5 1.7
12.4 16.8
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 12.4 16.8
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for a reduction in the main rate of Corporation Tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and to 20% 
effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation of UK deferred 
tax at the balance sheet date. 
UK Corporation Tax is calculated at an effective rate of 23.25% (2012 – 24.5%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge for the year on profit from continuing operations can be reconciled to the profit per the Consolidated Income Statement as follows:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2013
%
Year ended
2012
£m
Year ended
2012
%
Profit before tax from continuing operations 83.8 83.4
Tax at the UK Corporation Tax rate of 23.25% (2012 – 24.5%) 19.4 20.4
Tax effect of income/expenses that are non-taxable/deductible in determining 
 taxable profit (7.7) (8.8)
Tax effect of unrelieved tax losses (0.3) 0.2
Tax effect of movements in temporary differences not previously recognised (0.7) (0.5)
Deferred tax expense resulting from a reduction in tax rate 0.6 –
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 1.6 6.8
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods (0.5) (1.3)
Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 12.4 14.8 16.8 20.1
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
75 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 10. t ax cha Rge continued
In addition to the amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly in 
other comprehensive income:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Current tax:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (0.1) –
Deferred tax:
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Tax on actuarial (gains)/losses (1.5) 3.1
Effect of change in tax rate  
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
(0.6) –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (0.2) –
Tax recovery – (0.5)
Total tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income (2.4) 2.6
Current tax (0.1) –
Deferred tax (n ote 22) (2.3) 2.6
(2.4) 2.6
In addition to the amount charged to the Consolidated Income Statement and other comprehensive income, the following amounts relating to tax 
have been recognised directly in equity:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Current tax:
Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options 0.5 3.4
Deferred tax:
Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options 0.3 –
Change in estimated excess tax deductions related to share-based payments 0.9 (4.8)
Total tax recognised directly in equity 1.7 (1.4)
11. Divi Den Ds Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 3.27p (2011 – 2.65p) per share 13.6 10.7
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 1.52p (2012 – 1.38p) per share 6.3 5.7
19.9 16.4
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.60p (2012 – 3.27p) per share 15.0 13.5
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 2014 and has not been included as a liability in 
these Financial Statements.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 76 12. e a Rnings pe R sha Re The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
 
n umber of shares
Year ended
2013
million
Year ended
2012
million
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 414.7 408.5
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
Share options 5.4 10.3
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 420.1 418.8
Year ended 2013 Year ended 2012
Earnings and earnings per share
earnings
£m
epS
pence
Earnings
£m
EPS
Pence
Profit for the period from continuing operations 71.4 17.22 66.6 16.30
Profit for the period from discontinued operations – – 3.3 0.81
Profit for the period from continuing and discontinued operations 71.4 17.22 69.9 17.11
Adjust:
Amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions net of tax of £1.4m (2012 – £1.6m) 2.8 0.67 2.7 0.66
Acquisition costs net of tax of £nil (2012 – £0.1m) 0.4 0.10 0.5 0.12
Reversal of contingent consideration payable net of tax of £nil (2012 – £nil) (3.8) (0.92) – –
Goodwill impairment charge net of tax of £5.1m (2012 – £nil) 7.6 1.83 – –
Loss on sale of fixed assets net of tax of £nil (2012 – £0.1m) – – – –
Exceptional pension (credit)/charge net of tax of £0.4m (2012 – £nil) (0.7) (0.17) 1.9 0.47
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations – – (2.5) (0.61)
Restructuring costs net of tax of £0.8m (2012 – £nil) 1.1 0.27 – –
Adjusted earnings after tax 78.8 19.00 72.5 17.75
Earnings per share
– basic from continuing operations 17.22p 16.30p
– basic from continuing and discontinued operations 17.22p 17.11p
– diluted from continuing operations 17.00p 15.90p
– diluted from continuing and discontinued operations 17.00p 16.69p
– adjusted 19.00p 17.75p
– adjusted and diluted 18.76p 17.31p
The effect of dilutive shares on the earnings for the purposes of diluted earnings per share is £nil (2012 – £nil).
The denominators used for all basic, diluted and adjusted earnings per share are as detailed in the “n umber of shares” table above.
The provision of an adjusted earnings per share, derived in accordance with the table above, has been included to identify the performance 
of operations, from the time of acquisition or until the time of disposal, prior to the impact of the following items:
– gains or losses arising from the sale of fixed assets;
– amortisation of intangible assets acquired on acquisitions;
– exceptional pension credit or charge;
– profit on disposal of discontinued operations;
– acquisition costs;
– reversal of contingent consideration payable;
– impairment charges; and
– restructuring costs.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
77 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 13. g oo Dwill Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ost 
At 1 January 228.4 218.6
Exchange differences (3.3) (8.0)
Increases (see n ote 32) 0.3 0.1
Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries (see n ote 32) 20.7 17.7
At 31 December 246.1 228.4
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 8.3 8.7
Impairment charge in the year 12.7 –
Exchange differences (0.8) (0.4)
At 31 December 20.2 8.3
c arrying amount at 31 December 225.9 220.1
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination. 
As noted in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 3, the Aerospace Division consists of 19 operations and the Flexonics Division consists of 12 
operations. Each of these operations is considered to be a separate CGU. Goodwill has been allocated to 19 of these individual CGUs – 13 in 
Aerospace and six in Flexonics. The table below highlights the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the CGUs that are considered significant 
in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill. Where the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a CGU is individually not considered 
significant, it is aggregated in the table below. The carrying amount of goodwill of the aggregated Aerospace CGUs is considered significant and 
the recoverable amounts for these units are based principally on the same key assumptions.
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Aerospace
– Capo Industries 15.3 27.9
– AMT 32.4 33.0
– Weston 27.6 27.6
– Jet Products 15.5 15.8
– Connecticut 12.6 12.8
– BWT and Atlas 16.7 15.0
– Bird Bellows 12.0 12.0
– Thermal 19.0 –
– o ther Aerospace CGUs 26.8 27.0
177.9 171.1
Flexonics
– Pathway 21.4 21.8
– GA 17.4 17.4
– o ther Flexonics CGUs 9.2 9.8
48.0 49.0
Total 225.9 220.1
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. The 2013 goodwill 
impairment review was undertaken as at 31 December 2013, with an additional review performed at Capo Industries as at 30 June 2013 as noted 
below. The recoverable amounts of all the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The calculations use cash flow forecasts derived 
from the most recent financial budgets and forecasts per individual unit, as approved by management for the next three years. For all the CGUs  
a detailed budget that covers the next financial year is used and for some CGUs this is supplemented by forecasts of performance for the two 
years after that. These forecasts, where appropriate, take account of the current economic environment as set out in the Strategic Report on 
pages 1 to 27. Cash flows thereafter have been extrapolated based on estimated growth rates. These growth rates do not exceed independently 
sourced estimated long-term average growth rates for the relevant markets. The cash flow forecasts for each CGU have also been adjusted to 
reflect risks specific to each CGU. The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows for all CGUs is 10.5% (2012 – 10.8%). This is based 
on the Group’s weighted average pre-tax cost of capital and is the measurement used by management in assessing investment appraisals.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 78 13. g oo Dwill continued
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for all Aerospace CGUs are the forecast build rates for aircraft, forecast gross margins 
and long-term average forecast growth rates. Forecast build rates for aircraft are in line with market forecasts and guidance available from 
manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus. Forecast gross margins are set individually by each CGU and reflect past experience, notably the most 
recently achieved margins, but also factor in continuing efficiency improvements to counteract inflationary increases in underlying costs. Cash 
flows extrapolated beyond the initial forecast period of three years are based on growth rates of 2.5% per annum which does not exceed the 
long-term average growth rate forecasts for the aerospace market as included in market outlooks from Boeing and Airbus. Management believes 
that any reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of AMT, Weston, Jet Products, 
Connecticut, BWT and Atlas, Bird Bellows, Thermal, and all other aggregated Aerospace CGUs to exceed the recoverable amount of those units 
and aggregated units, respectively.
As noted in the Group’s Interim Report 2013, Capo Industries has been impacted by the subdued business jet market since 2008, and taking into 
account that the anticipated recovery in this, and the regional jet engine markets, has not yet materialised and expectations for future operating 
margins are consequently lower, an impairment review for this CGU was performed at 30 June 2013. The recoverable amount was determined 
from a value in use calculation. The calculation used the cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent forecasts at the time, as approved  
by management for the next five years, and cash flows thereafter were extrapolated based on estimated growth rates that did not exceed 
independently sourced estimated long-term average growth rates for the aerospace industry. Different probability weighted scenarios, where the 
compound annual sales growth over the initial five-year period ranged from management’s base case of 18.1% to 3.6% were considered. Beyond 
this combined five-year period, cash flows were projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 3.6% from 2019 to 2031, with reference 
to Boeing and Bombardier 20-year market projections, and 2.5% per annum thereafter. The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows 
was 10.8%. As at 30 June 2013, before impairment testing, goodwill of £29.9m was allocated to Capo Industries within Aerospace. As a result of 
the impairment test noted above, an impairment loss of £12.7m was recognised against Capo Industries goodwill, leaving a balance of £15.3m 
at 31 December 2013 after taking account of foreign exchange movements. This impairment loss has been included within trading profit in the 
Consolidated Income Statement.
As at 31 December 2013 a further impairment review has been performed for this CGU with projections for the initial forecast period being 
expanded a further two years beyond the initial forecast period of three years to reflect the medium-term plan of management to recover from this 
downturn in the market. Different scenarios where the compound annual sales growth over the initial five-year period varies from management’s 
base case of 17.5% to 3.7% have been considered. Beyond this combined five-year period, cash flows are projected to grow at a compound annual 
growth rate of 3.7% from 2019 to 2032, in line with Boeing and Bombardier 20-year market projections, and 2.5% per annum thereafter as noted 
above. The recoverable amount of Capo Industries at 31 December 2013 is £22.9m. As noted in the Financial Review on page 26 further cost 
savings are anticipated following the restructuring of Capo Industries with Ketema, and as such management believes that any reasonable possible 
change in any of the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Capo Industries to exceed its recoverable amount.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for Pathway and GA are the forecast orders and forecast gross margins. Forecast orders 
are based on the orders secured and quote activity at the time of setting the budget, and also reflect past experience with the build-up of orders 
and quote success rates. Forecast gross margins reflect past experience, notably the most recently achieved margins, but also factor in expected 
efficiency improvements to counteract inflationary increases in underlying costs. Management believes that any reasonable possible change in the 
key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount of Pathway or GA to exceed its recoverable amount. o ther than as  
noted for GA, no significant goodwill is associated with CGUs operating in land vehicle markets.
An impairment charge of £12.7m has been recognised in 2013 (2012 – £nil).
14. o the R intangible assets Group
Year ended
2013
c ustomer
relationships
£m
Group
Year ended
2013
computer
software
£m
Group 
Year ended
2013
Total
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
Customer
relationships
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
Computer
software
£m
Group 
Year ended
2012
Total
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
computer
software
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
Computer
software
£m
c ost
At 1 January 44.9 9.5 54.4 40.1 9.5 49.6 0.4 0.3
Additions – 1.0 1.0 – 0.8 0.8 – 0.1
Disposals – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) –
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 1.8 – 1.8 6.3 – 6.3 – –
Exchange differences (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (1.5) (0.3) (1.8) – –
At 31 December 46.2 10.0 56.2 44.9 9.5 54.4 0.3 0.4
Amortisation
At 1 January 28.2 7.5 35.7 25.2 7.5 32.7 0.2 0.1
Charge for the year 4.2 0.7 4.9 4.3 0.7 5.0 – 0.1
Disposals – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.5) (0.5) (0.1) –
Exchange differences (0.5) (0.2) (0.7) (1.3) (0.2) (1.5) – –
At 31 December 31.9 7.7 39.6 28.2 7.5 35.7 0.1 0.2
c arrying amount at 31 December 14.3 2.3 16.6 16.7 2.0 18.7 0.2 0.2
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
79 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 14. o the R intangible assets continued
The carrying amount of the Group’s customer relationships includes an amount of £4.7m in respect of customer contracts acquired as part 
of the acquisition of GA in 2012 and £1.7m in respect of customer contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of Thermal in 2013. These are 
being amortised over five years and two months and three years from the date of acquisition, respectively.
In addition, the carrying amount of the Group’s customer relationships includes amounts of £7.9m (2012 – £10.6m) and £nil (2012 – £0.2m) 
in respect of customer contracts acquired as part of the acquisitions of Weston and Damar in 2011. These are being amortised over five years 
and 2.8 years from the date of acquisition, respectively.
15. i nvestments in subsi DiaR ies A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, and proportion of ownership interest is given on 
page 105.
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
At 1 January 251.8 251.8
Additional investment in subsidiaries 8.1 –
At 31 December 259.9 251.8
16. i nvestment in joint ventu Re The Group has a 49% interest in Senior Flexonics Technologies (Wuhan) Limited, a jointly controlled entity incorporated in China, which was  
set up in 2012.
The results of the joint venture are accounted for using equity accounting.
The Group’s investment of £1.0m represents the Group’s share of the joint venture’s net assets as at 31 December 2013.
The following amounts represent the aggregate amounts relating to the revenue and expenses and assets and liabilities of Senior Flexonics 
Technologies (Wuhan) Limited for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue – –
Expenses (0.6) (0.1)
Loss (0.6) (0.1)
Total assets 2.5 1.8
Total liabilities (0.4) (0.1)
n et assets 2.1 1.7
Group’s share of loss (0.3) (0.1)
Group’s share of net assets 1.0 0.8
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 80 17. pR ope Rty, plant an D equipment a) gR oup 
Year ended
2013
Freehold
land and
buildings
£m
Year ended
2013
l easehold
land and
buildings
£m
Year ended
2013
plant
and
equipment
£m
Year ended
2013
Total
£m
Year ended
2012
Freehold
land and
buildings
£m
Year ended
2012
Leasehold
land and
buildings
£m
Year ended
2012
Plant
and
equipment
£m
Year ended
2012
Total
£m
c ost or valuation
At 1 January 60.0 1.7 267.6 329.3 61.2 2.0 260.2 323.4
Additions 1.6 – 27.1 28.7 1.6 – 23.7 25.3
Acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries 3.5 – 1.0 4.5 0.7 – 9.5 10.2
Exchange differences (0.6) – (7.8) (8.4) (2.2) (0.1) (11.4) (13.7)
Disposals – – (7.9) (7.9) (0.1) (0.1) (9.9) (10.1)
Disposed of on disposal of subsidiary – – – – (1.2) (0.1) (4.5) (5.8)
Fully depreciated assets 1.2 – 5.5 6.7 – – – –
At 31 December 65.7 1.7 285.5 352.9 60.0 1.7 267.6 329.3
Accumulated depreciation 
and impairment
At 1 January 19.1 1.3 174.1 194.5 18.2 1.4 177.4 197.0
Charge for the year 1.6 0.1 19.9 21.6 1.7 0.1 18.3 20.1
Exchange differences (0.4) – (5.1) (5.5) (0.4) (0.1) (7.9) (8.4)
Eliminated on disposals – – (7.0) (7.0) (0.1) (0.1) (9.7) (9.9)
Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary – – – – (0.3) – (4.0) (4.3)
Fully depreciated assets 1.2 – 5.5 6.7 – – – –
At 31 December 21.5 1.4 187.4 210.3 19.1 1.3 174.1 194.5
c arrying amount at 31 December 44.2 0.3 98.1 142.6 40.9 0.4 93.5 134.8
The carrying amount of the Group’s land and buildings and plant and equipment includes an amount of £2.4m (2012 – £2.7m) in respect of assets 
held under finance leases. 
Some land and buildings were revalued in 1988 and this valuation has been treated as the deemed cost under IFRS 1. These assets were disposed 
of with the disposal of Senior Hargreaves Limited in 2012.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £6.3m (2012 – £4.8m).
b) c ompany
Year ended
2013
plant and
equipment
£m
Year ended
2012
Plant and
equipment
£m
Cost
At 1 January 0.5 0.5
Additions 0.1 0.1
Disposals (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 0.5 0.5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 0.3 0.3
Charge for the year 0.1 0.1
Eliminated on disposals (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 0.3 0.3
c arrying amount at 31 December 0.2 0.2
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
81 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 18. i nvento Ries Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Raw materials 27.8 25.3
Work-in-progress 51.6 45.7
Finished goods 20.0 20.2
99.4 91.2
Inventory write-downs and provisions, excluding acquisitions, decreased by £1.7m in the year (2012 – decreased by £0.7m).
19. tR a De an D othe R Receivables Trade and other receivables at 31 December comprise the following:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
n on-current assets
o ther receivables 0.5 0.5 – –
Due from subsidiaries – – 5.1 4.7
0.5 0.5 5.1 4.7
Current assets
Trade receivables 103.2 93.0 – –
Current tax recoverable 0.6 0.3 – –
Value added tax 1.2 0.9 0.1 0.1
Currency derivatives 1.9 1.0 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 5.5 4.9 0.6 0.9
o ther receivables 1.9 1.1 0.1 0.1
Due from subsidiaries – – 133.2 137.9
114.3 101.2 134.0 139.0
Total trade and other receivables 114.8 101.7 139.1 143.7
cRe Dit Risk The Group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, and trade receivables. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial 
instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are net of allowances 
for doubtful receivables. There are no other credit or impairment losses for other classes of financial assets.
Further disclosures on credit risk are included in n ote 21.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 82 19. tR a De an D othe R Receivables continued
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 57 days (2012 – 53 days). An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts 
from the sale of goods of £1.0m (2012 – £1.1m). In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit 
quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. o f the trade receivables balance at the end of the 
year, £13.6m (2012 – £11.1m) is due from the Group’s largest customer and £5.1m (2012 – £4.8m) is due from the Group’s second largest 
customer. The Group has no other significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and 
customers. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision risk in excess of the allowance for doubtful receivables.
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Movements in allowance for doubtful receivables:
At 1 January 1.1 1.3
Provision for impairment 0.5 0.1
Amounts written off as uncollectible (0.2) –
Amounts recovered (0.4) (0.2)
Exchange differences – (0.1)
At 31 December 1.0 1.1
Ageing analysis of past due but not impaired trade receivables:
Up to 30 days past due 13.4 11.5
31 to 60 days past due 1.8 1.6
61 to 90 days past due 0.5 0.8
91 to 180 days past due 0.4 0.8
Total past due but not impaired 16.1 14.7
n ot past due 87.1 78.3
Total current trade receivables 103.2 93.0
There are no items past due in any other class of financial assets except for trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
For the Company, the carrying amount of amounts due from subsidiaries approximates their fair value. There are no past due or impaired  
receivable balances (2012 – £nil).
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
83 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 20. b ank ove RDRafts an D loans Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Bank overdrafts – 0.6 2.8 2.5
o ther loans 111.6 113.8 111.4 113.5
111.6 114.4 114.2 116.0
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
o n demand or within one year 21.2 0.8 23.8 2.5
In the second year 15.1 21.6 15.1 21.5
In the third to fifth years inclusive 63.3 33.7 63.3 33.7
After five years 12.0 58.3 12.0 58.3
111.6 114.4 114.2 116.0
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months 
(shown under current liabilities) (21.2) (0.8) (23.8) (2.5)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 90.4 113.6 90.4 113.5
a nalysis of bo RRowings by cu RRency 31 December 2013
Total
£m
pound 
Sterling
£m
euros
£m
US
dollars
£m
o thers
£m
Bank overdrafts – – – – –
o ther loans 111.6 – 0.2 111.4 –
111.6 – 0.2 111.4 –
An analysis of the Company’s borrowings is as follows: Bank overdrafts – Sterling £2.8m, o ther loans – US dollars £111.4m.
31 December 2012
Total
£m
Pound 
Sterling
£m
Euros
£m
US
dollars
£m
o thers
£m
Bank overdrafts 0.6 – 0.6 – –
o ther loans 113.8 – 0.3 113.5 –
114.4 – 0.9 113.5 –
An analysis of the Company’s borrowings is as follows: Bank overdrafts – Sterling £2.5m, o ther loans – US dollars £113.5m.
The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows:
Year ended
2013
%
Year ended
2012
%
Bank overdrafts 1.50 2.30
o ther loans 6.46 6.46
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 84 20. b ank ove RDRafts an D loans continued
Bank overdrafts of £nil (2012 – £0.6m) are arranged at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. o ther borrowings are 
mainly arranged at fixed interest rates and expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. n o interest rate swaps were taken out in 2012 or 2013.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the Group’s borrowings to be as follows:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Bank overdrafts – 0.6 2.8 2.5
o ther loans 124.9 132.8 124.7 132.5
124.9 133.4 127.5 135.0
The fair value of o ther loans has been determined by applying a make-whole calculation using the prevailing treasury bill yields plus the applicable 
credit spread for the Group.
The other principal features of the Group’s borrowings are as follows:
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand. The effective interest rates on bank overdrafts are determined based on appropriate LIBo R rates plus 
applicable margin.
The Group’s and the Company’s main loans are unsecured guaranteed loan notes in the US private placement market and revolving credit facilities.
a)  Loan notes of $120m, 2013 £72.3m (2012 – £73.6m) were taken out in o ctober 2008. n otes of $25m carry interest at the rate of 6.42% and 
are due for repayment in o ctober 2015. n otes of $75m carry interest at the rate of 6.84% and are due for repayment in o ctober 2018. n otes  
of $20m carry interest at the rate of 6.94% and are due for repayment in o ctober 2020.
b)  Loan notes of $30m, 2013 £18.1m (2012 – £18.4m) were taken out in January 2007 and are due for repayment in January 2017. The loan notes 
carry interest at the rate of 5.85% per annum.
c)  Loan notes of $35m, 2013 £21.0m (2012 – £21.5m) were taken out in o ctober 2007 and are due for repayment in o ctober 2014. The loan 
notes carry interest at the rate of 5.93% per annum.
The Group also has two revolving credit facilities.
A committed £60m five-year syndicated multi-currency facility was entered into in o ctober 2011. There were no amounts drawn by either 
the Group or the Company at 31 December 2013 or at 31 December 2012.
A committed $25m single bank (£15.1m) overdraft and letter of credit facility was entered into in December 2012 and matures in May 2015.  
This facility was reduced from $50m to $25m in o ctober 2013. There were no loans drawn under the facility on 31 December 2013 and 
31 December 2012 and there were letters of outstanding credit of $4.7m (£2.9m) (2012 – £8.9m).
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had available £72.2m (2012 – £81.8m) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which  
all conditions precedent had been met.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
85 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 21. f inancial inst Ruments c apital R isk management
The Group manages its capital structure to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern whilst maximising the return to stakeholders through 
the optimisation of the balance between debt and equity. In considering the appropriate level of net debt the Group pays close attention to its 
level as compared to the cash generation potential of the Group, measured by adjusted profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
(“EBITDA”). The Group also monitors capital on the basis of a gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. n et debt is 
calculated as the total of bank and other loans, obligations under finance leases, forward exchange contract losses less cash and cash equivalents 
and forward exchange contract gains. Total capital is the equity shown in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
All of the Group’s external borrowing facilities have a requirement for the ratio of net debt to EBITDA to be less than 3.0x. Internally the Group aims 
for this ratio to not exceed 2.5x. At 31 December 2013 net debt was 0.5x the Group’s level of EBITDA (31 December 2012 – 0.6x). In addition, all 
borrowing facilities contain the requirement for EBITDA interest cover (the number of times net interest is covered by the Group’s EBITDA) to be 
in excess of 3.5x. At 31 December 2013 EBITDA was 15.4x the level of net interest (31 December 2012 – 15.7x). Therefore, the Group currently 
has considerable funding headroom.
The Group’s strategy in respect of gearing is to target a long-term gearing ratio within the range of 60% to 80%. Ratios outside this range may still 
be considered to be acceptable, in certain circumstances. The gearing ratio for the Group at the end of 2013 was 16% (2012 – 23%). The decrease 
in 2013 is attributable mainly to the strong profit and free cash flow generation during the year. The cash generated by the Group in recent years 
has led to the gearing ratio being lower than the targeted range.
f inancial R isk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The 
Group’s overall treasury risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse 
effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the Board, which provide written principles on foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, the use of financial 
derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. Compliance with policies and exposures limits is 
reviewed by the Group’s Treasury Committee on a regular basis. The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative 
financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
f o Reign exchange R isk management The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising on the operations’ trading activities in foreign 
currencies. Where commented on below, the sensitivity analysis of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date has been 
determined based on the change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and left unchanged throughout the reporting period, with all 
other variables held constant (such as interest rates). The sensitivity assumptions are based on analysis reviewed by the Group’s Treasury 
Committee.
Translation risk
The Group derived 85% of its revenue from businesses outside the United Kingdom, with 66% relating to operations in n orth America. Fluctuations 
in the value of the US dollar and other currencies in relation to Pound Sterling have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on the 
results of the Group’s operations when reported in Pound Sterling. The Group decided not to hedge this translation risk. In addition, the majority 
of assets are denominated in foreign currency, particularly in US dollars. In order to provide a hedge against volatility in the value of these assets 
compared to the Group’s earnings, and hence provide a natural hedge against the Group’s principal lending covenant (the ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA), the Group aims to borrow in foreign currencies in similar proportions to its generation of foreign currency EBITDA, where practical and 
economic. A 10% appreciation (or depreciation) of all other currencies against Pound Sterling would have increased (or decreased) 2013 Group 
operating profit by £9.4m (£7.3m of which would have been due to the US dollar movement) and would have increased (or decreased) net equity 
by £20.5m (£15.4m of which would have been due to the US dollar movement).
Transaction risk
The Group has a number of transaction-related foreign currency exposures, particularly between the Euro and the South African Rand, and 
between the US dollar and the Pound Sterling. The Group seeks to hedge transaction-related exposures on a rolling 15- to 18-month forward 
basis and applies hedge accounting where the forwards can be designated in a qualifying cash flow hedge relationship. Based on the net of 
the annual sales and purchase-related exposures, all transaction-related foreign currency exposures to Group profit after hedging in existence at 
31 December 2013 are immaterial. The impact on net equity is determined by the unrecognised portion of open forward contracts at the year-end. 
A 10% appreciation (or depreciation) of the Euro against the Rand and of the US dollar against Pound Sterling would have decreased (or increased) 
net equity by £0.6m and £1.7m, respectively.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 86 21. f inancial inst Ruments continued
i nte Rest R ate R isk management
The Group has a policy of maintaining approximately 60% of its borrowing costs at fixed interest rates. The Group generally borrows long term 
in fixed rates but at times may borrow at floating rates and swap into fixed depending on credit market conditions. o ccasionally a portion of fixed 
debt interest is swapped into floating rates. The combination of maintaining an acceptable balance of fixed and floating rate debt, and the Group’s 
policy of borrowing in foreign currency in proportion to its generation of foreign currency earnings, provides an effective hedge against the impact 
of interest rate and foreign currency volatility on total interest costs.
The following sensitivity analysis of the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk at the reporting date has been determined based 
on the exposure to interest rates at the beginning of the financial year, and held constant throughout the reporting period with all other variables 
held constant (such as foreign exchange rates). The sensitivity assumptions are based on analysis reviewed by the Group’s Treasury Committee. 
If variable interest rates had been 0.5% lower (or higher), the Group’s and Company’s net profit would have increased (or decreased) by £0.2m. 
Any fixed interest debt is held to maturity and not fair value adjusted through the profit and loss. An increase (or decrease) of 0.5% in the US dollar 
market interest rate for the fixed rate debt held up to maturity would have decreased (or increased) the fair value of the Group’s and Company’s 
borrowings by £2.0m. The Group’s and Company’s sensitivity to interest rates has decreased during the current period mainly due to the 
increased proportion of fixed debt.
cRe Dit Risk management The Group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The credit quality of customers is assessed taking into account their financial 
position, past experience and other factors. Further details on determining the recoverability of trade receivables is provided in n ote 19. The Group 
is guarantor under the lease of one building in the UK, which arose on the disposal of a former Group-owned subsidiary in 2001.
Credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings 
assigned by international credit rating agencies. The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the Financial Statements, which is net of 
impairment losses, represents the Group’s and Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
l iquiD ity R isk management Liquidity risk reflects the risk that the Group will have insufficient resources to meet its financial liabilities as they fall due. The Group manages 
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual 
cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. Cash flow forecasts are produced monthly, together with 
appropriate capacity planning and scenario analysis, to ensure that bank covenant and liquidity targets will be met. The Directors also regularly 
assess the balance of capital and debt funding of the Group, as part of a process to satisfy the Group’s long-term strategic funding requirements.
As noted in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 26, the Group is currently in a well-funded position, with significant headroom under its committed 
borrowing facilities and no major renewal of borrowing facilities due until 2014. It is considered unlikely that the Group will face any significant 
funding issues in the foreseeable future.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
87 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 21. f inancial inst Ruments continued
c atego Ries of financial inst Ruments Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Carrying value of financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 53.1 44.5 0.1 2.3
Trade receivables 103.2 93.0 – –
o ther receivables 2.4 1.6 0.1 0.1
Due from subsidiaries – – 138.3 142.6
Loans and receivables at amortised cost 158.7 139.1 138.5 145.0
Currency derivatives used for hedging 1.9 1.0 – –
Currency derivatives at fair value through profit and loss – – – –
Total financial assets 160.6 140.1 138.5 145.0
Carrying value of financial liabilities:
Bank overdrafts and loans 111.6 114.4 114.2 116.0
o bligations under finance leases 0.7 1.0 – –
Trade payables 64.5 58.3 0.3 0.2
o ther payables and accruals 52.2 55.9 3.7 4.4
Due to subsidiaries – – 107.3 115.3
o ther financial liabilities at amortised cost 229.0 229.6 225.5 235.9
Currency derivatives used for hedging 2.3 0.5 – –
Currency derivatives at fair value through profit and loss – – – –
Total financial liabilities 231.3 230.1 225.5 235.9
Undiscounted contractual maturity of other financial liabilities:
Amounts payable:
o n demand or within one year 145.6 122.8 142.4 129.7
In the second to fifth years inclusive 97.9 78.9 97.6 78.2
After five years 13.7 64.0 13.7 64.0
257.2 265.7 253.7 271.9
Less: future finance charges (28.2) (36.1) (28.2) (36.0)
o ther financial liabilities at amortised cost 229.0 229.6 225.5 235.9
Any amounts drawn under the committed syndicated multi-currency facility, which matures in 2016, are drawn on a short-term basis and are 
therefore shown as payable within one year in the above contractual maturity analysis. The carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair 
value for the financial assets and liabilities noted above except for bank overdrafts and loans, disclosure of which are included within n ote 20.
An ageing analysis of trade, deferred consideration and other receivables is as disclosed within n ote 19.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 88 21. f inancial inst Ruments continued
f o Rwa RD fo Reign exchange cont Racts The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising on the operation’s trading activities in foreign 
currencies. At the balance sheet date, total notional amounts and fair values of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group 
and the Company have committed are given below:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
n otional amounts:
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 55.2 43.3 – –
Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total 55.2 43.3 – –
Less: amounts maturing within 12 months (44.0) (33.7) – –
Amounts maturing after 12 months 11.2 9.6 – –
Contractual maturity:
Cash flow hedges balances due within one year:
o utflow 45.3 40.3 – –
Inflow 53.5 40.9 – –
Cash flow hedges balances due between one and two years:
o utflow 9.9 10.8 – –
Inflow 6.6 11.0 – –
Cash flow hedges balances due between two and three years:
o utflow – – – –
Inflow – – – –
Held for trading balances due within one year:
o utflow – – – –
Inflow – – – –
Fair values:
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges (0.4) 0.5 – –
Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total (liability)/asset (0.4) 0.5 – –
These fair values are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date, comprising £1.9m (2012 – £1.0m) assets 
included in trade and other receivables and £2.3m (2012 – £0.5m) included in trade and other payables. The fair value of currency derivatives that 
are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounting to £0.3m loss (2012 – £0.6m gain) has been deferred in equity. The fair values for the 
Company comprise £nil (2012 – £nil) assets included in trade and other receivables and £nil (2012 – £nil) included in trade and other payables.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
89 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 21. f inancial inst Ruments continued
f ai R values The following table presents an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
Levels 1–3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
Level 1 those fair values derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
Level 2 
 
 those fair values derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
Level 3 
 
 those fair values derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable 
market data (unobservable inputs).
There has not been any transfer of assets or liabilities between levels. There are no non-recurring fair value measurements. Level 2 fair values are 
derived from future cash flows, of open forward contracts at 31 December, translated by the difference between contractual rates and observable 
forward exchange rates.
a) gRoup 31 December 2013
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – 1.9 – 1.9
Total assets – 1.9 – 1.9
l iabilities
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – 2.3 – 2.3
Total liabilities – 2.3 – 2.3
 
31 December 2012
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – 1.0 – 1.0
Total assets – 1.0 – 1.0
Liabilities
Foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges – 0.5 – 0.5
Total liabilities – 0.5 – 0.5
b) c ompany
 
31 December 2013
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
 Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total assets – – – –
l iabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
 Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total liabilities – – – –
 
31 December 2012
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
 Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total assets – – – –
Liabilities
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
 Foreign exchange contracts – held for trading – – – –
Total liabilities – – – –
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 90 21. f inancial inst Ruments continued
An amount of £1.5m loss (2012 – £0.8m loss) has been transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement, and is included within trading profit, 
in respect of contracts which matured during the period. There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from foreign exchange cash flow hedges. 
An amount of £nil (2012 – £nil) has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of foreign exchange contracts held for 
trading. For the Company, a net gain of £nil (2012 – £nil) has been recognised in its Income Statement in respect of foreign exchange contracts 
held for trading.
The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 18 months. Amounts 
deferred in equity are recognised in the Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged items affect net profit or loss, which is generally 
within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
22. Defe RRe D tax liabilities an D assets The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and (assets) recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting period:
Accelerated
tax
depreciation
£m
Unrealised
FX
gains
£m
Goodwill
and intangible
 amortisation
£m
 Retirement
benefit
obligations
£m
o ther 
temporary
differences
£m
Tax
losses
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 17.5 0.8 12.6 (9.3) (20.3) (4.3) (3.0)
(Credit)/charge to income (0.5) – 2.6 2.8 1.0 (4.2) 1.7
(Credit)/charge to other comprehensive income – – – (3.1) – 0.5 (2.6)
Charge directly to equity – – – – 4.8 – 4.8
Acquisition of subsidiary 2.4 – 2.3 – – – 4.7
Exchange differences (0.8) (0.1) (0.6) 0.1 0.7 0.2 (0.5)
At 1 January 2013 18.6 0.7 16.9 (9.5) (13.8) (7.8) 5.1
Charge/(credit) to income 1.8 – (2.1) 0.6 (1.1) 3.7 2.9
Charge/(credit) to other comprehensive income – 0.2 – 2.7 – (1.2) 1.7
Credit directly to equity – – – – (0.9) (0.3) (1.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary (0.1) – 0.3 – – – 0.2
Exchange differences (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) (0.3) 0.5 (0.1) (0.4)
Effect of change in tax rate:
– income statement – – – – – 0.6 0.6
– other compehensive income – – – 0.6 – – 0.6
As 31 December 2013 20.0 0.8 15.0 (5.9) (15.3) (5.1) 9.5
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial 
reporting purposes:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Deferred tax liabilities 16.5 17.6
Deferred tax assets (7.0) (12.5)
9.5 5.1
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of £25.1m (2012 – £53.9m) available for offset against future profits. A deferred tax 
asset has been recognised in respect of £22.0m (2012 – £47.6m) of such losses. n o deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the 
remaining £3.1m (2012 – £6.3m) due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams. Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 
£3.1m (2012 – £3.4m) that will expire within eight years. o ther losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which 
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was £11.2m (2012 – £5.8m). n o liability has been recognised in respect of these differences 
because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences 
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
91 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 22. Defe RRe D tax liabilities an D assets continued
In addition, at the balance sheet date, the Group has deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised, 
in respect of share-based payments of £1.0m (2012 – £0.9m), accelerated book depreciation of £10.6m (2012 – £13.3m) and other temporary 
differences of £nil (2012 – £0.4m). The Company has deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised, 
in respect of retirement benefit obligations of £15.6m (2012 – £23.3m), share-based payments of £2.9m (2012 – £2.1m), accelerated book 
depreciation of £0.6m (2012 – £0.5m) and other temporary differences of £0.3m (2012 – £0.1m). Deferred tax assets have not been recognised 
in respect of these differences due to the unpredictability of both the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and of the future profit 
streams in the entities concerned.
At the balance sheet date, the Group and Company have £5.0m (2012 – £5.0m) of surplus ACT previously written off, for which no deferred tax 
asset has been recognised as it is unlikely to be recovered in the foreseeable future due to the UK earnings profile. The Group also has £15.7m 
(2012 – £15.7m) of unused capital losses, as reduced by gains rolled over, available for offset against future capital gains for which no deferred tax 
asset has been recognised as no such capital gains are anticipated to arise in the foreseeable future. The Company has £15.6m (2012 – £15.6m) 
of such unused capital losses.
23. o bligations un De R finance leases Minimum lease payments
Present value of minimum
lease payments
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.5
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.5
After five years – – – –
0.7 1.1 0.7 1.0
Less: future finance charges – (0.1) – –
Present value of lease obligations 0.7 1.0 0.7 1.0
Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (0.4) (0.5)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 0.3 0.5
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases. The most significant lease, representing 
approximately 30% (2012 – 24%) of the Group’s obligations, expires in 2018. For the year ended 31 December 2013, the average effective 
borrowing rate was 4.2% (2012 – 5.4%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements 
have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
An analysis of the present value of lease obligations by currency is as follows: Sterling £0.3m (2012 – £0.4m), Euros £0.1m (2012 – £0.2m) and 
US dollars £0.3m (2012 – £0.4m).
24. tR a De an D othe R payables Trade and other payables at 31 December comprise the following:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 64.5 58.3 0.3 0.2
Social security and PAYE 6.2 6.2 0.1 0.1
Value Added Tax 2.2 1.5 – –
Currency derivatives 2.3 0.5 – –
o ther payables and accruals 52.2 55.9 3.7 4.4
Due to subsidiaries – – 107.3 115.3
Total trade and other payables 127.4 122.4 111.4 120.0
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 54 days (2012 – 55 days).
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 92 25. pRovisions Group
Warranties
£m
o ther
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2012 5.1 0.4 5.5
Additional provision in the year 2.5 – 2.5
Utilisation of provision (0.8) (0.1) (0.9)
Release of unused amounts (0.6) – (0.6)
Unwinding of discount – – –
Exchange difference (0.4) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2012 5.8 0.3 6.1
Additional provision in the year 0.6 – 0.6
Utilisation of provision (1.2) – (1.2)
Release of unused amounts (4.1) – (4.1)
Unwinding of discount – – –
Exchange difference 0.2 – 0.2
At 31 December 2013 1.3 0.3 1.6
Included in current liabilities 1.3 0.3 1.6
Provisions for warranty costs are based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past experience.
26. s ha Re capital Group and Company
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Authorised:
750 million ordinary shares of 10p each 75.0 75.0
Issued and fully paid:
415.9 million ordinary shares of 10p each 41.6 41.4
At 31 December 2012, the issued and fully paid up share capital was 413.9 million ordinary shares of 10p each.
42,422 shares were issued during 2013 at an average price of 144.85p per share under share option plans raising £0.1m. 2,039,740 shares were 
issued during 2013 under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
27. s ha Re p Remium account Group and Company
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January 13.7 12.3
Movement in year 0.1 1.4
Balance at 31 December 13.8 13.7
28. e quity R ese Rve Group and Company
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January 3.8 2.7
Transfer to retained earnings reserve (1.4) (0.6)
Movement in year 2.8 1.7
Balance at 31 December 5.2 3.8
The transfer to retained earnings reserve is in respect of equity-settled share-based payments that vested during the year.
The movement in the year includes £3.0m (2012 – £2.0m) in respect of the share-based payment charge for the year, and £0.2m (2012 – £0.3m) 
release in respect of the shares issued in the year under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
93 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 29. he Dging an D t Ranslation R ese Rves a) gRoup Hedging
reserve
Year ended
2013
£m
Translation
reserve
Year ended
2013
£m
Total
Year ended
2013
£m
Hedging
reserve
Year ended
2012
£m
Translation
reserve
Year ended
2012
£m
Total
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January (37.0) 32.4 (4.6) (39.0) 43.5 4.5
Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations – (7.8) (7.8) – (11.1) (11.1)
Change in fair value of hedging derivatives (0.9) – (0.9) 2.0 – 2.0
Tax on items taken directly to equity – (0.3) (0.3) – – –
Balance at 31 December (37.9) 24.3 (13.6) (37.0) 32.4 (4.6)
b) c ompany
Hedging
reserve
Year ended
2013
£m
Translation
reserve
Year ended
2013
£m
Total
Year ended
2013
£m
Hedging
reserve
Year ended
2012
£m
Translation
reserve
Year ended
2012
£m
Total
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January and 31 December – (0.3) (0.3) – (0.3) (0.3)
30. Retaine D ea Rnings Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January 259.6 216.6 81.1 71.0
Dividends paid (19.9) (16.4) (19.9) (16.4)
n et profit for the year 71.4 69.9 35.2 32.5
Pension actuarial gain/(loss) 4.3 (12.3) 1.9 (6.6)
Transfer from equity reserve 1.4 0.6 1.4 0.6
Tax on deductible temporary differences (0.4) 1.2 – –
Balance at 31 December 316.4 259.6 99.7 81.1
£7.5m (2012 – £7.5m) of the Company’s retained earnings are considered undistributable.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
including the Income Statement and related n otes.
31. o wn sha Res Group and Company
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Balance at 1 January (1.0) –
Movement in the year (0.9) (1.0)
Balance at 31 December (1.9) (1.0)
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares purchased in the market and held by the Senior plc Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options 
under the Group’s share option schemes (see n ote 36).
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 94 32. a cquisitions gamfg pR ecision llc As noted in the 31 December 2012 Annual Report & Accounts, on 2 n ovember 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital 
of GAMFG Precision LLC and its parent company GAMCo Acquisition Company (collectively “GA”). o n finalisation of the fair value exercise, 
property, plant and equipment on acquisition was reduced by £0.3m, with an increase in goodwill previously recognised of £0.3m.
The contingent consideration of £3.8m is no longer payable to the sellers of GA and consequently this amount has been released to the income 
statement during 2013.
a tlas c omposites l imite D
o n 8 February 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Atlas Composites Limited and its parent company Castlegate 408 
Limited (collectively “Atlas”). Atlas, based in Ilkeston, Derbyshire, UK, designs and manufactures composite structures, components and tooling  
for aerospace, motorsport, defence and communications markets. The cash consideration, net of cash acquired of £0.1m, was £2.4m and the 
acquisition was funded from the Group’s existing debt facilities.
Goodwill of £1.7m has been recognised on acquisition and represents the premium paid in anticipation of future profitability from assets that are not 
capable of being separately identified and separately recognised such as the assembled workforce as well as the Group’s ability to generate future 
value from expanding Atlas’ aerospace activities through utilisation of the Group’s existing relationships and experience in the aerospace industry.
Atlas contributed £3.0m of external revenue and made an operating loss of £0.1m from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2013. If the 
acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2013, continuing Group revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December 2013 would have been 
£775.5m and continuing Group operating profit would have remained unchanged at £93.3m.
t he Rmal e nginee Ring l imite D
o n 29 n ovember 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Thermal Engineering Limited and its parent company Thermal 
Engineering Holding Limited (collectively “Thermal”). Thermal is located in Royston, Hertfordshire, UK and specialises in manufacturing hot- and 
cold-formed components, complex fabricated assemblies and thermal insulation heat shields and systems for the aerospace industry. 
Thermal’s capabilities are highly complementary to Senior’s existing portfolio, providing additional capability to the Group in the areas of hot  
forming and insulation. The consideration was £28.3m, before netting £0.2m of cash acquired, and the acquisition was funded by the Group’s 
existing debt facilities.
Set out below is a provisional summary of the net assets acquired:
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: £m
Identifiable intangible assets 1.8
Property, plant and equipment 4.5
Inventories 2.0
Financial assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents 0.2
Financial liabilities (3.6)
Deferred tax liability (0.4)
n et assets acquired 9.3
Goodwill 19.0
Total consideration 28.3
Consideration satisfied by:
Cash paid 21.8
Repayment of debt 6.5
n et cash outflow arising on acquisition:
Cash consideration paid to date 28.3
Less: Cash and cash equivalents acquired (0.2)
n et cash outflow arising on acquisition 28.1
The goodwill of £19.0m represents the premium paid in anticipation of future profitability from assets that are not capable of being separately 
identified and separately recognised such as the assembled workforce as well as the expectation that the Group will be able to leverage its wider 
market access and strong financial position to generate sustainable financial growth beyond what Thermal would have potentially achieved as a 
stand-alone company. n one of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition relate mainly to customer contracts and relationships, the fair value of which is dependent 
on estimates of attributable future revenues, profitability and cash flows, and are being amortised over three years.
The financial assets acquired include trade receivables with a fair value of £4.6m and a gross contractual value of £4.6m, all of which is expected  
to be collectible.
Acquisition-related costs of £0.2m are included in administrative expenses within trading profit in the Group’s Consolidated Income Statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2013.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
95 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 32. a cquisitions continued
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities is provisional pending finalisation of the fair value exercise.
Thermal contributed £1.0m of external revenue and £0.1m to the Group’s operating profit from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2013.  
If the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2013, continuing Group revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December 2013 would have  
been £791.3m and continuing Group operating profit would have been £94.3m.
33. Discontinue D ope Rations o n 16 o ctober 2012, the Group disposed of the entire share capital of Senior Hargreaves Limited to the M&W Group.
The results of the discontinued operation, which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement, were as follows:
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Revenue – 17.8
Expenses – (17.0)
o perating profit – 0.8
Profit on disposal – 2.5
Tax – –
Profit for the period from discontinued operations – 3.3
During the year, Senior Hargreaves Limited contributed £nil (2012 – £nil) to the Group’s net operating cash flows, paid £nil (2012 – £0.1m) in respect 
of investing activities and paid £nil (2012 – £2.0m) in respect of financing activities in relation to inter-Group loans and dividends.
34. n otes to the cash flow statement a) Reconciliation of ope Rating p Rofit/(loss) to net cash f Rom ope Rating activities Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
o perating profit/(loss) from continuing operations 93.3 93.7 (4.1) (6.4)
o perating profit from discontinued operations – 0.8 – –
o perating profit/(loss) 93.3 94.5 (4.1) (6.4)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 21.6 20.1 0.1 0.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 4.9 5.0 – –
Impairment of goodwill 12.7 – – –
Reversal of contingent consideration payable (3.8) – – –
Restructuring costs 1.9 – – –
Share options 3.5 2.3 1.0 0.7
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 0.1 – –
Pension payments in excess of service cost (7.7) (13.7) (6.6) (12.9)
Share of joint venture 0.3 0.1 – –
Exceptional pension (credit)/charge (1.1) 1.9 – 1.9
o perating cash flows before movements in working capital 125.6 110.3 (9.6) (16.6)
Increase in inventories (8.6) (3.9) – –
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (9.2) 2.6 0.1 0.2
Decrease in payables (1.3) (8.9) (0.7) (0.2)
Decrease in receivables from subsidiaries – – 0.9 1.1
Working capital currency movements – (0.3) – –
Cash generated by/(used in) operations 106.5 99.8 (9.3) (15.5)
Income taxes paid (6.0) (8.6) – –
Interest paid (8.1) (7.9) (9.8) (10.3)
n et cash from/(used in) operating activities 92.4 83.3 (19.1) (25.8)
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 96 34. n otes to the cash flow statement continued
b) fR ee cash flow Free cash flow, a non-statutory item, highlights the total net cash generated by the Group prior to corporate activity such as acquisitions, disposals, 
financing and transactions with shareholders. It is derived as follows:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
n et cash from operating activities 92.4 83.3
Interest received 0.2 0.3
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.1
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (28.7) (25.3)
Purchase of intangible assets (1.0) (0.8)
Free cash flow 63.8 57.6
c) a nalysis of g Roup net D ebt At
1 January
2013
£m
Cash
flow
£m
n on-cash
items
£m
Assumed on
acquisition
£m
Exchange
movement
£m
At
31 December
2013
£m
Cash 44.5 10.8 – – (2.2) 53.1
o verdrafts (0.6) 0.6 – – – –
Cash and cash equivalents 43.9 11.4 – – (2.2) 53.1
Debt due within one year (0.2) 0.2 (21.2) – – (21.2)
Debt due after one year (113.6) – 21.2 – 2.0 (90.4)
Finance leases (1.0) 0.5 – (0.2) – (0.7)
Total (70.9) 12.1 – (0.2) (0.2) (59.2)
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
Cash 53.1 44.5 0.1 2.3
Bank overdrafts – (0.6) (2.8) (2.5)
Total 53.1 43.9 (2.7) (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents held by the Group and the Company (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the Balance Sheets) 
comprise cash at bank and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less. The Directors consider that the 
carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates to their fair value.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
97 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 35. ope Rating lease a RRangements t he gR oup an D the c ompany as lessee Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year 7.8 7.3 0.1 0.2
The Group also received £0.5m under a sub-lease recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year (2012 – £0.5m).
At 31 December, the Group and the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
Group
Year ended
2013
£m
Group
Year ended
2012
£m
c ompany
Year ended
2013
£m
Company
Year ended
2012
£m
Within one year 7.6 7.0 – –
In the second to fifth years inclusive 23.1 19.2 0.4 0.3
After five years 13.1 11.2 1.2 1.3
43.8 37.4 1.6 1.6
The total of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received by the Group under non-cancellable sub-leases at the end of 2013 was 
£2.2m (2012 – £2.7m).
o perating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its manufacturing properties. The leases with the four 
largest outstanding commitments, representing 36% (2012 – 46%) of the Group’s commitment, (excluding sub-leases) respectively expire in 2026 
(with rentals fixed for three years), in 2024 (with rentals increasing by 2.5% every 12 months), in 2024 and in 2022.
As at the date of approving the accounts, the Company has guaranteed £1.0m (2012 – £1.0m) of annual lease commitments of certain current and 
previous subsidiary entities.
36. s ha Re-base D payments
The Group recognised total expenses of £3.5m (2012 – £2.3m) related to share-based payments, of which £3.0m (2012 – £2.0m) related to 
equity-settled share-based payments, and £0.5m (2012 – £0.3m) related to social security costs on share-based payments. At 31 December 2013, 
the Group had a liability of £0.7m (2012 – £0.6m) arising from share-based payments of which £0.7m (2012 – £0.6m) related to social security 
costs. The Company recognised total expenses of £1.0m (2012 – £0.7m) related to equity-settled share-based payments. At 31 December 2013 
the Company had a liability of £0.4m (2012 – £0.3m) related to social security costs.
The disclosures below are in respect of both Group and Company.
a) 2005 l ong t e Rm i ncentive p lan equity-Settled l ong Term incentive plans
o n 25 March 2013 1,105,898 shares and on 3 September 2013 215,749 shares were awarded under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan. Awards 
under this plan have a three-year vesting period, subject to earnings per share (“EPS”) and total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance conditions 
being met. Half the awards have an attaching performance target for EPS growth over the three-year performance period of at least 3% per annum 
above the RPI. The other half of the awards begin to vest if the Company’s TSR falls in the top half of a comparator group at the end of the 
three-year performance period. Vesting levels increase with higher performance. The awards are settled by delivering shares to the participants.
The estimated fair value for the awards granted in the year with EPS conditions are 227.50p and 256.10p per share, respectively which is essentially 
the share price at the date of grant of 246.80p and 278.10p, respectively, per share less an allowance for dividends foregone over the three-year 
vesting period. The estimated fair value for the awards granted in the year with TSR conditions are 116.40p and 131.00p, respectively, per share, 
reflecting an adjustment of 51% to the fair value of the awards with EPS conditions due to the stringent TSR condition.
These fair values were calculated by applying a binomial option pricing model. This model incorporates a technique called “bootstrapping”, which 
models the impact of the TSR condition. The model inputs at the date of grant were the share price of 246.80p and 278.10p respectively, a risk-free 
interest rate of 0.3% per annum, expected volatility of 37.0% per annum, net dividend yield of 1.9% per annum, and the performance conditions as 
noted above. Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price over the previous three years.
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 98 36. s ha Re-base D payments continued
The following share awards were outstanding as at 31 December 2013 and 2012:
Year ended
2013
number of
shares
Year ended
2012
n umber of
shares
o utstanding at 1 January 4,961,212 6,500,854
Granted 1,321,647 1,710,406
Exercised (2,039,740) (2,679,044)
Forfeited (50,550) (571,004)
o utstanding at 31 December 4,192,569 4,961,212
c ash-Settled l ong Term incentive plan
Under the 2005 Plan, phantom awards were granted to certain employees. These are subject to the same general terms and conditions as the 
above equity-settled awards, however, on vesting the holder is entitled to receive an amount equal to the market value of the shares in relation 
to which the phantom award vests.
5,728 notional shares subject to the phantom award were awarded under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan on 25 March 2013. 15,913 phantom 
awards vested during the year. The number of notional shares outstanding at 31 December 2013 was 16,627 (2012 – 26,812).
b) e nhance D smis Defe RRe D s ha Re a wa RD
369,581 shares were awarded under the Enhanced SMIS Deferred Share Award on 25 March 2013. Shares earned under this award have a 
three-year deferral period and would be subject to forfeiture by a “bad leaver” over that deferral period. There are no performance criteria for this 
award. The awards are settled by delivering shares to the participants.
The estimated fair value for the awards granted in the year is 227.50p per share, which is essentially the share price at the date of grant of 246.80p 
per share less an allowance for dividends foregone over the three-year deferral period.
The following share awards were outstanding as at 31 December 2013 and 2012: 
Year ended
2013
number of
shares
Year ended
2012
n umber of
shares
o utstanding at 1 January 450,726 –
Granted 369,581 520,106
Exercised – –
Forfeited – (69,380)
o utstanding at 31 December 820,307 450,726
c) s avings-Relate D s ha Re option p lan The Company operates a Savings-Related Share o ption Plan for eligible employees across the Group. There are no performance criteria  
for this arrangement and options are issued to all participants in accordance with the HM Revenue & Customs rules for such savings plans. 
Savings-Related Share o ptions were last issued on 30 April 2013.
The estimated fair value for the award granted during the year was 48.56p. This fair value was calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing 
model. The model inputs at the date of the grant were the share price of 244.40p, a risk-free interest rate of 0.48% per annum, expected volatility 
of 33.39% per annum and a net dividend yield of 1.95%. Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s 
share price over the previous three years.
The following options were outstanding as at 31 December 2013 and 2012:
Year ended 2013 Year ended 2012
number 
of share 
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
n umber of
share
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
o utstanding at 1 January 978,082 144.40p 10,207,074 38.22p
Granted 2,617,888 244.40p – –
Exercised (42,422) 144.85p (8,923,725) 25.28p
Forfeited (277,540) 209.98p (305,267) 76.44p
Expired (37,771) 144.40p – –
o utstanding at 31 December 3,238,237 219.62p 978,082 144.40p
Exercisable at 31 December – – 71,000 144.40p
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 245.77p (2012 – 192.27p). The options 
outstanding at 31 December 2013 had an exercise price of 244.40p and 144.40p per share, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 
2.5 years. The options outstanding at 31 December 2012 had an exercise price of 144.40p per share, and a weighted average remaining contractual 
life of 2.0 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
99 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 36. s ha Re-base D payments continued
D) o ne-off sha Re awa RD
o n 3 September 2013, a o ne-off Award of 82,720 shares was granted under the terms of a share award agreement agreed in 
connection with and to facilitate Derek Harding’s recruitment as Group Finance Director, in order to partly compensate him for foregoing 
entitlements from his previous employer. In the normal course of events, 4/9ths of the o ne-off Award will vest on 2 September 2014, 
3/9ths on 2 September 2015 and 2/9ths on 2 September 2016, in each case subject to Derek Harding’s continued service until the 
relevant vesting date.
The estimated fair value for the grant in the year is 256.10p per share, which is essentially the share price at the date of grant of 
278.10p per share less an allowance for dividends foregone over the vesting period.
Year ended
2013
number of
shares
Year ended
2012
n umber of
shares
o utstanding at 1 January – –
Granted 82,720 –
Exercised – –
Forfeited – –
o utstanding at 31 December 82,720 –
37. Reti Rement benefit schemes The Group operates a number of pension plans in the UK, n orth America and Europe. These include both defined contribution arrangements and 
defined benefit arrangements. The largest defined benefit arrangement for the Group and Company, the Senior plc Pension Plan, is a funded 
scheme in the UK, providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments for the employees of the Group and Company. This plan was closed 
to new employees from April 2008. A change to the Rules of the Plan was implemented prior to 31 December 2009 to introduce a cap on future 
pensionable earnings growth of 2% per annum from 6 April 2010. The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2013 and, for the 
purposes of accounting under IAS19, this valuation has been rolled forward to 31 December 2013.
In addition, the Group operates two defined benefit plans in the USA, one of which was closed to future accrual from o ctober 2009. The second 
plan was closed to future participants from September 2013, and the Executive section was also closed to future accruals from December 2013. 
Separate disclosure is made for the funded UK and US defined benefit arrangements. In both the UK and the USA the assets of funded plans are 
held in separate trustee administered funds managed by independent financial institutions and have pension costs assessed by consulting 
actuaries using the Projected Unit Method. The Trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans’ beneficiaries. 
The Group also has a small number of unfunded post-retirement plans, including a closed healthcare scheme in the US. Separate disclosure is 
provided for these arrangements.
The bulk of the pension obligations relate to the UK Plan and we provide more detail on that arrangement below.
For the Senior plc Pension Plan in the UK, the Trustee is Senior Trustee Limited. The appointment of the Directors to the Board is determined by 
the plan’s Trust documentation. There is a policy that at least one-third of all Directors should be nominated by members of the plan. Currently there 
are two member-nominated Directors and four Directors who have been nominated by the Company, of which the Chairman and one other 
Director are viewed as independent. The investment strategy for the plan is decided locally by the Trustees. The primary investment objective is for 
the plan to be able to meet benefit payments as they fall due. This objective is implemented by setting strategic asset allocations using a “horizon-
based” approach. Under this approach, all benefit cash flows expected to fall in the next 17 years (the horizon period) are met by investment in 
low-risk assets such as fixed interest and index-linked bonds. Cash flows after the horizon period are met by investment in more volatile assets 
which are expected to deliver a higher return (than bonds) in the longer term. Benefits are expected to be paid over the next 60 to 70 years. The 
UK Plan’s average duration is around 17 years. In setting this strategy, the Trustees consider a wide range of asset classes, the risk and rewards of a 
number of possible asset allocation options, the sustainability of each asset class within each strategy, and the need for appropriate diversification 
between different asset classes. The Trustees continue to review their investment strategy and have also implemented a switching mechanism to 
secure any outperformances of equities relative to bonds, by selling equities to buy bonds.
The Group is ultimately responsible for making up any shortfall in the UK defined benefit Plan over a period agreed with the trustees. To the extent 
that actual experience is different to that assumed the funding position will be better or worse than anticipated. As such, the contributions required 
by the Group could vary in the future. The two key risks faced by pension schemes are longevity (i.e. members living longer than expected) and 
investment risk (i.e. the scheme’s assets perform poorly relative to the liabilities). 
The Group has agreed with the Trustees of the UK plan to fund the plan deficit over an eight-year period from April 2013 to March 2021. The 
estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid during 2014 to the UK plan is £8.2m (£7.6m of which is to fund the past service deficit and 
£0.6m in respect of administrative expenses) and to the US funded plans is £nil.
a) Defined contribution schemes  
The Group has a number of different defined contribution and government-sponsored arrangements in place in the countries in which it operates. 
n one of these are individually material to the Group and the aggregate cost of such schemes for the period was £6.2m (2012 – £5.4m).
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 100 37. Reti Rement benefit schemes continued
b) Defined benefit schemes 
The amount included in the Balance Sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit plans is set out below.
The Company’s defined benefit scheme obligations are set out in the “UK plans funded” column below.
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m 
Total
£m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (238.7) (38.8) (5.7) (283.2) (228.8) (44.8) (5.4) (279.0)
Fair value of plan assets 223.1 34.5 – 257.6 205.5 36.4 – 241.9
Plan deficit per balance sheet (15.6) (4.3) (5.7) (25.6) (23.3) (8.4) (5.4) (37.1)
c) Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 228.8 44.8 5.4 279.0 211.6 38.5 5.0 255.1
Current service costs 1.0 0.7 0.3 2.0 1.2 0.6 0.1 1.9
Interest cost 9.9 1.8 0.2 11.9 10.1 1.7 0.2 12.0
Contributions by plan participants 0.5 – – 0.5 0.7 – – 0.7
Experience on benefit obligations (0.5) 0.3 – (0.2) 0.7 1.1 – 1.8
Actuarial losses/(gains) – financial 3.2 (5.7) – (2.5) 11.6 3.6 0.6 15.8
Actuarial losses – demographic 4.9 0.1 – 5.0 – 2.8 – 2.8
Benefits paid (9.1) (1.5) (0.3) (10.9) (9.0) (1.4) (0.3) (10.7)
Curtailment (credit)/charge – (1.1) – (1.1) 1.9 – – 1.9
Exchange differences – (0.6) 0.1 (0.5) – (2.1) (0.2) (2.3)
At 31 December 238.7 38.8 5.7 283.2 228.8 44.8 5.4 279.0
d) Movements in the fair value of plan assets were as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m 
Total
£m
At 1 January 205.5 36.4 – 241.9 186.3 34.3 – 220.6
Interest on plan assets 9.1 1.4 – 10.5 7.6 1.8 – 9.4
Actual return on plan assets less interest 9.5 (2.9) – 6.6 5.7 2.4 – 8.1
Contributions from employer 8.4 1.7 – 10.1 14.2 1.1 – 15.3
Contributions by plan participants 0.5 – – 0.5 0.7 – – 0.7
Benefits paid (9.1) (1.5) – (10.6) (9.0) (1.4) – (10.4)
Running costs (0.8) – – (0.8) – – – –
Exchange differences – (0.6) – (0.6) – (1.8) – (1.8)
At 31 December 223.1 34.5 – 257.6 205.5 36.4 – 241.9
e) Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m 
Total
£m
Current service cost included within operating profit 1.0 0.7 0.3 2.0 1.2 0.6 0.1 1.9
Running costs 0.8 – – 0.8 – – – –
Curtailment (credit)/charge – (1.1) – (1.1) 1.9 – – 1.9
Charge/(credit) included within operating profit 1.8 (0.4) 0.3 1.7 3.1 0.6 0.1 3.8
Included within finance costs 0.8 0.4 0.2 1.4 2.5 (0.1) 0.2 2.6
Amount recognised in the Income Statement 2.6 – 0.5 3.1 5.6 0.5 0.3 6.4
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
101 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com 37. Reti Rement benefit schemes continued
f) Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows:
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m
Total
£m
UK plans
funded
£m
US plans
funded
£m
Unfunded
plans
£m 
Total
£m
n et actuarial gain/(losses) in the year due to:
– Change in financial assumptions (3.2) 5.7 – 2.5 (11.6) (3.6) (0.6) (15.8)
– Change in demographic assumptions (4.9) (0.1) – (5.0) – (2.8) – (2.8)
– Experience adjustments on benefit obligations 0.5 (0.3) – 0.2 (0.7) (1.1) – (1.8)
Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets 9.5 (2.9) – 6.6 5.7 2.4 – 8.1
Gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 1.9 2.4 – 4.3 (6.6) (5.1) (0.6) (12.3)
Actuarial gains of £4.3m (2012 – £12.3m losses) have been recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The cumulative amount 
of actuarial losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as at 31 December 2013 is £46.3m (2012 – £50.6m).
g) Assets and assumptions in funded plans
UK plans funded US plans funded
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fair value of plan assets 
Equities 72.4 58.7 – –
Bonds 80.9 80.6 34.5 36.4
Gilts 68.4 67.6 – –
Cash and net current (liabilities)/assets 1.4 (1.4) – –
Total 223.1 205.5 34.5 36.4
Actual return on plan assets 18.6 13.3 (1.5) 4.2
The UK plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the holdings in 
insurance policies. 
The UK plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Company or in financial securities issued by the Company.
UK plans funded US plans funded
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Key assumptions (per annum %)
Inflation 3.3% 2.9% n/a n/a
Increases in salary 2.0% 2.0% 4.0% 4.0%
Increase in pensions 3.2% 2.9% 0.0% 0.0%
Increase in deferred pensions 3.3% 2.9% 0.0% 0.0%
Rate used to discount plan liabilities 4.5% 4.4% 4.8% 3.9%
Life expectancy of a male aged 65, at the year-end 21.9 20.8 19.2 19.1
Life expectancy of a male aged 65, 20 years after the year-end 23.6 22.7 19.2 19.1
Notes to the fi Na Ncial stateme Nt continued Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 102 37. Reti Rement benefit schemes continued
Benefits under the US funded plans are not linked to inflation.
For the UK Plan, the estimated impact on the plan deficit at 31 December 2013 of changes in key assumptions is as follows:
Increase in
plan deficit
£m
0.5% decrease in the discount rate 19.0
o ne-year increase in life expectancy 7.0
0.5% increase in inflation 12.0
These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes 
in market conditions at the accounting date. This is unlikely in practice – for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any 
movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
h) o ther post-retirement liabilities
This balance comprises an unfunded German pension plan £3.2m (2012 – £3.1m), unfunded closed pension and post-retirement healthcare plans 
in the USA £0.3m (2012 – £0.3m) and provision for post-retirement payments in France of £2.2m (2012 – £2.0m).
The closed pension and post-retirement healthcare plans in the US have been valued on a Projected Unit Method with the following assumptions: 
discount rate 4.8% and annual healthcare cost trend rate of 10.0% until the payment for medical benefits cease in December 2014. The effect of a 
1% increase or decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate is negligible to the Group’s results. The German plan has been subject to formal actuarial 
valuation on a Projected Unit Method with the following assumptions: discount rate 3.4%, salary growth 2.0% and inflation 2.0%. In France, the 
provision arises from a legal obligation to make payments to retirees in the first two years post-retirement. Hence, it is not subject to discounting 
to the same extent as the other longer-term post-retirement liabilities.
38. Relate D pa Rty t Ransactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, are set out below. These eliminate on consolidation.
Year ended
2013
£m
Year ended
2012
£m
Transactions in year
Management charges 2.5 2.2
Pension recharges 0.5 0.6
Interest receivable 2.2 2.1
Interest payable (1.8) (2.3)
Dividend received 48.1 50.0
Balances at year-end
Investments in subsidiaries 259.9 251.8
Amounts due from subsidiaries 138.3 142.6
Amounts due to subsidiaries (107.3) (115.3)
The management and interest charges are made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions.
The remuneration of the Directors and senior managers, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out in the Remuneration 
Report on pages 40 to 55.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
103 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com  
Group income statement
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
revenue
Continuing operations 775.1 712.0 622.3 552.2 525.2
Discontinued operations – 17.8 18.4 14.7 14.9
775.1 729.8 640.7 566.9 540.1
Adjusted operating profit
Continuing operations 107.6 100.6 87.3 74.4 58.6
Discontinued operations – 0.8 1.0 1.0 0.8
107.6 101.4 88.3 75.4 59.4
(Loss)/profit on sale of fixed assets – (0.1) (0.3) 0.2 (0.1)
Exceptional pension credit/(charge) 1.1 (1.9) – – 6.3
Amortisation of intangible assets from acquisitions (4.2) (4.3) (4.4) (4.6) (4.6)
Impairment of goodwill (12.7) – – (8.7) –
Restructuring costs (1.9) – – – –
Reversal of contingent consideration payable 3.8 – – – –
Acquisition costs (0.4) (0.6) (0.6) (0.1) –
o perating profit 93.3 94.5 83.0 62.2 61.0
Investment income/finance costs, net (8.1) (7.7) (7.9) (7.9) (7.2)
n et finance cost of retirement benefit obligations (1.4) (2.6) (2.4) (2.2) (4.2)
Profit on disposal of discontinued operations – 2.5 – – –
profit before tax 83.8 86.7 72.7 52.1 49.6
Tax (12.4) (16.8) (17.7) (11.7) (10.6)
profit for the year 71.4 69.9 55.0 40.4 39.0
Depreciation and amortisation of intangibles 26.5 25.1 23.0 24.6 25.4
Gross capital expenditure (including finance lease assets) 29.7 26.1 22.3 14.2 12.6
Basic earnings per share 17.22p 17.11p 13.68p 10.11p 9.79p
Diluted earnings per share 17.00p 16.69p 13.21p 9.77p 9.58p
Adjusted earnings per share 19.00p 17.75p 14.55p 12.01p 8.91p
Dividends in respect of year – per share 5.12p 4.65p 3.80p 3.12p 2.60p
– value 21.3 19.3 15.3 12.5 10.4
Group balance sheets
n on-current assets 393.6 387.4 362.9 292.2 299.1
n et current assets 101.1 94.8 75.0 93.3 63.5
n on-current liabilities (133.2) (169.3) (161.6) (159.6) (177.8)
n et assets 361.5 312.9 276.3 225.9 184.8
n et borrowings (59.2) (70.9) (93.0) (63.7) (102.3)
 
Group cash flow
n et cash from operating activities 92.4 83.3 77.1 70.2 69.8
Interest received 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.7 2.6
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.1 0.3 2.1 0.3
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – cash (28.7) (25.3) (21.1) (13.5) (12.3)
Purchase of intangible assets (1.0) (0.8) (1.0) (0.7) (0.3)
Free cash flow 63.8 57.6 55.6 58.8 60.1
Dividends paid (19.9) (16.4) (13.1) (10.8) (10.4)
Acquisitions less disposals (30.5) (23.6) (68.6) (8.3) 0.5
Investment in joint venture (0.5) (0.9) – – –
Share issues 0.1 2.3 – 0.3 0.1
(Purchase)/sale of shares held by employee benefit trust (0.9) (1.0) – 1.4 –
Decrease in loans (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (4.6) (15.5)
Decrease in finance leases (0.5) (0.6) (0.4) (0.2) (0.2)
Cash inflow/(outflow) on forward contracts – – 0.2 – (25.2)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11.4 17.2 (26.5) 36.6 9.4
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 104
f ive-yeaR summaR y  o perating companies Business units locations
Senior UK Limited (incorporated in England and Wales) Senior Aerospace Bird Bellows Congleton
Senior Aerospace BWT Macclesfield
Senior Flexonics Crumlin Crumlin
Senior Aerospace Weston* Earby
Senior Aerospace Atlas Composites** Ilkeston 
Thermal Engineering Limited (incorporated in England and Wales)*** Senior Aerospace Thermal Engineering Royston
Senior Aerospace (Thailand) Limited (incorporated in Thailand)**** Senior Aerospace Thailand Chonburi, Thailand
Senior o perations LLC (incorporated in Delaware, USA) Senior Aerospace Absolute Manufacturing Arlington, Washington
Senior Aerospace AMT Arlington, Washington
Senior Aerospace Capo Industries Chino, California
Senior Aerospace Composites Wichita, Kansas
Senior Aerospace Jet Products San Diego, California
Senior Aerospace Ketema El Cajon, California
Senior Aerospace Metal Bellows Sharon, Massachusetts
Senior Aerospace Damar Monroe, Washington
Senior Aerospace SSP Burbank, California
Senior Aerospace Connecticut Enfield, Connecticut
Senior Flexonics Bartlett Bartlett, Illinois
Senior Flexonics GA Franklin, Wisconsin
Senior Flexonics Pathway n ew Braunfels, Texas & Maine, 
Delaware
Senior Aerospace GmbH (incorporated in Switzerland) Senior Aerospace Mexico Saltillo, Mexico
Senior Flexonics Mexico Saltillo, Mexico
Senior Aerospace Bosman B.V. (incorporated in the n etherlands) Senior Aerospace Bosman Rotterdam, n etherlands
Senior Calorstat SAS (incorporated in France) Senior Aerospace Calorstat Dourdan, France
Senior Aerospace Ermeto SAS (incorporated in France) Senior Aerospace Ermeto Blois, France
Senior Flexonics Blois SAS (incorporated in France) Senior Flexonics Blois Blois, France
Senior Flexonics SA (Pty) Limited (incorporated in the  
Republic of South Africa)
Senior Flexonics Cape Town Cape Town, South Africa
Senior Flexonics GmbH (incorporated in Germany) Senior Flexonics Germany Kassel, Germany
Senior India Private Limited (incorporated in India) Senior Flexonics n ew Delhi n ew Delhi, India
Senior Flexonics Czech s.r.o. (incorporated in the Czech Republic) Senior Flexonics o lomouc o lomouc, Czech Republic
Senior do Brasil Ltda (incorporated in Brazil) Senior Flexonics Sao Paulo Sao Paulo, Brazil
Senior o perations (Canada) Limited (incorporated in Canada) Senior Flexonics Canada Brampton, o ntario
* Senior Aerospace Weston was merged into Senior UK Limited on 31 December 2013.
** Atlas Composites Limited was acquired on 8 February 2013 and merged into Senior UK Limited on 23 April 2013.
*** Thermal Engineering Limited was acquired on 29 n ovember 2013.
**** Weston (SEA) Limited changed its name to Senior Aerospace (Thailand) Limited on 17 January 2014.
The Group has a 49% interest in Senior Flexonics Technologies (Wuhan) Limited, a jointly controlled entity incorporated in China.
All other Group undertakings are wholly and directly owned by subsidiary undertakings of Senior plc, and in every case the principal country of 
operation is the country of incorporation.
The Group undertakings listed above include only those that, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the profits or assets of the Group. 
A full list of all Group undertakings will be appended to the Annual Return 2013.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
105 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
pR incipal gRoup unD e Rtakings a nalysis of sha Rehol De Rs at 31 Decembe R 2013
Shareholders Issued shares
n umber % Millions %
By category
Corporate bodies 1,074 32.03 403.12 96.92
o ther shareholders 2,279 67.97 12.81 3.08
3,353 100.00 415.93 100.00
By range of holdings
1 – 24,999 2,906 86.67 11.33 2.72
25,000 – 49,999 117 3.49 4.10 0.98
50,000 – 249,999 148 4.41 17.10 4.12
250,000 – 499,999 64 1.91 23.40 5.62
500,000 – 999,999 40 1.19 29.00 6.98
1,000,000 – and over 78 2.33 331.00 79.58
3,353 100.00 415.93 100.00
The number of shares in issue at 31 December 2013 was 415,934,031.
sha Re Regist Ra Rs All shareholder records are maintained by Equinti and all correspondence should be addressed to the Registrar, Senior plc at the Equniti address 
shown on the inside back cover, quoting the reference number starting with 0228 detailed on your dividend vouchers. The registrar should be 
notified regarding changes to name or address, loss of share certificate, or request for, or change to, a dividend mandate.
Equiniti provides a range of shareholder information on-line. Shareholders can check their holdings, update details and obtain practical help on 
transferring shares at: www.shareview.co.uk.
Instead of payment by post to your registered address, dividends can be paid through the BACS system direct into a UK bank or building society 
account, with the dividend voucher still sent to your registered address. If you wish to use this facility and have not previously applied, then please 
apply direct to Equiniti and request a dividend mandate form. Shareholders who are currently receiving duplicate sets of Company mailings, as a 
result of any inconsistency in name or address details, should write direct to Equiniti so holdings can be combined, if appropriate.
c Rest pRoxy v oting
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 25 April 2014 and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual. Further 
details relating to voting via CREST may be found on the 2014 AGM n otice of Meeting and Form of Proxy.
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 106
aDD itional sha Rehol De R info Rmation  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
107 Senior plc | Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2013 www.senio Rplc.com
t he key events fo R s enio R in 2014 a Re set out below Some of the dates are indicative only and may be subject to change.
3 ma Rch Preliminary announcement of the 2013 Annual Results.
14 m a Rch Publication of the Annual Report & Accounts 2013.
24 a p Ril Interim Management Statement.
25 a p Ril Annual General Meeting.
30 a p Ril Shares ex-dividend for the 2013 final dividend.
2 m ay
Record date for shareholders on the register to receive  
2013 final dividend.
30 m ay
Payment of the 2013 final dividend.
4 a ugust Preliminary announcement of the 2014 Interim Results.
8 a ugust Publication of the Interim Report 2014.
22 o ctobe R
Interim Management Statement.
22 o ctobe R
Shares ex-dividend for the 2014 interim dividend.
24 o ctobe R
Record date for shareholders on register to receive 2014  
interim dividend.
28 novembe R
Payment of the 2014 interim dividend.
2014 financial calen Da R s ec Reta Ry an D Registe Re D o ffice Andrew Bodenham 
Senior plc 
59/61 High Street, Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire WD3 1RH
Registered in England and Wales n o. 282772
Regist Ra Rs Equiniti 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex Bn 99 6DA
a u DitoR
Deloitte LLP 
Mountbatten House, Grosvenor Square, Southampton So 15 2BZ
sha Reg ift 
If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more  
for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider  
donating them to the charity ShareGift (Registered Charity 1052686) 
which specialises in accepting such shares as donations. The ShareGift 
Transfer Form may be obtained from Equiniti, the Company’s Registrars, 
at www.shareview.co.uk. There are no implications for Capital Gains 
Tax purposes (no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is 
also possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information about 
ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from  
www.ShareGift.org.
s olicito Rs Slaughter and May 
o ne Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY
pR incipal uk c lea Ring b anke Rs 
Lloyds Banking Group plc 
25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7Hn
f inancial aD vise Rs 
Lazards & Co., Limited 
50 Stratton Street, London W1J 8LL
s tockbR oke Rs Jefferies Hoare Govett 
Vintners Place 
68 Upper Thames Street 
London EC4V 3BJ
Senior plc | Ann UAL REPo RT & ACCo Un TS 2013 108
o ffice Rs anD a Dvise Rs  Senior plc
59/61 High Street 
Rickmansworth 
Hertfordshire WD3 1RH 
United Kingdom
www.seniorplc.com
T +44 (0) 1923 775547
F +44 (0) 1923 775583
Senior plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2013
