 Sepura plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report
Highlights 01
Chairman’s Statement 02
Chief Executive’s Statement 03
Sepura at a Glance 04
Marketplace 06
Creating Value 08
Key Performance Indicators 10
Strategic Objective
› Expanding Addressable Markets 12
› Developing Market-Leading Solutions 14
› Building Long Term Customer Relationships  16
Risk Management 18
Our Achievements During the Year 20
Operational Review 22
Financial Review 26
Corporate Social Responsibility  30
 
Governance 
Corporate Governance Report 34
 › Our Board and Senior Management 35
Report of the Audit Committee 39
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
 › Annual Statement 42
 › Remuneration Policy Report 44
 › Annual Report on Remuneration 50
Directors’ Report 56
 
Group Financial Statements
 
Independent Auditors’ Report to  
the Members of Sepura Plc 61
Consolidated Income Statement 65
Consolidated Statement  
of Comprehensive Income 66
Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity 66
Consolidated Balance Sheet 67
Consolidated Statement  
of Cash Flows 68
Notes to the Group  
Financial Statements 69 
 
Company Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to  
the Members of Sepura plc 99
Company Balance Sheet 100
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 101
 
Shareholder Information 110
Contact Details and Advisers  111
Financial Calendar 2014/15 112
Contents
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Chairman's Statement
» 02
Strategic Objective
» 12
Operational Review
» 22 Highlights
Sepura is a global leader in the design, development and 
supply of digital radio solutions, complementary accessories, 
support tools and devices. 
Strategic Report
 Financial Highlights
» Revenues up 11% to €116.6 million (2013: €104.8 million)
» Adjusted operating profit
1
 up 19% to €12.5 million  
 (2013: €10.5 million); adjusted EPS up 8% to 8.4¢ (2013: 7.8¢)
» Operating cash conversion of 101% (2013: 119%)  
 and closing net cash of €5.3 million (2013: €6.6 million)
» Full year dividend increased from 1.68p to 2.00p
» IFRS operating profit up 77% to €14.4 million (2013: €8.2 million)
 Operational Highlights
» Strong demand across core markets 
 › 188,000 radios delivered worldwide, up from 154,000 last year
 › Record deliveries of 65,000 (2013: 48,000) in Germany  
  as roll-out accelerates with increased backlog  
  of approximately 72,500 radios
» Medium term growth drivers validated
 ›  Sepura Systems and Portalify acquisitions fully integrated
 › Customers in 22 countries invested >€1 million (2013: 14)
 › Installed base grown to 1.2 million radios providing a stable  
  stream of repeat business 
 Improved Outlook
» Long term growth prospects enhanced as global migration  
 to digital continues
 ›  First infrastructure win in North America
 › DMR portfolio launched
 » Improved outlook and guidance for FY15 and FY16
 ›  Revenue growth of 10% per annum
 › Adjusted EPS growth of 15% and 25% respectively
Revenue + 11%
€116.6m
(2013: €104.8m)
Adjusted operating profit
1
€12.5m
(2013: €10.5m)
IFRS operating profit
+77%
(2013: +67%)
1 The calculation of adjusted operating profit  
 is set out in Note 8 to the consolidated  
 financial statements.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 01
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements I am pleased to report on a strong performance across  
the Group. We have delivered record revenues and  
a near twenty per cent increase in adjusted operating  
profit. At the same time we continued our investment  
in expanding our customer offering, both organically  
and through acquisition. 
Chairman’s Statement
Over the last three years we have 
transformed Sepura from being solely  
a TETRA devices supplier to a geographically 
and technologically diverse critical 
communications solution supplier.  
Our ability to now offer a one-stop  
solution combining devices, networks  
and applications has proved compelling 
to customers, increasing dramatically the 
size of our addressable market. In the last 
year we have recorded significant solution 
sales across a range of new customers and 
countries, including Canada, Luxembourg, 
Greece and Lebanon.
We have continued to build our US and 
Canadian sales organisation and added a 
number of new distributors. North America 
is the world’s largest Professional Mobile 
Radio (“PMR”) market, and we are confident 
that we can build on our early successes 
here and make it a significant market  
for the Group.
We have launched to market our portfolio  
of DMR products. DMR is a radio standard 
that is analogous and complementary 
to TETRA, mainly serving commercial 
customers, and which is forecast to be  
the fastest growing segment within PMR 
over the coming years. While we have 
modest expectations for DMR in its first 
year, we believe it can have a significant 
incremental impact on our revenues and 
earnings in the medium term.
The compelling solution we offer  
our customers has created a robust  
and diverse business that is set to increase 
earnings and cash generation over the 
coming years. We closed the year with  
a strong balance sheet, net cash and  
record order book. We look to the future 
with growing confidence, reflected in an  
increase in the dividend from 1.68p to 2.00p.
I would like once again to thank all  
of our employees for their outstanding 
contribution, and welcome new colleagues 
joining from Portalify and Fylde.
John Hughes CBE
Chairman
9 June 2014
Revenues
+19%
Addressable market
$2.5b
Record revenues and 19% increase  
in adjusted operating profit despite  
FX headwinds
Addressable market increased from  
$0.5 billion to $2.5 billion
Strategic Report
02 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Chief Executive’s Statement
We have delivered double-digit earnings growth for  
a third consecutive year, increasing adjusted operating 
profits by 19% to €12.5 million. We have achieved this 
through our ongoing focus on sales growth and strong 
operational performance in our core markets. 
At the same time we are executing  
on our strategic goal of expanding  
the Group’s offering through continued 
new product delivery, and the addition 
of incremental business lines through 
acquisition, such that we have expanded  
the size of our addressable market from  
$0.5 billion to approximately $2.5 billion.
I am pleased to report that we are seeing 
strong performance in our core TETRA 
devices markets. In total we shipped  
188,000 TETRA devices in FY14 compared  
to 154,000 in FY13. This growth was driven 
by Germany but double digit growth in the 
UK, Norway and Australia also contributed.
Germany produced another record year  
with 65,000 radios shipped, whilst we  
grew the backlog of contracted radios,  
to approximately 72,500, up from 30,000  
at the end of September. Key wins in Greece, 
Luxembourg, Austria and Canada ensured 
that the list of countries that delivered over 
€1m of revenues during the year grew to  
22, up from 14 last year. Our continued focus  
on product leadership and ensuring product 
innovation directly meets our customers’ 
demands has been a significant factor in  
this growth. Combined with our other  
TETRA markets we now have an installed 
base of over 1.2 million radios which will 
yield a growing stream of repeat business, 
via refresh and accessory sales, over the next 
few years.
 
Our infrastructure business has made 
outstanding progress since its acquisition 
last year and won its first public safety 
contracts in new markets including  
Greece and Lebanon. It also won its first 
contract in North America, for the initial 
phase of Toronto Transit Commission’s new 
network, which is currently being deployed, 
along with other significant commercial 
sector contracts in Luxembourg, Germany 
and Malaysia. After the initial contract value, 
Systems contracts yield a base of recurring 
revenues throughout the 10-15 year life 
of these networks. Portalify, the software 
developer acquired in July, also generates 
recurring annual revenues from its  
data applications, which we are well 
advanced on integrating fully into our  
solutions offering.
Investment in our DMR portfolio  
continued during FY14 with the initial  
range of products launched towards  
the end of the year. The product range 
will continue to be expanded this year 
and has been further augmented by the 
recent acquisition of Fylde, whose enabling 
technology provides customers with  
a simple, low-risk and cost-effective 
migration from analogue to digital networks.  
We anticipate an acceleration in the 
migration from analogue to digital  
by smaller, commercial users, and as  
a result we expect DMR to contribute 
materially to revenues in FY15 and both 
revenue and earnings in FY16.
We have now established a local sales  
team in North America to promote TETRA 
and DMR and we are confident that we  
can build on our early successes, such as  
Toronto Transit Commission, and make North 
America a significant market for the Group.
When you combine these growth 
opportunities with the robustness  
of our more established markets this  
gives us confidence in our outlook for  
the two years ending March 2016.  
We expect to deliver 10% revenue growth 
over the next two years with adjusted EPS 
growth of 15% and 25% respectively.
Gordon Watling
Chief Executive
9 June 2014
Radios delivered 
>188,000
We shipped a total of over 188,000 TETRA 
devices in 2014 (2013: 154,000)
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 03
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Sepura at a Glance
Sepura is a global leader in the design, development 
and supply of digital radio solutions, complementary 
accessories, support tools and devices. Our compelling 
solutions bring together radio infrastructure, terminals 
and data applications to help our customers overcome 
the operational challenges they face every day.
Our applications capability offers 
enhanced productivity tools that drive 
improved performance across customers’ 
communications networks.
Our network infrastructure delivers scaleable 
and seamless communications, covering  
a single-site campus right through to 
national networks.
Strategic Report
Number of organisations using Sepura solutions
>1,000
In over 100 countires
Our deep expertise and experience enables us to combine terminals, 
systems and applications into solutions that address the operational 
challenges facing our customers.
Systems Applications
We provide a comprehensive portfolio of 
hand-held and vehicle radios that address 
the operational requirements of the most 
demanding users and environments.
Terminals
Terminals 
 
 
 
   Systems  
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Applications
04 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
Over 1 million users  
across the globe
1m
Our 28 overseas sales staff  
are based in 17 countries
17
< €1m
> €1m
Revenues in 
previous years
2014
22
61
2013
14
64
Our global customer base
Our customer base is truly global and 
continues to expand. We operate at the 
front-line in some of the most demanding 
environments in the world, both in terms 
of climate and circumstance.
» Further details on our KPIs
 see pages 10 and 11
Our international footprint 
means we have customers 
 in 114 countries 
114
Number of countries investing  
over €1m in our solutions
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 05
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Marketplace
Sepura has successfully expanded its total addressable market from 
$500 million in 2012 to over $2.5 billion for 2015, by investing in new 
products and solutions and expanding our geographical reach:
» $40m pa  › TETRA ATEX Terminals
» $300m pa  › TETRA Infrastructure
» $200m pa  › Applications
» $800m pa  › DMR
» $800m pa  › North America
Strategic Report
TETRA » 10+ years of future growth
» The largest digital installed base
 › New networks are being deployed
 › New users are continuing to join networks
 › Users will replace their radios multiple times  
  over the life of the infrastructure
» TETRA is the public safety users’ preferred  
 voice solution outside North America
DMR » The commercial user's solution
» A TDMA-based ETSI standard like TETRA
» Targets users who do not need all  
 of TETRA’s public safety functionality 
» Results in significantly lower-cost  
 infrastructure
Worldwide Installed Base 
of PMR Radios (M units)
The Professional Mobile Radio (“PMR”) market is undergoing an 
“analogue to digital” migration as governments and commercial 
organisations replace ageing and obsolete analogue products with 
digital solutions. These enable the efficient use of radio spectrum, 
interoperability between government agencies and enhanced security 
and functionality that drive operational efficiencies.
2012 2013 2014
Total Addressable Market ($m)
Expanding Sepura’s Total Addressable Market
2015
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Source: Management/IHS
TETRA Terminals 
(Excluding ATEX)
TETRA ATEX  
Terminals
Infrastructure
Applications
DMR
North America
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
40,000
10,000
0
20,000
30,000
50,000
Source: IHS
TETRA
DMR
Other Digital 
Standards
Analogue
06 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Major Market Leaders
Sepura has a proud tradition of supplying radio equipment to Public 
Safety users that spans over 70 years. We now provide cutting edge 
solutions that deliver increased productivity and enhanced safety, 
maximising Public Safety organisations' return on their substantial 
investment in communication networks.
Mission Critical
UK
» Most mature TETRA market with c265,000 users
» Supply every police force in England, Wales  
 and Scotland
» Supply every ambulance and paramedic
» In 2014, the UK generated 17% of global   
 revenues at >€19m
Germany
» Largest TETRA market in short-medium term  
 with c750,000 forecast users
» Deployment is still underway and over 200,000   
 more radios will be needed in the next 2-3 years 
» Germany generated >€30m of revenue in 2014
Global
» In 2014, international revenues went up  
 by 12% to €97 million
» 22 countries generated over €1 million  
 of revenue with major new markets being  
 Canada, Luxembourg, Greece and Lebanon
Business Critical
Sepura now supplies users across a wide spectrum of sectors  
that need the functionality of our secure and feature-rich product 
portfolio. These include transport networks, utilities and the 
extractive industries, which all demand secure, reliable and robust 
communications solutions.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 07
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements    
Creating Value
Our vision is to establish Sepura as a global leader in the 
supply of digital communication systems.
Strategic Report
Expanding our 
addressable market
We are continually expanding our 
addressable market by identifying 
complementary high-growth opportunities 
within the PMR market which can be 
addressed by our core competencies by:
» growing our geographical footprint
» broadening our product portfolio
» entering new market verticals
» offering a range of PMR standards
» Case study: North America/ Transport 
 see page 12
Developing a broad portfolio 
of market-leading solutions
We continuously enhance our product  
and service offering to ensure that we  
have a broad portfolio of market-leading 
solutions. We have invested over  
€150m in research and development,  
enabling us to secure a competitive 
advantage by being first supplier in our 
markets to offer GPS and Gateway and 
Repeater functionality, together with a wide 
range of other innovative product features 
and functions.
» Case study: Mining/ ATEX
 see page 14
Building long-term  
customer relationships
A typical PMR network will be operational 
for at least 20 years. In addition to the initial 
capital sale of infrastructure, applications  
and radios, customers require regular 
supplies of batteries and other ancillaries 
which generate strong recurring revenues 
over the lifetime of the network. They also 
create new opportunities as the network 
expands, new applications are identified, 
new users join the network or existing 
users replace ageing radios with the latest 
technology. We have a demonstrable track 
record of customer retention and the repeat 
business that flows from establishing Sepura 
as our customers’ supplier of choice.
» Case study: Network Evolution
 see page 16
Our Strategy
Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth, reduced risk 
and long term financial performance.
08 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Business Model
Our business model is to exploit the Sepura brand and the core 
competencies it represents.
Our employees have a deep understanding  
of the PMR market gained through many  
years of servicing the most demanding  
vertical within it: public safety. Our close 
relationship with our customers ensures  
that we understand their operational 
challenges, and our technical know-how 
enables us to develop a solution to address 
their specific needs.
We have exclusive partnerships with  
a global network of dedicated PMR  
distributors, each of which is a specialist  
in their particular geography or market  
vertical. We work closely with them to target  
key opportunities, combining their local 
knowledge and relationships with our  
product expertise to create a compelling  
and cost-effective solution for end-users.
We outsource the manufacture of our 
products to world-class Contract Electronics 
Manufacturers, who offer a flexible and 
scaleable supply that meets our customers’ 
demand profile. We work closely with our 
supply chain to improve the design of our 
products, and to reduce costs and lead-times.
Market expertise
Routes to market
Supply chain
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 09
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Key Performance Indicators
2012 2013 2014
Annual Shipments (000s of radios)
2012 2013 2014
Commercial vs Public Safety Revenues
2012 2013 2014
Closing Order Book (€m)
5.9 22% 9.8 29% 13.1 30%
20
€m
120
100
80
60
40
2012 2013 2014
Total Addressable Market ($m) Installed Base (000s of radios)
2012 2013 2014
449 544 677 800 930 1,048 1,186
2009 2010 2011 2008 2015
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
TETRA ATEX  
Terminals
Strategic 
Operational
150 154 188
Our strategic KPIs are leading indicators of future potential. 
Our operational KPIs are leading and lagging indicators demonstrating operational progress during the year.
Our growing installed base 
of radios in use will generate 
additional revenues 
from regular demand for 
replacement accessories 
and, ultimately, new radios, 
together with opportunities 
to upsell new applications 
to existing customers.
Our closing order book 
for delivery in the next 
12 months increased 
by €3.3 million as we 
secured significant 
infrastructure contracts 
that will be delivered 
over several financial 
years, giving improved 
visibility for future 
revenues.
Annual shipments 
increased by 22%, 
including record 
deliveries of 65,000 
radios to Germany 
for the ongoing 
deployment of the new 
German national public 
safety network.
We have delivered 
growth in all of our 
key markets and 
verticals, through 
both new commercial 
users for our terminals 
and significant 
infrastructure 
contracts for public 
safety users.
Strategic Report
TETRA Terminals 
(Excluding ATEX)
Infrastructure
Applications
DMR
North America
Other Commercial
UK
Germany
Public Safety
10 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Revenue (€m)
83.0 104.8
2012 2013 2014
116.6
We delivered our second 
consecutive year of 
double-digit revenue 
growth, with growth  
in all of our key markets 
and verticals.
Adjusted Operating Margin
1
2012 2013 2014
9.5% 10.0% 10.7%
We delivered our third 
consecutive year of 
double-digit growth in 
adjusted operating profits, 
driven by both increased 
revenues and improved 
operational leverage.
Adjusted Diluted EPS (¢)
1
2012 2013 2014
6.0 7.8 8.4
Although adjusted 
operating profits increased 
19%, adjusted diluted  
EPS increased by 8%  
as the growth of the  
Group means it receives 
less tax relief on its R&D 
expenditures as it qualifies 
for 30% “Large Company” 
relief rather than the 125% 
received by SMEs.
Dividends per Share (p)
2012 2013 2014
1.46 1.68 2.00
The dividend declared by 
the Board of 2p represents 
a 19% increase over last 
year and reflects the 
Group’s strong balance 
sheet, cash generation 
during the year and 
increasing confidence  
in the future.
Cash Conversion
2
2012 2013 2014
82% 119% 101%
The significant growth in 
revenues, and successful 
integration of Sepura 
Systems and Portalify,  
has been achieved 
without the need to 
invest in working capital 
and we generated net 
cash from operations of  
€26.4 million, representing 
cash conversion of 101%.
Financial
Our financial KPIs are lagging indicators showing the financial result of our operational performance.
1 The calculations of adjusted operating margin and adjusted diluted EPS are set out in Notes 8 and 15 to the  
 consolidated financial statements respectively.
2 Calculated as cash generated from operations divided by cash generated from operations before movements in  
 working capital.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements  
 
Strategic Objective
Expanding Addressable Markets
Sepura has successfully expanded its total addressable market  
from $500 million in 2012 to $2.5 million for 2015. 
One of the largest contributors to this 
expansion has been the opening of the 
North American market, which represents 
an $800 million opportunity for Sepura, 
primarily in commercial verticals. One such 
target vertical is transportation, where 
Sepura has developed a range of solutions 
to enhance transportation efficiency and 
safety which have been deployed on train, 
tram and bus networks, and at airports, 
across the globe. 
Transportation
Train operators need to keep passengers, 
luggage and trains moving to schedule, 
while also ensuring safety and security across 
a large and complex facility. Running an 
integrated metropolitan transport network 
with trains, trams and buses is even more 
challenging. Toronto Transport Commission 
manages the third largest public transit 
system in North America, covering 622 km
2
 
and carrying over 460 million passengers 
each year on 1,800 buses, 700 subway 
cars and 237 trams, and selected Sepura 
to deliver the first TETRA network for the 
transportation sector in North America.
Toronto Transit Corporation joins a growing 
list of transportation customers utilising 
Sepura solutions to drive productivity 
and enhance security, including London 
Heathrow, Madrid Barajas Airport, Bangkok 
Metro, Moscow Metro, Mumbai Monorail 
and the Panama Canal.
Strategic Report
3
4
12 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
 
 Sepura Systems base station 
The Sepura Systems base stations provides secure connectivity  
for multiple simultaneous users across the entire transport 
network, including underground.
 Dispatch solution 
The control room uses a Dispatch application to manage  
the complex tasks required to ensure the safe and prompt  
turnaround of all trains, buses and trams and to respond to any 
incidents. It co-ordinates all of the teams involved, by assigning 
tasks and monitoring progress to ensure that they are completed 
promptly in the right order.
 STP9200 hand-portable 
Guards and ticket-inspectors use the rugged STP9200  
hand-portable for clear voice communications, to receive  
data, and to update the status of their assigned tasks via  
a Short Data Application.
 SRG3900 
Telemetry data is provided via SRG3900 vehicle radios, keeping 
controllers informed of progress and performance so that any 
delays can be communicated to waiting passengers.
1
2
3
4
1 2
4
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements  
 
In addition to penetrating new geographical markets, Sepura has 
a strong track record of generating demand through innovative 
solutions that address the operational challenges facing users  
every day.
One of the harshest environments possible 
for radio communications is in and around 
mines, with workers exposed to heat, dust and 
potentially explosive gases. Health and safety 
is paramount, while any lost production due 
to accidents carries a heavy financial penalty. 
Sepura’s solutions offer clear communication, 
improved employee safety and help reduce 
the likelihood of accidents. They are used by 
mining and other extractive industries around 
the world, including iron-ore mines and LPG 
refineries in Australia, platinum mines in Africa, 
gold mines in Canada and Finland, oil and 
gas rigs in the North Sea, and petrochemical 
refineries in Latin America.
Mine
Our STP8X family of ATEX radios are the most 
robust radios available for teams working in 
the harshest of environments. In addition to 
clear voice communication, they incorporate 
worker safety alarms and innovative job 
dispatch and allocation solutions. We also 
offer a range of applications that utilise GPS  
to track resources and ensure they are kept 
away from potential hazards.
Strategic Objective
Developing Market-Leading Solutions
Strategic Report
5
3
4
14 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
 
 Sepura Systems base station 
A Sepura Systems base station provides secure connectivity  
for multiple simultaneous users across the entire mine,  
and a chain of base stations extends the network along  
the train line connecting the mine to deep water ports  
for exports, keeping maintenance teams in touch with  
their control room wherever they are needed.
 Dispatch solution 
The control room uses a Dispatch application to manage  
the complex tasks required to ensure the safe and efficient 
operation of the facility. It co-ordinates all of the teams involved,  
by assigning tasks and monitoring progress to ensure that they  
are completed promptly and efficiently, thereby minimising 
disruption to operations. It also uses GPS to track the location  
of all operatives and ensure their safety at all times.
 Sepura STP8X000 hand-portable 
Miners rely on the Intrinsically Safe STP8X000, reducing the  
risk of a spark while working in an atmosphere of potentially 
explosive dust and gas. The STP8X000 is a fully-featured  
hand-portable, offering loud, clear audio, direct dialling  
and a full suite of data applications.
 Geo-fencing application 
A data application identifies hazards around the mine, such as  
new blasting zones, and uses the GPS in miners’ hand-held radios  
to track their proximity and sound an alarm if anyone approaches 
the danger zone.
 Collision avoidance application 
A data application tracks the GPS in the trucks used to transport 
the ore, triggering a proximity alert if any of the trucks – each 
the size of a house – get too close to each other. In addition to 
improving driver safety, such applications avoid down-time and 
reduce insurance premiums.
2
1
5
4
3
2
1
5
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements  
 
Sepura has invested in developing products and functionality that  
will address customers’ emerging needs over the 15 – 20 year life  
cycle of a network. 
This is part of our commitment to building 
long term relationships with our customers 
and becoming a single, strategic supplier 
of their critical communications solution. 
Following the acquisitions of our infrastructure 
and applications offerings we have the 
capabilities to provide solutions which 
generate long-term commitments from 
customers. Every customer and network is 
unique, and we support users as they build, 
maintain and expand their network to ensure 
that it meets their specific operational needs.
Strategic Objective
Building Long Term Customer Relationships 
Strategic Report
1
4
3
2
16 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014  
 
 Initial infrastructure roll-out 
Sepura‘s base stations and infrastructure provide secure connectivity 
for multiple simultaneous users, whether for a single site or a trunked 
network covering a town, city or country.
 Initial deployment of radios 
Sepura has a broad range of hand-held and vehicle radios that 
address the specific requirements of different users.
 Specialist users join the network 
Specialist users such as firefighters or paramedics have very specific 
requirements. Sepura has a broad product portfolio that includes 
cutting-edge solutions for niche user groups. These include our 
range of Intrinsically Safe STP8X solutions that combine core radio 
equipment with a comprehensive suite of specialist accessories.
 New applications and ancillaries 
Users need to replace batteries and other ancillaries approximately 
every 18 months. Users’ operational demands also evolve, driving 
demand for different accessories and applications to help them 
overcome these new challenges.
 Network expansion 
As new facilities are built or additional users join the network, 
additional infrastructure is required to expand geographical  
coverage or add extra capacity. Sepura’s scaleable infrastructure 
solutions enable networks to grow simply and efficiently.
 Radio refresh
Sepura’s market-leading radios have a reputation for ruggedness 
and reliability, and have an operational life of 5-7 years after which 
customers typically refresh their entire fleet with the latest models 
incorporating further advances in functionality and features.
1
5
5
6
2
3
4
6
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Risk Management 
Product innovation
While the existing 4G standard does not contain the protocols necessary 
for voice traffic, or the call prioritisation and similar functions required  
by Public Safety agencies, we are investing in new product development 
to position the Group for the likely future deployment of LTE. This is part 
of our ongoing programme of identifying customer needs, and potential 
competitor advances, to ensure that we maintain a portfolio of market 
leading products. We focus our development efforts on features which 
meet a market requirement and are likely to generate sufficient revenue  
to fund their development. We have established internal processes  
for prioritising and reviewing our development projects.
Growing our addressable market
The Group’s focus on diversification will result in a reducing significance  
of individual contracts or customers relative to the Group’s total 
operations. Our addressable market is increasing as we launch new 
products and enter new markets. Furthermore, the increasing role  
of regular add-on and replacement business also helps to mitigate  
the impact of significant delays in securing new customers. However,  
the impact of significant contracts on half and full-year reported revenue 
remains a risk for the Group.
Investing in product leadership
The Group’s ability to compete depends on its high-quality product range 
and its reputation for customer service as well as the ongoing programme 
of work to reduce product costs. The Board regularly reviews the level 
of investment in these areas in the light of changes in the competitive 
landscape, to ensure that the Group can continue to compete effectively.
Investing in operational excellence
The Board is continually reviewing and enhancing our internal controls 
and processes and hiring additional employees in critical areas of the 
business. We have two primary sub-contract manufacturers, ensuring 
continuity of supply and providing flexibility in meeting additional 
demand for our products.
Technological change
Our revenue and profitability are affected by the extent to which  
there is increasing demand for, and development by our competitors  
of, additional products and product features. For example, the adoption 
of 4G / “LTE” for the delivery of broad-band data services to consumers 
has led some Public Safety agencies to explore the possibility of creating 
equivalent data networks, using either planned commercial networks 
or constructing their own 4G private networks. We make significant 
investments in new product development, and there can be no  
guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset 
these development costs or to continue to make such investments.  
There are also associated risks relating to difficulties and delays in the 
development process of new products, and their acceptance by  
customers. If our competitors successfully launch new products or features 
which we are unable to match then we could lose market share with a 
corresponding impact on our future profitability and financial position.
Reliance on key markets or customers
A significant percentage of our revenue in each financial year is currently 
derived from a small number of end-user organisations, the majority  
of which are governmental organisations, in several key geographies.
The timing of orders from these customers is influenced by a number  
of factors, including governmental investment decisions which may  
be affected by changes in political and economic conditions. This makes 
accurate predictions of the timing of future revenues more difficult.  
In the event that there is a delay to either the tendering process or the 
placing of orders following a successful bid, then revenues may not be 
generated within the originally forecast timeframe, with a consequential 
impact on the profitability of the Group in any given period.
Competition
There is strong competition in the markets in which we operate, particularly 
in relation to government procurement tendering processes which rely on 
a combination of technical performance and price. A significant reduction 
in the prices we achieve for our products could have a material impact on 
the Group’s margins and profitability.
Managing rapid growth
The rapid growth of our business may place a significant strain on our 
management, operational and financial resources, and those of our 
manufacturing and distribution partners. If we are unable to grow  
our business profitably, as a result of being unable to secure adequate 
resources or incurring excessive costs in doing so, then this could  
have a material adverse effect on our financial position.
Strategic Report
The material strategic and operational risks and uncertainties  
facing the Group, their potential impact on our future  
performance, and how we manage them.
Risk and impact Management strategy
18 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Foreign currency
The Group has an international customer base and purchases products and 
services in a range of currencies. The reported revenues, costs, assets and 
liabilities of the Group are therefore affected by fluctuations in prevailing 
rates of exchange between these currencies. This affects comparisons 
of current year results to previous periods, where equivalent underlying 
transactions are reported at differing rates, and may affect future results  
if assets and liabilities are subject to revaluation over time.
Information security
The Group regards information within the business as a key asset and 
recognises the risk and impact on the business of breaches to the integrity 
of information relating to the business.
Supply chain risk and product recall
We are dependent on outsourced electronic manufacturing companies for 
the manufacture of substantially all of our current products and on a small 
number of suppliers for key components. Any failure or inability of these 
companies to supply us could adversely affect our business. Our supply 
chain is complex, and the use of third-party suppliers and service providers 
could adversely affect our product quality, delivery schedules or  
customer satisfaction. Any of these could have an adverse effect on  
our financial results.
Integration of acquired businesses
Our future financial performance will reflect the results of acquired 
businesses, which will in turn be impacted by our ability to integrate such 
businesses into our current operations. If we are unable to retain key 
employees or exploit forecast synergies then we may be unable to deliver 
the forecast level of revenues, profitability and cash flows which could have 
an adverse effect on the financial results and position of the Group as  
a whole.
Effective hedging of exchange rate exposures
The Company’s presentational and functional currency is the Euro, 
reflecting the relative contribution of Euro-denominated revenues.  
The Board has implemented policies that require regular reviews of the 
Group’s forecast currency requirements, in conjunction with a rolling 
programme of monthly forward contracts to hedge forecast net cash 
flows in major currencies. Where these hedges are deemed to be effective 
any unrealised gains or losses on the hedges are recognised in equity 
rather than in the consolidated income statement, again reducing possible 
volatility in reported earnings arising from changes in exchange rates.
Effective protection of information security and integrity
The Group has in place systems and processes for the classification  
and control of access to information within a number of elements of the 
business. The information security standard ISO27000 is a reference frame 
for all information security management systems and is the framework 
against which the Group manages information security.
Monitor manufacturing and component supply chain
The Group mitigates supply chain risk by employing a number of supplier 
monitoring mechanisms and control measures which address business 
viability, production quality and component obsolescence. Automated 
and manual product testing is an integral part of all projects and 
manufacturing. In addition, all third party products undergo conformance 
testing and compliance checks.
Protection from vendors, combined with detailed planning  
and execution 
Prior to any acquisition the Group undertakes detailed investigation 
and due diligence in conjunction with external advisors. Appropriate 
warranties and indemnities are obtained from the vendors against specific 
financial risks identified. Where appropriate, an element of consideration 
is deferred and will only be satisfied if the acquired business generates 
the forecast level of profitability on which the valuation of the business 
was based. Detailed integration plans are prepared, with specific risks 
identified and mitigation plans prepared, which set out detailed actions, 
responsibilities and timetables. We conduct regular reviews with the 
management of acquired entities to assess performance against these 
plans and take action accordingly.
Risk and impact Management strategy
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Our Achievements During the Year
» June 2013
July 2013
Sepura crowned Employer 
of the Year by Cambridge 
Regional College
Sepura received the Employer of the 
Year award by Cambridge Regional 
College (“CRC”) within their Faculty  
of Construction and Engineering.  
The official award ceremony took  
place at CRC’s premises on 25th June.
Sepura to deliver first TETRA 
public transport solution  
in Canada
Sepura was selected by Toronto 
Transit Commission (“TTC”) to supply 
the infrastructure for a TETRA digital 
communications system covering 
Toronto’s subway lines.
Sepura announces the 
acquisition of Portalify OY
Portalify provides end-to-end solutions 
for mobile working via a suite of 
software applications which increase 
the safety, productivity and efficiency 
of professional mobile radio users, 
regardless of the communications 
standard in use by the customer. 
July 2013
Sepura announced 
as National Business  
Awards finalist
It was announced that Sepura had 
been shortlisted for the International 
Growth Business of the Year Award at 
this year’s National Business Awards.
Geographical Footprint 
114
Countries
May 2013
Sepura appoints strategic 
partner in the US
SafeMobile LLC was appointed not  
only Sepura's newest channel partner 
in North America, but also both  
a Sepura applications programme 
partner and one of Sepura’s centres  
of competence for support in the 
United States of America.
International  
Revenues up 12%
€97m
We have grown our business
» Revenues up 11% to €116.6 million
» Adjusted operating profit up 19%  
 to €12.5 million
» Portalify acquired in July 2013
We have transformed Sepura from being solely  
a TETRA devices supplier to a geographically and 
technologically diverse critical communications 
solution supplier.
Strategic Report
20 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 » November 2013
December 2013
Sepura enhances offering to 
the market with the launch 
of its DMR solution 
Sepura launched its DMR solution at 
Comms Connect, the first in a series  
of planned promotional activities 
taking place on the global 
communication market.
Sepura launches new TETRA 
dispatcher and DTT Desktop 
TETRA Terminal
Sepura announced the launch of two 
new additions to its portfolio of TETRA 
products at PMRExpo in Germany: the 
SICS Net TETRA dispatcher and the SICS 
DTT Desktop TETRA Terminal.
January 2013
Major Swedish Transport 
operator chooses Sepura 
TETRA terminal
Sepura and SRS AB have been  
awarded the contract for the 
deployment of TETRA radios to 
Värmlandstrafik, the main public 
transport organisation for the  
Värmland region in western Sweden.
Austrian motorway operator, 
ASFINAG, goes the extra mile 
with Sepura
ASFINAG, the Austrian state-owned 
company which builds, operates and 
maintains all motorways in Austria, 
has selected Sepura to provide TETRA 
communications across its nationwide 
motorway and expressway network.
October 2013
Sepura launches  
new noise-eliminating  
covert solution
At GPEC Asia, the largest event in 
the Asian region for suppliers to 
public safety organisations, Sepura 
announced the launch of its new, 
ground-breaking noise-eliminating 
solution NN5.
Adjusted Operating  
Profit up 19%
€12.5m
We have entered new markets
» We have won new solution contracts  
 in Canada, Luxembourg, Lebanon,  
 and Greece
» We have increased our geographical   
 footprint to 114 countries
We have invested for further success
» We acquired Portalify in July 2013 to  
 expand our portfolio and market reach
» We have expanded our market-leading  
 product range
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Operational Review
Over the last three years Sepura has been transformed 
from a TETRA terminals business into a geographically 
diverse critical communications solutions provider,  
with an estimated addressable market of €2.5 billion.
Targeted investment in products and 
markets offering long-term potential 
has resulted in a third consecutive year 
of double-digit growth in earnings, and 
Sepura is positioned to capitalise on the 
opportunities offered by the accelerating 
analogue to digital migration.
Building on the strength of our  
core TETRA devices markets
The Group delivered a record 188,000 
devices last year, up from 154,000  
in the previous year. This includes  
record shipments into Germany where  
the number of registered users is now  
over 400,000, making it the world’s largest 
TETRA market. Following further wins in the 
year our share has grown to approximately 
60% and the current backlog of contracted 
orders for future delivery is approximately 
72,500, up from 30,000 in September.  
We also experienced double digit growth  
in other key markets such as the 
UK, Norway and Australia.
Our installed base is now c.1.2 million  
radios across 114 countries. This will provide 
a growing stream of recurring revenues over 
the medium term as users look to refresh 
existing fleets and acquire accessories and 
applications to maximise the return on their 
investments in our technology.
PMR: A market with long-term  
structural growth
The total PMR market is continuing  
to expand, with an estimated value  
of $16.5 billion per annum in 2017 when  
45 million PMR radios are forecast to be 
in use globally according to independent 
research from IHS. An increasing proportion  
of these will be digital radios, as PMR users 
migrate from increasingly obsolete analogue 
networks. These independent market 
forecasts show the installed base of digital 
radios growing by over 15% CAGR, from  
12.4 million in 2013 to 22.9 million in 2017.
The majority of this growth is expected  
to come from smaller, frequently single  
site, digital networks primarily for use  
by individual commercial organisations. 
These users prefer a single supplier  
that can offer a simple migration path  
to a solution that suits their operational 
needs. The Group has therefore invested 
in expanding its routes to market and 
developing a product portfolio that will 
enable it to capitalise on these opportunities.
Increasing our addressable market:  
New geographies
The largest geographical opportunity  
for the Group is North America, which  
is the world’s largest PMR market and  
is forecast to generate 25% of the growth  
in digital PMR users. The Group has  
recruited a local sales team which is building 
a pipeline of opportunities for both TETRA 
and DMR. Their focus is on the 7 million 
commercial PMR users, especially in key 
verticals such as oil and gas, transportation 
and industrials.
The Group has demonstrated its  
success in entering new geographies  
with 22 countries generating revenues  
of over €1 million during the year compared  
to 14 last year. These revenues include 
significant infrastructure contracts wins 
in new markets for the Group in Canada, 
Greece, Lebanon and Luxembourg,  
which are expected to lead to tenders  
for terminals in the coming year as the 
networks become operational. These 
results also show a recovery in Southern 
Europe with Spain and Portugal both back 
generating revenues of over €1 million.
Installed base
1.2m
Our installed base is now c.1.2 million  
radios across 114 countries
Strategic Report
22 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 North America 
25%
North America is the world’s largest PMR 
market and is forecast to generate 25% of 
the growth in digital PMR users
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Operational Review
continued
Strategic Report
Revenues from commercial 
PMR users
+13%
Revenues from commercial PMR users 
increased by 13% to €34.4 million, 
representing 30% of total revenues
24 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Increasing our addressable market: 
Commercial users
In addition to entering new geographies,  
the Group has made further progress  
in growing revenues from key commercial 
markets. Revenues from commercial PMR 
users increased by 13% to €34.4 million, 
representing 30% of total revenues.  
The Group has broadened its management 
team through the appointment of senior 
executives with responsibility for developing 
the Group’s target verticals, supported  
by dedicated sales resources with specific 
sector expertise such as oil & gas. 
Developing a broad portfolio of  
market-leading solutions
The Group has continued to invest  
in broadening its product portfolio.  
The acquisition of infrastructure supplier 
3T last year was the first step to delivering 
a complete solution for commercial users 
requiring a single supplier. The acquisition 
of software developer Portalify in July has 
significantly expanded the Group’s range of 
software tools and applications that enable  
customers to deploy and manage  
resources more effectively.
The Group has recently launched  
a portfolio of products utilising DMR  
which is independently forecast to be  
the fastest growing segment within PMR 
over the next 4 years, with the installed base 
of DMR radios forecast to grow by 4.2 million 
radios by 2017. The Group’s DMR offering 
incorporates many of the features that have 
helped build its reputation in TETRA for 
rugged and reliable products. Management 
believe the Group will be able to establish  
a similar reputation in the DMR market 
which, when combined with Fylde and  
its enabling technology that were acquired 
after the end of the year, will enable DMR  
to become a significant revenue stream  
for the Group over the medium term.
Becoming a strategic partner for  
our customers
The Group has invested in developing 
products and functionality that will  
address customers’ emerging needs over  
the 15 – 20 year life cycle of a network.  
This is part of the Group’s commitment  
to building long term relationships with  
its customers and becoming a single 
supplier of their critical communications 
solution. Following the acquisitions  
of our infrastructure and applications 
offerings we now, when combined  
with our terminals portfolio, have the 
capabilities to provide solutions which 
generate long-term commitments from 
customers, with multi-year contracts that  
are subject to incremental change orders 
and long-term maintenance agreements. 
These both contributed to a closing Systems’ 
order book of €7.8 million for delivery in 
FY15, up from €3.3 million last year.
Preparing for accelerated growth
We have taken important steps in preparing 
the business for a period of accelerated 
growth. The senior management team  
has been enhanced with the establishment 
of two new positions: VP , Government  
and Public Safety; and VP , Commercial.  
These provide additional bandwidth  
to the management team and, more 
importantly, focus on key market segments 
for growth.
In addition, we have established  
a manufacturing capability in Malaysia and 
are well advanced in the implementation  
of a new integrated business system. 
Building long term 
relationships
15-20
The Group has invested in developing 
products and functionality that will  
address customers’ emerging needs over  
the 15 – 20 year life cycle of a network
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements The Group delivered record revenues of €116.6 million, 
up 11% from last year’s €104.8 million.
Financial Review
Revenue
€116.6m
Record revenues of €116.6 million  
(2013: €104.8 million)
Revenue
The Group delivered record revenues  
of €116.6 million, up 11% from last year’s 
€104.8 million; €0.7 million of the increase 
related to Portalify, whose results have been 
consolidated for the first time following 
its acquisition on 25 July 2013. The total 
number of radios shipped increased by 
 22% from 154,000 to 188,000, while the 
Group’s infrastructure offering, acquired 
last year, contributed to major wins in new 
markets including Canada, Greece, Lebanon 
and Luxembourg.
Gross margin
Gross margin strengthened as forecast in the 
second half of the year, with a gross margin 
for H2 of 49.1% compared to 44.9% in H1 
and 49.0% for the same period last year.  
The gross margin for the full year of 47.4% 
was adversely affected by the foreign 
exchange movements reported for the  
first half of the year. On a constant currency 
basis the gross margin was 48.0%, consistent 
with the 47.9% reported for the same period 
last year. As previously reported the volatility 
of the US$ against the Euro reported last 
year continued to impact pricing from sub-
contract manufacturers during the first half 
of the current year, while a weaker Sterling 
had an adverse impact on reported Euro 
revenues and margins from the Group’s 
domestic market. Product cost reduction 
programmes and the introduction of higher 
margin products, such as Portalify’s software 
applications, continue to mitigate any 
price competition. Changes in product and 
customer mix were neutral, reflecting the 
Group’s increasing diversity and resilience.
Research and development costs
Gross expenditure on R&D increased by  
6% to €16.7 million (2013: €15.8 million).  
A significant proportion of these costs relate  
to the fixed Sterling costs of the Group’s  
UK-based development teams. These are  
hedged 12 months in advance and so reflect  
last year’s GBP/Euro rates, and on a constant 
currency basis gross expenditure on R&D 
increased by 1% to €16.0 million.
Sepura’s “one stop shop” solution requires  
a portfolio where each product has the same 
Sepura look and feel, whether through  
a common User Interface or industrial 
design. The integration of both Sepura 
Systems’ and Portalify’s development teams 
into the Group’s overall development 
structure, sharing common tools and 
methodologies and working on a 
consolidated product roadmap, has been  
an important step towards realising that 
vision. It has also improved efficiency and 
reduced back-office costs, and thereby 
reduced R&D expenditure to 14.3% of 
revenues from 15.1% last year. Development 
of Sepura’s next generation of terminals  
is transitioning from platform development 
to productisation, and the Group remains  
on track to release its first products based  
on the new platform during 2015. The 
productisation will lead to a short term 
increase in R&D expenditure in absolute 
terms but it will continue to fall as a 
percentage of revenues.
Capitalised development expenditure 
represented 75% (2013: 76%) of  
related gross development spend.  
The related amortisation charge for  
the period decreased to €8.1 million  
(2013: €10.2 million) as the development 
expenditure on several older products  
is now fully amortised, while an increasing 
proportion of research and development 
expenditure is on long-term projects,  
such as the Group’s next generation 
platform, on which amortisation has  
yet to commence.
Strategic Report
26 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Research and  
development costs  
€16.7m
An increase of 6% to €16.7 million  
(2013: €15.8 million)
Selling, marketing, distribution and 
administrative expenses
Selling, marketing and distribution  
costs increased by 7% to €16.6 million  
(2013: €15.5 million), reflecting the 
investments made to expand the Group’s 
addressable market. Current year costs 
include a full year contribution from Sepura 
Systems, together with the incremental  
costs associated with Portalify and the 
launch of the Group’s DMR portfolio.  
A local sales team has been established  
in North America, with seven full-time sales 
employees recruited to address the growing 
pipeline of TETRA and DMR opportunities  
in the world’s largest PMR market.
Administrative expenses, excluding the  
IFRS 2 share option cost, non-recurring costs 
and the amortisation of acquired intangibles 
increased by 13% compared with the  
same period last year to €9.5 million from 
€8.4 million. 7% of this increase related  
to foreign exchange and the remainder 
related to the incremental costs of Sepura 
Systems and Portalify following acquisition.
The total cash operating costs, being  
the gross R&D expenditure, sales and 
marketing costs and administrative  
expenses (excluding the IFRS 2 share  
option cost, associated National Insurance,  
the amortisation of acquired intangibles  
and non-recurring costs), increased by 8%  
to €42.8 million (2013: €39.7 million), 
reflecting the investment in research 
and development and routes to market 
described above.
Operating profit
The Group presents adjusted operating 
profit as a key performance measure in 
addition to the operating profit reported 
under IFRS, as the exclusion of certain  
non-operational or non-cash items better 
reflects the underlying trading performance 
of the Group. Adjusted operating profit  
for the period has increased by 19% to  
€12.5 million, (2013: €10.5 million),  
while on a constant currency basis  
adjusted operating profit would have  
been €15.0 million, a 43% increase over  
last year. The operating profit reported under 
IFRS was €14.4 million (2013: €8.2 million), 
representing growth of 77%.
Non-recurring costs
The Group incurred €329,000 of costs, 
primarily professional fees, in connection 
with the acquisition of Portalify, together 
with €261,000 of subsequent  
restructuring costs.
Taxation
The growth of the business means that 
Sepura has ceased to qualify as an SME 
under the UK government’s R&D credit 
scheme, resulting in less tax relief on 
research and development expenditures 
as the Group now qualifies under the Large 
Company rate of 30% rather than the SME 
rate of 125% applicable in the prior year. 
While the impact has been partly mitigated 
by the introduction of the Patent Box regime, 
the Group incurred a net tax charge for 
the period of €1.1 million, representing an 
effective tax rate of 7%, compared to  
a €1.2 million tax credit in the prior year.  
This effective rate is expected to increase  
as the Group grows its revenues and profits 
in the medium term.
However, the Group continues to benefit 
from brought forward taxable losses, and 
had €9.9 million (net) of losses available for  
offset against future taxable profits  
(2013: €9.9 million). The Group also has 
deferred tax liabilities of €6.8 million  
(2013: €6.6 million) in relation to the 
development costs capitalised under IFRS, 
together with €0.8 million (2013: €0.8 million) 
in relation to acquired intangibles, which 
do not represent future tax cash payments 
and will be released to income as the related 
costs are amortised.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Financial Review 
continued
EPS
Adjusted diluted earnings per share,  
based on expensing development  
costs as they are incurred and excluding  
non-recurring costs, the IFRS 2 share option 
charge, associated National Insurance and 
the amortisation of acquired intangibles,  
was 8.4 € cents (2013: 7.8 € cents). IFRS fully 
diluted earnings per share was 9.4 € cents 
(2013: 6.5 € cents).
Foreign exchange
The volatility of both Euro / GBP and Euro / 
USD exchange rates over the last two years 
has had a €2.5 million adverse impact on the 
results for the period. Adjusted operating 
profit on a constant currency basis was  
€15.0 million, after adjusting for the 
following items:
»  €0.4 million reduction in the Euro value  
 of the Group’s Sterling revenues, as the  
 Euro has strengthened relative to Sterling  
 compared to the same period last year;
»  €0.4 million increase in product costs due  
 to adverse movements in the Euro / USD  
 rate compared to the same period last  
 year, which impacts the cost of  
 components sourced by the Group’s   
 manufacturing partners;
»  €0.3 million of transactional net foreign  
 exchange losses compared to the prior  
 year; and
»  €1.4 million increase in the reported Euro  
 value of the Group’s Sterling operating  
 costs, as explained below.
The Group has a policy of hedging  
the majority of its operating expenses,  
which relate to UK-based development  
and operations and are incurred in Sterling,  
and has in place forward contracts  
to sell Euros and buy Sterling to meet  
these forecast Sterling expenses for the 
next twelve months. This provides certainty 
for the future reported Euro-denominated 
value of these costs. The average hedge 
rate for the period was €1.24 / £1, based 
on prevailing rates during the prior year, 
compared to €1.16 / £1 for the same  
period last year which were in turn  
based on prevailing rates twelve  
months previously. As a result the  
Group’s hedged Euro operating costs  
have increased by 6%.
The hedges outstanding at the end  
of the period covered £19.2 million  
(2013: £19.4 million) of forecast expenses 
at rates ranging from €1.169 – €1.219 / £1 
(2013: €1.177 – €1.274 / £1), and with  
a weighted average rate of €1.190 / £1  
(2013: €1.239 / £1) compared to the spot  
rate at the end of the period of €1.205 / 
£1 (2013: €1.183 / £1). The translation of 
the Group’s hedged Sterling cost base into 
Euros in the coming year will result in lower 
reported Euro costs than those reported for 
the current period. However, the weakening 
of the Euro both during and since the end of 
the period, together with the rates currently 
available for hedging future costs, indicate 
that this position may reverse in FY16.
Cash flows and financing
The Group's continued focus on working 
capital management delivered strong 
cash conversion despite the growth in 
the business. Cash conversion for the year 
was up 101%, compared to 119% last year. 
Closing cash balances at 28 March 2014 
stood at €8.0 million (2013: €8.6 million), 
and net cash, after deducting outstanding 
borrowings acquired with Sepura Systems 
and Portalify, was €5.3 million  
(2013: €6.6 million).
Significant non-operating cash flows during 
the period related to:
»  €5.0 million (2013: €6.6 million) paid  
 for acquisitions;
»  €12.5 million (2013: €12.0 million) spent  
 on capitalised development costs;
»  €4.6 million (2013: €1.5 million) of other  
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (¢)
6.0 7.8
2012 2013 2014
8.4
8.4¢
Strategic Report
28 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Dividend 
2.00p
A total dividend of 2.00p per Ordinary share  
(2013: 1.68p)
 capital expenditure up from prior year  
 as a result of investment in DMR,   
 establishment of a manufacturing  
 capability in Malaysia and investment  
 in a new integrated business system;
»  €3.0 million (2013: €2.4 million) paid in  
 relation to last year’s final dividend and  
 this year’s interim dividend;
»  €1.3 million (2013: €1.7 million) purchasing  
 shares for Treasury; and
»  €0.2 million (2013: €0.7 million) received  
 from employees exercising share options.
The balance sheet
The cash generation delivered during the 
period reflects continued focus on working 
capital. Inventory levels have decreased  
by €1.3 million, despite the broadening  
of the Group’s product portfolio, by applying 
Sepura’s supply chain expertise to Sepura 
System’s procurement processes.  
Trade receivables, excluding the impact  
of the acquisition of Portalify, increased  
by 16% or €4.8 million compared to the  
prior period. This was in line with the growth 
in second half revenues over the same 
period last year, with Days Sales Outstanding 
being consistent with prior year at 91 days  
(2013: 90 days). Trade payables increased  
by €3.9 million, in line with increased levels 
of activity across the Group.
Share capital
The Company has continued to  
purchase shares for Treasury in anticipation 
of future share option awards vesting,  
with a further 0.9 million shares  
(2013: 1.8 million) acquired during the  
period for total consideration of €1.3 million 
(2013: €1.7 million). Some of these were 
utilised to settle options over 0.5 million 
(2013: 1.7 million) shares that vested and 
were exercised during the period, leaving  
0.5 million shares in treasury at the end  
of the period.
A further invitation for eligible employees  
to participate in the Company’s SAYE 
scheme was issued in July, with options  
over 0.5 million shares subsequently granted 
at an exercise price of 96p. Options were 
also granted to senior executives under 
the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan 
totalling 2.0 million shares (2013: 3.1 million). 
These will vest if targets relating to the 
period to 31 March 2016 are achieved.
The Company also issued 1.3 million  
shares to settle €1 million of the contingent 
consideration payable in respect of the 
acquisition of 3T Communications AG,  
now renamed Sepura Systems GmbH,  
last year.
Dividends
The Board has proposed a final dividend  
of 1.41p per Ordinary share in respect  
of the year (2013: 1.17p), payable on  
8 August 2014 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on  
4 July 2014, giving a total dividend  
of 2.0p per Ordinary share (2013: 1.68p).  
This represents a 19% increase on last  
year’s total dividend, reflecting the Group’s 
strong balance sheet, cash generation 
during the year, and increasing confidence 
in the future.
Steve Chamberlain
Chief Financial Officer
9 June 2014
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 29
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility
Sepura recognises that a positive approach  
to Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) can  
have a positive contribution to its reputation  
and the ability to create and maintain long-term  
value for shareholders.
This is why the Board, led by the Chief 
Executive Officer, takes CSR seriously  
and is committed to advancing our related 
policies, systems and initiatives across  
all areas of the business as we continue  
to grow and mature. These areas primarily 
include ethical behaviour, concern for 
employee welfare, health and safety,  
care for the environment and  
community involvement.
We make considerable efforts to 
communicate effectively with all 
stakeholders who may have an interest 
in our CSR activities, including our 
shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners 
and employees. The Company’s website 
is one of the main routes for providing 
information to interested parties and 
providing us with constructive feedback.
Ethical behaviour
In support of our core values of 
integrity, excellence, care, teamwork 
and commitment, Sepura expects that 
its business around the world is always 
conducted to high ethical standards of 
practice and legal principles. To that end, 
all our employees and business partners 
are also expected to demonstrate high 
standards of professionalism and integrity  
at all times when conducting business  
on the Company’s behalf. This is indeed  
how we behave in practice.
A Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
(including a whistle-blowing policy) covering 
the whole of the business and our various 
stakeholder interests is in place and is 
regularly reviewed and reiterated to staff  
and business partners.
Human rights
The Group respects all human rights and 
conducts its business in adherence to all 
relevant government guidelines, and takes 
all practical steps to ensure that its products 
are not supplied to organisations that may 
use them to advance terrorism, internal 
repression or otherwise abuse human rights.
Employees
As a business driven largely by technical 
development and innovation, our main 
assets lie in the talents and skills of the 
people we employ. Consequently, we aim 
to attract, retain and motivate the highest 
calibre of employees, both technical 
and non-technical, by encouraging and 
rewarding high performance through 
competitive remuneration and incentive 
arrangements. Sepura continues to be an 
“Investor in People” accredited employer.
Acknowledging that an environment that 
fosters innovation and collaboration is 
critical to our success, efforts are made 
to identify and provide further learning, 
training and development opportunities 
for our employees. These are structured 
so as to align our organisational objectives 
with personal career aspirations. Formal 
performance reviews, including 360° 
appraisals, are conducted annually.
Similarly, the importance of two-way 
communication is recognised, particularly 
as it relates to the business and its 
performance. We actively encourage 
employee involvement through a Staff 
Council and keep employees regularly 
informed of the Group’s activities and 
performance through team briefings, direct 
access to managers and Directors at all levels 
and by interim and year-end presentations 
to all staff.
During the period, and with a view  
to encouraging share ownership amongst  
its employees, the Company issued  
another invitation to employees to join  
an all-employee ShareSave Scheme in the  
UK. This Scheme, which is HMRC approved, 
enables employees to purchase shares in 
Sepura through regular savings made over  
a three or five year period but at a discount 
of up to 20% on the share price as 
determined at the outset. The Company 
intends to make an annual invitation under 
this Scheme and will from time to time 
consider its extension to other countries  
in which it has established a major  
operating presence.
Strategic Report
30 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Health and safety
During the period there were no accidents 
reportable under the Reportable Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 
Regulations 2013; there were 3 non-
reportable accidents in the UK (2013: 5). 
The Group operates a Health & Safety 
Management System based on the 
ISO18001 framework. The Health and 
Safety Committee meets regularly, with 
responsibility for controlling, directing 
and delegating responsibility to line 
management and functional heads for the 
practical day-to-day compliance with the 
Group’s Health and Safety Policy Statement, 
other operating procedures and relevant 
legislation. Appropriate training is also 
coordinated by this Committee, together 
with an ongoing awareness programme  
for all employees to help create and 
maintain a safe and healthy working 
environment. Health & Safety is included  
as part of the Group’s internal audit cycle 
with periodic audits also undertaken  
by an external consultant.
It continues to be the Company’s policy 
to offer staff free influenza injections and 
additional policy and contingency plans 
are in place in the event of any pandemic 
virus impacting staff health and business 
continuity. The main health and safety risks 
to the business continue to be fire, electrical 
faults, manual handling, work station use, 
driving and stress. Employee travel to high 
risk geographies, due to the expanding 
diversity of the Group’s customer base,  
is also of particular concern. The statutory 
testing of all equipment and appliances  
is up to date and the next five-year audit  
of our fixed wiring will be carried  
out during 2016. 
Equality and diversity
The split of staff by gender at the end of the 
period was as shown above.
Sepura is committed to providing equality  
of opportunity to all existing and prospective 
employees without unlawful or unfair 
discrimination. In addition, we are supportive 
of the employment and advancement  
of disabled persons. The Group gives full  
and fair consideration to the applications  
for employment from disabled persons, 
having regard to their particular aptitudes 
and abilities. Appropriate arrangements are 
made for the continued employment and 
training, career development and promotion 
of disabled persons employed by the Group. 
If members of staff become disabled the 
Group aims to continue their employment, 
either in the same, or an alternative, position,  
with appropriate retraining being given  
if necessary.
Manual handling training is offered to all 
staff to reduce risk of injury when lifting 
heavy objects and regular work station  
risk assessments are carried out together 
with any remedial action necessary.  
All staff have free access to a stress 
counselling service.
Several new initiatives have been launched 
as part of the Group’s programme  
of continuous improvement. Additional 
training has been provided to all line 
managers to reinforce awareness of their 
responsibilities, while tailored inductions 
are provided to all new employees. A new 
system to assess and review risks associated 
with chemicals falling under the Control  
of Substances Hazardous to Health 
Regulations 2002 has, together with 
additional training, empowered teams  
to take ownership of the end-to-end process 
of specification, procurement and disposal  
of such chemicals. The Group is also 
responding to new risks identified as 
the Group’s activities become more 
geographically diverse. A harmonised  
system is being rolled-out to ensure 
best practice, based on the current high 
standards demanded in the UK, is in place 
across the Group.
Directors
Senior 
Managers
1
Other
Employees
Gender Diversity
278
Male
Female
49
32
6
3
1 Being participants in the senior management bonus scheme.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 31
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility
continued
Environmental care
We are committed to minimising the 
environmental impact of our business 
operations and complying with all relevant 
legislation, with pro-active and effective 
environmental management throughout  
our business operations wherever 
practicable. The Company is ISO 14001 
accredited and our business complies  
with relevant legislation and regulation.
We set targets against which we measure 
and report, driving forward continuous 
improvement in resource conservation  
and the prevention of pollution throughout 
the life-cycle of our products with  
a particular focus on:
»  Conserving resources through better   
 energy efficiency, reduction of travel   
 emissions and recycling;
» Promoting sustainable design principles  
 in the development of new products  
 and packaging;
» Fostering a positive culture amongst our  
 employees, customers and supply chain  
 by the development and communication  
 of clear policies, and the promotion  
 of good practice; 
» Minimising our impact on the  
 communities in which we operate  
 through engagement with local   
 organisations and raising  
 employee awareness; and
» Using our Environmental Management  
 System to provide a framework for setting,  
 evaluating and reporting environmental  
 performance.
Specific initiatives undertaken during  
the last year included:
»  Packaging
 We have applied eco-design principles  
 to a review of all of the packaging  
 we use, decreasing the size of packaging  
 and delivered a lower carbon footprint  
 for the  packaging itself and reduced   
 emissions from shipping.
»  Recycling
 We encourage recycling wherever
 possible, and during the period achieved  
 an overall recovery rate of 47% on waste  
 at our Cambridge headquarters.
»  Batteries and radios
 We record sales by weight and chemistry  
 to comply with the Waste Batteries  
 and Accumulators Regulations, and offer  
 a “take-back” scheme for batteries and  
 radio units that have reached their  
 end-of-life. We employ a specialist   
 contractor to recycle returns and  
 currently achieve a recycle rate  
 of at least 96% per unit.
»  Transport
 We participate in the Government’s  
 “Bikes for Work Scheme” for employees,  
 and offer staff the opportunity  
 to have their bikes serviced free  
 of charge. The number of employees   
 based at our Cambridge HQ who regularly  
 cycle to work has risen from 13% in  
 October 2012, to 20% in October 2013.
By way of supplement to our existing 
Environmental Management System,  
a regular Environmental Newsletter  
is issued to help highlight and explain  
to staff and other interested stakeholders 
exactly what we are doing in this  
important area.
Recycle rate 
47%
Overall recovery rate of 47% on waste
Cycle rate
20%
Employees who regularly cycle to work 
(October 2012: 13%)
Strategic Report
32 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Greenhouse gas emissions
Sepura is committed to reporting its total 
carbon emissions based on the Scope 1  
and 2 Greenhouse gas emissions from across 
the Group. A “financial control” approach 
has been adopted in conjunction with the 
“GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition)” and 
emission factors from UK Government’s 
“GHG Conversion Factors for Company 
Reporting 2014” to determine the Group’s 
total greenhouse gas emissions, based on 
detailed metrics from each of the Group’s 
locations where they are available. Data from 
several smaller offices, based in serviced 
premises, has been excluded on the grounds 
of materiality as the data is not available,  
and estimates have been used for the 
Group’s offices in Vienna as the landlords 
could not provide accurate data.
Scope 1: Direct emissions 72 0.6 0.2
Scope 2: Indirect emissions 1,045 9.0 3.0
Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions 1,117 9.6 3.2
 Tonnes of CO
2
 
Tonnes of CO
2
 
per €1m Tonnes of CO
2
  per €1m of revenue per employee
Community involvement
Sepura aims to be a responsible  
corporate citizen and active employer  
in the communities in which we operate, 
particularly at our main operating site  
in Cambridge. In April this year Sepura 
became the headline sponsor of the 
Cambridge United Community Trust,  
which was established in 2011 with the  
aim of positively influencing 10,000 children 
per year through a series of programmes  
for young offenders, children at risk  
of exclusion, ethnic minority groups, 
disability groups, the homeless and people 
living in areas of deprivation.
Gordon Watling
Chief Executive Officer
9 June 2014
The total emissions and intensity ratios for FY14, which forms the baseline year from which 
progress will be tracked, are as follows:
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 33
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Introduction from the Chairman
My Board colleagues and I recognise that 
Sepura’s participation in an established 
investment market carries significant 
responsibility to manage the Company 
transparently and in a manner appropriate  
to a successful business. We also believe  
that the creation of value for shareholders  
on a basis that is sustainable over the  
long term requires the Group to be  
operated within good governance 
principles. We are therefore committed  
to high standards of corporate governance 
and business integrity. 
The Board considers good corporate 
governance to be at the heart of the  
Group’s operations, and the determination 
and implementation of the Group’s overall 
strategy in terms of both informing decisions 
and monitoring their implementation.  
The Board has established the structure  
and procedures described in this report  
for these purposes.
The following pages set out:
» Biographical details of the members  
of our Board
» A summary of the operation of our Board 
» A report from our Audit Committee
» The Directors’ Remuneration Report
These reflect the new reporting 
requirements that take effect in relation 
to the Company this year and I hope that 
readers will find them informative.
This Corporate Governance Report also sets 
out how the Company has applied the main 
principles of good governance contained 
in the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”) for the period ended 28 March 2014. 
The Board considers that the Company is 
fully compliant with the Code with just  
two exceptions. 
Firstly, the Board does not currently  
have a nominated Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director although it 
intends to appoint one in the coming year. 
Secondly, although both our independent 
Non-Executive Directors were appointed 
to the Nominations Committee during 
the year, that Committee has a parity 
of independent and non-independent 
Directors (when counting me as Chairman 
in the latter category), rather than a majority 
as recommended by the Code. We believe 
its current membership works well, although 
we do intend to move to full compliance  
as the Board continues to develop.
We look forward to reporting to you on 
these and other developments in our Annual 
Report next year.
John Hughes CBE
Chairman
9 June 2014 
Corporate Governance Report
Governance
34 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Sion Kearsey (48) N
Non-Executive Director
Sion Kearsey is a founding member  
of Sepura and joined the Group in 2002. 
He was a co-founder and is now Managing 
Partner of Kelso Place Asset Management 
LLP , a private equity firm specialising in 
acquiring controlling interests in UK based 
companies. Sion was previously a Managing 
Director of Goldman Sachs International 
in its Fixed Income, Currencies and 
Commodities Division.
Nigel Smith (60) A, N, R, I
Non-Executive Director
(Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee)
Nigel Smith joined the Group in July 2013. 
He is a highly experienced executive  
with deep technology sector expertise. 
He is currently Chairman of Spikes Cavell, 
a business focused on the public sector 
in the UK and USA. Prior to that, he was in 
HM Treasury as Permanent Secretary, Board 
Member and Chief Executive of the Office  
of Government Commerce, and is still 
actively involved with government as an 
adviser. His previous experience includes 
senior board roles at major industrial and 
engineering businesses, including Invensys 
plc, Charter Group plc and TI Group plc.  
He is also a Non-Executive Director of 
Sellafield Ltd.
Gordon Stuart (50) A, N, R, I
Non-Executive Director 
(Chairman of the Audit Committee)
Gordon Stuart joined the Group in  
July 2013, bringing his detailed 
understanding of quoted technology 
businesses. He is currently Chief Financial 
Officer of TMF Group, a leading global 
provider of high value outsourced business 
services. Previously, following six years at 
McKinsey & Co, he held senior positions 
with a number of highly successful UK 
listed businesses, serving as Group Finance 
Director of London Bridge Software plc  
and thereafter Xansa plc. He then became  
Chief Financial Officer of recruitment process 
outsourcing firm, Alexander Mann Solutions. 
He also served as a Non-Executive Director  
of Intec Telecom Systems PLC.
John Hughes CBE (62) N, R, I
Non-Executive Chairman 
(Chairman of the Nominations Committee)
John Hughes joined the Group as  
non-executive Chairman in July 2010.  
John has more than 30 years experience in 
the management and strategic positioning 
of complex, high technology businesses. 
John has previously held senior positions 
with a number of leading technology 
companies, including Thales Group,  
Lucent Technologies and Hewlett-Packard. 
He is currently non-executive Chairman  
of JUST EAT plc, Spectris plc, Telecity  
Group plc and non-executive director  
of CSG Systems International, Inc., a Nasdaq-
listed company. John is also an Alzheimer's 
Society Ambassador.
Gordon Watling (46) 
Chief Executive Officer
Gordon Watling was appointed to the Board 
as Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 
2008, having served as Chief Operating 
Officer since joining the Group in November 
2006. He was previously global engineering 
director of Honeywell's Electronic Sensing 
business from 2003 to 2006 and Operations 
Director of Invensys Energy Systems from 
1998 to 2000, until he became Development 
Manager at HP/Agilent Technologies in 
2000. Prior to that, Gordon had operations, 
development and manufacturing roles  
at Schlumberger Industries between  
1985 and 1997.
Steve Chamberlain (41) 
Chief Financial Officer
Steve Chamberlain was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer in March 2012. He joined 
the Group from Autonomy where he spent 
7 years as VP Finance with worldwide 
responsibility for finance. During that time 
Steve played a pivotal role in the successful 
integration of key acquisitions with a 
combined value of $2 billion. He has over  
15 years of experience in the technology 
sector which includes time in practice at 
Arthur Andersen and Deloitte. Steve is a 
Chartered Accountant and has a Masters 
Degree in Mechanical Engineering, 
Manufacture and Management from  
the University of Birmingham.
Our Board and  
Senior Management
The Board is responsible 
for providing leadership 
for the Group. It ensures 
that the right strategy  
and controls, together 
with appropriate financial 
and human resources,  
are in place to deliver 
value to shareholders and 
other stakeholders.
Kasper Barfoed
Vice President, Sales
Jonathan Hamill
Vice President, Government and Public Safety
Chris D’Aguiar
Vice President, Commercial
Michael Slade
Development Director
James Griffiths
Group HR Director
Duncan Crouch
Operations Director 
Steve Barber
Head of Product Strategy
A: Audit Committee
N: Nominations Committee
R: Remuneration Committee
I: Independent Non-Executive Director
Senior Management Team
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report continued
This schedule of matters reserved for the 
Board’s decision is reviewed annually, 
and updated as considered appropriate. 
In addition, certain matters have been 
delegated to three principal Committees 
within clearly defined terms of reference. 
Their remits, together with the composition 
of each Committee, are reviewed annually. 
The current terms of reference for the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations Committees 
are available on the Company’s website at 
www.sepura.com. A brief resumé of the role 
of each of these Committees appears later in 
this Report.
The Directors have access to the advice  
and services of the Company Secretary, 
whose appointment and removal may  
only be effected by the Board. The Company 
Secretary, who also acts as Secretary to each 
Committee, is responsible for information 
flow to the Board and Committees, 
facilitating the induction and professional 
development of the Directors, and advising 
through the Chairman on compliance with 
Board procedures and applicable laws and 
regulations on governance matters.
Board decisions are taken through consensus 
following debate as appropriate. Though 
no Director so requested during the period, 
Directors have the right to request that 
any concerns they may have are recorded 
in the appropriate Board or Committee 
minutes. Minutes are circulated for comment 
before being formally approved at the 
next relevant meeting. There is also an 
agreed procedure by which Directors may 
take independent professional advice 
relating to their duties at the Company’s 
expense, if required. No such advice was 
taken by any Director during the period.
All Directors are able to, and do, devote 
sufficient time and attention to their Board 
duties and responsibilities.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule 
of matters specifically reserved for its or its 
Committees’ decision which include:
» the Group’s strategy, which is reviewed at 
an annual strategy meeting of the Board 
and management team as well as when 
appropriate during the year; 
» the business plan and annual operating 
budget, which are prepared and 
considered in the context of the outcome 
of the strategy meeting; 
» internal controls and risk management, 
which are reviewed regularly by the  
Audit Committee;
» major investments and capital projects, 
and monitoring their subsequent 
performance;
» accounting policies, which are reviewed  
in detail by the Audit Committee;
» dividend policy, and payments 
commented on further in the Directors’ 
Report on page 56;
» shareholder communications, such as 
announcements of results and this Annual 
Report and accompanying notice of AGM;
» the Board structure, composition  
and succession planning, which 
are handled in more detail by the 
Nominations Committee;
» Executive remuneration policy and  
the remuneration of the Chairman, 
which are handled by the Remuneration 
Committee; and
» the remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Directors (in relation to which they  
do not participate in decisions).
Summary of the operation of our Board
The Company is directed by the Board 
of Directors, which provides leadership, 
support and challenge to the rest of 
the Group. The Group operates within a 
framework of appropriate and effective 
controls that enables risks and uncertainties 
to be identified, assessed and managed.  
The Board:
» sets the Group’s strategic aims;
» ensures that the necessary financial and 
human resources are in place;
» reviews management performance;
» defines the Group’s values and standards;
» ensures that its obligations to 
shareholders are understood and met; and
» works closely with the operating 
management to achieve the Group’s 
objectives.
All members of the Board take collective 
responsibility for the Group’s performance.
Throughout the financial period the Board 
had six members, comprising:
» a Non-Executive Chairman, John Hughes, 
who was independent on appointment;
» two Executive Directors, Gordon Watling, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Steve 
Chamberlain, Chief Financial Officer; and 
» three other Non-Executive Directors,  
Nigel Smith and Gordon Stuart who 
were independent on appointment and 
replaced Tony Illsley and David Tilston  
at the Company’s AGM in 2013, and  
Sion Kearsey.
36 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Board balance and independence
The Board believes that its current structure 
and membership of two Executive Directors 
and four Non-Executive Directors (including 
the Chairman) is appropriate and represents 
a good balance of skills and experience 
necessary to manage the business and  
the Company in an effective and successful 
manner. This composition ensures that  
a proper balance of influence is maintained 
without one person or separate group 
having undue powers of decision making. 
All the Non-Executive Directors bring  
strong independent judgement to bear 
on the Board’s deliberations and decision 
making process.
As recommended by the Code, the Board 
has considered the independence of its 
Non-Executive Directors and determined 
that two of its three Non-Executive  
Directors are independent for this purpose. 
In addition, the Chairman was independent 
at the time of his appointment to that 
position. Sion Kearsey is not deemed to  
be independent under the Code due to his 
shareholding in the Company and his being 
a Principal Shareholder and participant in  
the Relationship Agreement (details of 
which are given in the Directors’ Report). 
Mr Kearsey is, though, considered fully 
independent of management and makes 
a valuable contribution to the Board as a 
whole in his role as a non-executive Director.
The Board meets regularly at scheduled 
meetings, approximately eight times per 
year. At these meetings, it reviews the 
development, trading performance and 
plans of the Group. If and when required, 
additional meetings are held, usually by 
telephone conference.
A Contract Bid Committee has also been 
established with a remit to help facilitate the 
review and determination of contractual bid 
proposals which exceed pre-determined 
approval limits delegated to management.
Irrespective of their membership, all  
Non-Executive Directors may attend 
Committee meetings and the Executive 
Directors (and members of management) 
may attend and present on relevant matters 
at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Directors absent from meetings were unavoidably prevented from being present. Where a Director was absent from two meetings they  
were both on the same day.
Where a Director is unable to attend a particular meeting, full documentation for the meeting is issued to them, their views sought  
in advance and briefings are provided subsequent to the meeting, as appropriate.
The attendance of current Board and Committee members at meetings and calls,  
as compared with the number of meetings held during the period they were a member  
of the Board or on the relevant Committee is shown below:
   Audit Remuneration Nominations
  Board Committee Committee Committee
  (8 meetings) (3 meetings) (4 meetings) (1 meeting)
John Hughes 7/8
1
 – 3/4
3
 1/1
1
Gordon Watling 8/8 – 4/4 –
Steve Chamberlain 8/8 3/3 4/4 –
Sion Kearsey 8/8 – 4/4 1/1
Nigel Smith2 5/6 2/2 2/2
1
 –
Gordon Stuart
2
 6/6 2/2
1
 2/2 –
1 Denotes Chairman status.
2 Appointed to the Board in July 2013
– and were both appointed to the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees in July 2013
– and were both appointed to the Nominations 
Committee in February 2014
3 John Hughes would not attend meetings of the 
Remuneration Committee whilst it is considering 
matters in relation to his own remuneration.
All Directors on the Board at that time attended  
the AGM.
Tony Illsley and David Tilston attended all Board and 
Committee meetings until they stepped down from the 
Board in July 2013.
The role of the Chairman and  
Chief Executive
The roles of the Chairman and Chief 
Executive are separated, with a clear division 
of responsibility at the head of the Company 
having been established, agreed and set out 
in writing. This division of responsibilities 
has recently been reviewed and no changes 
found necessary. 
The Chairman is primarily responsible for 
managing the Board, facilitating the effective 
contribution of all Directors, for ensuring 
effective communication with shareholders 
and that all Board members are aware of the 
views of major investors.
The Chief Executive, together with the 
Chief Financial Officer, has been delegated 
appropriate responsibilities and authorities 
for the effective leadership of the senior 
management team in the day-to-day 
running of the business, for carrying out 
the agreed strategy and for implementing 
specific Board decisions relating to the 
Group’s operations.
During the period the Chairman held 
both formal and informal discussions with 
the Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors being present.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 37
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report continued
Re-election of Directors
All Directors are to be proposed for 
reappointment at the Company’s 
forthcoming annual general meeting.  
The Board considers that each of the 
Non-Executive Directors makes a valuable 
contribution to the Group both at and 
outside Board meetings. Following the 
results of the Board evaluation, the Chairman 
confirms that each of the Non-Executive 
Directors continues to be effective.
Takeover Directive 
Disclosures relating to the Takeover Directive 
are included on page 60.
Shareholder relations
The Board is committed to maintaining 
good communications with existing 
and potential shareholders based on 
the mutual understanding of objectives. 
A comprehensive investor relations 
programme underpins this commitment. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee have regular 
dialogue with institutional shareholders  
in order to develop an understanding 
of their views which is fed back to, and 
discussed with, the Board. Presentations  
are given to analysts and investors covering 
the annual and interim results.
The results announcements and results 
presentations, together with all information 
reported to the market via a regulatory 
information service, press releases and other 
shareholder information, are published on 
the Company’s website at www.sepura.com. 
Additional Shareholder Information is set out 
on page 110.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend, 
and have the opportunity to ask questions 
at, the Company’s Annual General Meetings 
and at any other times by contacting the 
Company. The Chairmen of the Audit, 
Nominations and Remuneration Committees 
will be available at the Annual General 
Meeting to answer questions relating to 
the responsibilities of those Committees.
The Notice convening the 2014 AGM will be 
issued at least 20 working days in advance 
of the meeting and separate resolutions will 
be proposed on each substantially separate 
matter. The results of the proxy votes on 
each resolution will be published on the 
Company’s website after the meeting.
Remuneration Committee: 
Nigel Smith, Chairman
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
three independent Non-Executive Directors 
(including the Chairman of the Board) and 
meets at least three times per year and 
otherwise as necessary. It met four times 
during the period. It advises the Board on 
the Company’s remuneration strategy and 
determines, on behalf of the Board and 
within its agreed remuneration framework, 
the individual remuneration package and 
conditions of employment of each of the 
Executive Directors and the Chairman.
No Director is involved in deciding his  
own remuneration whether determined  
by the Committee, or in the case of other 
Non-Executive Directors, by the Board.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report  
on pages 42 to 55 includes a more detailed 
description of the remuneration  
of the Directors.
Performance reviews and  
Directors’ development
An internally facilitated evaluation of the 
Board’s performance, individual Directors 
and its Committees, and of the performance 
of the Chairman, was undertaken during 
the period. The appraisal questionnaires 
used were wide-ranging covering the 
membership, activities and performance  
of the Board and its Committees. The 
appraisal outputs were used to highlight 
strengths and weaknesses and indicated 
that the overall performance was effective.  
A number of areas for improved 
effectiveness and opportunities to develop 
processes were identified for further 
consideration. The Board plans to agree 
specific actions to address these.
Directors have free access to the  
Company’s officers, management and 
advisers and to visit the Company’s 
operations. Every Director has access  
to appropriate training, as required, 
subsequent to appointment and it is  
the responsibility of the Chairman and 
the Company Secretary to ensure that the 
Directors are able to update their skills and 
are provided with the necessary resources 
to do so.
Board Committees
Audit Committee: 
Gordon Stuart, Chairman
This Committee is commented upon in its 
report which commences on page 39.
Nominations Committee: 
John Hughes, Chairman
The Nominations Committee now  
comprises the Chairman, who was 
considered independent on appointment, 
and three other Non-Executive Directors, 
two of whom are considered independent. 
It is responsible for evaluating the balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience of the 
Directors. It also reviews the composition 
and structure of the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board on 
retirements and appointments of additional 
and replacement Directors, including 
succession planning. Before they joined  
the Board, it selected and recommended  
the appointment of Nigel Smith and  
Gordon Stuart at last year’s AGM following 
the completion of two full three-year terms 
by the then outgoing independent  
non-executive Directors. This followed  
a formal, rigorous and transparent 
recruitment process with the assistance  
of a leading independent external 
recruitment firm after assessing the skills  
and character profile that would be required.  
This included both candidates meeting 
all ongoing Directors prior to their 
recommendation for appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits  
of diversity in its membership and the  
Group more generally and has a policy  
that recruitments to the Board should 
enhance such diversity. The Directors 
currently on the Board are from a diverse 
range of backgrounds and provide a wide 
range of knowledge, skills and experience 
enriching Board discussions and informing 
its decision making. 
Gender diversity forms part of the Group's 
overall approach to equal opportunities  
as commented upon under Corporate  
Social Responsibility on page 31, and  
the Board supports this approach as part  
of its own policy.
38 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Report of the Audit Committee
Audit Committee: 
Gordon Stuart, Chairman
The Audit Committee comprises two 
independent Non-Executive Directors, 
in accordance with the provisions of the 
Code relating to companies which are not 
constituents of the FTSE 350. The Committee 
meets at least three times a year, together 
with representatives of the executive and 
finance management teams and the external 
auditors as appropriate. It also meets 
privately with the external auditors  
on a regular basis. 
The Committee:
» is Chaired by an individual with  
recent, significant and relevant  
financial experience;
» is responsible for recommending the 
appointment, review and remuneration of 
the external auditors and has authority to 
approve their engagement for both audit 
and permitted non-audit services within 
an agreed framework;
Topic What was considered
Financial reporting   The Annual Report, Interim Results and related announcements, together with reports from 
the external auditor. Further details on specific financial reporting risks identified, and their 
mitigation, are given below. 
Internal controls   The effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems and risk management processes in 
place during the period, as set out on page 41.
Risk register   The Group’s risk register, which forms an integral part of the Group’s risk management 
process, as set out on page 41.
The external auditor   The proposed audit plan of the external auditor, together with the results of their review of 
the Interim Results, the audit of the Annual Report, their proposed fees and the policies in 
place to ensure the external auditor’s independence, as set out below.
Going concern   The basis of the statement on Going Concern on page 59.
The Committee met three times during the year and addressed the following:
» assesses the independence, objectivity 
and effectiveness of the external auditors 
against specific criteria;
» reviews the external audit process and 
post-audit findings;
» reviews the annual and half-year financial 
statements, the Group’s accounting 
policies and procedures and its financial 
control environment; 
» monitors the Group’s system of internal 
controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance risk management;
» reviews updates to the Group’s key 
policies including, during the period,  
its anti-bribery and related policies  
and its whistleblowing arrangements,  
which now include an externally managed 
hotline; and
» considers whether in its view the Annual 
Report taken as a whole provides a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment 
of the Group’s position and prospects, the 
ultimate judgement on which is decided 
by the Board.
The Committee met three times during the 
year and addressed the following:
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 39
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements As part of its consideration of the Annual Report the Committee identified the 
following significant financial reporting issues:
Significant financial reporting issues for 2014  How the committee addressed these issues
Changes in relevant laws and regulations  The Committee considered the impact of recent changes in relevant laws  
and regulations, including those concerning narrative reporting, Remuneration  
Reports, Greenhouse Gas reporting and taxation, and ensured that these were  
reflected in the Annual Report. 
Revenue recognition The Committee assessed the Group’s policy in relation to revenue recognition,  
 together with associated risk management and approval processes.
Capitalisation of development costs  The Committee reviewed the methodology used to determine whether specific 
projects qualified for capitalisation, and when amortisation should commence, 
together with the basis for subsequent reviews of capitalised development costs  
for potential impairment and useful economic lives.
Overdue accounts receivable  The Committee reviewed the methodology used to assess overdue accounts  
for potential indicators of impairment, together with management’s judgement  
as to the level of provision required against specific receivables.
 
Report of the Audit Committee continued
The Audit Committee has set a policy which 
is intended to maintain the independence 
and integrity of the Company’s auditors 
when acting as auditor of the Group’s 
accounts. The policy governs the provision 
of audit and non-audit services provided 
by the auditor and, in summary, requires 
significant non-audit services other than 
routine tax compliance services to be subject 
to a competitive tendering process. The fees 
paid to the auditor for audit services, audit 
related services and other non-audit services 
are set out in Note 9 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Non-audit services over £5,000  
are subject to approval by the  
Audit Committee. 
We are mindful of the possibility of placing 
the Group audit out to tender, and will 
keep this possibility under review in the 
coming years, taking into account the 
outcome of the Audit Committee’s annual 
review of the effectiveness of the external 
audit process. The Group will be subject  
to the EU mandatory rotation regime  
when it applies in the UK and will review  
its policy for the rotation of audit firms 
when the UK requirements are finalised. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has served  
as the Company’s auditor for the last 
12 years, during the last 7 of which the 
Company’s Ordinary shares have been 
traded on the Official List of the London 
Stock Exchange. There has not been  
an audit tender during that time.
The Audit Committee is authorised to 
engage the services of external advisers,  
as it deems necessary, at the Company’s 
expense in order to carry out its functions.
40 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 » procedures by which Sepura’s 
consolidated financial statements 
are prepared, which are monitored 
and maintained through the use 
of internal control frameworks 
addressing key financial reporting 
risks arising from changes in the 
business or accounting standards;
» an experienced and commercially focused 
legal function that supports the Group’s 
bid and contracts’ management process;
» established policies and procedures 
setting out expected standards of integrity 
and ethical standards which reinforce the 
need for all employees to adhere to all 
legal and regulatory requirements;
» an experienced and qualified finance 
function which regularly assesses the 
possible financial impact of the risks facing 
the Group; and
» an ongoing risk management programme, 
including a comprehensive disaster 
recovery and business interruption plan.
The Audit Committee considers annually 
whether there is any need for a separate 
internal audit activity and has again 
concluded in the period that in its opinion, 
given the scale and nature of the Group’s 
operations, this is not required.
A Risk Committee, comprising the senior 
management team, meets on a regular basis. 
The Company has a robust risk management 
process that follows a sequence of risk 
identification, assessment of probability and 
impact, and assigns an owner to manage 
mitigation activities. A register is kept of all 
corporate risks and is monitored by the Risk 
Committee. The Risk Committee, the Audit 
Committee and the Board together ensure 
that the risk management process  
is operating effectively. This approach  
to risk management helps to facilitate  
top-down and bottom-up perspectives 
across key business risks within the 
organisation. The corporate risk register is 
presented to, and reviewed by, the Audit 
Committee regularly.
Internal controls and risk  
management environment
The Board is ultimately responsible for 
the operation of an effective system of 
internal control and risk management 
appropriate to the business. Of course, 
any control system can provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. 
The Company has complied with the 
FRC’s Internal Control Guidance for 
Directors on the Code throughout the 
period and up to the date on which these 
financial statements were approved.
Day-to-day operating and financial 
responsibility rests with senior management 
and performance is closely monitored 
through the Operations Management 
Committee, which meets on a weekly basis.
The following key elements comprise the 
present internal control environment which 
has been designed to identify, evaluate and 
manage, rather than eliminate, the risks 
faced by the Group in seeking to achieve 
its business objectives and ensure accurate 
and timely reporting of financial data for the 
Company and the Group.
The process is embedded in the Group 
through various operational and financial 
control and procedure statements:
» an appropriate organisational structure 
with clear lines of responsibility;
» a comprehensive annual strategic and 
business planning process;
» systems of control procedures and 
delegated authorities which operate 
within defined guidelines and approval 
limits for capital and operating 
expenditure and other key business 
transactions and decisions;
» a robust financial control, budgeting and 
rolling forecast system, which includes 
regular monitoring, variance analysis,  
key performance indicator reviews and risk 
and opportunity assessments at  
Board level;
The internal control process described above 
has been in place throughout the period 
and up to the date of approval of this  
Annual Report.
The Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics, which was reviewed and 
refreshed during the year has been  
re-communicated across the Company 
together with the Whistleblowing Policy 
which provides a mechanism through which 
employees can raise public interest issues 
on a confidential basis. These policies form 
an integral part of the Company’s internal 
control policy.
Review of effectiveness
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the 
Board, has reviewed the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems and risk 
management processes in place during 
the period, taking account of any material 
developments since the financial period end, 
and can confirm that no significant failings 
or weaknesses were found.
Gordon Stuart
Chairman of the Audit Committee
9 June 2014
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Dear Shareholder
This report, which has been prepared 
by the Remuneration Committee  
(the "Committee") and approved by  
the Board for the financial year 
ended 28 March 2014, sets out the 
remuneration policy for the Directors 
of the Company. As a result of the new 
shareholder voting and disclosure 
requirements published by the 
Department for Business, Innovation 
and Skills in June 2013, this report  
has been divided into three sections:
» This Annual Statement, which   
 demonstrates how performance  
 has linked to reward and summarises  
 the decisions made by the Committee  
 in the year;
» The Remuneration Policy Report,  
 which sets out the Group’s policy  
 on the remuneration of Executive  
 and Non-Executive Directors which  
 will, subject to shareholder approval,   
 become effective from the 2014  
 AGM; and
» The Annual Report on Remuneration,   
 which discloses details of the   
 Remuneration Committee, how the   
 remuneration policy will operate for  
 the period ending 27 March 2015 
 (“FY15”) and how the policy was   
 implemented in the period ended  
 28 March 2014 (“FY14”).
The Remuneration Policy Report will  
be subject to a binding vote and the  
Annual Statement and Annual Report  
on Remuneration will be subject to an 
advisory vote at the 2014 AGM. In future 
years, the Remuneration Policy Report will 
be subject to a binding vote every three 
years (or sooner, if changes are made)  
and the Annual Statement and Annual 
Report on Remuneration will be subject  
to an advisory vote annually.
The Committee is supportive of the spirit  
of the UK Department for Business, 
Innovation and Skills’ drive to improve the 
transparency and clarity in the reporting 
of Directors’ remuneration and we feel this 
report provides improvements in both the 
level and quality of disclosure compared  
to last year’s Annual Report.
Remuneration policy and reward  
for FY14
The Company has maintained its strategy  
of paying around market rate for basic salary 
and providing Executives the opportunity 
to earn an upper quartile remuneration 
through the achievement of challenging 
performance conditions, both short term  
in the form of the STIP and long term in the 
form of the LTIP .
The performance of the Company is set out 
in the Strategic Report which commences 
on page 01. The Company performance 
during FY14 has been strong with revenues 
up 11%, adjusted operating profit up 19% 
and adjusted earnings per share up 8%.  
This resulted in a payout under the terms 
of the FY14 STIP of 59% of the maximum 
allowed. To achieve maximum payout the 
Group needed to achieve an adjusted 
operating profit of €13.6 million, up 30%  
on the previous year.
The FY14 results also formed the basis for 
one third of the FY12 LTIP granted in August 
2011. The Group did not meet the minimum 
adjusted EBITDA target of £14.4 million and 
hence vesting for this component is nil. 
The remaining components of the LTIP are 
strongly linked to share price performance 
and during FY14 the share price moved 
from 101p to 139.25p which represents 
growth of c. 38% and an increase in market 
capitalisation of £50 million. Full vesting will 
be determined on 18 August 2014 when the 
scheme performance period ends.
Directors' Remuneration Report
Annual Statement
Adjusted operating profit
+19%
Increase of 19% in the last year
Market capitalisation
+£50m
Increase of £50 million in market 
capitalisation
Our remuneration policy is appropriately aligned  
with the strategic goals of the Group.
42 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Remuneration policy for FY15
The Remuneration Policy for FY15 has been 
determined by the Committee following a 
review of a comprehensive benchmarking 
exercise completed with the assistance of 
Hewitt New Bridge Street. The key points to 
note in relation to the Remuneration Policy 
for FY15 are as follows:
»  The Chief Executive Officer’s base  
 salary will be increased by 10%   
 to £330,000 with effect from  
 1 July 2014 reflecting the performance  
 of Mr Watling since his appointment 
 on 1 October 2008 and also the change 
 in the scale and size of the business   
 following the successful execution  
 of the Company’s strategy to diversify  
 the business and increase the total 
 addressable market from below  
 €0.5 billion to over €2.5 billion. 
 The Company has also delivered a third  
 successive year of double digit growth  
 for both revenue and profits. The Chief  
 Financial Officer’s base salary will be 
 increased by 5% to £190,000 from   
 the same date in line with the increases  
 received by higher performers within  
 the business. 
»  Benefit and pension provision will remain  
 unchanged, with the Company pension  
 contribution (or salary supplement  
 in lieu) limited to no more than 10%  
 of base salary.
»  The STIP will remain capped at 120%  
 of salary for the Chief Executive Officer  
 and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial 
 Officer. Targets will continue to be very  
 challenging and primarily based around  
 financial performance, requiring growth in  
 adjusted operating profit of over 30%  
 for the maximum payout to be achieved.
 The level of bonus received to be awarded  
 in deferred shares will be increased from  
 25% to 40%, with a normal deferral period  
 of two years. The Committee intends that  
 the proportion to be awarded in deferred  
 shares will be increased again in FY15  
 to 50%.
»  LTIP awards will continue to be granted 
 at 150% of salary for Executive Directors 
 with performance targets again based on 
 very challenging Total Shareholder Return 
 (TSR); adjusted EBITDA and Absolute 
 Share Price targets measured over a 
 three year period. However, in addition 
 to the normal award level, and as 
 discussed with the Company’s major 
 shareholders, the Chief Executive Officer 
 will receive an additional award of 150% 
 of salary which will be granted under 
 the exceptional award limit (set at 300%  
 of salary for 2014/15 but reducing to   
 200% of salary thereafter). This award   
 recognises the individual’s performance  
 in the role to-date. It is designed to  
 incentivise and secure future performance  
 and strategy delivery and medium term  
 retention. Reflecting the unusual nature  
 of the award, this exceptional award   
 will have a four year vesting period  
 with the share price, TSR and adjusted  
 EBITDA performance targets used for the  
 standard awards extended on the same  
 very challenging trajectory for a further,  
 fourth year.
»  Share ownership guidelines will continue  
 to operate at 100% of salary.
»  Consistent with best practice, clawback  
 provisions will be introduced in respect  
 of both the STIP and LTIP . 
Shareholder engagement
The Committee continues to take an 
active interest in shareholder views on 
our executive remuneration policy and 
is mindful of the views of shareholders 
and other stakeholders. This is reflected in 
our voting result at the 2013 AGM, which 
was over 99% in favour of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report resolution. Similar 
to last year, the Committee consulted with 
institutional and other substantial investors 
in the Company representing approximately 
75% of the Company’s share capital on the 
proposals for the current year. The plans 
presented in this report reflect the results  
of that consultation.
In conclusion, we firmly believe that our 
remuneration policy for FY15 onwards is 
appropriately aligned with the strategic 
goals of the Group in delivering shareholder 
value and supporting the long-term success 
of the Group.
Nigel Smith
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
9 June 2014
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Remuneration scenarios for Executive 
Directors for FY15
The charts above show how the 
composition of the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages varies at three 
performance levels, namely, at minimum 
(i.e. fixed pay), target and maximum levels, 
under the policy set out in the table 
overleaf.
The charts above are based on:
» Salary levels effective 1 July 2014
» An approximated annual value of benefits  
 for FY15
» An annualised pension contribution  
 (as a % of salary)
» A 120% of salary maximum annual bonus  
 for the Chief Executive Officer and 100%  
 of salary maximum annual bonus for the  
 Chief Financial Officer (with target  
 assumed to be 50% of the maximum)
» A 150% of salary award under the  
 Long Term Incentive Plan (with target  
 assumed to be 50% of the maximum).  
 The additional award proposed for the  
 Chief Executive Officer for FY15 has been  
 excluded from the analysis given that it  
 is not part of the ongoing policy. No share  
 price appreciation in respect of the face  
 value of the LTIP awards has been  
 assumed in line with the legislation.
 
Consequently, the Committee structures 
executive remuneration in two distinct 
parts:
(i) fixed remuneration comprising base 
salary, benefits and pension to recognise 
day to day responsibilities and support 
the internal control and risk management 
elements of the Group strategy; and
(ii) variable performance-related 
remuneration provided through 
participation in the annual bonus  
and long-term incentive plans based  
on challenging targets to provide 
motivation for achieving the Group’s 
shorter and longer-term aims.
The Committee aims to ensure that the 
incentive structure for Executive Directors 
and senior management does not raise 
environmental, social or governance risks 
by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 
behaviour. More generally, with regard 
to the overall remuneration structure, 
the Committee also ensures that the 
remuneration policy does not encourage 
inappropriate operational risk-taking and 
is aligned with the Company’s risk policies 
and systems. The Group’s remuneration 
policy is reviewed regularly to ensure that 
it remains appropriate and recognises 
any key developments in remuneration 
practice and corporate governance.
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report sets out the remuneration policy 
for the Group which will operate from 
and become formally effective, subject to 
shareholder approval, from the 2014 AGM. 
Policy overview
The Committee’s policy for the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and senior management team members 
is based on the following three key 
principles:
1. To provide remuneration in a form  
 and amount that is sufficient to attract,  
 retain and motivate a senior  
 management team of the calibre  
 and experience required to run the  
 Company successfully;
2. To ensure that there is a strong link  
 between reward and corporate and  
 individual performance. To this end,  
 it has been the Committee’s policy  
 to set fixed pay levels broadly around  
 market levels, but to provide the  
 opportunity to earn upper quartile  
 rewards for achieving and exceeding  
 the Group’s business plan through  
 variable performance-linked  
 remuneration; and
3. To provide alignment with shareholders’  
 interests by ensuring that a significant  
 proportion of the remuneration package  
 is delivered in the form of shares  
 (via the compulsory deferral of a portion  
 of any bonus earned and participation  
 in the Long-Term Incentive Plan)  
 and by encouraging the Executive  
 Directors to build up a meaningful  
 holding of the Company’s shares over  
 time through the operation of a formal  
 shareholding guideline.
Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance
1,500
£'000
1,250
1,000
750
500
250
0
LTIP award
Bonus
Basic salary, benefits 
and pensions
100%
Minimum
100%
Minimum
31%
24%
45%
On-target
47%
21%
32%
On-target
40%
31%
29%
Maximum
41%
28%
31%
Maximum
Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer
Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration Policy Report
44 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Summary Director policy table
The table below summarises the remuneration policy for Directors which will, subject to shareholder approval, become effective from the 
2014 AGM:
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum Performance targets
Salary Reflects the role, responsibilities 
and experience of the individual
Provides an appropriate level 
of basic fixed income avoiding 
excessive risk arising from over 
reliance on variable income
Normally reviewed annually, 
effective 1 July
Normally paid in cash on  
a monthly basis
Comparisons against companies 
with similar characteristics and 
in similar sectors are taken into 
account
There is no prescribed 
maximum or maximum annual 
base salary increase
The Committee is guided by 
the general increase for the 
broader employee population 
but may decide to award a 
lower increase or a higher 
increase for Executive Directors 
to recognise, for example, an 
increase in the scale, scope or 
responsibility of the role and/
or to take account relevant 
market movements.
N/A
Benefits Provides market consistent 
benefits
Supports the individual and their 
family during periods of ill health 
or death 
Benefits currently comprised 
of life assurance and private 
medical cover
Other benefits may be provided 
where appropriate
N/A N/A
Pension Provides competitive retirement 
benefits
Defined contribution and/or 
cash supplement
Up to 10% of basic  
salary p.a.
N/A
Bonus Incentivises delivery  
of Group and personal/strategic 
annual goals
Maximum bonus only  
payable for achieving 
demanding targets
Non-pensionable
Part of the bonus may be 
payable in deferred shares 
which normally vest after  
3 years, subject to continued 
employment
Dividend equivalents may be 
payable (in cash or shares) on 
any deferred bonus shares 
Up to 120% of salary p.a. Group profit-related target  
will apply for the majority  
(if not all)
Personal and/or strategic 
targets may be applied for  
a minority
One year performance 
period
Clawback provisions apply 
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration Policy Report continued
Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum Performance targets
Long term
incentive plan
Aligned to main strategic 
objectives of delivering  
long-term value creation
Encourages co-investment
Aligns Executive Directors’ 
interests with those  
of shareholders
Retention
Grant policy normally based 
on the annual grant of share 
awards which normally vest 
subject to continued service  
and performance targets 
The Committee reviews the 
quantum of awards annually 
and monitors the continuing 
suitability of the performance 
measures
150% of salary p.a. maximum 
limit 
300% of salary exceptional 
limit for FY15, 200% of salary 
exceptional limit thereafter 
Participants may benefit from 
the value of dividends paid 
over the vesting period to the 
extent that awards vest. This 
benefit is delivered in the form 
of cash or additional shares at 
the time that awards vest
Performance normally 
measured over three 
years although longer 
performance periods  
may apply
Financial measures (e.g. 
EBIDTA) and / or relative 
share price related targets 
(e.g. TSR)
No more than 25%  
may vest at threshold 
performance increasing to 
100% vesting at maximum
Clawback provisions apply
All employee 
share plans
Encourages employee/
shareholder alignment and 
long-term shareholdings in  
the Company
Invitations made by the 
Committee under the Sharesave 
(or any other all employee share 
plan introduced in the future) 
As per prevailing HMRC limits N/A
Share ownership
guidelines
Provides alignment of interests 
between Executive Directors 
and shareholders
Executive Directors are 
required to build (over time) 
and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to at least one year’s 
base salary
At least 100% of salary N/A
46 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Purpose and link  
to strategy
Operation Maximum Performance targets
Non-Executive
Directors
Provides fees reflecting 
time commitments and 
responsibilities, in line with 
those provided by similarly sized 
companies
Normally based on a cash fee
Normally paid on a monthly 
basis
Fees are reviewed periodically
There is no prescribed 
maximum fee increase. 
The Board, excluding 
Non-Executive Directors, 
is guided by market rates, 
time commitments and 
responsibility levels
N/A
Notes:
1 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committee’s belief that any incentive compensation should be 
appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and personal and/or strategic objectives. The Remuneration Committee may in its sole 
discretion at any time make adjustments to the targets for factors not taken into account at the time they were set, such as subsequent acquisitions or other 
exceptional items.
2 The performance conditions applicable to the FY14 LTIP were selected by the Remuneration Committee on the basis that they reward the delivery of long-term 
returns to shareholders and the Group’s financial performance and are consistent with the Company’s objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to 
shareholders. Performance conditions in future years may differ from those in 2014 if considered appropriate by the Committee.
3 The Committee operates the LTIP and its all employee share plan in accordance with the plan rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC legislation and the Committee, 
consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plan.
4 Consistent with HMRC legislation, the all-employee Sharesave scheme does not have performance conditions. 
5 For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with 
current or former Directors (such as the payment of the prior year’s annual bonus or the vesting/exercise of share awards granted in the past). Details of any 
payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Non-Executive Directors' letters  
of appointment 
Each of the Chairman and Non-executive 
Directors has a letter of appointment from 
the Company (rather than a contract of 
service) setting out the terms on which 
the appointment is made. The letter of 
appointment of the Chairman may be 
terminated on three months’ notice by 
the Chairman or six months’ notice by the 
Company. The letters of appointment of 
the independent Non-executive Directors 
may be terminated by either party on one-
months’ notice. The letter of appointment 
of the non-independent Non-executive 
Director terminates automatically in line 
with the Company’s articles or on three 
months’ notice from the Director. The 
Company may elect to make a payment 
in lieu of any unexpired portion of notice 
period for earlier termination. The letters of 
appointment are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office 
during normal business hours. Relevant 
appointment letter and term dates are set 
out in the table above.
 
Approach to recruitment and promotions
The remuneration package for  
a new Executive Director would  
be set in accordance with the terms  
of the Company’s prevailing approved 
remuneration policy at the time of 
appointment and take into account the 
skills and experience of the individual, 
the market rate for a candidate of that 
experience and the importance of securing 
the relevant individual. Salary would be 
provided at such a level as required to 
attract the most appropriate candidate  
and may be set initially at a below  
mid-market level on the basis that it may 
progress towards the mid-market level 
once expertise and performance has been 
proven and sustained. 
How employees’ pay is taken  
into account
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group 
were considered when finalising the 
current policy for Executive Directors and 
continue to be considered in relation to 
implementation of this policy. In order to 
do so, the Committee regularly interacts 
with the CEO and other senior executives.
How the Executive Directors' 
remuneration policy relates to the  
wider Group
The remuneration policy described above 
provides an overview of the structure that 
operates for the most senior executives 
in the Group. Employees below executive 
level have a lower proportion of their total 
remuneration made up of incentive-based 
remuneration, with remuneration driven  
by market comparators and the impact  
of the role of the employee in question. 
Long-term incentives are reserved for 
those judged as having the greatest 
potential to influence the Group’s earnings 
growth and share price performance.
How shareholders’ views are taken  
into account
The Committee continues to take an  
active interest in shareholder views on  
our executive remuneration policy and  
is mindful of the concerns of shareholders 
and other stakeholders. This is reflected  
in our voting result at the 2013 AGM,  
at which over 99% of the votes cast were 
in favour of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report resolution. Similar to last year,  
the Committee consulted with institutional 
and other substantial investors in the 
Company representing approximately  
75% of the Company’s share capital  
on the proposals for the current year.  
The plans presented in this report reflect 
the results of that consultation.
Directors' Remuneration 
Report Resolution
99%
Over 99% of votes at the 2013 AGM were in 
favour of the Directors' Remuneration Report 
Resolution
 Effective date  Commencement Unexpired term
 of letter of  of current (months) from
 appointment three year term 28 March 2014
John Hughes 21 July 2010 21 July 2013 28
Sion Kearsey 01 July 2007 01 July 2013 27
Nigel Smith 22 July 2013  22 July 2013 28
Gordon Stuart 22 July 2013 22 July 2013 28
Tony Illsley and David Tilston (both with letters of appointment with effective dates of  
21 May 2010) stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2013.
Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Remuneration Policy Report continued
48 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Service contracts
 Effective date of   Notice period from Company 
Executive Director service agreement  (from employee)
Gordon Watling 1 October 2008  12 months (2013: 12 months)
Steve Chamberlain 26 March 2012  6 months (2013: 6 months)
The annual bonus potential would be 
limited to 120% of salary and grants  
under the LTIP would be limited to  
150% of salary (300% of salary in 
exceptional circumstances). In addition, 
the Committee may offer additional cash 
and/or share-based elements to replace 
deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an 
executive leaving a previous employer.  
It would seek to ensure, where possible,  
that these awards would be consistent  
with awards forfeited in terms of vesting 
periods, expected value and  
performance conditions.
For an internal Executive Director 
appointment, any variable pay element 
awarded in respect of the prior role may  
be allowed to pay out according to its 
original terms.
For external and internal appointments,  
the Committee may agree that the 
Company will meet certain relocation  
and/or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Fee structure and quantum for  
Non-Executive Director appointments will 
be based on the prevailing Non-Executive 
Director fee policy.
Approach to leavers
No Executive Director has the benefit  
of provisions in his or her service contract 
for the payment of pre-determined 
compensation in the event of termination 
of employment or a change of control.  
It has been the Committee’s general policy 
that the service contracts of Executive 
Directors (none of which are for a fixed 
term) should provide for termination of 
employment by giving notice or by making 
a payment of an amount in lieu  
of notice (equal to base salary, pension  
and bonus for any completed year in 
respect of Gordon Watling’s contract 
and base salary in respect of Steve 
Chamberlain’s contract).  
Outside interests 
Executive Directors may accept external 
Non-Executive Director appointments with 
prior approval of the Board and provided 
that such appointments do not prejudice 
their ability to fulfil their executive duties 
with the Company. Whether an Executive 
Director is entitled to retain any fees 
relating to such an appointment will be 
considered on a case-by-case basis.  
No Non-Executive Directorships were held 
by the Executive Directors during the year.
In determining amounts payable on 
termination, the Committee will also 
consider the Executive Director’s duty to 
mitigate his loss and amounts may be 
payable in instalments.
In respect of Gordon Watling, if the 
Company terminates without cause on 
or after the end of the third quarter of the 
financial year, the executive is entitled to 
a pro-rata proportion of the bonus paid 
in cash at the normal payment date. In 
respect of Steve Chamberlain, an annual 
bonus may be payable with respect to the 
period of the financial year served although 
it will be pro-rated for time and normally 
paid in cash at the normal payment date.
Any share-based entitlements granted to 
an Executive Director under the Company’s 
share plans will be determined based on 
the relevant plan rules. However, in certain 
prescribed circumstances such as ill-health, 
injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, 
sale of employing company or business or 
other circumstances at the discretion of 
the Committee, "good leaver" status may 
be applied. For good leavers:
» Deferred share bonus awards will  
 normally vest at cessation; and
» LTIP awards will normally vest at the date  
 of cessation, subject to the satisfaction  
 of the relevant performance conditions  
 at that time and reduced pro-rata to  
 reflect the proportion of the vesting  
 period actually served. However, other  
 than in the case of death where LTIP  
 awards vest on the date of death subject  
 to performance and time pro-rating, the  
 Remuneration Committee has discretion  
 to determine that awards vest at some  
 other date (e.g. the normal vesting date)  
 and/or disapply time pro-rating.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 49
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements To ensure a further alignment of interest 
between Executive Directors and 
shareholders, any bonus paid will, at the 
discretion of the Committee, be settled by 
a combination of cash (60%) and deferred 
Sepura plc shares (40%). This compares 
with a split of 75% cash and 25% deferred 
shares in respect of the bonus in the past 
year. The Committee intends to move 
to a split of 50% cash and 50% shares in 
future years. The deferred shares (together 
with any dividends received thereon) will 
normally vest after two years subject to 
continued employment, as compared 
to three years in respect of the deferred 
shares to be issued in respect of the bonus 
payable for the past year.
Benefits in kind and pension
Non-pension benefits will continue 
to comprise life assurance and private 
medical insurance cover. The current range 
of benefits and their value are considered 
to be broadly in line with those provided to 
Executive Directors in other similarly sized 
listed companies and they will continue to 
be reviewed and monitored annually.
Executive Directors will continue to 
be eligible to participate in a defined 
contribution group personal pension 
plan into which the Company contributes 
on behalf of participating individuals. 
Alternatively, an equivalent salary 
supplement may be provided. The pension 
contributions for Gordon Watling and 
Steve Chamberlain for the coming year  
will continue to be 10% of salary.
Performance-related annual bonus 
The annual bonus plan is designed to 
drive and reward the short-term operating 
performance of the Company which 
should, in turn, lead to the generation 
of sustained long-term returns to 
shareholders. Bonuses are not pensionable.
For FY15, the performance targets  
for the Executive Directors under  
the annual bonus will be linked to  
the Group's financial performance. 
Financial performance will be measured 
by reference to demanding profit targets. 
Consistent with the Company's practice 
in prior years, the precise targets are not 
being published as they are considered to 
be commercially sensitive. The maximum 
bonus potential for the Executive Directors 
for FY15 will continue to be 120% of base 
salary for the Chief Executive Officer  
and 100% of base salary for the Chief 
Financial Officer. 
Implementation of the Remuneration 
Policy for FY15
Base salary
The base salary for each Executive Director 
is determined by the Remuneration 
Committee taking into account the 
role, responsibilities, performance and 
experience of the individual. When setting 
base salary levels the Remuneration 
Committee takes into account the 
performance of the individual, the 
Company’s particular circumstances and 
market data on salary levels for similar 
positions in comparable companies 
(although the latter is used with caution 
given the risk of creating an upwards 
ratchet in pay levels). The current annual 
salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, effective from 1 July 
of each year, are shown in the table above.
The increase of 10% awarded to  
Mr Watling reflects his performance since 
his appointment on 1 October 2008  
and also the change in the scale and  
size of the business following the 
successful execution of the Group strategy 
to diversify the business and increase  
the total addressable market from below  
€0.5 billion to over €2.5 billion. The Group 
has also delivered a third successive year  
of double digit growth for earnings.
The increase of 5% awarded to  
Mr Chamberlain is in line with the amount 
received by higher performers within the 
business. His salary remains below market 
rates but we consider the LTIP package of 
150% of basic salary to provide him with 
potential to earn upper quartile earnings 
through the achievement of challenging 
long term objectives.
  2014/2015 2013/2014 % Increase
Gordon Watling Chief Executive Officer £330,000 £300,000 10%
Steve Chamberlain Chief Financial Officer £190,000 £181,000 5%
Alignment of interests
50%
The Committee intends to move to  
a split of 50% cash and 50% shares  
in future years
Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration
50 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 (c) One third adjusted EBITDA growth 
as measured from FY14 to FY18. 10 % of 
this part of an award vests for an adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 10% compound p.a., 
and 25% of this part of an award vests for 
adjusted EBITDA growth of 15% compound 
p.a. increasing pro rata to full vesting 
for this part of an award for an adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 20% compound p.a.. No 
vesting will take place for this part of an 
award for an adjusted EBITDA growth less 
than 10% compound p.a.. 
Non-Executive Directors
Current fee levels are shown above.
Consideration by the Directors of matters 
relating to Directors’ remuneration
All decisions with regard to the 
remuneration of the Executive Directors 
are taken by the remuneration Committee. 
This committee comprises Nigel Smith 
(Chairman), John Hughes and Gordon 
Stuart. The Committee is advised by 
its own remuneration advisor, Hewitt 
New Bridge Street, which has no other 
relationship with the Company or its 
Executive Directors. 
Hewitt New Bridge Street's fees for the  
year totalled €24,000 for services principally 
relating to advice on the Company's share 
schemes, executive remuneration and the 
Directors' Remuneration Report.
 
will take place for this part of an award for 
an adjusted EBITDA growth less than 10% 
compound p.a.
In addition to the above, and as discussed 
with the Company’s major shareholders, 
the Chief Executive Officer will receive an 
additional award of 150% of salary which 
will be granted under the exceptional 
award criteria to recognise his performance 
in the role to-date, incentivise future 
performance and strategy delivery and 
ensure medium term retention. Reflecting 
the unusual nature of the award, this 
exceptional award will have a four year 
vesting period with performance measured 
using the same measures for the standard 
awards extended on the same very 
challenging trajectory for a further, fourth 
year. The performance targets will be  
as follows:
(a) One third absolute share price growth 
measured over the four years from grant 
(with testing based on the 90 day average 
share price prior to grant and the 90 
day average ending prior to the fourth 
anniversary of grant). 10% of this part  
of an award vests for an average share 
price growth of 5% compound p.a. 
increasing pro-rata to 55% of this part  
of an award vesting for a share price 
growth of 10% compound p.a. increasing 
pro-rata to 100% of this part of an award 
vesting for a share price of 15% compound 
p.a. or more. No vesting will take place 
for this part of an award for a share price 
growth less than 5% compound p.a.;
(b) One third relative TSR as measured 
over the four years from grant – 10% of 
this part of an award vests for median TSR 
increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part of 
an award vesting for upper quartile TSR of 
the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment 
trusts) at grant. No vesting will take place 
for this part of an award for a TSR below 
median; and
Long-term incentives 
The Sepura Long-Term Incentive Plan is 
the Group’s primary long-term incentive 
arrangement. It is envisaged that the FY15 
awards granted to Executive Directors 
will be 150% of salary and will be subject 
to the following performance conditions 
measured over three years from grant or,  
in the case of adjusted EBITDA, three 
financial years ending 31 March 2017:
(a) One third absolute share price growth 
measured over the three years from 
grant (with testing based on the 90 day 
average share price prior to grant and the 
90 day average ending prior to the third 
anniversary of grant). 10% of this part of 
an award vests for an average share price 
growth of 5% compound p.a. increasing 
pro-rata to 55% of this part of an award 
vesting for a share price growth of 10% 
compound p.a. increasing pro-rata to 100% 
of this part of an award vesting for a share 
price of 15% compound p.a. or more. No 
vesting will take place for this part of an 
award for a share price growth less than 5% 
compound p.a.;
(b) One third relative TSR as measured over 
the 3 years from grant – 10% of this part of 
an award vests for median TSR increasing 
pro-rata to 100% of this part of an award 
vesting for upper quartile TSR of the FTSE 
SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) at 
grant. No vesting will take place for this 
part of an award for a TSR below median; 
and
(c) One third adjusted EBITDA growth as 
measured from FY14 to FY17. 10% of this 
part of an award vests for an adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 10% compound p.a., 25% 
of this part of an award vests for adjusted 
EBITDA growth of 15% compound p.a. 
increasing pro rata to full vesting for this 
part of an award for an adjusted EBITDA 
growth of 20% compound p.a.. No vesting 
 2014/2015 2013/2014
 £’000 £’000
Chairman 145 145
Non-Executive Director fee 40 40
Committee Chair fee 5 5
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 51
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Tables for Annual Report on Remuneration
Audited information
Total remuneration received by Directors 
The individual remuneration of the Directors serving during the period ended 28 March 2014, together with equivalent sums received in the 
prior year, are set out below:
 Salary Taxable  Annual Long-term
£’000 and fees benefits Pension bonus  incentives Total
Gordon Watling  
2014 298 – 30 205 – 533
2013 290 6 29 234 – 559
Steve Chamberlain 
2014 179 – 18 101 – 298
2013 171 – 17 115 – 303
John Hughes  
2014 145 7 – – – 152
2013 145 7 – – – 152
Sion Kearsey      
2014 45 – – – – 45
2013 55 – – – – 55
Gordon Stuart
1
      
2014 31 – – – – 31
2013 – – – – – –
Nigel Smith
1
      
2014 31 – – – – 31
2013 – – – – – –
David Tilston
2
 
2014 18 – – – – 18
2013 60 – – – – 60
Tony Illsley
2
 
2014 18 – – – – 18
2013 60 – – – – 60
1 Appointed on 22 July 2013.
2 Retired on 22 July 2013.
Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
52 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Annual bonus for FY14
The annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors in respect of FY14 are set out below:
    Total awarded  Award payable
   Maximum Actual In cash In shares
   (% of salary) (% of salary
1
) (% of salary) (% of salary)
Gordon Watling   120% 71% 53% 18%
Steve Chamberlain   100% 59% 44% 15%
1 The bonus is determined by reference to the salary at the start of the bonus period.
LTIP performance
The LTIP value for Mr Watling in respect of FY15 is based on the LTIP award granted in August 2011 with performance targets ending 
in the year under review (or just after in respect of the share price and TSR conditions). Actual performance against the targets and the 
corresponding vesting percentages are as follows:
     
Actual or  Vested or
    Target 
expected  expected
Year Metric  Threshold Stretch outturn  vesting
FY11 EPS for FY13  8.5p 9.3p 6.5c 
1
 Nil
FY12 Absolute share price growth  75p 100p > 100p
1 
 100%
FY12 TSR  Median  Upper quartile Upper quartile  100%
   performance performance performance
2
 
FY12 Adjusted EBITDA  £14.4 m £17.7 m €14.4m
1
  Nil
1 The actual outturn has been established at the date of this report.
2 The performance period had not expired at the date of this report but will expire shortly hereafter.
Share awards granted in the year
The following share awards were granted to Directors during FY14:
 Type of award Basis of Share price Number Face value % of face value Vesting
  award granted used to of shares  of award
1
 that would vest determined by
   determine  granted
1 
(£’000) at threshold performance over
   awards
1
   performance 
Gordon Watling LTIP 150% of salary £1.135 383,260 £435,000 10% 3 years 
 Deferred  25% of the £1.135 50,583 £57,411 N/a 3 years
 bonus shares annual bonus 
Steve Chamberlain LTIP 150% of salary £1.135 225,991 £256,500 10% 3 years
 Deferred  25% of the £1.135 24,855 £28,211 N/a 3 years 
 bonus shares annual bonus
1 Based on a grant date of 10 June 2013 (albeit the awards were formally granted on 31 July 2013 due to the Company being in a prohibited period on the intended 
grant date pending the completion of the acquisition of Portalify OY on 25 July 2013).
The performance targets attached to the FY14 awards were as follows: 
(a) One third absolute share price based on the average share price over the final 90 day period during the three years from grant – 10% of this 
part of an award vests for an average share price of 123 pence increasing pro-rata to 55% of this part of an award vesting for an average share 
price of 141 pence increasing pro-rata to 100% vesting for an average share price of 161 pence or more. No vesting will take place for this part 
of an award for an average share price less than 123 pence;
(b) One third relative TSR as measured over the 3 years from grant – 10% of this part of an award vests for median TSR increasing pro-rata to 
100% of this part of an award vesting for upper quartile TSR of the FTSE SmallCap (excluding investment trusts) at grant. No vesting will take 
place for this part of an award for a TSR below median; and
(c) One third adjusted EBITDA as measured for FY17 – 10% of this part of an award vests for an adjusted EBITDA of €16.5 million, 25% of this 
part of an award vests for an adjusted EBITDA of €18.8 million increasing pro rata to full vesting for this part of an award for an adjusted EBITDA 
of €21.4 million. No vesting will take place for this part of an award for an adjusted EBITDA less than €16.5 million.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 53
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Outstanding LTIP awards
Details of outstanding LTIP awards granted to Directors are set out below:
Director Scheme Grant date Exercise No. of shares at  Granted  Vested Lapsed No. of shares End of Exercise 
   price 30 March 2013 during  during during shares at  performance period 
     the year the year the year 28 March 2014 period 
Gordon FY12 19 August 2011 – 860,364 – – – 860,364 18 August 2014 –
Watling FY13 24 July 2012 – 614,103 – – – 614,103 23 July 2015 –
 FY14 10 June 2013 – – 383,260 – – 383,260 9 June 2016 –
Steve FY13 24 July 2012 – 362,109 – – – 362,109 23 July 2015 –
Chamberlain FY14 10 June 2013 – – 225,991 – – 225,991 9 June 2016 –
Performance targets are disclosed above or, in respect of earlier awards, in prior Remuneration Reports.
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests in the shares of the Company at the beginning and end of the period were as follows:
Director Beneficially Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding  Outstanding share Shareholding 
 owned at owned at LTIP awards deferred awards under all as a % of salary
 30 March 2013 28 March 2014  share awards employee share plans at year end
1
Gordon Watling 81,774 135,994 1,857,727 50,583 27,777 64%
2
Steve Chamberlain 50,000 68,125 588,100 24,855 16,666 53%
2
John Hughes 40,000 40,000 – – – N/A
Sion Kearsey 9,000,000 8,000,000 – – – N/A
Gordon Stuart – 15,000 – – – N/A
Nigel Smith – – – – – N/A
1 Based on the share price and base salary levels as at 28 March 2013.
2 The Executive Directors are increasing their shareholdings in accordance with the Company’s shareholding criteria.
The following information has not been audited.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration
The following chart presents the Company’s TSR over the past 5 years compared to the FTSE SmallCap index excluding investment trusts.
400.0
350.0
250.0
100.0
50.0
0.0
150.0
200.0
300.0
450.0
500.0
31/03/2009 31/03/2010 01/04/2011 29/03/2013 01/04/2012 28/03/2014
FTSE SMall Cap
Sepura
Directors' Remuneration Report continued
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
54 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 The CEO’s total remuneration over the same five year period has been as follows:
 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
Total remuneration (£000s) 257 245 320 559 1,332
Annual bonus (%) 5% – – 67% 71%
LTIP vesting (%) – – – – –
Changes in CEO remuneration
The CEO received an increase in salary and benefits equivalent to the average pay rise awarded to all employees, as shown below:
  % change
Chief Executive Salary 3%
 Benefits 3%
 Bonus –12%
All employees Salary 3%
 Benefits 3%
 Bonus N/A
Relative importance of spend on pay
Overall staff costs increased by 11% during FY14, through a combination of pay reviews, additional headcount through both recruitment 
and the acquisition of Sepura Systems in the prior year and Portalify in the current year, and the impacts of foreign exchange. This increase in 
overall staff costs can be seen in the context of the change in other key metrics as shown below:
 FY13 FY14 % change
Staff costs (€’000s) 27,435 30,381 11%
Revenue (€000s) 104,772 116,645 11%
Gross margin (€’000s) 50,180 55,319 10%
Gross Research & Development  15,772 16,684 6%
expenditures (€’000s) 
Adjusted operating profit (€’000s) 10,483 12,473 19%
Dividends and share repurchases (€’000s) 4,122 4,343 5%
Shareholder voting
Shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of adopting the FY13 Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM:
 Votes Percentage 
  of votes
Votes cast in favour 86,209,030 99.87%
Votes cast against 109,722 0.13%
Total votes cast 86,318,752 100%
Abstentions – –
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 55
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements The Directors have pleasure in presenting 
their report and the audited financial 
statements for the period ended 28 March 
2014, being the nearest Friday to the end  
of the period.
Strategic Report
A fair review of the Group’s performance 
during the period and of its position at the 
period end, including commentary on its 
likely future development and prospects,  
is set out in the Strategic Report on pages  
1 to 33 while information on principal risks 
and uncertainties and key performance 
indicators is given on pages 10 to 11. All this 
information should be read in conjunction 
with this Report. The Corporate Governance 
Report and Directors’ Remuneration Report 
summarise the Company’s Governance and 
Directors’ remuneration arrangements. The 
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement 
on pages 30 and 33 summarises the Group’s 
approach to business ethics, employee 
welfare and practice, health and safety, 
environmental and community matters.  
All these sections form part of this Directors’ 
Report into which they are incorporated  
by reference.
Results and dividends
The audited financial statements of the 
Group and of the Company for the period 
under review are set out on pages 65 to 98 
and pages 100 to 109 respectively.
The Board has adopted a dividend policy 
which takes account of the profitability and 
underlying growth of the Group in addition 
to capital requirements, cash flows and 
distributable reserves, while also recognising 
that it is appropriate to maintain an 
appropriate level of dividend cover.
Pursuant to that policy, the Directors  
have recommended an increased final 
dividend for the period of 1.41 pence  
per Ordinary share which, subject to 
approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 
30 July 2014 (“2014 AGM”), will be paid on 
8 August 2014 to shareholders registered 
at the close of business on 4 July 2014. 
Together with the interim dividend paid of 
0.59 pence per Ordinary share, this makes 
a total dividend for the period of 2.0 pence 
per Ordinary share. A Dividend Reinvestment 
Plan will be offered in conjunction with the 
final dividend.
 
Going forward, and subject to any 
unforeseen circumstances, the Directors 
intend to continue their recommendation of 
both an interim and final dividend in respect 
of each financial period in the approximate 
proportions of one-third and two-thirds 
respectively of the total annual dividend.
Research and development
Product development and innovation, 
principally, but not solely, related to TETRA 
technology and products, are considered key 
strategies in maintaining and improving the 
Group’s competitive position and therefore 
they continue to receive high priority. 
The primary objective is new product 
development, improved functionality 
and extended application, all focused on 
enhanced benefits for the end-user.
Our commitment to this important  
area is highlighted by the €16.7 million  
of development spend during the period, 
equivalent to 14.3% of sales (2013: €15.8 
million and 15% of sales). Under IAS 38 
“Intangible Assets”, €12.5 million of this 
period’s spend was capitalised (2013:  
€12.0 million). The Group will continue  
to commit a significant level of resource  
and expenditure, as appropriate, to research 
and development.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s objectives and policies 
on financial risk management, and of the 
financial instruments currently in use, can 
be found in Note 31 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
Employment
The Group’s policy regarding the hiring, 
continuing employment and training, career 
development and promotion of disabled 
persons is set out on page 31.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share 
which is divided into Ordinary shares of 
£0.0005 each with all of the Ordinary shares 
ranking pari passu. On a show of hands at a 
general meeting, every holder of Ordinary 
shares present in person or by proxy, and 
entitled to vote, has one vote, and on a poll 
every holder of Ordinary shares present in 
person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, has 
one vote for every Ordinary share held.
The rights (including full details relating  
to voting), obligations and any restrictions 
on transfer relating to the Company’s 
Ordinary shares, as well as the powers of 
the Directors, are set out in the Company’s 
Articles of Association. These can only be 
amended by special resolution at a general 
meeting of shareholders.
Directors’ Report
56 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 At the Annual General Meeting held on 
22 July 2013 (“2013 AGM”), shareholders 
granted the Company limited authority to 
purchase its own shares, subject to certain 
specified conditions.
Share buy back
During the year, the Company purchased 
850,000 shares into treasury and issued 
478,551 shares from treasury in satisfaction 
of the Company sharesave schemes.
Pursuant to resolutions passed at the 
2013 AGM, the Company had authority 
exercisable by the Directors: 
(a) to allot shares in the Company and to 
grant rights to subscribe for or to convert 
any security into shares in the Company up 
to a maximum of £22,864;
(b) to make market purchases (as defined 
in section 693 (4) of that Act) of Ordinary 
shares of £0.0005 each in the capital of the 
Company.
The Company will seek to renew these 
authorities at the 2014 AGM.
Save as described under the Relationship 
Agreement described below, the Company 
is not aware of any agreements or control 
rights between shareholders that may result 
in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights. Further information 
regarding the Company’s share capital 
are set out in Note 26 to the financial 
statements.
Board of Directors
The Directors of the Company who served 
throughout the period and up to the date of 
signing of this Annual Report (except where 
noted) were:
John Hughes  (Chairman)
Gordon Watling (Chief Executive Officer)
Steve Chamberlain (Chief Financial Officer)
Sion Kearsey
Nigel Smith (appointed on 22 July 2013)
Gordon Stuart (appointed on 22 July 2013)
Tony Illsley (retired on 22 July 2013)
David Tilston (retired on 22 July 2013)
The names and brief biographical details 
of the current Directors, and identification 
of the Board Committees on which they 
sit, are shown on page 35 and details of 
their beneficial holdings in the shares of the 
Company are shown on page 54.
Election and re-election of Directors
The Company’s Articles of Association 
contain provisions relating to the 
appointment and replacement of Directors. 
They require that all Directors stand for  
re-election at intervals of not more than 
three years. The UK Corporate Governance 
Code recommends that all directors are put 
up for election every year and in accordance 
with best practice the Company is following 
this guideline.
The service agreements of the Executive 
Directors and the letters of appointment of 
the Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection by shareholders at the Company’s 
registered office during normal business 
hours and at the Company’s AGM from 15 
minutes before the meeting.
There have been no changes in the 
Directors’ beneficial or non-beneficial 
interests between the period-end and  
9 June 2014, the date on which this Report 
has been signed. Save as disclosed, none 
of the Directors nor any person connected 
with a Director has any interest in the shares 
or loan capital of the Company or any 
subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Directors’ employment 
agreements and appointment letters, and 
emoluments and interests in the Ordinary 
share capital of the Company which derive 
from their employment are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report which 
commences on page 42.
Save as disclosed in this Annual Report, at 
no time during the period did any Director 
hold a material interest, directly or indirectly, 
in any contract of significance with the 
Company or any undertaking other than 
service agreements between Executive 
Directors and the Company.
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
The Company has purchased and 
maintained throughout the period to  
the date of this Report, and intends to  
do so going forward, Directors’ and  
Officers’ liability insurance in respect  
of itself and its Directors.
Major shareholders
At 28 March 2014 the Company had been notified (or was aware of) the following material 
interests of 3% or more in the Ordinary share capital of the Company:
 Number of % of
 Ordinary shares voting rights
1
Schroders Plc 23,851,450 17.3%
Henderson Global Investors
2
 23,483,551 17.0%
Jonathan Green 19,095,064 13.8%
Michael Sherwood 17,011,836 12.3%
John Drinkwater 9,600,000 6.9%
Sion Kearsey (Director) 8,000,000 5.8%
1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued share 
capital of the Company comprising 138,141,999 
Ordinary shares each of £0.0005 nominal value, 
being the 138,645,431 Ordinary shares in issue 
less 503,432 Ordinary shares currently held  
in Treasury.
2 On 15 April 2014 the Group was notified that 
Henderson Global Investors held 21,975,279 
Ordinary shares, representing 15.9% of the 
Company's total voting rights.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 57
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Directors’ Report continued
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures is respect of greenhouse gas 
emissions are given on page 33.
Employee share incentive plans
The Company has in place for its Executive 
Directors and employees the Sepura 2008 
Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) under 
which awards were granted during the 
period. Details of this share plan, and 
the Old Share Option Plan (an Enterprise 
Management Incentive (“EMI”) Qualifying 
Share Option Scheme), which is closed to 
new entrants, can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report commencing on page 
42 and Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Company also has in place a Savings-
Related Share Option Scheme (based on 
HMRC Guidelines) (“Sharesave Scheme”). 
This incentive plan, which encourages share 
ownership amongst Sepura employees, was 
successfully launched in September 2008 
and experienced a high level of take-up, and 
has subsequently been refreshed annually. 
The Board expects this to continue for the 
foreseeable future.
The table opposite outlines any impact  
of a change of control prescribed in the  
rules of each of the Company’s share 
incentive plans.
Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions 
with Directors, other than their 
remuneration, during either the current or 
previous period.
» a protocol is to be observed in relation to 
any Non-Executive Director appointed by 
the Principal Shareholders to deal with 
the introduction of new business and 
opportunities and any potential conflicts 
of interest; and
» the Principal Shareholders have the right 
to be provided with certain confidential 
information while their interest in the 
Company remains at or greater than 15%.
In addition, the Principal Shareholders have 
entered into an orderly market agreement 
which limits the number of Ordinary shares 
in the Company which each of them may 
sell within specified periods of time.
Corporate governance
The Company is committed to high 
standards of corporate governance.  
Its application of the principles of good 
governance in respect of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code for the period under 
review is described in the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms part  
of this Directors’ Report, on pages 34 to 38.
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in respect of this Annual Report and  
the financial statements appears on  
pages 59 and 60.
Political donations
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders gave 
authority (covering the period up  
to the conclusion of the 2014 AGM or  
29 September 2014, whichever is earlier) for 
the Company to make political donations 
and incur political expenditure up to a 
maximum aggregate sum of £100,000  
as a precautionary measure in light of the 
wide definitions contained in the Political 
Parties Elections and Referendums Act 2000. 
No payments were made during the period 
(2013: less than £2,000) and it is proposed  
to maintain the Group’s policy in this  
area and renew this authority at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Relationship Agreement
Effective from Listing in August 2007, John 
Drinkwater, Jonathan Green, Sion Kearsey, 
Michael Sherwood and Kelso Place Asset 
Management LLP (“Principal Shareholders”), 
entered into an agreement to regulate the 
ongoing relationship between the Company 
and the Principal Shareholders. The primary 
purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to 
ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries 
are capable of carrying out their business 
independently of the Principal Shareholders, 
and that transactions and relationships 
with the Principal Shareholders are at arm’s 
length and on normal commercial terms. 
Provisions of the Relationship Agreement 
include the following:
» the Principal Shareholders have the  
right to appoint, remove and re-appoint 
one Non-Executive Director to the  
Board (and its Nominations Committee) 
while they together hold an interest of 
15% or more in the Company.  
The Principal Shareholders’ current 
nominee in this regard is Sion Kearsey, 
who has considerable knowledge and 
experience of the Company’s business 
and market place;
» the Principal Shareholders are obliged, 
while they hold the right to appoint a 
Non-Executive Director, to comply with 
the Financial Conduct Authority’s Model 
Code, and the Company’s own share 
dealing code of conduct, in relation to any 
dealings in the Company’s securities;
» subject to certain exceptions, each of the 
Principal Shareholders have agreed not 
to have any direct or indirect interest in 
any business similar to that carried out by 
the Company, without first seeking prior 
approval from the Company;
58 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 In preparing these financial statements,  
the Directors are required to:
» select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
» make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
» state whether IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union and applicable 
UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the Group and parent company financial 
statements respectively; and
» prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group 
and enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report comply with the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Company and the Group 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and 
other irregularities.
Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the Directors of the Company at 
the time when this Report was approved 
confirmed that:
» so far as the Director is aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditors are unaware; and
» he has taken all the steps that he ought  
to have taken as a Director in order to 
make himself aware of any relevant  
audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditors are aware of  
that information.
This confirmation is given in accordance 
with section 418(2) of the Act.
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for  
preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each 
financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have prepared the Group financial 
statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as 
adopted by the European Union, and the 
parent company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice (United 
Kingdom Accounting Standards and 
applicable law). Under company law the 
Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Going concern
After making due enquiry, and having 
considered the Group’s budget for 
the coming year together with outline 
projections through to 2017, the Directors 
confirm they have a reasonable expectation 
that the Group and the Company have 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. Consequently, the going concern 
basis has been applied in preparing the 
financial statements for the period ended  
28 March 2014.
2014 AGM
The Annual General Meeting of the 
Company will be held at 9.00am on 
Wednesday 30 July 2014 at the offices  
of Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street,  
London EC2V 7WS. A separate Circular, 
comprising a Letter from the Chairman, 
Notice of Meeting, Explanatory Notes  
and a Form of Proxy, accompanies this 
Annual Report.
The Notice of the 2014 AGM specifies 
deadlines for the exercise of voting rights 
and the appointment of a proxy or proxies 
to vote in relation to the resolutions to be 
proposed at the meeting. All proxy votes will 
be counted and the numbers For, Against 
or Withheld (the latter of which is not a 
vote in law) in relation to each resolution 
will be announced at the meeting and 
via a regulatory information service, and 
published on the Company’s website at 
www.sepura.com.
Independent auditors
Separate resolutions to re-appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
of the Company and to authorise the 
Directors to determine their remuneration 
will be proposed at the 2014 AGM. The 
reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP has been recommended to the 
Board by its Audit Committee and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have indicated 
their willingness to remain in office.
  Change of control
  provisions contained
  within the share  Performance
Share incentive plan incentive plan rules Effect on vesting condition
Old Share Option Plan No None Not applicable
LTIP Yes Acceleration pro rata to time
1
 Pro rata testing
1
Sharesave Scheme Yes Acceleration pro rata to  
   accumulated savings
1
 Not applicable
1 At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 59
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements 60 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Directors’ Report continued
Post balance sheet event
On 20 May 2014 the Company announced 
the acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited. 
Further details are given in Note 34 to 
the Company’s consolidated financial 
statements.
On behalf of the Board
Tony Hunter
Company Secretary
Radio House
St Andrew’s Road
Cambridge, CB4 1GR
Registered in England No. 04353801
9 June 2014
Overseas branches
The Company conducts some of its overseas 
operations through branches in Malaysia 
and Argentina.
Takeover Directive disclosures
Where not provided previously in this 
Report, the following provides the additional 
information required for shareholders as a 
result of the implementation of the Takeover 
Directive into English law and Section 922 of 
the Companies Act 2006:
» the Company has not entered into any 
contractual commitments to its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation 
on loss of office or employment 
(whether through resignation, purported 
redundancy or otherwise) that would 
occur because of a takeover bid;
» the Company has entered into various 
agreements in the ordinary course of 
business, many with local governments 
and government organisations around 
the world. Some of these, either by 
their nature or value, may represent 
significant agreements and generally (as 
with the Company’s standard terms and 
conditions of business) do provide for 
a right of termination upon a change in 
control of the Company. National security 
and commercial sensitivity prevent 
disclosure of the details of any individual 
agreements; and
» save as otherwise disclosed above, there 
are no other significant agreements to 
which the Company is a party that take 
effect, alter or terminate upon a change  
of control following a takeover bid.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that this Annual 
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy. 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed on page 35, confirms 
that, to the best of their knowledge:
» the Group financial statements, which 
have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of 
the Group; and
» the Strategic Report and Governance 
Review, along with the Directors’ Report, 
together include a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it 
faces on pages 18 to 19.  Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Report on the Group  
financial statements 
Our opinion
In our opinion the Group financial 
statements:
» Give a true and fair view of the state  
of the Group’s affairs as at 28 March 2014 
and of the Group’s profit and cash flows 
for the year then ended;
» Have been properly prepared in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRSs“) as adopted  
by the European Union; and
» Have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of 
what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited
The Group financial statements, which are 
prepared by Sepura plc, comprise:
» The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at  
28 March 2014;
» The Consolidated Income Statement 
and Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for the year  
then ended;
» The Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity and Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows for the year then ended; and
» The notes to the Group financial 
statements, which include a summary  
of significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation 
comprises applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the  
financial reporting framework have  
been presented elsewhere in the Annual 
Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), 
rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced 
from the financial statements and are 
identified as audited.
 
What an audit of financial  
statements involves 
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK and Ireland)“). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence 
about the amounts and disclosures 
in the financial statements sufficient 
to give reasonable assurance that the 
financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud  
or error. This includes an assessment of:
» Whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s circumstances 
and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed;
» The reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
» The overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited Group financial 
statements and to identify any information 
that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, 
the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. 
These helped us to determine the  
nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect  
of misstatements, both individually and  
on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, 
we determined materiality for the Group 
financial statements as a whole to be 
€685,000, which represents approximately 
5% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee  
that we would report to them 
misstatements identified during our audit 
above €30,000 as well as misstatements 
below that amount that, in our view, 
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group is structured as one core 
operating business focused on the  
design, development and supply  
of secure digital radio products and 
systems. The core operating business 
consists of three reporting units and  
the Group financial statements are  
a consolidation of those three reporting 
units and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach  
to the Group audit, we determined the 
type of work that needed to be performed 
at the reporting units by us, as the Group 
engagement team, or component auditors 
from other PwC network firms operating 
under our instruction. Where the work  
was performed by component auditors,  
we determined the level of involvement 
we needed to have in the audit work  
at those reporting units to be able  
to conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained  
as a basis for our opinion on the Group 
financial statements as a whole.
 
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc 62 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc continued
Accordingly, of the Group’s three reporting 
units, we identified Sepura plc (based  
in the United Kingdom) and Sepura 
Systems GmbH (based in Austria) which, 
in our view required an audit of their 
complete financial information due to their 
size. Specific procedures were performed 
on certain balances of Portalify OY (based 
in Finland). This, together with additional 
procedures at Group level, gave us the 
evidence we needed for our opinion on 
the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements,  
the Directors made a number of subjective 
judgements, for example in respect 
of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions 
and considering future events that are 
inherently uncertain. We primarily focused 
our work in these areas by assessing the 
Directors’ judgements against available 
evidence, forming our own judgements, 
and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined 
information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent 
we considered necessary to provide 
a reasonable basis for us to draw 
conclusions. We obtained audit evidence 
through testing the effectiveness  
of controls, substantive procedures  
or a combination of both.
 
We considered the areas detailed on 
the following page to be those that 
required particular focus in the current 
year. This is not a complete list of all risks 
or areas of focus identified by our audit. 
We discussed these areas of focus with 
the Audit Committee. Their report on 
those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the financial 
statements is set out on page 40. All of the 
risks arose in the parent company.
Going concern 
Under the Listing Rules we are required  
to review the Directors’ statement, set 
out on page 59, in relation to going 
concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
 
As noted in the Directors’ statement, 
the Directors have concluded that it 
is appropriate to prepare the Group’s 
financial statements using the going 
concern basis of accounting. The going 
concern basis presumes that the Group  
has adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the Directors intend  
it to do so, for at least one year from the 
date the financial statements were signed. 
As part of our audit we have concluded 
that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events 
or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to  
the Group’s ability to continue as a  
going concern.
Opinion on other matter 
prescribed by the  
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given  
in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which  
the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the  
Group financial statements.
Other matters on which we are 
required to report by exception
Adequacy of information and  
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion 
we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit. 
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we 
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law have not 
been made. We have no exceptions to 
report arising from these responsibilities. 
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review the part of the Corporate 
Governance Statement relating  
to the Company’s compliance with nine 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (’the Code’). We have nothing  
to report having performed our review. Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition
Auditing standards require that we consider this. 
We focused on this area because of the potential 
misstatement of revenue on complex contracts 
and bill and hold arrangements.
Recoverability of accounts receivable
The Group has overseas customers that operate 
in territories where it can be difficult to obtain 
payment of accounts receivable on a timely basis.
As a result, there is a risk that the provision  
for accounts receivable is not sufficient.
Capitalisation of product  
development costs
We focused on this area because there is 
judgement involved in determining what product 
development costs should be capitalised and  
from what point such costs should be amortised. 
The judgements relate to the likelihood that  
a development project will result in saleable 
product, and its overall profitability.
Capitalised costs continue to be reviewed for 
impairment over the life of the related product.
Risk of management override  
of internal controls
Auditing standards require that we consider this.
» We performed year end sales cut-off testing, including the review of credit notes raised during  
the year and after the year-end to check that they were treated appropriately.
» We tested sales made on bill and hold terms, obtaining customer confirmations where appropriate.
» For contract revenue, we tested the calculations of revenue recognised based on the work 
performed, which we agreed to supporting documentation, and the forecast costs to complete.  
We agreed the forecast costs to complete to project plans and challenged management  
on the preparation of these plans.
» We also tested manual journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual  
or irregular items.
» Where there was no provision for overdue amounts, or where the provision was for less than 
the full amount of the balance, we discussed with senior management and reviewed available 
correspondence with the customer. 
» We tested the ageing of accounts receivable to ensure that invoices were correctly classified. 
» We either obtained direct confirmation from the customer of the amount owed or tested payments 
received subsequent to the year end.
» We assessed managements’ judgements associated with determining when projects should  
be capitalised and at what point amortisation should commence.
» We traced a sample of capitalised costs back to the project ledger and general ledger and  
source documentation including invoices and other records of expenditure.
» We reviewed managements’ impairment review and the associated assumptions.
» We tested manual journal entries. We considered whether there was evidence of bias  
by the directors in the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the  
financial statements. We also assessed the overall control environment of the Group,  
including the arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate actions and discussed  
with senior management the possibilities for management override of controls. 64 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Independent Auditors’ Report  
to the Members of Sepura plc continued
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those  
of the Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement on pages 59 
and 60, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the Group financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, 
has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose 
or to any other person to whom this 
report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed 
by our prior consent in writing.
On page 60 of the Annual Report,  
as required by the Code Provision C.1.1,  
the Directors state that they consider  
the Annual Report taken as a whole  
to be fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. 
On page 40, as required by C.3.8 of the 
Code, the Audit Committee has set out  
the significant issues that it considered  
in relation to the financial statements,  
and how they were addressed. Under ISAs  
(UK and Ireland) we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
» The statement given by the Directors 
is materially inconsistent with our 
knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
» The section of the Annual Report 
describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by  
us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
» Materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited Group financial 
statements; or
» Apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with,  
our knowledge of the Group acquired  
in the course of performing our audit; or
» Is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent 
company financial statements of Sepura 
plc for the year ended 28 March 2014 
and on the information in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report that is described  
as having been audited.
Stuart Newman (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
Cambridge
9 June 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
   2014   2013
  Before non- Non- After non- Before non- Non- After non-
  recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring
  costs  costs
1
 costs costs  costs
1
 costs
 Note €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Revenue 7 116,645 – 116,645 104,772 – 104,772
Cost of sales  (61,326) – (61,326) (54,592) – (54,592)
Gross profit  55,319 – 55,319 50,180 – 50,180
Selling, marketing and distribution costs  (16,625) – (16,625) (15,518) – (15,518)
Research and development costs  (12,228) – (12,228) (14,027) – (14,027)
Administrative expenses  (11,449) (590) (12,039) (10,437) (2,046) (12,483)
Operating profit 9 15,017 (590) 14,427 10,198 (2,046) 8,152
Financial income 12 6 – 6 11 – 11
Financial expense 13 (250) – (250) (282) – (282)
Net financial expense  (244) – (244) (271) – (271)
Profit before income tax  14,773 (590) 14,183 9,927 (2,046) 7,881
Income tax (expense) credit 14 (1,189) 136 (1,053) 681 491 1,172
Profit for the period attributable 
to owners of the parent  13,584 (454) 13,130 10,608 (1,555) 9,053
Earnings per share (¢)   
Basic 15 9.8 (0.3) 9.5 7.7 (1.1) 6.6
Diluted 15 9.8 (0.4) 9.4 7.6 (1.1) 6.5
1 Non-recurring costs relate to the acquisition of Portalify OY in the current period, as described in Note 6, and subsequent restructuring costs. Non-recurring costs in the 
prior period related to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG (now renamed Sepura Systems GmbH) and subsequent restructuring costs.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 66 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Profit for the period     13,130 9,053
Other comprehensive income (expense):
Exchange translation     (42) –
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,125 (1,469)
Other comprehensive income (expense) that may be reclassified into income    1,083 (1,469)
Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the parent   14,213 7,584
  Share Share Other Retained Total
  capital premium reserves earnings equity
 Note  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 31 March 2012  78 – – 58,296 58,374
Profit for the period  – – – 9,053 9,053
Other comprehensive (expense) for the period  – – – (1,469) (1,469)
Total comprehensive income  – – – 7,584 7,584
Transactions with owners  
Tax on share option schemes 19 – – – (98) (98)
Employee share option schemes: 
value of employee services 27 – – – 772 772
Equity dividends paid 16 – – – (2,420) (2,420)
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares 26 – – – (1,702) (1,702) 
–  issue of shares to settle  
employee share options 26 – – – 671 671
Total transactions with owners  – – – (2,777) (2,777)
At 30 March 2013  78 – – 63,103 63,181
Profit for the period  – – – 13,130 13,130
Other comprehensive (expense) income for the period  – – (42) 1,125 1,083
Total comprehensive (expense) income  – – (42) 14,255 14,213
Transactions with owners  
Tax on share option schemes 19 – – – 517 517
Employee share option schemes:  
value of employee services 27 – – – 664 664
Equity dividends paid 16 – – – (3,020) (3,020)
Issue of shares 26 1 999 – – 1,000
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares 26 – – – (1,323) (1,323) 
–  issue of shares to settle 
employee share options 26 – – – 163 163
Total transactions with owners  1 999 – (2,999) (1,999)
At 28 March 2014  79 999 (42) 74,359 75,395
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
of Sepura Plc, Company number 04353801, as at 28 March 2014
     2014 2013
    Note €’000 €’000
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets    17 52,864 41,315
Property, plant and equipment    18 7,706 5,452
Deferred tax asset    19 6,069 6,686
Total non-current assets     66,639 53,453
Current assets  
Inventories    20 11,983 13,313
Trade and other receivables    21 37,407 32,357
Derivative financial instruments    31 403 –
Cash and cash equivalents    22 8,017 8,634
Total current assets     57,810 54,304
Total assets     124,449 107,757
Liabilities  
Current liabilities  
Borrowings    23 (2,182) (1,761)
Derivative financial instruments    31 – (1,077)
Trade and other payables    24 (34,039) (27,368)
Income tax payable     (1,225) (528)
Provisions    25 (1,316) (5,434)
Total current liabilities     (38,762) (36,168)
Non-current liabilities  
Borrowings    23 (650) (436)
Trade and other payables    24 (4,826) (7,018)
Provisions    25 (4,816) (954)
Total non-current liabilities     (10,292) (8,408)
Total liabilities     (49,054) (44,576)
Net assets      75,395 63,181
Shareholders’ equity  
Ordinary share capital    26 79 78
Share premium    26 999 –
Other reserves     (42) –
Retained earnings     74,359 63,103
Total equity     75,395 63,181
The financial statements on pages 65 to 98 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 9 June 2014 and are signed on  
its behalf by:
Gordon Watling Steve Chamberlain 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
  68 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
     2014 2013
    Note  €’000 €’000
Cash generated from operations    28 26,446 26,352
Income taxes paid     (60) (44)
Net cash generated from operating activities     26,386 26,308
Cash flow from investing activities
Interest received     6 11
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (3,711) (1,469)
Capitalised development costs     (12,536) (11,959)
Purchase of subsidiary undertakings, net of cash acquired     (4,997) (6,552)
Purchase of other intangible assets     (896) (37)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment     18 –
Net cash used in investing activities     (22,116) (20,006)
Cash flow from financing activities
New borrowings     – 8,500
Repayment of borrowings     (463) (8,839)
Interest paid     (202) (234)
Dividends paid to shareholders     (3,020) (2,420)
Purchase of own shares for Treasury     (1,323) (1,702)
Issue of share capital from Treasury     163 671
Net cash used in financing activities     (4,845) (4,024)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents    29 (575) 2,278
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period     8,634 6,356
Foreign exchange     (42) –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period    22 8,017 8,634
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 69
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Notes to the Group Financial Statements
For the period ended 28 March 2014
1. Incorporation
Sepura plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales with registered number 
04353801, whose Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each are traded on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered 
office is Radio House, St Andrew’s Road, Cambridge, CB4 1GR, England.
Details of the Company’s subsidiary undertakings are set out in Note 6 to the Company’s financial statements. The Company and its 
subsidiary undertakings are collectively referred to below as “the Group”.
2. The business of the Group
The principal activity of the Group is the design, development and distribution of secure digital radio products and systems.
3. Basis of preparation
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) 
as adopted by the European Union, the IFRS Interpretations Committee (formerly the International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee (“IFRIC”)) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.  
The financial statements of the parent company, which have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are presented separately  
following these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis, except for certain 
financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The Company has prepared these consolidated financial statements for the period to 28 March 2014, being the nearest Friday to the end  
of the period.
4. Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
New standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in the financial statements
For the purposes of the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Group has applied all standards and interpretations  
that are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 30 March 2013.
The following new standards and amendments to published standards have been adopted during the current period:
» IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”
» IAS 1 (Amended) “Financial Statement Presentation of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)”
» IAS 12 (Amended) “Income Taxes”
» IAS 19 (Revised) “Employee Benefits”
» Amendments to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments on Asset and Liability Offsetting”
» IFRIC 20 “Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine”
» Annual improvements 2011
None of these have had an impact on the reported results of the Group.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for the Group’s 
accounting periods beginning on or after 29 March 2014 or later periods, and which the Group has not adopted early:
» IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”
» IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”
» IFRS 11 “Joint Arrangements”
» IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”
» Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 on transition guidance
» Amendments to IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS 12 “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities” and IAS 27 (Amended) 
“Separate Financial Statements” in relation to “Investment Entities”
» Amendments to IAS 32 “Financial Instruments on Asset and Liability Offsetting”
» IAS 27 (Revised) “Separate Financial Statements”
» IAS 28 (Revised) “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”
» IAS 36 (Amended) “Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets”
» IAS 39 (Amended) “Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting”
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards, Amendments and Interpretations, where relevant, in future periods  
will have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. 70 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Subsidiary 
undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a 
shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or 
convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from 
the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. The acquisition method of 
accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are 
also eliminated but are considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses 
(including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), whose operating results are regularly 
reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its 
performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. Operating segments are aggregated into reporting segments where 
they share similar economic characteristics as a result of the nature of the products sold or the services provided, the production processes 
used to manufacture the products, the type of customer for the products and services and the methods used to distribute the products or 
provide the services.
Revenue
Revenue, which relates to both the shipment of products and supplying solutions as part of long-term contacts, is recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured. The following specific 
recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:
i. Sale of goods
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and revenue can be 
reliably measured. Depending on the Incoterms applicable, the Group typically recognises goods revenue from the sale of goods on 
despatch, on receipt of goods by the customer, or upon formal acknowledgement from the customer that title has passed but they wish the 
goods to be stored at the Group’s premises, in which case revenue is only recognised when the goods are on hand, separately identified and 
available for collection, usual payment terms apply, and it is probable that delivery will take place.
In a multiple element arrangement some of the elements, either hardware or software, may remain undelivered or incomplete. Revenue may 
be recognised on the fair value of the elements delivered providing the following conditions are fulfilled:
» The element of the product delivered has value to the customer on a stand alone basis and is thus a separately identifiable component  
within the arrangement;
» The fair value can be reliably attributed to the undelivered element (in the event of bundling where undelivered components may not have 
a separate invoiced sales price the fair value of the revenue deferred is calculated by comparing the underlying product list price of each 
element of the bundle compared to the overall bundle price); and
» Delivery of the undelivered element is probable and under the control of the Group i.e. the technical risk attached to the delivery of the 
component is acceptable.
If any of these conditions are not met then all revenue under the arrangement is deferred until either the contract is complete or uncertainty 
over any of these conditions is removed.
ii. Warranties
As noted above, the Group assesses whether any of its contracts contain elements which operate independently of other contractual 
elements and which should, therefore, be ’unbundled’ and accounted for separately. The Group offers as standard to all customers a 
product warranty package, which is typically for a period of three to five years depending on the product and territory concerned. Generally, 
product warranty packages which are offered as standard with all products are not separately priced, are offered for periods in line with 
the Group’s standard terms of supply at the time of sale and are not considered to be an element capable of ’unbundling’. In such cases, 
provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing the warranty cover based on historical information on the cost and 
frequency of repairs required to the Group’s products. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months 
with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers to limit risk on product warranties. Amounts due from manufacturers under back-to-back 
warranties are not recognised until the manufacturer has confirmed a reimbursement will be made.
In certain cases “enhanced” warranty packages, of a longer than standard period, are sold to customers as separate products. In such cases  
the fair value of the revenue associated with the warranty cover is amortised over the underlying period of the warranty cover. The fair value  
of the revenue is determined by the Directors based on market information, including the sales price when enhanced warranties are sold on  
a stand-alone basis.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
iii. Long-term contracts
Revenue and cost of sales from long-term contracts are recognised on the percentage of completion basis based on costs incurred to date 
when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. The criteria for this are that total contract revenue and the costs to complete 
the contract can be estimated reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the contract will flow to the Group and that 
the stage of contract completion can be measured. When the Group is not able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenue 
equal to costs incurred to date, to the extent that such costs are expected to be recovered. Expected losses are recognised in full at the point 
at which they are anticipated. If the amount of the revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is 
recorded in amounts recoverable on contracts within trade and other receivables. If the amounts invoiced exceed the revenue recognised,  
the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue or payments in advance.
Pensions
The Group provides access to a Stakeholder Pension Scheme, a defined contribution plan into which employees may elect to contribute 
via salary deduction. The Group makes contributions to the scheme in proportion to the amount contributed by the employees. Costs are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period to which they relate.
Employee share schemes
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to its eligible employees. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at 
fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the 
consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of the number of shares 
that will eventually vest. The corresponding entry is recorded in retained earnings. Fair value is measured using the trinomial model. The 
expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Financial income
Financial income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and deposits and is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Financial expense
Financial expense comprises interest payable on credit facilities and is calculated using the effective interest rate method in accordance with 
IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”.
Income tax
Income tax on the result for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, in the countries in which the Group operates, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided 
is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied 
by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
 
Dividends
Dividends declared on the Company’s equity share capital are recognised as a liability when an irrevocable obligation to pay the dividends 
is established. In the case of interim dividends this arises when the dividend is paid, while for final dividends this is the date at which the 
dividends are approved at a shareholders’ general meeting. 72 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Historical cost includes 
expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items including, where relevant, the cost of subcontractors, direct labour  
and a proportion of attributable overheads. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset,  
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the 
item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial 
period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation for certain 
manufacturing plant and machinery is calculated by reference to the number of units produced, and for all other assets by equal annual 
instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
» Plant and machinery 3 – 7 years
» IT equipment 3 – 5 years
No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction as their useful economic life has yet to commence. On completion, the 
assets are transferred to the appropriate class of property, plant and equipment and depreciation is charged at the above rates.
Intangible assets
The Group undertakes research and development activities with a view to developing new products and product functionality. Expenditure 
on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement when incurred.
Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design and testing of new or improved products) are recognised as intangible assets 
when it is demonstrable that:
» It is technically feasible that the project can be completed and will result in a product that is available for use or sale;
» It is intended that the project will be completed and the asset will be used or sold;
» The resultant asset can be used or sold;
» The resultant asset will generate future economic benefits;
» There are sufficient resources to complete the development and use or sell the asset; and
» The expenditure attributable to the project can be measured reliably.
Development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as they are 
incurred. Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. The expenditure 
capitalised includes cost of materials, subcontractors, direct labour and a proportion of attributable overheads. Capitalised development 
expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is provided to write off the cost of the 
development expenditure by equal annual instalments over the products’ estimated useful life, which is usually three years, commencing 
from the time the asset is available for use. The amortisation of capitalised development expenditure is included in research and 
development costs in the consolidated income statement.
Software and similar licences
Externally purchased software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.  
The Group also purchases licences to exploit third-party intellectual property rights. Licences are recorded at the historical cost to acquire the 
licence less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the licence or, where 
the licence is indefinite, their estimated useful life which is generally three years. The amortisation of software and similar licences is included 
in the consolidated income statement within cost of sales or research and development costs as appropriate.
Acquired intangible assets
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary, intangible assets that are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other legal rights are 
capitalised and included within the net identifiable assets acquired. These intangible assets are initially measured at fair value, which reflects 
market expectations of the probability that the future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity, and are amortised on 
a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.  
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of impairment and, in the event that an asset’s carrying amount is 
determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately through the consolidated income statement.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair value of the 
identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually, or more frequently if events or changes in 
circumstances indicate potential impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of 
the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Acquisition costs
Costs relating to an acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed to the consolidated 
income statement as incurred.
Impairment
The carrying value of non-current assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not 
be recoverable to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount 
is estimated. Intangible assets initially recognised during the current annual period which are not yet available for use are also tested for 
impairment by reference to the asset’s recoverable amount at the balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount of property, plant and equipment and capitalised software and other licences is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. The recoverable amount of capitalised development costs is its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows over the remaining useful economic life of the asset in question are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
 
Inventories
Inventories including work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, being estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business less applicable variable selling costs. Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and includes transport and handling 
costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and call deposits with maturity of less than three months.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised  
at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.  
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest 
on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term, unless there is reasonable 
certainty that ownership will be retained at the end of the lease term in which case they are depreciated over their useful economic life.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating 
lease payments are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group enters into a finance sale and leaseback, the transaction is essentially a financing operation and therefore no profit or loss is 
recognised on the sale. Instead, any gain or loss arising on the sale, reflecting the difference between the sale price and the previous carrying 
value, is deferred and amortised over the lease term.
Restructuring provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the 
Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be estimated reliably. Provisions are measured at the best estimate of  
the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Warranty provisions
Provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing warranty cover which cannot be separated from the sale of 
the underlying goods. The provision is calculated based on historical information on the cost and frequency of repairs required to the 
Group’s products. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract 
manufacturers to limit risk on liabilities arising from manufacturing defects. This back-to-back warranty has not been netted from the 
provision. The warranty provision has not been discounted. 74 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Contingent consideration
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent 
consideration are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a 
deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Non-recurring items
Items of income and expense that are considered material, either by their size and/or nature, are classified as exceptional/non-recurring.  
Such items are shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement. The categorisation of exceptional items depends on the 
nature of the items arising.
 
Financial instruments
i. Treasury policies and management
The Group’s treasury policies are designed to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the development of the Group’s 
businesses.
ii. Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, 
less provision for impairment. Trade receivables are first assessed individually for impairment, or collectively where the receivables are 
not individually significant. Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of 
receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment. Movements in the provision for doubtful 
debts are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
iii. Trade payables
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.  
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
twelve months after the balance sheet date.
iv. Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost;  
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless 
the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
v. Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their 
fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a 
hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either:
(a) hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment (“fair value hedges”);
(b) hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (“cash flow hedge”); or
(c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment hedge”).
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its 
risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at 
hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within “losses 
on forward currency contracts”. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss (for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a 
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and 
is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement within “losses 
on forward currency contracts”. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised in the consolidated income statement as they arise.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
4. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued)
Foreign currencies
i. Functional and presentational currency
The presentational currency of the Group is the Euro (€). The functional currency of each Group entity is that of the primary economic 
environment in which it operates.
ii. Transactions and balances
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Euros at the actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the 
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been retranslated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date. 
All exchange gains and losses are taken to the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
iii. Group companies
The results and financial position of the Group’s overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated, where appropriate, into Euros as follows:
» Assets and liabilities at each balance sheet date presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet;
» Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates; and
» All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
5. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
Judgements and estimates
The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements 
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. An assessment of the impact of 
these estimates and judgements on the financial statements is set out below.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable 
under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are 
not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period 
in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects 
both current and future periods.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities 
within the next financial period are discussed below.
Assessment of fair value of undelivered elements in multiple element arrangements
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and revenue can be  
reliably measured. Depending on the Incoterms applicable, there can be judgement regarding the point at which these risks and rewards 
have been transferred. The Group enters into a number of multiple element arrangements where typically an element of software (which  
is not fundamental to the effective operation of the product) is delivered after the date of delivery of the initial hardware and software.  
In such circumstances, where the fair value of the undelivered elements can be estimated by management, revenue equal to this fair  
value is separately carved out and deferred until such items have been delivered. The remainder of the revenue is recognised on initial 
delivery. If management’s estimation of the fair value of deferred income were increased by 10% then profit for the period ended 28 March 
2014 would be reduced by €21,000 and profit for the period ended 29 March 2013 would be increased by €54,000, while net assets would  
be reduced by €553,000 and €571,000 respectively.
Estimating the costs required to complete long-term contracts
Revenue recognised under long-term contracts is determined by reference to the stage of completion of the relevant contract. Assessing  
the stage of completion requires an estimation of the future costs that will be incurred to complete the contract. If management’s assessment  
of these future costs were amended by 10% then the impact on revenue and gross margin would be €250,000.
Assessing whether development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation
The point at which development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation is critically dependent on management’s judgement of the point at 
which technical feasibility is demonstrable.
The carrying amount of development costs on projects which are not yet available for sale or use was:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Development costs not available for sale or use     25,600 16,909 76 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
5. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions (continued)
Assessing the useful economic lives of capitalised development costs
Management have estimated the useful economic lives of capitalised development costs as three years based on historical knowledge of the 
life cycle of the Group’s products and technology.
If this estimate was reduced from three to two years, net assets would be reduced by €2,650,000 at 28 March 2014 and €2,265,000 at  
29 March 2013, with a corresponding increase in the Group’s reported profit of €385,000 and €1,057,000 respectively.
Bad debt provision
The Group has some concentration of credit risk due to the influence of large contracts on its business, albeit these contracts are directly, or 
indirectly (via the Group’s distribution partners) predominantly with Government agencies both in the UK and internationally. To offset this risk 
the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. The Group does not 
hold any security or other collateral in respect of its trade receivables and so was exposed to credit risk in respect of the net trade receivables 
balance of €34,840,000 (2013: €30,370,000). An impairment provision is maintained in respect of amounts owed by specific customers which 
were more than 120 days overdue and where recoverability of the debt was considered uncertain, but if in the event other customers are 
unable to settle their accounts additional provisions would be required.
Tax estimates
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge for the period necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain 
items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined at the reporting date. To the extent that the final outcome differs from the tax that 
has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax provisions. Furthermore, the recognition of deferred tax assets 
is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits, based on the latest available profit forecasts, will be 
available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Acquired intangibles
IFRS 3 (revised) “Business Combinations” requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in 
intangible assets. IFRS 3 (revised) also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition. The assumptions involved in 
valuing these intangible assets requires the use of estimates and judgements, that may differ from the actual outcome. These estimates 
and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used. Changing the assumptions selected by 
management could significantly affect the allocation of the purchase price paid between goodwill and other acquired intangibles.
Impairment of goodwill, capitalised development costs and acquired intangibles
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating unit (“CGU”) to which goodwill 
has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU, and a suitable discount 
rate, in order to calculate the present value. Similar calculations are required in respect of capitalised development costs and other acquired 
intangibles. Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the 
cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Group’s impairment evaluation.
Contingent consideration
Contingent consideration of up to €4.9 million is payable to the previous owners of Portalify OY in the event that Portalify OY achieves revenue 
and operating profit targets over a certain period. Management have considered that, based on current projections, all of this consideration 
will be payable and accordingly a provision for €4.9 million is recorded in the consolidated financial statements. In the event that Portalify 
OY fails to meet these targets then the amount of consideration payable will be reduced accordingly, with a corresponding impact on the 
carrying value of goodwill attributed to Portalify.
 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
6. Acquisition of Portalify OY
On 25 July 2013 the Group announced the acquisition of the entire share capital of Portalify OY, (“Portalify”), which designs and implements 
software applications. The acquisition of Portalify expands the Group’s addressable market by broadening the Group’s product portfolio. 
The initial cash consideration was €1 million, with further contingent consideration of up to €4.9 million payable in cash if Portalify achieves 
revenue and operating profit targets over an earn-out period.
The book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are as follows:
     Fair value Provisional
    Book value adjustments fair value
    €’000 €’000 €’000
Intangible assets    730 1,535 2,265
Property, plant and equipment    6 – 6
Deferred tax    – (517) (517)
Trade and other receivables    479 (125) 354
Cash at bank and in hand    3 – 3
Borrowings    (1,098) – (1,098)
Income tax payable    – 12 12
Trade and other payables    (525) (35) (560)
Net (liabilities) assets acquired    (405) 870 465
Goodwill      5,440
Purchase consideration, including maximum contingent consideration     5,905
 
The maximum purchase consideration comprises: 
Cash consideration paid on completion      1,000
Deferred consideration payable in cash      4,905
Purchase consideration, including maximum contingent consideration     5,905
 
Intangible assets acquired relate to existing customer contracts and relationships together with software assets developed by Portalify.  
These are being amortised over the expected useful economic lives, which have been assessed as five years. The goodwill arising on the 
acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition and future profits arising from access to new markets.  
None of the goodwill on this acquisition is expected to be deductible for tax.
Acquisition costs of €329,000 have been charged to the consolidated income statement during the period, together with €261,000 of 
subsequent restructuring costs as Portalify is integrated with the Group’s existing operations.
Portalify reported a loss after tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 of €0.4 million. Portalify contributed €0.7 million of revenue and  
€0.1 million of losses to the Group’s results for the period since acquisition, while the Group’s revenue and earnings would have been  
€116.9 million and €12.7 million respectively if Portalify had been a member of the Group for the whole period. 78 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
7. Segment reporting
The Board has concluded that the Group has a single reportable segment, being the design, development and supply of secure digital radio 
products and systems as:
» The Chief Operating Decision Maker is the Board, which reviews regular financial information on the performance of the Group, assesses the 
performance of the Group’s executives and is responsible for resource allocation;
» Since acquiring Portalify OY on 25 July 2013 its operations have been integrated into Sepura’s core business and a combined sales team 
now go to market selling Portalify’s products as part of Sepura’s total product portfolio; and
» Responsibility for world-wide sales falls under a single individual, reflecting the shared economic characteristics of the Group’s geographical 
markets and customers in terms of the products sold into these markets, the sourcing of those products from the Group’s sub-contract 
manufacturers and the distribution channels used by end-customers.
Revenues attributable to customers based in the Company’s country of domicile, the United Kingdom, were €19,346,000 (2013: €16,929,000). 
Revenues from all other countries totalled €97,299,000 (2013: €87,843,000), of which €32,309,000 (2013: €29,601,000) related to customers 
in Germany which in aggregate represented more than 10% of the Group’s revenues for the period. A significant percentage of the Group’s 
revenue in each financial period is derived from orders from a small number of end-user organisations; the Group is not reliant on any 
individual end-user organisations.
The Group’s intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are located as follows:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
United Kingdom     39,520 32,990
Rest of world     21,050 13,777
     60,570 46,767
8. Adjusted performance measures
The Group presents adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under IFRS. These adjusted figures, 
comprising EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating margin exclude certain non-operational or non-cash 
items and reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation has been calculated as follows:
    2014 2013
    €’000 €’000 Increase
Operating profit    14,427 8,152 77%
Depreciation (see Note 18)    1,445 1,392
Amortisation (see Note 17)    9,588 11,871
EBITDA    25,460 21,415 19%
Non-recurring costs (see Note 9)    590 2,046
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)    (12,536) (11,959)
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)    664 772
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge  238 203
Adjusted EBITDA    14,416 12,477 16%
Adjusted operating profit has been calculated as follows:
    2014 2013
    €’000 €’000 Increase
Operating profit    14,427 8,152 77%
Adjustments 
Non-recurring costs (see Note 9)    590 2,046
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)    (12,536) (11,959)
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)    8,080 10,214
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)    1,010 1,055
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)    664 772
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge  238 203
Adjusted operating profit    12,473 10,483 19%
Adjusted operating margin, being adjusted operating profit divided by revenue  10.7% 10.0% 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
8. Adjusted performance measures (continued)
Adjusted operating costs have been calculated as follows:
For the period ended 28 March 2014  Selling, marketing Research and Administrative Total
  and distribution costs development costs expenses
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Per consolidated income statement   16,625 12,228 12,039 40,892
Adjustments       
Non-recurring costs (see Note 9)   – – (590) (590)
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)   – 12,536 – 12,536 
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)   – (8,080) – (8,080) 
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)   – – (1,010) (1,010) 
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)   – – (664) (664) 
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares    
subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge   – – (238) (238)
Adjusted operating costs   16,625 16,684 9,537 42,846
For the period ended 29 March 2013  Selling, marketing Research and Administrative Total
  and distribution costs development costs expenses
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Per consolidated income statement   15,518 14,027 12,483 42,028
Adjustments       
Non-recurring costs (see Note 9)   – – (2,046) (2,046)
Reversal of capitalised development costs (see Note 17)   – 11,959 – 11,959 
Reversal of associated amortisation (see Note 17)   – (10,214) – (10,214) 
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles (see Note 17)   – – (1,055) (1,055) 
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge (see Note 10)   – – (772) (772) 
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares    
subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge   – – (203) (203)
Adjusted operating costs   15,518 15,772 8,407 39,697
9. Operating profit
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Operating profit is stated after charging (crediting): 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense (included in cost of sales)    53,530 48,380
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment: 
– Owned assets     1,445 1,392
– Amounts included in capitalised development costs     183 (159)
Amortisation of intangible assets 
– Development costs     8,080 10,214
– Software and similar licences     498 602
– Acquired intangibles     1,010 1,055
Research and non-capitalised development costs (excluding amortisation)    4,148 3,813
Operating lease rentals: 
– Land and buildings     1,451 1,244
– Plant and machinery     19 46
Trade receivables impairment (included in sales, marketing and distribution costs)   346 569
Foreign exchange losses     144 155
Non-recurring costs: 
– Acquisition costs     329 625 
– Restructuring costs     261 1,421
Non-recurring costs in the current period relate to the acquisition of Portalify OY, and subsequent restructuring. Non-recurring costs in the 
prior period related to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG and subsequent restructuring. 80 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
9. Operating profit (continued)
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Auditors’ remuneration: 
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements  99 114
– Fees payable to the Company’s Auditors for other services: 
– Audit related assurance services (interim review)     25 31
– Tax compliance services     12 15
– Tax advisory services     11 4
– Corporate finance services     16 71
– All other non-audit services     3 14
     166 249
 10. Employee numbers and costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including executive Directors) during the period, analysed by category,  
was as follows:
     2014 2013
     Number Number
Research and development     200 180
Sales, marketing and distribution     78 71
General and administration     17 17
Production support     50 43
     345 311
The aggregate costs of these employees were as follows:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Wages and salaries     25,303 22,626
Social security costs     3,238 3,056
Other pension costs     1,176 981
Expense relating to share based payments     664 772
     30,381 27,435
11. Key management compensation and remuneration of Directors
Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in those sections of the Directors’ Remuneration Report described as having been 
audited, and those elements required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Conduct Authority form part of these financial statements. 
One of the Directors exercised share options during the period giving rise to a taxable gain of £211,000 (2013: £Nil); the total expense in the 
income statement relating to Directors’ share based payments was €190,000 (2013: €246,000).
The compensation of the Directors and the seven (2013: six) other "key management personnel" (as defined within IAS 24) was as follows:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits     2,687 2,344
Expense relating to share based payments     300 354
     2,987 2,698
12. Financial income
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Interest receivable and similar income on short-term bank deposits    6 11
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
13. Financial expense
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Interest payable on borrowings and credit facilities     202 234
Amortisation of loan arrangement fees     48 48
     250 282
14. Income tax expense (credit)
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Current tax: 
Income tax for the period     769 411
Deferred tax: 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences     1,200 (1,817)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods     (1,428) –
Impact of change in UK tax rate     512 234
Total tax in consolidated income statement     1,053 (1,172)
 
Factors affecting the tax expense (credit) for the period
The tax expense (credit) for the period is different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, which was 23% (2013: 24%).  
The differences are explained below:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Tax reconciliation 
Profit before income tax     14,183 7,881
At standard rate of corporation tax in the UK     3,262 1,891
Effects of: 
Research and development enhanced expenditure     (735) (3,304)
Patent box     (498) –
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes     65 16
Accelerated capital allowances     23 4
Effect of overseas tax rates     – (13)
Employee share options     (148) –
Impact of change in UK tax rate     512 234
Adjustment in respect of prior periods     (1,428) –
Total tax expense (credit) (see above)     1,053 (1,172)
Effective tax rate     7% (15)%
 
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and to 
20% effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation of 
deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
  82 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
15. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing earnings attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of 
shares of the Company for each period. For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to allow for the 
conversion of all dilutive equity instruments.
   2014   2013
 Before non- Non- After non- Before non- Non- After non-
 recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring recurring
 costs costs costs costs costs costs
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent (€’000) 13,584 (454) 13,130 10,608 (1,555) 9,053
Number of shares  
Basic weighted average number of shares (’000) 138,057 138,057 138,057 137,319 137,319 137,319
Effect of dilutive securities:  
Employee incentive plans (’000) 1,160 1,160 1,160 1,314 1,314 1,314
Diluted weighted average number of shares (’000) 139,217 139,217 139,217 138,633 138,633 138,633
Basic EPS (¢) 9.8 (0.3) 9.5 7.7 (1.1) 6.6
Diluted EPS (¢) 9.8 (0.4) 9.4 7.6 (1.1) 6.5
  
The Group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure which excludes non-recurring costs, the capitalisation of development costs 
(together with associated amortisation), the amortisation of acquired intangibles and the IFRS 2 share-option charge, all net of UK Corporation 
Tax at the standard rate. This adjusted earnings per share figure has been based on adjusted basic earnings for each financial period and on 
the same number of diluted weighted average shares in issue as the GAAP earnings per share calculation above.
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent     13,130 9,053
Adjustments
Non-recurring costs     590 2,046
Reversal of capitalised development costs     (12,536) (11,959)
Reversal of associated amortisation     8,080 10,214
Reversal of amortisation of acquired intangibles     1,010 1,055
Reversal of the IFRS 2 share-option charge     664 772
Reversal of the NI payable on the shares subject to the IFRS 2 share-option charge   238 203
     (1,954) 2,331
Effect of UK Corporation Tax at 23% (2013: 24%)     449 (559)
Net of UK Corporation Tax at 23% (2013: 24%)     (1,505) 1,772
Adjusted earnings attributable to owners of the parent     11,625 10,825
Adjusted diluted EPS (¢)     8.4 7.8
 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
16. Dividends
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial period ended 28 March 2014 of 1.41p per Ordinary share, totalling 
approximately €2.4m based on the Ordinary shares in issue at 28 March 2014. The proposed dividend is subject to approval by shareholders 
and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
During the current and prior periods the Company paid the following dividends:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
FY14 Interim dividend of 0.59p per Ordinary share     966 –
FY13 Final dividend of 1.17p per Ordinary share     2,054 –
FY13 Interim dividend of 0.51p per Ordinary share     – 864
FY12 Final dividend of 0.98p per Ordinary share     – 1,556
     3,020 2,420
17. Intangible assets
    Acquired
  Capitalisation of Software customer
  development and similar relationships
  costs licences and brand Goodwill Total
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 30 March 2012  81,387 3,937 – – 85,324
Additions  11,959 37 – – 11,996
Acquisitions  – – 4,468 8,513 12,981
Disposals  – (269) – – (269)
At 29 March 2013  93,346 3,705 4,468 8,513 110,032
Additions  12,536 896 – – 13,432
Acquisitions  730 504 1,031 5,440 7,705
At 28 March 2014  106,612 5,105 5,499 13,953 131,169
Amortisation and impairment
At 30 March 2012  54,534 2,581 – – 57,115
Charge for the period  10,214 602 1,055 – 11,871
Disposals  – (269) – – (269)
At 29 March 2013  64,748 2,914 1,055 – 68,717
Charge for the period  8,080 498 1,010 – 9,588
At 28 March 2014  72,828 3,412 2,065 – 78,305
Net book value
At 28 March 2014  33,784 1,693 3,434 13,953 52,864
At 29 March 2013  28,598 791 3,413 8,513 41,315
At 30 March 2012  26,853 1,356 – – 28,209
  
The amortisation charge for each period has been included within the following captions of the consolidated income statement:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Cost of sales     315 278
Research and development costs     8,175 10,519
Administrative expenses     1,098 1,074
     9,588 11,871
 
  84 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
17. Intangible assets (continued)
The Group tests annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may have been impaired. Goodwill relates 
to the acquisition during the period of Portalify OY and the acquisition of 3T Communications AG in the prior period. The Directors have 
prepared “value in use” calculations in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of assets” using the following key assumptions:
Assumption How determined
Revenues Management have used detailed forecasts and 10% per annum for years 4 to ten. 
Gross margin Management have assumed an improvement in gross margin for the first three years, based on 
detailed forecasts, with gross margin assumed to be flat thereafter.
Operating costs Operating costs have been assumed to remain a constant percentage of sales throughout the forecast 
period with minor reductions in percentages as revenues grow given the primarily fixed cost nature of 
the business.
Discount rate The pre-tax discount rate of 12% applied to the cash flows reflects the weighted average cost  
of capital of the Group using the industry standard formula.
Sensitivity Management have prepared sensitivity analysis that eliminates any revenue growth and increases  
the discount rate to 20%. At these levels no impairment would be required.
Forecast period The Group’s impairment model covers a forecast 10 year period, which does not include a terminal 
value, and the Directors consider to be an appropriate period to consider.
Based on the above, the Directors have concluded that no impairment is required to be recorded.
18. Property, plant and equipment
   Assets under Plant and
   construction machinery IT equipment Total
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost
At 30 March 2012   724 9,744 1,932 12,400
Transfers   (516) 466 50 –
Additions   260 992 217 1,469
Acquisitions   – 1,234 119 1,353
Disposals   – (4) – (4)
At 29 March 2013   468 12,432 2,318 15,218
Transfers   (247) 229 18 –
Additions   1,746 1,655 310 3,711
Acquisitions   – – 6 6
Disposals   – (13) (5) (18)
At 28 March 2014   1,967 14,303 2,647 18,917
Accumulated depreciation
At 30 March 2012   – 6,781 1,597 8,378
Charge for the period   – 1,156 236 1,392
Disposals   – (4) – (4)
At 29 March 2013   – 7,933 1,833 9,766
Charge for the period   – 1,228 217 1,445
At 28 March 2014   – 9,161 2,050 11,211
Net book value
At 28 March 2014   1,967 5,142 597 7,706
At 29 March 2013   468 4,499 485 5,452
At 30 March 2012   724 2,963 335 4,022
  
There was no capital expenditure at the end of either period which had been contracted for prior to the end of the period but not provided 
for in the financial statements.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
19. Deferred tax
The Group’s deferred tax assets and (liabilities) totalled €13,681,000 (2013: €14,049,000) and €7,612,000 (2013: €7,363,000) respectively and 
relate to temporary differences in respect of:
     Equity-
 Capitalised Cash- Acquired  settled Other Property,
 development flow intangible  share temporary plant and
 costs hedges assets Losses options differences equipment Net
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2012 (6,435) (202) – 9,955 1,528 61 801 5,708
Foreign exchange – – (1,072) – – 115 – (957)
Recognised in income (143) – 287 (69) 177 12 1,319 1,583
Recognised in equity:   
– Arising on cash flow hedges – 450 – – – – – 450
– Arising on equity settled share options – – – – (94) – – (94)
– Effect of change in tax rate – – – – (4) – – (4)
At 29 March 2013 (6,578) 248 (785) 9,886 1,607 188 2,120 6,686
Acquired (179) – (338) – – – – (517)
Recognised in income – – 353 41 153 (11) (820) (284)
Recognised in equity:   
– Arising on cash flow hedges – (333) – – – – – (333)
– Arising on equity settled share options – – – – 289 – – 289
– Effect of change in tax rate – – – – 228 – – 228
At 28 March 2014 (6,757) (85) (770) 9,927 2,277 177 1,300 6,069
   
Deferred tax liabilities have been offset against deferred tax assets at 28 March 2014 as there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax 
assets and current tax liabilities within the same fiscal jurisdiction.
The Group’s deferred tax assets have been recognised in accordance with IAS 12 as, based on historical performance and future budgets, the 
Directors believe that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the assets will reverse.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities may be classified as long-term or current as follows:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Non-current assets     12,421 14,049 
Non-current liabilities     (7,378) (7,363)
     5,043 6,686
Current assets     1,260 – 
Current liabilities     (234) –
     1,026 – 86 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
20. Inventories
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Raw materials     1,800 2,953
Work in progress     1,526 3,339
Finished goods and goods for resale     8,657 7,021
     11,983 13,313
 
An obsolescence provision is maintained in respect of inventories, the movements on which are set out below:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     907 542
Charged to cost of sales in the consolidated income statement     11 197
Acquired     – 200
Utilised in period     (12) (32)
At the end of the period     906 907
21. Trade and other receivables
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Trade receivables     35,844 31,150
Less: provision for impairment of receivables     (1,004) (780)
Trade receivables (net)     34,840 30,370
Other receivables     416 419
Prepayments and accrued income     2,151 1,568
     37,407 32,357
 
Other receivables at 28 March 2014 included €120,000 (2013: €168,000) of unamortised fees incurred in connection with the £18 million 
revolving credit facility described in Note 23.
Credit risk in relation to trade receivables
The Group has some concentration of credit risk due to the influence of large contracts on its business, albeit these contracts are directly, or 
indirectly (via the Group’s distribution partners) predominantly with Government agencies both in the UK and internationally. To offset this risk 
the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made. Customer orders 
are checked against pre-set requirements before acceptance and formal credit control procedures are applied subsequent to invoicing the 
customer. Letters of credit and payments in advance are also obtained from customers as appropriate.
The Group does not hold any security or other collateral in respect of its trade receivables and so was exposed to credit risk in respect of 
the net trade receivables balance of €34,840,000 (2013: €30,370,000). Management believe that the credit quality of trade receivables which 
are within the Group’s typical payment terms of between 30 and 90 days is good, with €5,126,000 (2013: €6,413,000) being overdue but not 
impaired at period end, of which €2,059,000 was less than 30 days overdue (2013: €1,736,000) and €3,128,000 (2013: €2,872,000) was more 
than 120 days overdue. No amounts outstanding at the end of the period had had terms renegotiated prior to the end of the period.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
21. Trade and other receivables (continued)
An impairment provision is maintained in respect of amounts owed by specific customers which were more than 120 days overdue and 
where recoverability of the debt was considered uncertain:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     780 225
Charged to the consolidated income statement     346 569
Acquired     – 280
Utilised in period     (122) (294)
At the end of the period     1,004 780
 
Foreign exchange risk in relation to trade receivables
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Euro     32,392 22,928
Sterling     2,125 7,436
US dollar     134 6
Other      189 –
Total     34,840 30,370
 
The Group’s overall foreign exchange risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”.
22. Cash and cash equivalents
The denomination and interest rate risk profile of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents is as follows:
   2014   2013
 Cash at    Cash at
 bank and Short-term  bank and Short-term
 in hand deposits Total in hand deposits Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Sterling 728 121 849 1 2,041 2,042
US dollar 2,219 168 2,387 8 523 531
Euro 2,625 2,018 4,643 2,898 3,163 6,061
Other currencies 138 – 138 – – –
Total 5,710 2,307 8,017 2,907 5,727 8,634
Variable rate  0.4% 0.13%  0.4% 0.25%
   
The credit risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is mitigated by holding funds with counterparties with high credit ratings assigned 
by international credit rating agencies. Deposit accounts represent amounts placed on short-term deposit on the money markets through 
accounts held at AA2 to AA3-rated banks (2013: AA2 to AA3-rated). The effective interest rate on deposit accounts was 0.1% (2013: 0.2%).  
The Group’s overall interest rate risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”. 88 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
23. Borrowings and facilities
Borrowings outstanding at the end of the period
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Bank borrowings, all of which are denominated in Euros, are repayable as follows: 
Within one year     2,182 1,761
In the second year     311 165
In the third to fifth year inclusive     339 271
     2,832 2,197
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities)   (2,182) (1,761)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months     650 436
 
Bank borrowings at Sepura Systems GmbH comprise an export loan of €1,500,000, which bears interest at 1.85%; a term loan of which 
€433,000 is outstanding, is repayable in monthly instalments of €11,000 and bears interest at 4.56%; and a second term loan of which  
€33,000 is outstanding and is repayable in quarterly instalments of €27,000.
Bank borrowings at Portalify OY comprise development funding loans of €539,000, which are repayable in annual instalments through  
to 2017 and bear interest at the Bank of Finland base rate less 3% (subject to a minimum of 1%), and €327,000 of other loans repayable 
monthly or quarterly that bear interest at rates ranging from 1% to 6%.
Facilities
In addition to the above, the Group has a five year, £18 million revolving credit facility, none of which was drawn down at the end of the 
period. The total costs associated with taking out the new facility were €244,000, which are being amortised over the life of the facility 
agreement. The facility is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Group’s assets, and includes covenants which are tested quarterly.
24. Trade and other payables
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Trade payables     21,039 14,286
Other taxation and social security     896 1,540
Accruals and deferred income     11,650 11,408
Payments in advance     454 134
     34,039 27,368
Non-current 
Deferred income     4,826 7,018
 
Non-current deferred income relates to non-standard warranty package revenues, which are amortised over the underlying period of the 
warranty cover.
At the end of the period the Group had entered into supply agreements under which the Group has minimum contractual purchase 
commitments of €9,899,000 (2013: €3,330,000) during the three month period subsequent to the period end. No loss is expected to be 
incurred in respect of these contracts.
Foreign exchange risk in relation to trade payables
The carrying amounts of the Group’s trade payables are denominated in the following currencies:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Euro     14,894 11,162
Sterling     4,220 2,069
US dollar     1,872 1,049
Other currencies     53 6
Total     21,039 14,286
 
The Group’s overall foreign exchange risk is explained in Note 31 “Financial instruments”.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
25. Provisions
   2014   2013
 Warranty Contingent  Warranty Contingent
 provision consideration Total provision consideration Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period 1,388 5,000 6,388 1,617 – 1,617
Settled during the period – (5,000) (5,000) – – –
Arising on acquisition of Portalify OY
as described in Note 6 – 4,905 4,905 – – –
Arising on acquisition of 3T Communications – – – – 5,000 5,000
Charged to the consolidated income statement 441 – 441 613 – 613
Utilised in period (602) – (602) (842) – (842)
At the end of the period 1,227 4,905 6,132 1,388 5,000 6,388
Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months
(shown under current liabilities) (411) (905) (1,316) (434) (5,000) (5,434)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 816 4,000 4,816 954 – 954
  
Warranty provision
A warranty provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing standard warranty cover which cannot be separated 
from the sale of the underlying goods. The provision is calculated based on historical information regarding the cost and frequency of repairs 
required to the Group’s products. Warranty cover is typically provided over a period of three to five years, depending on the product and 
territory concerned. The Group also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract 
manufacturers to limit risk on liabilities arising on manufacturing defects.
 
26. Share capital
Authorised share capital
   2014   2013
 Number £ €’000 Number £ €’000
Authorised   
Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each 400,000,000 200,000 227 400,000,000 200,000 227
   
Issued share capital
During the period the following changes occurred in the Company’s issued, allotted and fully paid share capital of Ordinary shares  
of £0.0005 each:
     Share Share
     capital premium
   Number £ €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2012 and 29 March 2013   137,318,580 68,659 78 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes   25,517 13 – –
Issue of shares to settle contingent consideration relating  
to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG   1,301,334 651 1 999
At 28 March 2014   138,645,431 69,323 79 999 90 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
26. Share capital (continued)
Treasury shares
During the period the following changes occurred in the number of Ordinary shares held in Treasury:
      Aggregate Employee
     consideration consideration
    Number €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2012     – 
Purchase of Ordinary shares for treasury    1,844,712 1,702 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (1,712,729) – 671
At 29 March 2013    131,983 
Purchase of Ordinary shares for treasury    850,000 1,323 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (478,551) – 163
At 28 March 2014    503,432
27. Share based payments
Share options have been granted to Directors and employees under the following equity-settled schemes:
i. Sepura Limited 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan
In July 2002 the Company established the Sepura Limited EMI share option plan that entitled employees to purchase shares in the entity 
under the Government’s Enterprise Management Initiative (“EMI”) scheme. The scheme was closed to new employees joining the Group after 
1 October 2005 (save for one individual award made in July 2007).
ii. Long Term Incentive Plan
The Group launched its Long Term Incentive Plan for senior executives and management in July 2008. Annual awards have been made under 
the Long Term Incentive Plan which will vest in the event that certain performance targets are met. Further details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 55.
iii. Employee SAYE schemes
Following shareholder approval at the 2008 AGM the Company launched an all-employee SAYE scheme in September 2008. The third scheme 
matured during the period, and a further invitation to employees to join the scheme was issued in August 2013.
vi. Deferred bonus shares
Deferred shares are issued as part of the bonus arrangements for senior management. Further details are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 55.
The Group recognised an expense of €664,000 (2013: €772,000) in relation to equity-settled share based payments during the period.
Movements in the total number of share options outstanding and their relative weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
    2014  2013
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
   price in £  Number price in £ Number
   per share of options per share of options
At the beginning of the period   0.11 7,797,623 0.10 12,114,493
Granted   0.19 2,700,029 0.10 4,071,497
Forfeited   0.12 (584,802) 0.13 (6,675,638)
Exercised   0.27 (504,068) 0.31 (1,712,729)
At the end of the period   0.13 9,408,782 0.11 7,797,623
  
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of the options exercised during the period was £1.43 (2013: £0.76).
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
27. Share based payments (continued)
The outstanding options may be analysed as follows:
    2014  2013
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
   price in £  Number price in £ Number
   per share of options per share of options
Vested and exercisable   0.0000007 9,940 0.0000007 167,440
Unvested   0.13 9,398,842 0.12 7,630,183
    9,408,782  7,797,623
 
Share options outstanding at each reporting date have the following expiry date and exercise prices.
     Exercise price 2014 2013
Expiry date  Scheme    in £ per share Number Number
1 March 2014 2011 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.34 – 283,225
30 April 2014 2009 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.60 – 80,173
31 May 2014 2012 LTIP    –
1
  2,537,132 2,576,780
1 October 2014 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan    0.0000007 9,240 9,240
1 March 2015 2010 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.31 328,250 348,314
30 April 2015 2012 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.43 135,156 140,193
31 May 2015 2013 LTIP    –
1
 2,782,775 3,104,566
1 October 2015 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan    0.0000007 700 700
1 March 2016 2011 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.34 56,345 65,433
1 March 2016 2013 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.54 811,159 839,158
31 July 2016 2013 Deferred shares    –
1
 118,779 –
31 July 2016 2014 LTIP    –
1
 1,957,755 –
1 March 2017 2014 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.96 387,822 –
30 April 2017 2012 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.43 21,522 64,568
1 October 2017 2002 Employees’ Share Option Plan    0.0000007 – 157,500
1 March 2018 2013 SAYE 5 year scheme    0.54 127,773 127,773
1 March 2019 2014 SAYE 3 year scheme    0.96 134,374 –
      9,408,782 7,797,623
1 Not applicable for awards under the LTIP scheme or deferred shares forming part of the short-term bonus arrangements for senior management.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the outstanding options was 1 year and 4 months (2013: 1 year and 10 months). 92 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
27. Share based payments (continued)
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.  
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on the trinomial model. The significant inputs into the model for each 
grant during the period and the prior period were:
   2013 Deferred bonus 2014 LTIP 2014 SAYE 2014 SAYE
   10 June 24 July 29 July 29 July
Date of grant   2013 2013 2013 2013
Share price at grant date   £1.14 £1.35 £1.42 £1.42
Exercise price   – – £0.96 £0.96
Number of employees   6 46 21 95
Shares under option   118,779 2,040,304 134,374 406,572
Vesting period   36 months 36 months 60 months 36 months
Expected volatility (expressed as standard deviation   21% 21% 21% 21%
of expected share price returns)
Expected option life   39 months 39 months 63 months 39 months
Risk free interest rate
(based on national Government bonds)   3.0% 3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Dividend yield   1.2% 1.2% 1.2% 1.2%
Fair value per option   £1.14 £1.34 £0.55 £0.52
    2013 LTIP 2013 SAYE 2013 SAYE
    24 July 30 July 30 July
Date of grant    2012 2012 2012
Share price at grant date    £0.76 £0.76 £0.76
Exercise price    – £0.54 £0.54
Number of employees    40 9 95
Shares under option    3,104,566 127,773 839,158
Vesting period    36 months 60 months 36 months
Expected volatility (expressed as standard deviation of expected share price returns)  21% 21% 21%
Expected option life    39 months 63 months 39 months
Risk free interest rate
(based on national Government bonds)    3.0% 3.0% 3.0%
Dividend yield    3.1% 3.1% 3.1%
Fair value per option    £0.69 £0.22 £0.22
 
The expected volatility for those options granted during the period was determined by reference to the Company’s share price since Listing 
in August 2007; for those options granted in prior periods volatility was estimated based on the historical volatility of comparable listed 
companies. Share options are granted under a service condition. Such conditions are not taken into account in the fair value measurement  
of the services received.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
28. Cash generated from operations
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Profit before income tax     14,183 7,881
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charges     1,445 1,392
Amortisation charges     9,588 11,871
Equity settled share based payment charge     664 772
Financial income     (6) (11)
Financial expense     250 282
Cash generated from operations before movements in working capital    26,124 22,187
Decrease (increase) in inventories     1,330 (302)
(Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables     (4,766) 4,436
Increase in trade and other payables     3,919 260
Decrease in provisions     (161) (229)
Movements in working capital     322 4,165
Cash generated from operations     26,446 26,352
 
29. Reconciliation of cash flows to movements in net funds
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents     (575) 2,278
Net repayment of borrowings     463 339
Changes in net funds resulting from cash flows     (112) 2,617
Amortisation of debt issue costs     (48) (48)
Borrowings acquired with subsidiary undertaking     (1,098) (2,536)
Net movements in net funds     (1,258) 33
Net funds at the beginning of the period     6,605 6,572
Foreign exchange     (42) –
Net funds at the end of the period     5,305 6,605
Net funds comprises: 
Cash and cash equivalents     8,017 8,634
Gross borrowings  – Amounts due within one year     (2,182) (1,761) 
– Amounts due after one year     (650) (436)
Unamortised loan arrangement fees     120 168
     5,305 6,605
  94 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
30. Operating lease commitments
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
   2014   2013
 Plant and   Plant and
 machinery Property Total machinery Property Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
No later than one year 6 970 976 6 946 952
Later than one year and no later than five years – 1,546 1,546 – 2,400 2,400
 6 2,516 2,522 6 3,346 3,352
  
The Group rents its principal location at Radio House, St Andrew’s Road, Cambridge, under a lease which expires during the year ending  
31 March 2017.
 
31. Financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments
    Current assets (liabilities)
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Derivatives that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value – cash flow hedges 
Foreign exchange derivative financial instruments (through equity)    403 (1,077)
Financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the items below:
    2014  2013
    Derivatives  Derivatives
   Loans and used for Loans and used for
   receivables hedging receivables hedging
Assets as per balance sheet   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments   35,256 – 30,789 –
Derivative financial instruments   – 403 – –
Cash and cash equivalents   8,017 – 8,634 –
   43,273 403 39,423 –
    2014  2013
   Liabilities   Liabilities
   at fair value  Other at fair value Other
   through profit  financial through profit financial
   and loss liabilities and loss liabilities 
Liabilities as per balance sheet   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Borrowings   – (2,832) – (2,197)
Derivative financial instruments   – – (1,077)  –
Trade and other payables, excluding non-financial instruments   – (33,143) – (25,828)
   – (35,975) (1,077) (28,025)
 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where there is objective evidence that 
the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, or default or delinquency in payments are considered 
to be indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
through the use of an allowance account and the amount of loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within administrative 
expenses. When a trade receivable is irrecoverable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries 
of amounts previously written off are credited against the trade receivable impairment provision in the consolidated income statement.  
Details concerning the credit risk associated with trade receivables are set out in Note 21 above.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their 
fair value. Details concerning derivative financial instruments are set out above.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less. Further details are set out in Note 22 above.
Fair value estimation
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined by comparing contracted forward exchange rates with the prevailing exchange 
rates at the balance sheet date. As a result they fall into “Level 2” of the fair value hierarchy as defined in Paragraph 27A of IFRS 7 “Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures”. The nominal value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables approximates to their fair value.  
The book value of all other financial assets and liabilities approximate to fair value.
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to financial risks that include the effects of changes in certain currency rates, credit risk and interest rate cash 
flow and fair value risk. The Group has in place risk management procedures that seek to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance 
of the Group by monitoring the movements in relevant currency and interest rates and a credit control procedure to minimise the risk of 
customer debt default.
The Board of Directors sets the policies for liquidity, credit and interest rate cash flow and fair value risk, and these are implemented by the 
Group’s finance department which has a procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines for managing currency, interest and credit risk.  
In circumstances where it is appropriate financial instruments are used to manage those risks. 
Market risk management
The Group is not exposed to market risks other than currency and interest rate risks.
  96 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Foreign exchange risk
Currency denominated bank accounts are maintained to provide some cover for timing differences, and a currency exchange hedging policy 
has been agreed by the Board of Directors. The Group invoices its customers in Sterling pounds (GBP), US dollars (US$) or Euros (€), and the 
majority of the Group’s suppliers also trade in these currencies. The exposure to other currencies is not material to the Group’s operations.
i. Sterling
The Group has a partial natural hedge as operating expenses are primarily denominated in Sterling and this exposure is partly offset by Sterling 
receivables from the Group’s UK business. However, there remains a net exposure and the Board has agreed a policy of taking out forward 
contracts on a rolling twelve month basis to hedge the forecast monthly Sterling operating costs.
The Group had the following current assets and liabilities denominated in Sterling:
     2014 2013
     £’000 £’000
Outstanding forward contracts     (19,228) (19,350)
Trade receivables denominated in GBP     1,756 6,197
Sundry receivables denominated in GBP     64 1,187
Cash balances denominated in GBP     702 2,042
Trade payables denominated in GBP     (3,488) (2,069)
Other payables denominated in GBP     (6,950) (4,606)
Percentage of net current assets not matched by forward contracts    Nil Nil
The period-end rate and the average rate for the period were as follows:
     2014 2013
Period-end rate     €1.21/£1 €1.18/£1
Average rate for the period     €1.18/£1 €1.23/£1
If Sterling had weakened or strengthened by 10% against the Euro then the following additional foreign exchange gains (losses) would have 
been reported in the consolidated income statement or consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
GBP weakens     (850) (803)
GBP strengthens     935 981
 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
31. Financial instruments (continued)
ii. US Dollar
Purchases and receipts in US dollars are dealt with through the Group’s US dollar current account, with further purchases of currency to meet 
US dollar denominated liabilities being made as necessary on a spot basis. Any significant US dollar revenues or purchases are hedged on 
order confirmation.
The Group had the following current assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars:
     2014 2013
     $’000 $’000
Outstanding forward contracts     – –
Trade receivables denominated in US dollars      184 8
Cash balances denominated in US dollars     4,434 682
Trade payables denominated in US dollars     (2,740) (1,347)
Percentage of net current assets not matched by forward contracts    100% 100%
The period-end rate and the average rate for the period were as follows:
     2014 2013
Period-end rate     $1.38/€1 $1.28/€1
Average rate for the period     $1.34/€1 $1.29/€1
If the US dollar had weakened or strengthened by 10% against the Euro then the following additional foreign exchange gains (losses) would 
have been reported in the consolidated income statement or consolidated statement of comprehensive income:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
US dollar weakens     (235) 47
US dollar strengthens     259 (57)
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an 
adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Accordingly on 14 October 2011 the Group entered into a five year, £18 million revolving 
credit facility, as described in Note 23 above. None of this facility was drawn down at the end of the period. €8.5 million was drawn down 
under this facility in May 2012 to finance the acquisition of 3T Communications AG, and was repaid during the period.
 
The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis, into relevant maturity groupings based on 
the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows.
    Less than Between Between
    one year 1 & 2 years 2 & 5 years
    €’000 €’000 €’000
At 28 March 2014 
Borrowings    2,241 332 337
Trade and other payables    34,039 – –
At 30 March 2013 
Borrowings    1,821 185 296
Derivative financial instruments    1,077 – –
Trade and other payables    27,368 – –
 
Borrowings are Euro-denominated. 98 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
31. Financial instruments (continued)
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group had interest bearing cash deposits of €2,307,000 (2013: €5,727,000). The Group had no outstanding amounts due under  
its revolving credit facility at the end of the period; interest on any amounts drawn down under the facility would be at floating rates,  
exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Group’s outstanding borrowings comprise €1,966,000 which bears interest at fixed rates and €866,000 which was acquired with Portalify 
OY and bears interest at floating rates as set out in Note 23 above.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide  
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.  
The capital structure of the Group comprises borrowings (as disclosed in Note 23), cash and cash equivalents (as disclosed in Note 22) and  
the equity attributable to equity holders in the parent company (comprising the issued share capital, share premium, other reserves and 
retained earnings disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity). At 28 March 2014 the Group had net assets of €75,395,000 
(2013: €63,181,000) which included net funds of €5,305,000 (2013: €6,605,000). In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group 
may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, borrow additional funds or sell 
assets to reduce debt.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. The Group is subject to certain covenant restrictions under its revolving 
credit facility. The Group complied with all of these covenants during the period.
 
32. Contingent liabilities
The Group has entered into guarantee and performance bond arrangements with its customers totalling approximately €2.1 million  
(2013: €1.75 million). The Group is also subject to disputes with suppliers during the ordinary course of business. Provision is made for any 
amounts that the Directors consider will probably become payable under such arrangements.
33. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors do not consider that Sepura plc has an ultimate controlling party, as no individual shareholder is able to exercise control over  
the Company.
34. Post balance sheet event
On 20 May 2014 the Group announced the acquisition of the entire share capital of Fylde Micro Limited, (“Fylde”), which designs and 
manufactures trunking controllers that enable a simple, low-risk and cost-effective migration from analogue to digital networks. The initial 
cash consideration was £2.75 million, with contingent consideration of up to £3.5 million payable in cash if Fylde achieves EBIT targets over an 
earn-out period.
The preliminary provisional book and fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are as follows:
      €’000
Property, plant and equipment      39 
Inventory      85 
Trade and other receivables      209 
Trade and other payables      (172)
Net assets acquired      161 
Goodwill and purchased intangibles arising on acquisition      7,464
Purchase consideration, including maximum contingent consideration     7,625
The purchase price allocation has not yet been finalised given that the acquisition was completed on 20 May 2014. This exercise is expected  
to be completed during the first half of the current financial year and the appropriate amount will be recorded as purchased intangibles,  
with the balance being attributable to goodwill.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the value of synergies arising from the acquisition, Fylde’s assembled workforce  
and future profits arising from access to new markets. Acquisition costs are expected to be approximately €400,000 which will be charged  
to administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ending 27 March 2015. None of the goodwill on this acquisition is 
expected to be deductible for tax.
Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
Report on the parent company 
financial statements 
Our opinion 
In our opinion the financial statements, 
defined below:
» Give a true and fair view of the state  
of the parent company’s affairs  
as at 28 March 2014;
» Have been properly prepared in 
accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting  
Practice; and
» Have been prepared in accordance  
with the requirements of the  
Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context  
of what we say in the remainder  
of this report.
What we have audited
The parent company financial statements 
(the “financial statements”), which  
are prepared by Sepura plc, comprise:
» The Company Balance Sheet as at  
28 March 2014; and
» The notes to the Parent Company financial 
statements, which include a summary  
of significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Certain disclosures required by the  
financial reporting framework have  
been presented elsewhere in the Annual 
Report (the “Annual Report”), rather than  
in the notes to the financial statements.  
These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial  
statements involves
We conducted our audit in accordance  
with International Standards on Auditing  
(UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).  
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes  
an assessment of: 
» Whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the parent company’s 
circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
» The reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and 
» The overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and  
non-financial information in the Annual 
Report to identify material inconsistencies 
with the audited financial statements and  
to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit.  
If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
» The information given in the Strategic 
Report and the Directors’ Report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent  
with the financial statements; and
» The part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required  
to report by exception
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
» We have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our  
audit; or
» Adequate accounting records have  
not been kept by the parent company,  
or returns adequate for our audit have  
not been received from branches not 
visited by us; or
» The financial statements and the part  
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
to be audited are not in agreement  
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising 
from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we  
are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not  
made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required  
to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
» Materially inconsistent with the 
information in the audited financial 
statements; or
» Apparently materially incorrect based  
on, or materially inconsistent with,  
our knowledge of the company acquired 
in the course of performing our  
audit; or
» Is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising
from this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those  
of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement  
of Directors' Responsibilities set out  
on pages 59 and 60, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express  
an opinion on the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and  
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to  
any other person to whom this report is 
shown or into whose hands it may come 
save where expressly agreed by our prior 
consent in writing.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group 
financial statements of Sepura plc for the 
year ended 28 March 2014.
Stuart Newman (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
Cambridge
9 June 2014
Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Sepura plc  100 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
     2014 2013
    Note  €’000 €’000
Fixed assets    
Tangible assets    4 7,761 4,765
Intangible assets    5 – 315
Investments    6 18,967 13,052
     26,728 18,132
Current assets    
Stock    7 8,337 11,950
Current asset investments    8 2,306 5,319
Debtors (including £10,361,000 due after more than one year)    9 46,329 42,910
Derivative financial instruments    11 403 –
Cash at bank and in hand     1,801 997
     59,176 61,176
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    12 (30,019) (26,639)
Net current assets      29,157 34,537
Total assets less current liabilities     55,885 52,669
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year    13 (4,826) (7,018)
Provision for liabilities    14 (6,132) (6,388)
Net assets      44,927 39,263
    
Capital and reserves    
Called up share capital    15 79 78
Share premium    15 999 –
Cumulative translation reserve     (46) –
Profit and loss account    17 43,895 39,185
Total shareholders’ funds    18 44,927 39,263
The parent company financial statements on pages 100 to 109 were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 9 June 2014 and  
are signed on its behalf by:
Gordon Watling Steve Chamberlain 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
Company Balance Sheet
of Sepura Plc, Company number 04353801, at 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
1. Principal accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance 
with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom. A summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been 
reviewed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard (“FRS”) 18, “Accounting policies”, and have been applied 
consistently, is set out below.
The Company has prepared these financial statements for the period to 28 March 2014, being the nearest Friday to the end of the period.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except for certain financial instruments that have 
been measured at fair value.
Turnover and warranty costs
Turnover represents the invoiced amount of goods sold excluding value added tax. For contracts which do not involve complex long-term 
software and hardware development, revenue is recognised on despatch or upon formal acknowledgement from the customer that title has 
passed but they wish the goods to be stored at the Group’s premises. Turnover also includes warranty income, as appropriate.
Revenue and cost of sales from contracts which do involve complex long-term software and hardware development are recognised on the 
percentage of completion basis, based on costs incurred to date when the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably. The criteria for 
this are that total contract revenue and the costs to complete the contract can be estimated reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits 
associated with the contract will flow to the Company, and that the stage of contract completion can be measured. When the Company is not 
able to meet those conditions, the policy is to recognise revenue equal to costs incurred to date, to the extent that such costs are expected to 
be recovered. Expected losses are recognised in full at the point at which they are anticipated. If the amount of revenue recognised exceeds 
the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded in amounts recoverable on contracts within debtors. If the amounts 
invoiced exceed the revenue recognised, the excess amount is recorded as deferred revenue or payments in advance.
In a multi-element arrangement some of the elements, either hardware or software may remain undelivered or incomplete. Revenue may be 
recognised on the fair value of the elements delivered providing the following conditions are fulfilled:
» If the element of the product delivered has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and is thus a separable element from the 
undelivered element;
» If the fair value can be reliably attributed to the undelivered element. (In the event of bundling where undelivered components may not have 
a separate invoiced sales price then the fair value of the revenue deferred can be calculated by comparing the underlying product list price of 
each element of the bundle to the overall bundle price); and
» If the delivery of the undelivered element is probable and under the control of the company i.e. the technical risk attached to the delivery of 
the component is acceptable.
If any of these conditions are not met then all revenue under the arrangement is deferred until the contract is complete or uncertainty over 
any of these conditions is removed.
In accordance with the requirements of FRS 5 Application Note G “Reporting the substance of transactions: Revenue recognition”, the 
Company assesses whether any of its contracts contain elements which operate independently of other contractual elements and which 
should, therefore, be ’unbundled’ and accounted for separately. The Company offers as standard to all customers a product warranty package, 
which is typically for a period of three to five years depending on the product and territory concerned. Generally, in the case of product 
warranty packages which are offered as standard with all products, are not separately priced, and are offered for periods in line with the 
Company’s standard terms of supply at the time of sale, such standard warranty packages are not considered to be an element capable of 
’unbundling’. In such cases, provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated cost of providing the warranty cover based on historical 
information on the cost and frequency of repairs required to the Company’s products. The Company also has back-to-back warranties of 
between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers to limit risk on product warranties. Amounts due from 
manufacturers under back-to-back warranties are not recognised until the manufacturer has confirmed a reimbursement will be made.
In certain cases “enhanced” warranty packages, of a longer than standard period, are sold to customers as separate products. In such cases  
the fair value of the revenue associated with the warranty cover is amortised over the underlying period of the warranty cover. The fair value  
of the revenue is determined by the Directors based on market information, including the sales price when enhanced warranties are sold on  
a stand-alone basis.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements
For the period ended 28 March 2014 102 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
Research and development expenditure
All ongoing research and development expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment, if any.
Tangible fixed assets
The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition including, where relevant, the 
cost of subcontractors, direct labour and a proportion of attributable overheads. Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and are depreciated from the date they come into use. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual 
value of tangible fixed assets. Depreciation for certain manufacturing plant and machinery is calculated by reference to the number of units 
produced, and for all other assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
» Plant and machinery 3-7 years
» IT equipment 3-5 years
Provision is made against the carrying value of tangible fixed assets where impairment is deemed to have occurred.
No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction as their useful economic life has yet to commence. On completion, the 
assets are transferred to the appropriate class of tangible fixed assets and depreciation is charged at the above rates.
Intangible assets
The Company purchases licences to exploit third-party intellectual property rights. Licences are recorded at the historical cost to acquire the 
licence less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the licence.
Leases
Finance leases, which transfer to the Company substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are  
capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant  
rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.  
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Stocks and work in progress
Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a first in first out basis and includes 
transport and handling costs. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks.
Current asset investments
Short-term bank deposits are stated at cost less provision for impairment, if any.
Cash flow
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 1 (Revised 1996) “Cash Flow Statements” which provides that where a company 
is a member of a group and a consolidated cash flow statement is published, the company does not have to prepare a cash flow statement.
Deferred taxation
Provision is made for deferred taxation, using full provision accounting when an event has taken place by the balance sheet date which 
gives rise to an increased or reduced tax liability in the future in accordance with FRS 19, “Deferred taxation”. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are not discounted.
Pension scheme arrangements
The Company contributes to defined contribution plans for employees. The Company contributes to these schemes based upon various 
fixed percentages of employee compensation and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
The Company provides no other post-retirement benefits to its employees.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 103
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 29 “Financial Instruments: Disclosures” for parent company financial 
statements as the disclosures in respect of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives are initially accounted for at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their 
fair value at each reporting date. The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the profit and loss account except where the derivative is a 
designated cash flow hedging instrument. The accounting treatment of derivatives classified as hedges depends on their designation, which 
occurs on the date that the derivate contract is committed to. The Company designates derivatives as either:
(a) hedges of the fair value of an asset or liability (“fair value hedges”);
(b) hedges of the income or cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment (“cash flow hedges”); or
(c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (“net investment hedges”).
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged 
and the hedging instrument. The Company is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between 
the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. This effectiveness 
testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the profit and loss account with the gain or loss on 
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity. Where the forecast transaction results in a 
financial asset or liability, only gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period as the asset 
or liability affects profit or loss. Where the forecasted transaction or commitment results in a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, 
any gains or losses previously deferred in equity are included in the cost of the related asset or liability. If the forecasted transaction or 
commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account in the 
same period as the underlying income or expenditure. The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised 
in the profit and loss account.
For the portion of hedges deemed ineffective or transactions that do not qualify for hedge accounting under FRS 26, any change in assets 
or liabilities is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or 
losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the profit and loss account when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in 
the profit and loss account. However, where an entity applied cash flow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is 
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the profit and loss account. When 
a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when 
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Euros at actual rates of exchange ruling at the date of the 
transactions, except to the extent that these transactions were covered by forward foreign exchange contracts. Monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the 
assets and liabilities are covered by forward foreign exchange contracts. All exchange gains and losses are taken to the profit and loss 
account in the period in which they arise. Transactions, assets and liabilities covered by forward foreign currency contracts are translated at 
the forward foreign currency contract rate. 
Share options
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to employees and Directors of the Company. In accordance with FRS 20  
“Share-based payment”, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. Fair value is measured by  
use of the trinomial pricing model. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed  
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.  
The corresponding credit is recognised in reserves. 104 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
2. Profit for the financial period
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent company’s profit and loss account has not been included in these 
financial statements. The parent company’s profit after taxation was €7,101,000 (2013: €6,614,000).
The average number of employees of the Company during the period was 289 (2013: 267) and total staff costs, excluding charges for share 
options, were €23,846,000 (2013: €22,549,000). Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in those sections of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report described as having been audited, and those elements required by the Companies Act 2006 and the Financial Conduct 
Authority form part of these financial statements. The audit fee for the Company was €72,000 (2013: €70,000).
3. Dividends
The Directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the financial period ended 28 March 2014 of 1.41p per Ordinary share, totalling 
approximately €2.4 million based on the Ordinary shares in issue at 28 March 2014. The proposed dividend is subject to approval by 
shareholders and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
During the current and prior periods the Company paid the following dividends:
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
FY14 Interim dividend of 0.59p per Ordinary share     966 –
FY13 Final dividend of 1.17p per Ordinary share     2,054 –
FY13 Interim dividend of 0.51p per Ordinary share     – 864
FY12 Final dividend of 0.98p per Ordinary share     – 1,556
     3,020 2,420
   
4. Tangible assets
   Assets under Plant and IT
   construction machinery equipment Total
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Cost     
At 30 March 2013   468 11,046 3,890 15,404
Transfers   (247) 229 18 –
Additions    1,746 1,371 1,109 4,226
Disposals   – (13) (5) (18)
At 28 March 2014   1,967 12,633 5,012 19,612
Accumulated depreciation     
At 30 March 2013   – 7,609 3,030 10,639
Charge for the period   – 909 303 1,212
Disposals   – – – –
At 28 March 2014   – 8,518 3,333 11,851
Net book value at 28 March 2014   1,967 4,115 1,679 7,761
Net book value at 29 March 2013   468 3,437 860 4,765
There was no capital expenditure at the end of either period which had been contracted for prior to the end of the period but not provided 
for in the financial statements.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 105
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
5. Intangible assets
      Licences
      €’000
Cost
At 30 March 2013      1,985
Additions      –
At 28 March 2014      1,985
Accumulated amortisation
At 30 March 2013      1,670
Charge for the period      315
At 28 March 2014      1,985
Net book value at 28 March 2014      –
Net book value at 29 March 2013      315
     
6. Fixed asset investments
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Shares in Group undertakings   
At the beginning of the period     13,052 20
Acquisition of Portalify OY
(see Note 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements)    5,905 –
Acquisition of 3T Communications AG
(see Note 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements)    – 13,000
Investment in newly-incorporated subsidiaries     10 32
At the end of the period     18,967 13,052
   
The Company owns the entire issued share capital of the following subsidiary undertakings, whose results are included within the 
consolidated financial statements of Sepura plc for the period ended 28 March 2014:
   Proportion of nominal
 Country of  value of shares held Principal
Name of undertaking incorporation Description of shares held by the Group activity
Sepura Systems GmbH Austria 8,400 ordinary shares of €10 each 100% Trading
Portalify OY Finland 17,991,795 ordinary shares 
  of €0.01 each 100% Trading
Smashlet OY Finland 8,000 ordinary shares of €1 each 100% Dormant
Sepura Deutschland GmbH Germany One ordinary share of €250 and
  one ordinary share of €24,750 100% Sales support
Sepura Seviços de Brazil Six thousand ordinary shares
Intermediação e Marketing em  of R$1,000 each 100% Sales support
Equipamentos de Radio Ltda
Sepura LLC The State of Delaware, 
 United States of America One ordinary share of $1 100% Sales support
Sepura Overseas Limited England & Wales One hundred ordinary shares   Holding 
  of £1 each 100% company
    
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 106 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
7. Stock
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Raw materials     1,800 2,953
Work in progress     1,526 3,339
Finished goods and goods for resale     5,011 5,658
     8,337 11,950
   
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stock and its replacement cost.
8. Current asset investments
Current asset investments of €2,306,000 (2013: €5,319,000) comprise short-term bank deposits, which are classified as cash in the Group’s 
financial statements which are prepared under IFRS.
9. Debtors
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Amounts falling due within one year:   
Trade debtors     32,574 28,700
Other debtors     259 165
Deferred tax asset including €10,361,000 due after one year (see Note 10)    11,387 12,501
Prepayments and accrued income     1,321 1,372
Amounts due from Group undertakings     788 172
     46,329 42,910
   
10. Deferred tax
The Company’s deferred tax assets relate to timing differences in respect of:
 
  Cash-flow Tangible  Equity-settled
  hedges fixed assets Losses share options Net
  €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2013  248 2,120 9,886 247 12,501
Charged (credited) to the profit and loss account  – (820) (119) 158 (781)
Recognised in equity  (333) – – – (333)
At 28 March 2014  (85) 1,300 9,767 405 11,387
     
Deferred tax liabilities have been offset against deferred tax assets as there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current 
tax liabilities within the same fiscal jurisdiction. There was no unprovided deferred taxation at the end of either period.
The Company’s deferred tax asset has been recognised as, based on historical performance and future budgets, the Directors believe that it is 
probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the assets will reverse. The net deferred tax asset has been classified within 
debtors in Note 9 above.
The Finance Act 2013, which provides for reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and to 
20% effective from 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. These rate reductions have been reflected in the calculation of 
deferred tax at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 107
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
11. Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments comprise foreign exchange forward contracts. Further details are given in Note 31 to the Company’s 
consolidated financial statements.
12. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Trade creditors     18,658 15,031
Corporation tax payable     181 –
Other taxation and social security     1,007 1,664
Accruals and deferred income     10,173 9,944
     30,019 26,639
   
13. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Accruals and deferred income     4,826 7,018
   
14. Provision for liabilities
   2014   2013
 Warranty Contingent  Warranty Contingent
 provision consideration Total provision consideration Total
 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period 1,388 5,000 6,388 1,617 – 1,617
Settled during the period – (5,000) (5,000) – – –
Arising on acquisition of Portalify OY 
as described in Note 6 to the Company’s  
consolidated financial statements – 4,905 4,905 – – –
Arising on acquisition of 3T Communications – – – – 5,000 5,000
Charged to the profit and loss account 441 – 441 613 – 613
Utilised in period (602) – (602) (842) – (842)
At the end of the period 1,227 4,905 6,132 1,388 5,000 6,388
      
Warranty provision
The warranty provision is an estimate of the future costs of rectifying potential defects in products shipped to customers whilst they are under 
warranty cover. Warranty cover is typically provided over a period of three to five years, depending on the product and territory concerned. 
The Company also has back-to-back warranties of between twelve and fifteen months with the majority of its sub-contract manufacturers  
to limit risk on liabilities arising on manufacturing defects. 108 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
15. Called up share capital
Authorised share capital
   2014   2013
 Number £ €’000 Number £ €’000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of £0.0005 each 400,000,000 200,000 227 400,000,000 200,000 227
     
Issued share capital
During the period the following changes occurred in the Company’s issued, allotted and fully paid share capital of Ordinary shares of  
£0.0005 each:
     Share Share
     capital premium
   Number £ €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2012 and 29 March 2013   137,318,580 68,659 78 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes   25,517 13 – –
Issue of shares to settle contingent consideration  
relating to the acquisition of 3T Communications AG   1,301,334 651 1 999
At 28 March 2014   138,645,431 69,323 79 999
    
Treasury shares
During the period the following changes occurred in the number of Ordinary shares held in Treasury:
     Aggregate Employee
     consideration consideration
    Number €’000 €’000
At 30 March 2012       
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    1,844,712 1,702 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (1,712,729) – 671
At 29 March 2013    131,983  
Purchase of Ordinary Shares for Treasury    850,000 1,323 –
Exercise of options under employee share option schemes    (478,551) – 163
At 28 March 2014    503,432  
16. Share options
Information on share options which have been granted to Directors and employees is given in Note 27 to the Company’s consolidated 
financial statements.
17. Profit and loss account
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
At the beginning of the period     39,185 36,719
Profit for the financial period     7,101 6,614
Dividends paid     (3,020) (2,420)
Employee share option schemes: value of employee services     664 772
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,125 (1,469)
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares     (1,323) (1,702) 
– issue of shares to settle  employee share options    163 671
At the end of the period     43,895 39,185
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the period ended 28 March 2014 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 109
Strategic Report Governance Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements
18. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
     2014 2013
     €’000 €’000
Profit for the financial period     7,101 6,614
Dividends paid     (3,020) (2,420)
Employee share option schemes: value of employee services     664 772
Cash flow hedges, net of taxation     1,125 (1,469)
Issue of shares     1,000 –
Treasury shares  – purchase of own shares     (1,323) (1,702) 
– issue of shares to settle  employee share options    163 671
Foreign exchange     (46) –
Net additions to shareholders’ funds     5,664 2,466
Opening shareholders’ funds     39,263 36,797
Closing shareholders’ funds     44,927 39,263
19. Operating lease commitments
At 28 March 2014 the Company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows:
   Other  Other
   operating Land and operating Land and
   leases buildings leases buildings
   2014 2014 2013 2013
   €’000 €’000 €’000 €’000
Expiring within one year   6 20 6 20
Expiring between two to five years inclusive   – 912 – 891
   6 932 6 911
20. Bank facilities
On 14 October 2011 the Company entered into a five year, £18 million revolving credit facility, none of which was drawn down at the end 
of the period. The total costs associated with taking out the new facility were €244,000, which are being amortised over the life of the facility 
agreement. The facility is secured by a fixed and floating charge over the Group’s assets.
21. Contingent liabilities
The Company has entered into guarantee and performance bond arrangements with its customers totalling approximately €3.0 million 
(2013: €1.75 million). The Company is also subject to disputes with suppliers during the ordinary course of business. Provision is made for any 
amounts that the Directors consider will probably become payable under such arrangements.
22. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to parent companies under FRS 8, “Related party disclosures”
 not to disclose transactions and balances with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
23. Ultimate controlling party
The Directors do not consider that Sepura plc has an ultimate controlling party, as no individual shareholder is able to exercise control over  
the Company.
24. Post balance sheet event
On 20 May 2014 the Company announced the acquisition of Fylde Micro Limited. Details are provided in Note 34 to the Company's 
consolidated financial statements. 110 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Shareholder Information
Share services and information
Equiniti, the Company’s Registrars, provide a range of shareholder information on-line. You can check your holding and find practical help on 
transferring shares and updating your personal details at www.shareview.co.uk. Equiniti may also be contacted on 0871 384 2030 (calls to this 
number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras), or by writing to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex  
BN99 6DA. Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Callers from outside the UK should dial +44 (0) 121 415 7047.
Share dealing service
An internet and telephone share dealing service is operated by Equiniti, enabling shareholders to buy and sell Sepura plc Ordinary shares  
on the London Stock Exchange. Shareholders who are interested in using these services should visit www.shareview.co.uk or telephone  
0845 603 7037.
ShareGift
Shareholders, who hold only a small number of shares, where dealing costs make it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating 
them to charity though ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The relevant share transfer form  
can be obtained from their website www.sharegift.org or by writing to ShareGift, 5 Lower Grosvenor Place, London SW1W 0EJ, or by 
telephoning +44 (0) 20 7828 1151.
Dividends/payments to mandated accounts/Dividend Reinvestment Plan
We recommend to you that you have all your future dividends paid direct into your nominated bank or building society account via the 
Bankers’ Automated Clearing System (BACS). This service provides you with cleared funds on the dividend payment date, is more secure  
than sending a cheque by post and avoids the inconvenience of paying each dividend by cheque. A tax voucher will still be sent to your 
registered address.
You can take advantage of this convenient and popular method of payment by visiting www.shareview.co.uk, or by completing the dividend 
mandate form that will be sent to you with your dividend cheque on 8 August 2014. Alternatively, you can contact the Company’s Registrar, 
Equiniti, by telephone 0871 384 2030 or by writing to them at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Lines are open 
8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. Callers from outside the UK should dial +44 (0) 121 415 7047. Please quote your Shareholder Reference 
Number as detailed on your dividend tax voucher or share certificate.
Shareholders have the opportunity of using their cash dividend payments to increase their shareholding in Sepura plc through the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”). Participation in the DRIP will mean that in future all your dividends will be reinvested in Sepura plc shares, which 
will be purchased on your behalf in the market on or as soon as practicable after the relevant dividend payment. An explanatory booklet, 
which also contains the terms and conditions of the DRIP, and an application form will be sent to you on request. If you wish to join the DRIP, 
please read the terms and conditions carefully and return the completed application form in the reply paid envelope provided. (Alternatively, 
you can access the details and download the application form from the investor section of the Company’s website). Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 111
Company Secretary
Tony Hunter
Registered Office
Radio House
St Andrews Road
Cambridge
CB4 1GR
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 876000
Fax: +44 (0) 1223 879000
Email: info@sepura.com
Website
www.sepura.com
Registered number
4353801
Registrars
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Service helpline:
Tel:  0871 384 2030 (UK)
+44 (0) 121 415 7047 (Overseas)
www.shareview.co.uk
Corporate brokers
Investec Bank (UK) Limited 
2 Gresham Street
London 
EC2V 7QP
Liberum Capital
Ropemaker Place 
25 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9LY
Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Ashton House
497 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes
MK9 2LD
Independent Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and  
Statutory Auditors
Abacus House
Castle Park
Cambridge 
CB3 0AN
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 460055
www.pwc.com
Legal Advisors
Linklaters LLP
One Silk Street
London
EC2Y 8HQ
Eversheds LLP
One Wood Street, 
London, 
EC2V 7WS
Financial PR Consultants
Bell Potinger
6th Floor, Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London
WC1V 7QD
Contact Details and Advisers Financial Calendar 2014/15
Annual General Meeting  30 July 2014
FY14 Final Dividend: Key Dates
Ex-dividend 2 July 2014
Record 4 July 2014
Payment 8 August 2014
FY15 Interim Results Announcement
Provisional November 2014
FY15 Interim Dividend: Key Dates*
Ex-dividend 11 December 2014
Record 13 December 2014
Payment 7 January 2015
FY15 Financial Period End 27 March 2015
FY15 Final Results Announcement
Provisional June 2015
*provisional and subject to Directors’ decision to declare
Sepura plc is a public limited company registered in England No. 04353801 and its Ordinary shares are traded 
on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange (ticker: SEPU).
Sepura plc is the parent company of the Sepura Group of companies. Unless otherwise stated, the text in this 
Annual Report does not distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company and those of 
its subsidiary undertakings.
This is the Annual Report of Sepura plc for the 12 month period ended 28 March 2014 and complies with UK 
legislation and regulations. It is also available on the Company’s website.
© Sepura 2014. The name ’Sepura’ and its logo device, and all other brand or product names referred to in this 
Annual Report, are registered trademarks or trademarks pending registration (in accordance with the relevant 
national laws worldwide) of the Sepura Group of companies. All rights reserved.
Cautionary statement
The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Annual 
Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, future events and circumstances can cause results and developments 
to differ materially from those anticipated. No undertaking is given to update the forward-looking statements 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Nothing in this Annual Report should be 
construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the Ordinary shares of Sepura plc.
Directors’ liability and indemnity arrangements
Under the Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect of certain 
statements in, and omissions from, this Annual Report. Under English law, the Directors would be liable to the 
Company (but not any third party) if any errors were made as a result of reckless or knowing misstatement or 
dishonest concealment of a material fact, but they would not otherwise be liable. This Annual Report has been 
drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the liabilities of the Directors 
shall be limited and restricted accordingly.
112 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Design & production
www.carrkamasa.co.uk Sepura plc
Radio House
St Andrews Road
Cambridge
CB4 1GR
T: +44 (0) 1223 876000
F: +44 (0) 1223 879000
