 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Severn Trent Plc
Severn Trent Plc
Registered ofﬁce:
2297 Coventry Road
Birmingham B26 3PU
Telephone: +44 (0)121 722 4000
www.severntrent.com
Registered number: 2366619 Contents
Governance
30 Board of directors
Biographical details of the directors
32 Directors’ report
35 Corporate governance report
Role of the board, board committees,
internal control and risk management
40 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ emoluments, pensions and 
service agreements
Group ﬁnancial statements
52 Independent auditors’ report 
53 Consolidated income statement
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
56 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense
57 Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
Company ﬁnancial statements
102 Independent auditors’ report
103 Company balance sheet
104 Company statement of total recognised
gains and losses
105 Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
Other information
115 Five year summary
Comparisons on proﬁt and loss, 
net assets, dividends and share price
116 Information for shareholders
Financial calendar, shareholder analysis 
and company information
Quick read
1 Financial highlights
Group ﬁnancial highlights for 2005/06
2 At a glance
Overview and facts about our businesses
Direction
4 Chairman’s statement
Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trent’s
results, performance and outlook and
corporate responsibility
6 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview, Biffa demerger and
operational performance
8 Business focuses
Focus, highlights and outlook for each of
Severn Trent’s main businesses
Performance review
16 Water and Sewerage
Performance information for Severn Trent
Water in 2005/06, and progress on its Ofwat
targets for 2005-10
18 Waste Management
Performance information for Biffa, a review
of its market position and a summary of 
its Collection, Landﬁll, Special Waste and
Power Generation activities
20 Laboratories
Performance information for STL in the US
and UK and overviews of market conditions,
outlook and the businesses’ market strategies
21 Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Performance information for Water
Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
and an overview of its increasing 
presence in growth markets
22 Other Businesses
Performance information for Severn Trent’s
systems and property businesses
23 Corporate responsibility
Overview of our corporate responsibility
programme, business ethics, environmental
impacts and health and safety
26 Financial review
Overview of Severn Trent’s results, 
ﬁnancial position and cash ﬂows
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
This document is printed by CTD Sage Print on Mohawk Options 100% PC. The paper is manufactured 
in accordance with FSC standards from 100% post-consumer recycled waste and is 100% process
chlorine free. Only wind energy is used during the papermaking. Both the paper mill and printing 
involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Tayburn. Financial highlights
Quick read
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  1
Group turnover
up 13.9% to
£2,295.0m
2005: £2,014.4m
Group proﬁt before tax
up 18.0% to
£270.0m
2005: £228.8m
Group proﬁt*
up 39.5% to
£322.4m
2005: £231.1m
> Encouraging group
results
> New strategy
> Dividend raised
> Intention to return capital
Earnings per share*
up 37.6% to
77.2p
2005: 56.1p
Final dividend
31.97p
Total for the year 51.13p
Total shareholder return
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31-03-01 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06
Severn Trent Plc
Value (£)
FTSE 100 Index
This graph shows the value, at 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Severn Trent
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100
Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends.
* before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value 
adjustments (see income statement)
* from continuing operations before exceptional items, 
IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax (see note 13) At a glance
Severn Trent is a leading 
FTSE 100 water group, with
revenues of £2.3 billion.
We intend to create value 
through a strategy that will 
focus on water. We intend to
demerge Biffa by the end of
October, increase gearing and
return capital to shareholders. 
By concentrating our efforts 
on raising standards, customers
will receive the beneﬁts of
reliable, high quality and 
cost effective services for 
clean water and sewerage.
You can ﬁnd out more about
Severn Trent Plc and the
businesses within our group 
at www.severntrent.com
Group
Turnover
£2,295.0m
16,312 employees
Quick read
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Water and Sewerage
Turnover
£1,150.9m
48.8%
of group turnover*
5,188 employees
Waste Management
Turnover
£712.3m
30.2%
of group turnover*
5,552 employees
Laboratories
Turnover
£167.0m
7.1%
of group turnover*
2,797 employees
Water Puriﬁcation and
Operating Services
Turnover
£267.8m
11.4%
of group turnover*
2,425 employees
Quick read
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  3
Severn Trent Water provides
water and sewerage services to
around 3.7 million household
and business properties in
England and Wales.
Biffa is one of the largest
integrated waste management
companies in the UK. It provides
collection, recycling, landﬁll and
hazardous waste services to
commercial, industrial and 
local authority customers.
Severn Trent Laboratories
provides environmental testing
services in the UK and the US.
From service centres and
laboratories across the US and
UK, it serves a client portfolio of
blue-chip companies.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating
Services is one of the world’s
largest water and wastewater
treatment companies. Its
operational efﬁciency and
investment in technology and
product development have
delivered an excellent track
record of organic growth.
Key strengths
> Strong and sustained track
record in Ofwat efﬁciency and
performance assessments
> Drinking and wastewater
quality consistently above
average
> Leadership role in its sector
and region on climate change
adaptation
> Excellent record in
biodiversity, community
investment, and education.
Key strengths
> Competitive advantage 
in commercial and 
industrial collections
> Modern, specialist ﬂeet 
with high levels of fuel 
and operational efﬁciency
> 35 landﬁll sites throughout
the UK, all with ISO14001
certiﬁcation
> Excellent special waste
capabilities covering
hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste.
Key strengths
> Market leaders in the US 
and UK, with strong brand
recognition
> Reputation for technical
excellence and responsive
customer service
> Record of innovation and
being at the forefront of 
new markets, such as 
vapour intrusion 
> Good progress on major IT
projects which will further
improve customer service 
and help us exploit scale.
Key strengths
> Strong market position and
brand recognition
> Strategy of focusing on high
margin business opportunities
> Continually expanding
product and technology base
> Emphasis on cost control and
operational efﬁciency
> Strong product and
technology base in growing
markets such as arsenic
removal and global metering
products.
For further information please visit
www.stwater.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.biffa.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.stl-inc.com
www.stl-ltd.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.severntrentservices.com
www.stwaterinternational.com
* before elimination of intra-group sales Chairman’s statement
We have unveiled a new comprehensive strategy 
for the Severn Trent group of companies which 
will have at its heart a focus on water.
Our UK integrated waste management business,
Biffa, is to be demerged from the Severn Trent group
of companies, subject to shareholder approval.
The board of Severn Trent Plc ﬁrmly believes 
that the creation of two separate listed companies,
Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated
boards and experienced management teams
focused on continued strategic and operational
development with access to their own capital, will
deliver greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers
and employees.
Following the proposed demerger Severn Trent Plc
is expected to remain the UK’s second largest listed
water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100,
continuing to focus on delivering investment
programmes, improving efﬁciencies and customer
service levels.
Our strategy also means that Severn Trent 
Laboratories US is no longer considered a 
core activity so we shall look to improve its
business performance while we consider how to
best realise its value for shareholders. Severn Trent
Laboratories UK will remain in the group as it plays 
an important role working with Severn Trent Water.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, while a small proportion of the group, 
is proﬁtable and growing and has synergy with our
water business so will be allowed to develop under
close management and tight budgetary control.
Our new strategy also allows us to become more
ﬁnancially efﬁcient by increasing our debt to
regulated capital value ratio to 60% by 2010, 
the start of the next regulatory review period.
We also expect to return cash to shareholders, 
the amount and timing of which is still to be
determined.
Our Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, outlines in the
next two pages the reasons behind our new strategy.
Group results
Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered 
an encouraging performance in 2005/06, with
group proﬁt from continuing operations before 
tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional
items at £322.4 million, an increase of 39.5% 
and group proﬁt from continuing operations 
before tax was £270.0 million (£228.8 million), 
an increase of 18%.
The board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 
31.97 pence (30.30 pence) to be paid on 
2 August 2006. This would give a total dividend 
for the year of 51.13 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
Corporate responsibility
Our ambition is to make Severn Trent the best
water company in the UK and restore the trust 
of our customers and Ofwat. We are determined 
that the unacceptable mistakes of 2000-2004,
however caused, will not be repeated.
We have accepted the conclusions of Ofwat’s interim
report concerning allegations of false reporting
made against Severn Trent Water in 2004.
Ofwat’s interim report found that we had
overcharged our customers during 2004/05 
and had set prices too high for 2005/10.
Our internal investigations and Ofwat’s
investigations have been thorough and lengthy,
requiring complex judgements. Our judgements
have not been identical to Ofwat’s in every aspect,
but in the interests of making amends as soon as
possible, we concluded it was sensible to proceed
by agreement, and have apologised unreservedly.
Having considered Ofwat’s ﬁndings, we agreed 
that customer accounts should be credited as 
soon as possible and bills altered appropriately 
in subsequent years.
As the Ofwat report acknowledges, the board of
Severn Trent Plc and the new senior management
team started in 2004 to make major changes to
organisation structure, to people and to processes
and controls. The intense drive to improve Severn
Trent Water will continue to be a top priority 
for its new Managing Director, Tony Wray, and 
his management team as well as for myself, 
Colin Matthews and the rest of the Severn 
Trent Plc board.
Direction
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Sir John Egan
Chairman Direction
As a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious 
Fraud Ofﬁce is undertaking a criminal investigation
into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat
by Severn Trent Water between 2000 and 2003
concerning leakage. Severn Trent is supporting
Ofwat in its review of these allegations and will 
co-operate fully with the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce.
We acknowledge that Ofwat may expect further
amends to be made to customers. Ofwat has stated
that this penalty will be discussed with Severn
Trent Water on completion of the Serious Fraud
Ofﬁce investigation into leakage.
The board has also provided Ofwat with an interim
report into the misreporting of customer relations
data over several years.
We will co-operate fully with Ofwat to restore
conﬁdence in Severn Trent Water going forward.
We have taken, and will continue to take, all actions
we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of
both high ethical and professional standards and
resilient and effective controls throughout all group
companies.
Board, management and staff
John McAdam, a non-executive director, stepped
down from the board in September 2005 after ﬁve
years of valued service for which I thank him.
Derek Osborn, a non-executive director, retired 
from the board in March 2006, after seven years 
of valuable contributions, particularly concerning
environmental issues and I wish him well.
Martin Flower, senior independent non-executive
director and Deputy Chairman, stood down from
the board in June after ten years’ service. I am
extremely grateful for his support, particularly in
ensuring continuity on the board and support for
our new management team.
Mark Wilson, Group Finance Director, stood 
down from the board in December 2005 after 
ten years at the heart of three regulatory reviews. 
I am grateful to Mark for his contribution to the
group’s success.
Mark’s successor as Group Finance Director, 
Mike McKeon, joined us in December 2005.
Formerly Group Finance Director of Novar Plc, 
the building materials group, Mike worked with
Rolls Royce Plc and has had extensive international
business experience for CarnaudMetalbox, 
Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
We also welcomed two new non-executive 
directors, Richard Davey and Bernard Bulkin, 
from January 2006.
Richard, a former Head of Investment Banking for
NM Rothschild & Sons, is a non-executive director
of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc. He 
was appointed senior independent non-executive
director and chairman of the Remuneration
Committee with effect from 11 June 2006.
Bernard is chairman of AEA Technology Plc 
and is a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable
Development Commission. He retired from 
BP Plc as Chief Scientist in 2003.
Fiona Smith joined as General Counsel and
Company Secretary in February 2006, having been
General Counsel for Transport for London and
previously the National Grid Group. She replaced
Peter Davies who retired with our best wishes.
We again carried out rigorous board effectiveness
reviews with the help of independent consultants,
which have generated a number of actions to
secure improvements to board performance.
I would also thank our dedicated and hard working
staff whose commitment during a particularly
intense year has ensured we continue to achieve
our business objectives.
Outlook
Our objective over the next four years is to ensure
customers in our water businesses get the beneﬁts
of high quality and cost effective services while
ensuring investors receive an appropriate return.
We believe that the newly focused water group 
will be able to pay a progressive dividend as a
consequence.
Our dividend policy will therefore be to increase
dividends by 3% above RPI inﬂation until 2010.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  5 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview
When I took over as Group Chief Executive in
February 2005 I said I would concentrate on
operational improvements for all our businesses,
but particularly Severn Trent Water and Biffa as
they account for some 96% of group proﬁt.
Since then my new team and I have undertaken
the most detailed examination of all aspects of 
our activities to understand the business drivers 
so we can be certain of the foundations of our
future direction.
Focus on water
Severn Trent Water is one of the country’s largest
water and sewerage companies. The company 
has great experience and strengths, along with
important plans for improvement. By concentrating
our efforts on raising standards across the entire
business, customers will receive the beneﬁts of
reliable, high quality and cost effective services 
for clean water and sewerage. 
In addition these strategic changes, particularly 
the demerger of Biffa, will support a more efﬁcient
balance sheet allowing a return of capital to
shareholders. We intend to increase group debt 
to 60% of regulated capital value as soon as
practicable after the demerger. The amount,
mechanism and timing of any returns will be
communicated in due course and will depend on
future decisions around the debt structure of the
demerged Biffa, pension fund contributions and
ﬁnal costs of the demerger. 
Moreover, these improvements should lead to strong
ﬁnancial returns. We believe the group will be able
to deliver enhanced growth in dividends, and our
new policy will therefore be to increase dividends
by 3% above RPI inﬂation through the remainder
of the current AMP4 period, that is until 2010.
Biffa
The most signiﬁcant transaction required to achieve
this group transformation is the demerger of Biffa,
which was separately announced on 4 April 2006.
Biffa is itself a leading business in an attractive
market, and we believe that greater shareholder
value will be realised by the creation of a separately
listed company, focusing all its attention on
developing the waste management business. 
In 2005/06, organic growth within Biffa has been
re-ignited and we believe the prospects for the
business are strong. We have recently announced
Bob Davies as the new chairman for Biffa and we
expect the demerger to be completed by the end of
October 2006. We will provide further details in
due course. 
Other businesses
US Laboratories is no longer regarded as being 
a core business for the future. US Laboratories 
is a strong, market leading company engaged in
environmental testing. The long term prospects for
market growth are good, although the last 2 years
have been challenging. We are conﬁdent that the
ﬁrm actions already in hand will lead to a recovery
in margins, and as we see these results being
achieved we will consider the appropriate actions
to realise shareholder value.
The group announced on 12 May that Biffa Belgium
has been sold to Veolia for €45 million. Completion
of this sale is expected by the end of June and is
subject to Belgian competition clearance.
Certain other smaller activities have either 
already been closed to new business (Haswell), 
sold (Aseriti) or are being prepared for sale 
(Severn Trent Property).
Being closely associated with water, UK Laboratories
and Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services will
remain part of the group. Together these business
account for some 3% of group proﬁt.
Severn Trent post demerger
After the demerger Severn Trent will be a focused
water group, generating more than 95% of group
proﬁts, compared with less than 80% today.
It will be the second largest listed UK player in the
water industry whose investment proﬁle will generate
expectations of growth and attractive returns.
Severn Trent management will be able to focus on
the regulated water and sewerage business.
There will still be other businesses in the group which
do have synergies with our core water operations.
We shall keep Severn Trent Laboratories UK. There
are few competitors capable of supplying Severn
Trent Water with the necessary high quality testing
service so it is felt appropriate to retain the business.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, which includes a UK contract for managing
Ministry of Defence sites, is proﬁtable, growing and
improving, and has signiﬁcant synergy with the
water business and, as it is relatively small, it will
not distract management from a focus on water.
The creation of a new strategy will allow us to
increase our gearing to a more ﬁnancially efﬁcient
level while still remaining prudent with an eye on
regulatory developments into the next AMP period
in 2010 and beyond.
Direction
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Colin Matthews
Group Chief Executive Direction
Health and safety
I deeply regret to report two fatalities; a Biffa
contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and a Biffa
employee was struck by a car. Biffa management
has implemented the most rigorous investigation
across all its operations as a result, with an
independent audit, and has made signiﬁcant
changes to reduce the possibility of such 
incidents happening again.
Overall the Severn Trent group reported a 27.5%
reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate
per 1,000 employees.
Not only is safety important in its own right but it
is also important as a broad indication of quality
across the group. We will continue to concentrate
heavily on improving our safety performance.
Water and Sewerage
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water began the ﬁrst year
of the AMP4 contract, which covers the period
2005-10. Ofwat has set us exacting efﬁciency
targets for this period, and during the year we
began to implement the organisational changes
necessary to achieve them.
Progress was good. We reduced employee numbers;
removed management layers in order to improve
information ﬂow; reviewed and consolidated ofﬁce
accommodation in order to control overheads; and
began a programme to streamline our procurement
process. 
We aimed to meet the Ofwat determination overall,
getting our costs down to the Ofwat proﬁle in two
years. Excluding energy costs we have done rather
better than that. However, the current outlook for
energy has more than offset that advantage. We will
be striving to get back in line with the Ofwat proﬁle.
Capital expenditure is more positive. Capex and
infrastructure renewals amounted to £434 million.
Adjusting for changes agreed with Ofwat, and
timing differences, we have generated
approximately 6% efﬁciency over and above the
determination. We plan to maintain similar out-
performance over the rest of AMP4.
Waste Management
Biffa worked in 2005/06 on a major review of how
the UK waste market is developing and Biffa’s
position within it, as part of the demerger preparation.
We have a competitive advantage in the industrial
and commercial collection market, a good position
in landﬁll, and excellent special waste capabilities
through our treatment centres. Biffa has the
potential to develop recycling revenues signiﬁcantly.
Biffa enjoys a leading position in a dynamic market
place. I suggested a target of 8% for renewed
organic growth six months ago, I am pleased 
that the result, 11%, comfortably beats that.
Biffa has a sustainable strong position within the
waste industry. We shall use our scale in Collection
to deliver improving service and efﬁciencies. We
can develop recycling opportunities as the market
evolves while carefully managing our pricing and
capacity in Landﬁll.
Having spent more time in Biffa than when I ﬁrst
reported last year, I am convinced that there is a
great opportunity to bring about the same ‘process
improvement’ revolution that worked through
factory environments over recent decades and is
now revolutionising service industries.
Laboratories
Severn Trent Laboratories provides environmental
testing services in the US and the UK. In the US,
market conditions were challenging in 2005/06.
Federal funding for environmental projects
continued to be impacted by the diversion of funds
to military activities in Iraq and to hurricane relief. 
In the UK, market conditions were more favourable,
with legislation like the Landﬁll Directive creating
new business opportunities.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
The business produced good results in 2005/06,
increasing turnover and proﬁts. We maintained our
strategy of concentrating on higher margin business
and growth markets.
Environment
I am pleased that the group’s climate change
programme has continued to develop over the 
last 12 months. We have continued to expand
renewable energy generation within both Severn
Trent Water and Biffa and in July 2005, working
with the Carbon Trust, we published a Carbon
Management Report which investigated the 
long term challenges and opportunities that 
climate change presents for the UK water 
and waste industries.
Outlook
Performance at Severn Trent Water has been 
good in the ﬁrst year of AMP4, with operating 
costs reduced to within £4 million of the Ofwat
determination. The outlook for the coming year is
for continuing progress in meeting and improving
on the AMP4 contract for operating costs across
most areas of performance, with an additional 
£5 million to £10 million of savings identiﬁed.
However, the industry faces a signiﬁcant challenge
with rising energy prices. At present, the outlook 
for energy prices in 2006/07 mean that increased
costs in this area are expected to impact Severn
Trent Water by around £25 million. In relation to
capital expenditure, we aim to maintain around 
6% efﬁciency out performance over the remaining
AMP4 period.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  7 Water and Sewerage
Severn Trent Water
Direction
8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Focus
2005/06 was the ﬁrst year of the AMP4 contract.
We began work to deliver our ﬁve year £2.6 billion
capital investment programme, to maintain and
improve water supply and quality, sewage
treatment and to meet our other regulatory
targets for 2005-10. Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  9
Highlights
> Turnover up 13.4% to £1,150.9 million 
> We implemented organisational changes that
will cut overheads and increase efﬁciency
> We appeared in the top category in the 
DWI’s water quality tables for the eighth
successive year
Outlook
After good progress on the ﬁrst year of the 
AMP4 programme, we are on track to meet 
our regulatory obligations for 2005-10. 
The organisational changes, cost controls 
and improved procurement procedures we
introduced during 2005/06 will help us deliver
those obligations and achieve our targets.
Laying the groundwork to 
improve efﬁciencies and make
investments necessary to 
achieve ambitious targets Waste Management
Biffa
Direction
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Focus
Biffa undertook a major review of the UK 
market and its market position in 2005/06. 
This conﬁrmed its strengths in commercial/
industrial collection, landﬁll, and special 
waste treatment. It also showed good scope 
for developing recycling revenues.
Strength and scale to 
take advantage of emerging
opportunities in a growing
marketplace Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  11
Highlights
> Turnover up 13.2% to £712.3 million
>  New national accounts in Collection 
with well known brands and chains
>  Rising unit revenues in Landﬁll
>  Increased renewable energy generation
capacity
Outlook
Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to
demerge Biffa in 2006. A dedicated board and
access to its own capital will provide Biffa with 
a strong platform for maintaining its record of
solid organic growth and serving customers. Laboratories
STL
Direction
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Focus
Severn Trent Laboratories continued to focus on
service standards, cost controls and operating
efﬁciency in 2005/06 in the US and the UK. 
We also continued to seek out and maximise 
new opportunities and markets in 
environmental testing.
Highlights
> Turnover up 7.7% to £32.3 million 
in the UK business
> Strong activity in air testing in the US 
and contaminated soils testing in the UK
> New laboratory project in Ecuador and an
acquisition in New Orleans in 2005/06
Developing a competitive 
edge and improving standards 
for a challenging environment  Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  13
Outlook
Good market conditions in the UK look likely to
continue, and we expect growth in some market
sectors in the US. Severn Trent Laboratories’
reputation for service and innovation should 
help it compete strongly in those areas. Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Direction
14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Focus
Both divisions of the Water Puriﬁcation and
Operating Services business have produced good
results in 2005/06. Strong market position and
brand recognition combined with an emphasis on
cost control and operational efﬁciency puts the
business at the forefront of emerging markets.
Delivering good results 
with a clear focus on 
higher margin business 
in growth markets Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  15
Highlights
> Turnover up 28.7% to £267.8 million
> Large contracts in the Middle East to supply
domestic water meters
> 2005/06 was the ﬁrst year of the 25 year, 
£1 billion PFI contract with the UK’s Ministry 
of Defence
Outlook
There are good growth prospects across the
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business. Positive market conditions are 
expected to continue and we believe we have 
the reputation, expertise and technology base 
to capitalise on those opportunities. Review of operations
Water and Sewerage
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 1,150.9 1,015.1 13.4
Proﬁt* 400.4 307.5 30.2
*Before interest, tax and exceptional items (see note 4)
Health and safety
23% improvement in RIDDOR
*
reportable injuries
2005/06 36
2004/05 47
*RIDDOR – Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations
Water quality
Overall compliance with
drinking water quality 99.96%
2004/05 99.94%
Severn Trent Water met its ﬁnancial targets for 
the year 2005/06. Turnover increased by 13.4% 
to £1,150.9 million. The allowed increase in charges
for 2005/06, including inﬂation, was 15.2%.
In reviewing our prices, Ofwat takes account of:
> The need to maintain existing standards 
of our products and services
> Our levels of compliance with standards
achieved over the last ﬁve years
> The need to secure our water resources in 
the event of prolonged dry weather conditions
> Areas of concern identiﬁed by customers 
as being of highest priority
> All new legislation affecting drinking water 
and environmental improvements
> The need to provide a reasonable return 
for our investors
> The affordability of our proposed plans
Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional items 
was up 30.2% to £400.4 million. This was after 
a provision for £10.6 million, the expected cost
relating to 2005/06 and prior years of the
agreement made with Ofwat to credit each
customer account during 2006/07, following 
the regulator’s interim report of 7 March 2006.
Improving the efﬁciency of the business
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water began the ﬁrst 
year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the 
period 2005-10. 
Ofwat has set us exacting efﬁciency targets for 
this period, and during the year we began to
implement the organisational changes necessary 
to achieve them. 
Progress was good. We reduced employee numbers;
removed management layers in order to improve
information ﬂow; reviewed and consolidated ofﬁce
accommodation in order to control overheads; and
began a programme to streamline our procurement
processes. The last of those measures involves
establishing long term relationships with a reduced
number of suppliers, incentivising them to make
continuous improvements, and standardising
designs where possible. 
We also carried out two major in-sourcing projects.
At the end of 2004/05, Severn Trent Plc announced
that the Haswell engineering consultancy business
would cease bidding for external work, and
engineers working on our AMP4 programme would
be absorbed into Severn Trent Water. In addition,
some 270 staff from Aseriti transferred to Severn
Trent Water, bringing our IT systems activities in-
house. In both cases, the transitions progressed
smoothly, and we are seeing beneﬁts from bringing
engineering and IT expertise back into the business.
Working towards AMP4 targets
Our contract for 2005-10 includes a capital
investment programme of approximately 
£2.6 billion. This includes:
> more than £400 million on maintaining 
water supplies
> £150 million on improving drinking 
water quality
> around £850 million on maintaining and
improving river quality
> more than £350 million improving sewers 
and dealing with sewer ﬂooding
Our focus in the ﬁrst year was to implement the
new procurement and supply chain processes that
we will use in the programme, and to mobilise the
900 projects that we are due to manage. Net capital 
expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure
maintenance, was £305 million for the year.
Performance review
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Tony Wray
Managing Director, 
Severn Trent Water Performance review
The one area of the AMP4 contract where our
2005/06 results were disappointing was leakage.
The dry summer of 2005 contributed to this
performance, causing higher than average levels of
burst pipes. Reported actual leakage has increased
by approximately 17 Megalitres per day, 3%
greater than 2004/05. We have now increased the
resources dedicated to detection and reduction of
leakage, and we believe that, by the end of the
AMP4 period, we can reduce our leakage ﬁgures to
below the target level set by Ofwat.
We own and operate over 1,000 sewage treatment
works treating the wastewater from the equivalent
of over 10 million people. The discharges from all
except the very smallest of these works are the
subject of stringent quality testing. During 2005/06
99.86% of those works complied with the important
regulatory sanitary standards. This is, and has
always been, at or close to the best level of
compliance in the industry.
Serving our customers
Customers’ views gathered in market research have
been used extensively in the development of our
strategy. This research has been in place for over a
decade and includes regular tracking of customers’
attitudes and opinions every six months. 
Our customers tell us that their top priority is the
safety and reliability of their drinking water. In July
2005, the Drinking Water Inspectorate’s (DWI)
league table on water quality again showed that
Severn Trent Water is achieving a quality level above
the industry average. This is the eighth successive
year that we have appeared in the top category.
The DWI also praised the accessibility of water
quality information on Severn Trent Water’s website.
Despite a dry summer, we maintained water supply
to our customers across the whole of our region,
and did not need to impose hosepipe bans. Water
levels in our reservoirs were good at the year-end.
We continued to promote water efﬁciency among
domestic and business customers. Since evidence
suggests that dry years are likely to become more
frequent, our AMP4 programme includes measures
to improve security of water supply, and to make
sure that we have sufﬁcient water resources to
meet customers’ future needs. 
We also understand that customers feel that
improvements to drainage, in order to prevent
ﬂooding of properties by our sewers, are important.
Our commitment for the AMP4 period is to achieve
a net reduction of 158 in the number of properties
at risk of ﬂooding from our sewers more than 
once in ten years. Our programme of works 
to permanently reduce the risk of internal 
and external ﬂooding will beneﬁt an estimated
1,300 properties.
In 2005/06 we continued to implement our new
customer service technologies: the TARGET billing
system and ICE (Improving Customer Experience).
The roll-out of the systems coincided with the price
rises introduced at the start of the AMP4 period,
and this increased the levels of customer contacts
and complaints we received. This proved
challenging at times, but we did succeed in
transferring all our customers to the new system
and we are satisﬁed that it is serving them well.
In March 2006, the Ofwat interim report into
allegations of false reporting found that we had
overcharged our customers during 2004/05 and
had set prices too high for 2005-10. Immediately
following the report, we apologised unreservedly to
all our customers. We have agreed with Ofwat a
mechanism for rebating them, and we had already
voluntarily proposed to raise prices by £7 million
less than allowed under the 2006/07 price limits.
Ofwat measures the service that we provide to
customers by a series of indicators known as DG2
to DG9. These cover: water supply pressure,
interruptions and restrictions; sewer ﬂooding
problems; speed of response to three types of
contact with customers; and the proportion of
metered customers who receive a bill based on an
actual meter reading. Further details, along with the
levels of service for the water industry can be found
in the Ofwat annual report on www.ofwat.gov.uk. 
At the end of February 2006, we also began an
investigation into misreporting of customer
relations data to Ofwat. The data concerns the
handling of customer billing queries and telephone
contacts over several years. We have kept Ofwat
fully informed on the progress of the investigation.
Corporate responsibility
There is a strong focus on corporate responsibility
(CR) in Severn Trent Water, and the tangible 
results of this in 2005/06 included energy
management and generation programmes; 
support for community and education projects;
progress on our Biodiversity Action Plan; and
improvements to our health and safety performance. 
More details on Severn Trent Water’s CR programme
can be found in the corporate responsibility section
of this report.
Outlook
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water made a good start
to AMP4. Although it is too early, after just one year
of the ﬁve year period, to forecast our eventual
performance on the contract, we are conﬁdent
about our ability to control operating costs and
deliver our ﬁve year capital programme. We believe
we are on track to deliver the AMP programme and
meet our regulatory obligations. 
Severn Trent Water
management have
focused on improving
quality of operations
and strengthening and
streamlining internal
controls
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  17 Review of operations 
Waste Management
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 712.3 629.5 13.2
Proﬁt* 89.2 78.9 13.1
*Before interest and tax 
Power generation
Turnover up 32.2% 
to £18.9 million
Biffa had another year of good organic growth in
2005/06. Turnover in the UK was £712.3 million,
up 13.2%. 
In the UK, proﬁt before interest, tax and 
exceptional items was 13.1% higher than 
2004/05, at £89.2 million. 
Collection
Biffa has one of the largest waste collection
networks in the UK, with over 65 depots and more
than 1,600 vehicles. We collect 3.5 million tonnes 
of waste each year from about 80,000 industrial
and commercial customers and from over 1 million
households, which include two fully integrated
waste management contracts under the Private
Finance Initiative with Isle of Wight and Leicester
City Councils.
The industrial and commercial collection business
grew strongly in 2005/06, and the division secured
a number of new national accounts across various
market sectors including retail, leisure and ﬁnance.
New accounts included well known high-street
names such as Sainsbury’s, DSG International plc
(Currys, PC World, The Link and Dixons) and Boots.
Our ability to provide nationwide coverage and
bespoke recycling services was instrumental in
several of these contract wins. 
There were new contract wins in the municipal
sector too. Biffa won a recycling contract 
for 56,000 properties in Bridgend, Wales; and 
a three year contract with Vale of Glamorgan,
covering the managing and processing of
recyclable materials and servicing ‘bring banks’.
Biffa’s contract with South Staffordshire was
extended for a further six years.
Biffa worked with its local authority customers to
help them meet their targets on value, efﬁciency
and recycling. For example, in Burnley, Mole Valley,
South Shropshire, South Staffordshire and Woking,
this took the form of introducing alternative weekly
and fortnightly collections incorporating green
waste and dry waste collection services.
Gross turnover in the Collection division was
£429.0 million, up 14.8%. Proﬁt before interest 
and tax was £60.1 million, up 16.5%. Industrial 
and commercial margins remained ﬁrm, and
absorbed cost increases arising from the Road
Transport Directive, which came into force in 2005.
This restricted the number of hours that drivers
can work, and led us to renegotiate pay structures
with our drivers.
Landﬁll
Government targets on diversion from landﬁll are
reducing the amount of waste going to landﬁll, 
and landﬁll volumes were down 8.2% in 2005/06.
However, unit revenues from landﬁll rose, with the
result that turnover in the Landﬁll division was up
14.3% to £302.8 million. Proﬁt before interest and
tax was up 2.8% to £40.8 million.
The Landﬁll division continued to take advantage of
new market opportunities in 2005/06. In 2004/05
Biffa formed a strategic alliance with Biogenie Site
Remediation to remove and treat contaminated soil
from brownﬁeld construction sites. Following that
alliance, we opened our ﬁrst soil facility at Risley,
Warrington in November 2005, and we plan to open
two further facilities in the south-east of England.
Initial tonnages at Risley were encouraging. 
In addition, during 2005/06 Biffa’s composting
sites accepted approximately 47,000 tonnes of
green waste. 
Biffa won its ﬁrst signiﬁcant landﬁll contract 
in Northern Ireland in early 2006. The new
Cottonmount II landﬁll site will receive over
700,000 tonnes of waste over an initial 29 
month period from the Arc21 partnership, a 
group of 11 Northern Irish councils. We also 
won a four year disposal contract with
Warwickshire County Council.
Performance review
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Martin Bettington
Managing Director, Biffa Performance review
Special Waste
Biffa’s Special Waste division provides a range of
services and technologies for managing hazardous
waste streams. 
One of the biggest changes affecting the Special
Waste division in 2005/06 was the entry into force
of the EU Hazardous Waste Regulations in July 2005.
As a result of the legislation, many companies had
to register as hazardous waste producers for the
ﬁrst time, and our Special Waste division set up a
helpline and registration service to assist them. 
Turnover in Special Waste was up 5.1% in 2005/06,
to £49.2 million. Proﬁt before interest and tax was
£1.9 million, up 18.8%.
Power Generation
Gross turnover from power generation was up
32.2% to £18.9 million and proﬁt before interest
and tax was up 47.1% to £7.5 million.
The division, which uses landﬁll gas to generate
electricity, is a signiﬁcant provider of renewable
energy in the UK. During 2005/06 we added new
power generation capacity at a number of sites,
bringing total generation capacity up to 108MW,
compared with 101MW at March 2005.
Belgium
On 12 May 2006 the group agreed to sell Biffa
Belgium to Veolia for €45 million. The transaction
is conditional upon clearance from the Belgian
competition authorities and is expected to
complete before the end of June 2006.
Biffa Belgium has been classiﬁed as a discontinued
operation. Its turnover in 2005/06 was £58.4
million (£66.7 million) and its loss before interest
and tax was £4.1 million (proﬁt £3.3 million).
Corporate responsibility
I deeply regret to report two fatalities; a Biffa
contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and in a
separate incident a Biffa employee died after 
being struck by a car. We have implemented 
the most rigorous investigations and made
signiﬁcant changes to reduce the possibility 
of such incidents happening again. 
An awareness of Biffa’s duty towards the
environment, our workforce and the communities
around our sites is embedded in our operations
and culture. Evidence of that awareness in 2005/06
included renewable energy generation activities; an
energy efﬁciency programme in ﬂeet; and
community and education activities.
As in 2004/05, we have continued to run a
company wide health and safety culture change
programme, involving all employees. The
importance of health and safety initiatives was
recognised with the introduction this year of the
Biffa health and safety awards scheme, which
acknowledged employees’ contributions to making
their working environment a safer place. We have
also improved communication of health and safety
issues including the distribution of several new
videos and DVDs covering alcohol and drugs misuse
awareness, manual handling and employees talking
about the effect an incident has made on their lives. 
Several Biffa employees were also recognised
through the group Health and Safety Champions
Awards, with a Biffa employee winning the Overall
Champion award. His idea for developing a simpler
and safer operating technique has been applied
across the business.
More details on Biffa’s CR programme can be found
in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
Outlook
At the end of the 2005/06 ﬁnancial year, the board
of Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to
demerge Biffa in the UK by the end of 2006. This
was based on the belief that the creation of a
separately listed company, Biffa Plc, would deliver
greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers and
employees. 
Biffa will continue to guide our customers through
the requirements of new EU and UK legislation. 
As one of the UK’s leading waste management
businesses, we will also continue to beneﬁt from
scale and development opportunities. 
During 2005/06 the business undertook a major
review of how the UK waste market is developing
and Biffa’s position within it. The review indicated
that we have a competitive advantage in the
industrial and commercial collection market, a
good position in landﬁll, and excellent special waste
capabilities through our treatment centres. It also
showed that Biffa can develop recycling revenues
signiﬁcantly. 
Our strengths in collection, landﬁll and special
waste are a strong basis for delivering our strategy
of organic growth, both before and after the
demerger. 
Biffa is well positioned
in the largest and 
most attractive market
segments
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  19 Review of operations 
Laboratories
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 167.0 162.6 2.7
Proﬁt* 11.1 15.2 (27.0)
*Before interest and tax 
In 2005/06, market conditions in the US were 
very difﬁcult for Severn Trent Laboratories (STL).
Federal funding for environmental projects was
impacted by the continued rise in the federal
deﬁcit as well as the diversion of funds to 
military activities outside of the US, whilst the 
worst hurricane season on record took STL’s
environmental consulting clients away from their
normal scope of work to engage in hurricane 
relief and repair efforts. These factors led to serious
price erosion which impacted proﬁt margins.
In the UK, market conditions were more favourable,
exempliﬁed by the Landﬁll Directive legislation
which created new business opportunities.
Around 81% of Severn Trent Laboratories’ turnover
derives from the US, so the 2005/06 results were
affected by the challenging market conditions
described above. Turnover in the US increased by
1.6% to £134.7 million, and proﬁt before interest
and tax was down 43.3% to £5.9 million. 
Market strategy
In the US STL continues to pursue a long term
strategy centred around service excellence. Coupled
with tight cost controls and continued operating
efﬁciency improvements, STL will work to rebuild
the margin shortfall. A programme of cost
reductions took place in 2005/06 and this will
beneﬁt performance in 2006/07 and beyond.
STL continued to implement a new Information
Management System in the US, which will bring 
all locations onto a single IT platform. This will help
exploit STL’s unmatched scale in the US market,
further improve service by reducing project turn-
around times, and improve the delivery of complex
electronic data. The system has been rolled out to
more than half of the US laboratories.
In 2005 STL set up a new laboratory for a major
US client in Ecuador. This facility will enable STL to
address local testing needs, and also gives STL the
potential to expand activities in South America if
suitable opportunities are identiﬁed.
US markets
Whilst the general market picture in the US is
challenging, speciﬁc areas remain vibrant. There 
is strong activity in the air testing market, and,
within that, there are good opportunities in 
vapour intrusion testing. There are also good
growth prospects in sediment testing related 
to harbour/port clean-up and transportation
infrastructure. In 2005/06 STL started work on a
large $2.5 million sediment testing project on the
New Orleans Harbour, and though work on this was
interrupted by Hurricane Katrina, it is expected to
resume in 2006/07.
The New Orleans Harbour project was not the only
aspect of STL work affected by the severe hurricane
season of 2005. STL has six laboratories within the
hurricane belt of the southern US, and all
experienced problems related to hurricane activity
such as disruptions to power supply and reduced
sample collection and delivery activity. However,
following the experience of the previous year, STL
had contingency plans in place, and these did help
to address the impact of the hurricanes on STL
business activities.
STL also decided to expand its base in New
Orleans, by acquiring the business of
Environmental Analytical Services Inc. This facility
will enable STL to better support clients affected by
last year’s hurricanes in the gulf coast region.
In the UK market conditions were more favourable.
Turnover was up by 7.7% to £32.3 million and proﬁt
before interest and tax was up 8.3% to £5.2 million.
The UK business is strongly focused on the testing 
of samples from UK water clients including Severn
Trent Water but STL also saw strong demand for
contaminated soils testing, arising from the
provisions of the Landﬁll Directive. STL created a
dedicated Waste Acceptance Criteria laboratory at
its site in the Midlands. This helps waste producers
comply with the UK’s Waste Acceptance Criteria,
which also arise from the Landﬁll Directive.
Outlook
We do not expect any major increase in US federal
environmental budgets in 2006/07, nor do we
expect signiﬁcant growth in sectors that are driven
by regulation. However, we have positive
expectations about continuing growth in certain
segments of the market including air testing and
vapour intrusion, as well as testing for sediments
and endocrine disrupters. We also have positive
expectations for continued growth in the sale of
groundwater sampling equipment and remediation
pumps through STL’s US subsidiary QED
Environmental Systems and expect strong market
conditions in the UK soils testing market to
continue.
Performance review
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Signiﬁcant progress on
laboratory IT systems
standardisation
Rachel Brydon Jannetta
President and CEO, STL Review of operations 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Performance review
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 267.8 208.1 28.7
Proﬁt* 12.0 8.9 34.8
*Before interest, tax and exceptional items (see note 4)
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’ divisions
both produced good results in 2005/06, increasing
turnover and proﬁts. Both divisions maintained
their strategy of concentrating on higher margin
business and growth markets.
Turnover in Water Puriﬁcation and Operating
Services was up by 28.7% to £267.8 million.
Around 62% of that arose in the US. Proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items increased to
£12.0 million, a rise of 34.8%. The impact of
exchange rates on the ﬁgures was immaterial.
Alongside the business concentration on achieving
organic growth in 2005/06 was an intense focus 
on health and safety performance.
Water Puriﬁcation
The Water Puriﬁcation division’s turnover rose by
14.7% in 2005/06 to £104.1 million. Proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items was up 11.2%.
These ﬁgures now include turnover and proﬁt from
the Metering Services business, formerly part of 
the Operating Services division.
Metering Services performed well in 2005/06. 
Two trends made a major contribution to this: 
in the UK we saw rising demand for domestic
meter installation; and in the Middle East we 
won large contracts in Abu Dhabi and Qatar to
supply our SmartMeter™ domestic meters.
Performance in the other businesses within the
Water Puriﬁcation division was slightly down on 
the previous year although they had some success,
in particular the ﬁltration and electro-chlorination
business. Arsenic removal is a growing market for
Severn Trent Services, and our partnership with
Lanxess on SORB 33® arsenic removal technology
and Bayoxide® E33 arsenic removal media gives
us a strong market position. In 2005/06 we were
delighted to have reached agreement on the
extension of our partnership with Lanxess on
arsenic removal in the industrial and municipal
water sector for another ﬁve years. We expect to
see further opportunities in arsenic removal, not
just in our existing markets in the US and Europe,
but in new markets like India.
In parts of the US, new regulations on ballast water
will come into force in 2006/07, and there are
good commercial opportunities ahead. In January
2006, Severn Trent De Nora’s BalPure system was
the ﬁrst commercial product to be selected by the
US Coast Guard and the US Environmental
Protection Agency for validation at the Naval
Research Laboratory Ballast Water Treatment
Testing Facilities in Florida.
Operating Services
This division comprises our Contract Operations
business, which carries out operating and
maintenance contracts in the US; our Pipeline
Services business; and Severn Trent Water
International (STWI), which provides management
and consultancy services in Europe and the
developing world.
Turnover in this division was up 39.6% to £163.8
million. Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional
items was up 67.2%. These ﬁgures include Coast 
to Coast Water (C2C), the 25-year, £1 billion PFI
contract with the UK Ministry of Defence, which
commenced on 30 March 2005. 
In the Contract Operations business in the US, we
saw some signiﬁcant contract wins and extensions.
We also secured a three year contract in Jordan, 
in the Middle East, our ﬁrst contract in the region.
Contract Operations continues to beneﬁt from
market conditions in the US, where tight ﬁscal
constraints mean that states and municipalities 
are looking to outsourcing and public private
partnership solutions for improving operational
performance.
On 2 June 2006 we signed heads of terms 
to sell our interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish
Government for approximately £30 million. The
sale is expected to be completed in July 2006.
Outlook
There are good growth prospects across all 
of Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’
businesses. The Water Puriﬁcation market will
continue to grow, both in the US and UK, and in
the developing world. Our product technologies 
and strong brand recognition will help us compete
vigorously in that market. We also plan to increase
our direct presence in the global marketplace,
expanding our sales and distribution channels.
In Operating Services, we expect the positive
market conditions to continue. We have a strong
position in the operating and maintenance
contracts market, and we intend to capitalise 
on that position and grow our business further. 
We also expect to see good results coming from 
the Coast to Coast contract in the UK, which will
grow in terms of both importance and size.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  21
Len Graziano
President and CEO, 
Water Puriﬁcation 
and Operating Services
The Water Puriﬁcation
market will continue to
grow, both in the US
and UK, and in the
developing world Review of operations 
Other Businesses
Performance review
The group has
continued to rationalise
its other activities 
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Other Businesses’ turnover was down 31.2% to
£59.7 million (£86.8 million). They incurred a 
loss before interest, tax and exceptional items of
£3.5 million (proﬁt of £7.0 million). There were 
no signiﬁcant property transactions contributing to
proﬁt in 2005/06. After exceptional restructuring
costs of £3.1 million (£3.8 million) Other
Businesses incurred a loss before interest 
and tax of £6.6 million (proﬁt of £3.2 million).
Systems 
The termination of external sales of the UK IT
service business, which was announced in last
year’s preliminary announcement, was completed
and this business is now refocused entirely to
provide solutions to internal group companies. 
The group’s remaining Systems businesses 
were sold to Logica in February 2006.
Property
During the year, Severn Trent Property sold its
interest in the Tournament Fields ofﬁce scheme at
Warwick and the remaining land at the Direct 2,
Oldbury, West Midlands, both realising an
acceptable proﬁt.
At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal,
where planning permission has been granted 
for a further 2 million sq ft, work continues on
infrastructure design and costing. Marketing of 
the site will begin shortly, with the aim of securing
substantial pre-lettings before construction work
commences.
At Midpoint Park in Birmingham, a site of 
90 acres owned by Severn Trent Water, a resolution
to grant planning permission has been issued by
Birmingham City Council. Formal consent should
be issued shortly and initial infrastructure works
will then commence.
Following a strategic review it has been decided
that Severn Trent’s Property business is a non-core
business and a sale process has recently
commenced.
Engineering Consultancy
The group’s Engineering Consultancy business has
ceased taking on new external business but will
complete existing contracts. Its expertise has been
transferred to Severn Trent Water to support that
company’s capital programme.
Insurance
Derwent Insurance, Severn Trent’s captive insurer
provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group
companies. Review of operations 
Corporate responsibility
Performance review
Severn Trent Plc’s corporate responsibility (CR)
programme focuses on delivering environmental
improvements, and making a positive difference to
the social and economic welfare of our communities.
The programme is steered by Severn Trent’s
Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the
Group Chief Executive. A set of detailed policies
and targets deﬁnes how the group’s CR vision and
values are incorporated into our business activities.
The vision, values and current targets are set out 
in detail on Severn Trent’s website.
In 2005 Severn Trent was named as the utilities
sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index for the ﬁfth consecutive year. The
ranking acknowledges Severn Trent’s sustainability
leadership and our determination to deliver 
high-quality environmental services in a responsible
manner. 
The key performance indicators presented in the
graphs and tables in this CR section have been
independently veriﬁed by Acona as part of our 
CR veriﬁcation programme.
Business ethics
Corporate responsibility starts with getting core
business standards right. In this regard we faced 
a signiﬁcant challenge in 2005 in the form of our
own, and Ofwat’s investigations, into allegations
made against Severn Trent Water in 2004 of false
reporting of regulated data. The investigations
found evidence of a limited number of staff who
became aware of wrong behaviour but did not raise
any concerns, and we accept that this was partly
due to weaknesses in Severn Trent Water’s system
of controls, culture and business ethics at that time.
With the arrival of the new management team at
Severn Trent Water in 2004 and 2005, we have
been strengthening internal processes, controls,
ethics and culture. As a result of a comprehensive
review of all Severn Trent Water’s business activities
we are undertaking a further investigation into 
misreporting of customer relations data to Ofwat.
The ongoing change programme within Severn
Trent Water includes promoting a culture based 
on openness and evaluation of all aspects of
performance, bad as well as good, where every
member of staff practises proper business ethics.
We have developed a new group policy on ethical
behaviour at work, which includes mechanisms 
and safeguards for whistle blowing, to support 
the revised Code of Conduct. 
We will continue our efforts to review and improve
Severn Trent’s culture and ethics in 2006/07 and
beyond.
Environment
Severn Trent’s greatest environmental impacts are
related to climate change and resource
management. In 2005/06 we continued to drive
forward our responsible management of those
impacts. Targets for each of these areas are
detailed on our website.
The waste and water sectors are signiﬁcant
emitters of greenhouse gases. The majority of
Severn Trent’s greenhouse gas emissions,
measured as carbon dioxide (CO
2
) equivalent, arise
from methane emissions from landﬁlls, indirect
emissions from purchased electricity and emissions
from transport. Our work to control these includes
improving landﬁll gas capture, a comprehensive
review of energy efﬁciency within Severn Trent
Water, and the introduction of biodiesel to Biffa’s
transport ﬂeet. We reduce net emissions by
generating renewable energy, and in 2005/06 we
continued to expand generation capacity. At the
end of March 2006, installed generating capacity 
at Biffa’s sites was 108MW, compared to 101MW 
at March 2005. Severn Trent Water also increased
its energy generation capacity, from 27MW at
March 2005, to 28MW a year later. 
Group renewable energy generation 
increased by 13.6%
2005/06 691,668 MWh
2004/05 608,779 MWh
Data is for sites under group control. 2004/05 data is restated.
Severn Trent aims to lead the policy debate on
climate change in the waste and water industries.
In 2005 we published the Carbon Management
Report, describing the results of the carbon
management study we undertook with the support
of the Carbon Trust. The study developed a set of
projections for our greenhouse gas emissions
through to 2020, with the aim of improving our
understanding of future emissions trends, and
priority areas we need to address. We face a
challenge to control emissions in the future due 
to the requirements of environmental legislation
such as recycling targets and the Water Framework
Directive. The full Carbon Management Report
appears on our website.
In 2005/06 we subsequently worked on two further
studies to improve our control of net emissions,
again with the support of the Carbon Trust. The
ﬁrst looked at how Severn Trent might explore
other renewables technologies in order to reduce
net emissions, and this has fed into our business
planning processes. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  23
Severn Trent was named
as the utilities sector
leader in the Dow Jones
Sustainability World
Index for the ﬁfth
consecutive year Review of operations 
Corporate responsibility continued
Performance review
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Key sources of greenhouse gas emissions
(CO
2
equivalent)
The second investigated the potential greenhouse
gas emissions and related energy cost implications
of different technology choices for water and waste
treatment. In analysing our long term investment
choices in the context of greenhouse gas emissions,
we aim to put climate change at the very heart of
our business.
Adaptation is the other theme of Severn Trent’s
climate change programme. Severn Trent Water
took a leading role in Sustainability West Midlands’
Climate Change Partnership, helping the West
Midlands to understand and adapt to the potential
impacts arising from climate change. Biffa
completed a series of adaptation workshops in
2005/06, assessing how climate change could
affect key areas of the business. 
Our work on resource management focuses on two
principal elements: reducing our own consumption
of natural resources and helping our customers
manage resources, through activities like recycling.
Reducing leakage is an important part of both our
own and our customers’ management of resources.
In our corporate responsibility report published
later this year and following the June Return to
Ofwat, we will provide a breakdown of demand and
leakage for Severn Trent Water. We will also outline
our work with domestic and industrial customers
and our education programme to improve water
conservation. 
Biffa handled 1.12 million tonnes of solid waste for
recycling and recovery, 12.2% of the total amount
of solid waste directly disposed of. Developments in
2005/06 included extending commercial glass
collections nationwide, and increasing composting
activities. 
Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa continued to
expand their Biodiversity Action Plans in 2005/06. 
Proportion of waste recycled or recovered 
by Biffa was 12.2% in 2005/06
Workplace
As described earlier, we devoted considerable
management time to workplace ethics in 2005/06,
working to entrench a culture of openness and
honesty. Alongside that, we continued a rigorous
programme to improve health and safety
performance across the group. Tragically, the
importance of health and safety was underlined by
two fatalities; a Biffa contractor was hit by a Biffa
vehicle and a Biffa employee was struck by a car.
Biffa management has implemented the most
rigorous investigation and made signiﬁcant
changes to reduce the possibility of such incidents
happening again.
Among a wide range of measures implemented
during 2005/06 were: restructuring the businesses’
health and safety departments to align them 
more closely with divisional structures; introducing
a health and safety multiplier in directors’
performance bonuses; and launching group-wide
‘Champion of Safety’ awards.
Our strong focus on health and safety in 2004/05
and 2005/06 led to a great improvement in our
performance in 2005/06. The RIDDOR reportable
incident rate for the group as a whole was 
17.3 per 1,000 employees, a reduction of 
27.6% compared to the previous year. 
Severn Trent believes that a diverse workforce is
important to the success of the company. We
regularly review our working practices to ensure
equality of opportunity, and we promote the
importance of good working relations based on
fairness, equality and inclusiveness. We are aware
that we must do more to improve our diversity
performance over the coming months. Our work to
achieve this includes: monitoring diversity proﬁles
across the group; targeted recruitment initiatives;
diversity awareness training for staff and managers;
and benchmarking our policies and practices
against best practice organisations.
2004/2005 2005/2006 2005/2006 2004/2005
1.63
1.53
0.37 0.36
0.12 0.13
-0.26
-0.30
Offset by 
energy generation
(group)
Waste recycled 
or recovered by Biffa
Total waste 
Landﬁlled at Biffa’s sites
1.13 1.12
8.05
8.77
10
8
6
4
2
0
Million tonnes Million tonnes CO
2 e
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
-0.5
Methane from
landﬁll (Biffa)
Electricity use
(Severn Trent
Water)
Transport
(Biffa) Performance review
Full details of our 
CR programme can be
found on our website
www.severntrent.com
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  25
Health and safety performance
27.6% reduction in RIDDOR
reportable incident rate 
Per 1,000 
employees
2005/06 17.3
2004/05 23.9
2004/05 data is restated.
Most group companies have their own intranets
and magazines which form a major communication
channel with their employees. Employee opinion
surveys are used to provide feedback on a range 
of issues. 
Group companies continue to maintain positive
relationships with the recognised trade unions and
with other elected representatives. The group’s
meeting of its European Consultative Council 
is an annual opportunity to promote dialogue 
with employee representatives and enhance 
their understanding of the issues facing our
businesses in Europe.
Training is also essential to the continuing success
of the group. We are continually expanding our
staff development programmes and tools, which
include learning resource centres, e-learning,
audiovisual materials, and programmes with leading
business schools such as Warwick and Aston.
We continued to encourage share ownership 
in 2005/06, and we offer a number of plans
including a Save As You Earn Scheme, and 
a Share Incentive Plan.
Community
We maintained our commitment to community
investment and community liaison in 2005/06. 
Our community investment programme continued
to focus on three main areas: environmental
education, the built environment, and the natural
environment. We worked with nine partner
charities: WaterAid, Birmingham Cares, Leicester
Cares, Cromford Venture Centre, Bridlegate,
Stonebridge City Farm, VSO, Crash-IT, and Ackers. 
Biffa’s landﬁll tax credit scheme, Biffaward,
distributed almost £8.6 million in 2005/06 to over
200 individual projects. They included, for example,
urban regeneration projects, a project to double 
the population of the brown hare, and a grant 
for the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre.
Education remained a priority of Severn Trent’s
community activities. Severn Trent Water continued
the BeSmart initiative, which encourages school
children to learn about water and the important
role it plays in our lives. Biffa’s interactive
educational CD on waste won two prestigious
communications awards. 
Marketplace
Supply chain assessment has been the object 
of increasing public attention in recent years as
companies seek to understand their responsibilities
and improve performance within their sphere 
of inﬂuence. We intensiﬁed our focus on supply
chain assessment after we expressed support 
for the UN Global Compact Principles in 2004. 
Severn Trent agreed group supply chain
assessment objectives and targets in May 2005,
and these are published on our website. Later in
the ﬁnancial year, we conducted a comprehensive
review of the different businesses’ supply chain
assessment processes. The review covered ﬁve
areas of CR concern: environment, human rights,
health and safety, bribery and corruption, and
working with minority or small and medium-sized
enterprises. 
The review was completed in February 2006 and 
in 2006/07 we will use its ﬁndings to build on
existing good practice within the group, and to
identify priority areas for improvement in the
individual businesses.
Severn Trent is sensitive to issues of affordability
and the needs of vulnerable customers, especially
given the price increases scheduled for 2005-10.
One of the ways in which we provide for those
customers is a substantial annual grant to the
Severn Trent Trust Fund, an independent charity
established in 1997 to help customers in genuine
economic difﬁculty.
Each year around 8,000 people in Severn Trent
Water’s region apply for the Trust’s help with
paying water and other utility bills, and over 70%
of those applicants receive ﬁnancial assistance.  Financial review
Group turnover from continuing operations was
£2,295.0 million (£2,014.4 million), an increase of
13.9% over last year. The growth in turnover was
mainly due to the price increases in Severn Trent
Water; strong growth in Landﬁll and Collection at
Biffa and the new Ministry of Defence contract in
Operating Services, which were partially offset 
by the reduction in activity in the Other Businesses.
Group proﬁt from continuing operations before
interest, tax and exceptional items was up 22.4% 
to £488.2 million (£398.8 million). There was 
a net exceptional charge of £15.7 million 
(£2.3 million) – see below. Group proﬁt from
continuing operations before interest and tax 
was £472.5 million (£396.5 million).
After net interest charges of £167.9 million (£169.5
million) and share of results of associates and joint
ventures of £2.1 million (£1.8 million), group proﬁt
from continuing operations before tax, exceptional
items and IAS 39 fair value adjustments was up
39.5% to £322.4 million (£231.1 million). Group
proﬁt from continuing operations before tax was
£270.0 million (£228.8 million).
The total tax charge for the year was £42.7 million
(£71.5 million) of which current tax represented
£48.8 million (£33.8 million) and deferred tax was
a credit of £6.0 million (charge of £29.4 million).
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations
was £227.3 million (£157.3 million).
Basic earnings per share from continuing
operations were 65.2 pence (45.4 pence). Adjusted
basic earnings per share (before exceptional items,
IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax)
were 77.2 pence (56.1 pence), an increase of 37.6%.
Biffa Belgium, the sale of which was announced on
12 May 2006 and was classiﬁed as a discontinued
operation, incurred a loss of £4.3 million (proﬁt of
£0.8 million).
Exceptional items
There was an exceptional charge in the year of
£15.7 million, which comprised:
> a charge of £7.9 million for restructuring costs,
including £4.8 million in Water and Sewerage
and £3.1 million in Other Businesses; and 
demerger and related costs of £7.8 million 
in Corporate;
In 2004/05 there was a net exceptional charge of
£2.3 million which comprised:
> a charge of £10.4 million relating to
restructuring costs in Water and Sewerage;
> a charge of £3.8 million, resulting from the
closure of Systems’ US CIS business and the
termination of external sales from Systems’ UK
IT Services business and Engineering
Consultancy;
> a £4.3 million credit from the disposal of Water
Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’ investment
in an associated company in Portugal; and
> a £7.6 million credit from the proﬁt on sale of
ﬁxed assets in Water and Sewerage.
Performance review
26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Group results 
Financial highlights
2006 2005 % change
Turnover* (£m) 2,295 2,014 13.9
Proﬁt* before interest and exceptionals (£m) 488 399 22.4
Proﬁt* before interest (£m) 473 397 19.2
Proﬁt* before tax, exceptionals and IAS 39 (£m) 322 231 39.5
Proﬁt* before tax (£m) 270 229 18.0
Earnings* per share before exceptionals, IAS 39 and deferred tax (p) 77.2 56.1 37.6
Earnings per share (p) 63.9 45.7 39.8
Gearing (%) 60.9 61.0
Final dividend (p) 31.97 30.30 5.5
Interim dividend (p) 19.16 18.21 5.2
Total dividend for the year (p) 51.13 48.51 5.4
*From continuing operations (see notes 4 and 13)
Michael McKeon
Group Finance Director Performance review
Taxation
The charge for current tax on continuing operations
was £48.7 million (£37.9 million). The current tax
charge has beneﬁted from a release of £39.1
million charged in prior years following the
agreement of the corporation tax computations for
years up to and including 2002/03 (2004/05:
release of £11.5 million). The effective rate of
current tax calculated on proﬁt before tax,
exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value
adjustments was 28.7% (21.0%). Tax Bulletin 53,
which changes the tax treatment of deferred
revenue expenditure in Severn Trent Water,
increased the effective rate of tax by approximately
3.4% and permanent differences increased the
effective rate by a further 6.4%. These impacts
were partially offset by lump sum pension
contributions which reduced the effective rate of
current tax in the year by 4.5%.
Going forward we would expect the effective rate 
of tax for the current group structure to be in the
range of 30% to 35%. The planned demerger of
Biffa along with other announced changes will
impact this expectation.
Cash ﬂow
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash generated from 
operations 758.9 623.3
Net capital expenditure (395.9) (406.4)
Net interest paid (180.1) (151.1)
Tax paid (68.3) (36.5)
Other cash ﬂows (0.2) 2.5
Free cash ﬂow 114.4 31.8
Dividends (234.3) (162.0)
Acquisitions and disposals 1.3 3.4
Financing 11.6 1.4
Change in net debt from 
cash ﬂows 107.0 (125.4)
Cash generated from operations was £758.9 
million (£623.3 million). Capital expenditure 
net of grants and proceeds of sales of ﬁxed assets 
was £395.9 million (£406.4 million) including
capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water of 
£305.3 million (£319.1 million). Interest paid
increased to £180.1 million (£151.1 million) 
due to additional payments of interest on ﬁnance
leases. Tax payments increased as a result of the
higher underlying effective rate of tax. 
The acceleration of dividend payments resulted in
an additional dividend payment of £66.5 million 
in 2005/06.
Net debt at 31 March 2006 was £2,961.1 million
(£2,894.6 million). Year end balance sheet gearing
is 60.9% (61.0%), and the group net debt to RCV 
is 57.4% (57.7%). The group’s net interest charge,
excluding IAS 39 fair value adjustments, was
covered 4.6 times (4.0 times) by proﬁt before
interest, tax, depreciation and exceptional items, 
and 2.9 times (2.4 times) by proﬁt before interest
tax and exceptionals.
Accounting policies
These are the ﬁrst full year results that the 
group has reported under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The impacts of IFRS 
on the group’s results and balance sheet were 
set out in a presentation on 19 September 2005,
which is available on the group’s website. The
group has taken advantage of the exemption
available in IAS 32 and IAS 39 not to restate
comparative information for the impact of those
standards. The opening reserves at 1 April 2005
have been restated to reﬂect the impact of
adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  27 Financial review continued
Earnings per share and dividend
Earning per share from continuing operations,
adjusted to exclude exceptional items, IAS 39 fair
value adjustments and deferred tax, increased by
37.6% to 77.2p (56.1p). Basic earnings per share
from continuing operations were 65.2p (45.4p).
An interim dividend of 19.16p (18.21p), up 5.2%
was paid on 25 January 2006. The board is
recommending the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of
31.97p (30.30p) up 5.5% to make a total dividend
of 51.13p (48.51p).
Treasury management 
The group’s treasury affairs are managed centrally
and in accordance with its Treasury Procedures
Manual and Policy Statement. The treasury
operation’s primary role is to manage liquidity,
funding, investment and the group’s ﬁnancial risk,
including risk from volatility in interest and, to a
lesser extent, currency rates and counterparty
credit risk. Its activities are subject to a set of
controls commensurate with the magnitude of the
borrowings and investments under its
management. The board determines matters of
treasury policy and its approval is required for
certain treasury transactions.
It is the group’s strategy to access a broad range 
of sources of ﬁnance to obtain both the quantum
required and the lowest cost compatible with the
need for continued availability.
The group uses ﬁnancial derivatives solely for the
purposes of managing risk associated with
ﬁnancing its normal business activities. The group
does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial
instruments for ﬁnancial trading purposes. The
group uses a limited number of currency swaps
and interest rate swaps to redenominate external
borrowings into the currencies and interest rate
coupon required for group purposes.
The group’s policy for the management of interest
rate risk requires that no less than 50% of the
group’s borrowings should be at ﬁxed interest
rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate
swaps or forward rate agreements. At 31 March
2006, interest rates for some 72% of the group’s
net debt of £2,961 million were so ﬁxed, at a
weighted average interest rate of 5.7% for a
weighted average period of 14.6 years. This policy
has been implemented by entering into a portfolio
of long dated interest rate swaps that hedge the
group’s economic exposure to changes in interest
rates. However, these swaps are not designated to
particular liabilities and hence do not meet the
criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39. 
Performance review
28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Pensions
The group has four deﬁned beneﬁt pension
schemes, of which the Severn Trent Pension
Scheme (STPS) is by far the largest. Formal
actuarial valuations were undertaken for the STPS
and another scheme, the Severn Trent Senior Staff
Pension Scheme, as at 31 March 2004.
On an IAS 19 basis, the estimated net position
(before deferred tax) of all of the group’s deﬁned
beneﬁt pension schemes and the group’s unfunded
pension liabilities for senior staff was a deﬁcit of
£221.9 million as at 31 March 2006. This compares
with a deﬁcit of £317.5 million as at 31 March
2005. The reduction in the deﬁcit arose because
the increase in assets, from higher than expected
investment returns and increased contributions,
exceeded the increase in liabilities from a reduction
in the discount rate. Total cash contributions to the
schemes in the year was £105.2 million (£62.3
million). This included a payment of £44.4 million
relating to the year 2006/07.
The key actuarial assumptions were:
2006 2005
Discount rate 4.9% 5.5%
Inﬂation 2.7% 2.75%
Expected return on equities 8.0% 8.25%
Life expectancy at age 65* (years)
Men 18.9 18.9
Women 21.8 21.8
*for future pensioners
Net of deferred tax, the estimated net deﬁcit on an
IAS 19 basis as at 31 March 2006 was approximately
£155 million. On an IAS 19 basis, the funding level
has improved from around 77% at 31 March 2005
to around 86% at 31 March 2006.
As at 31 March 2006 the group’s deﬁned beneﬁt
pension schemes had total assets of approximately
£1,403 million, of which around 65% was invested
in equities.
Further details of the group’s pension position are
contained in note 27 to the accounts. Performance review
Consequently the swaps are revalued at each
balance sheet date and the change in fair value is
taken to the income statement as a ﬁnance cost. 
In the year ended 31 March 2006 £36.7 million
was charged to ﬁnance costs in respect of such 
fair value movements.
The group’s business does not involve signiﬁcant
exposure to foreign exchange transactions. Cross
currency swaps are employed to exchange foreign
currency borrowings for sterling. The group also
has investments in various assets denominated in
foreign currencies, principally the US dollar and the
euro. The group’s current policy is to hedge an
element of the currency translation risk associated
with certain foreign currency denominated assets.
The long term credit ratings of Severn Trent Plc
and Severn Trent Water Limited are:
Long term credit ratings
Severn Trent Severn Trent
Water Limited Plc 
Moody’s A2A3 
Standard & Poor’s A A– 
Further details of the group’s borrowings,
investments and ﬁnancial instruments are
contained in note 19 to the accounts.
Exchange rates
Approximately 2% of the group’s proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items and 4% of 
its net operating assets are denominated in 
US dollars and approximately 0.5% of its proﬁt
before interest, tax, and exceptional items and 
1% of its net operating assets are denominated in
euros. The trading results of overseas subsidiaries
are translated to sterling at the average rate of
exchange ruling during the year and their net
assets are translated at the closing rate on the
balance sheet date. 
Supplementary information 
For supplementary information, including the
group’s preliminary results presentation, see the
Severn Trent website (www.severntrent.com).
Michael McKeon 
Group Finance Director 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  29 Board of directors
Sir John Egan KBE MSc BEng (66)*
Sir John joined the board in October 2004 and became
Chairman on 1 January 2005. He is a director of Warwick
Castle Park Trust Ltd and was, until recently, Chairman of
Inchcape plc and Harrison Lovegrove & Co Ltd. Sir John
worked in the motor industry until 1990 at General
Motors, Massey Ferguson and British Leyland, rising to
become Chairman and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc. He
was Chief Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and
Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000. He was also
President of the Confederation of British Industry from
2002 to 2004. Sir John was knighted in the Queen’s
Birthday Honours List in 1986 and is a deputy lieutenant
of the County of Warwickshire.
Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA (50)
Colin joined the board in October 2003, becoming Group
Chief Executive on 1 February 2005. He is a Chartered
Engineer and worked for the (American) General Electric
Company and then for British Airways, ﬁrst as Director 
of Engineering, then as Director of Technical Operations,
responsible for all aircraft maintenance, IT and procurement.
Colin was Group Managing Director of Transco from 2001
to 2002 and CEO of Hays Plc from 2002 to 2004.
Michael McKeon MA CA (49)
Michael joined the board on 13 December 2005 as Group
Finance Director. Prior to that, he was Group Finance
Director of the buildings materials group Novar Plc. He
worked for Rolls Royce Plc from 1997 to 2000 in various
senior roles including Finance Director of the Aerospace
Group. Michael has extensive international business
experience, having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox,
Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse. He is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Tony Wray BSc (Hons) (44)
Tony joined the board in March 2005. He is Managing
Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd. Prior to that, he was
Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Ireland’s
telephone operator. He joined British Gas in 1983 and held
various managerial positions before becoming Head of
Asset Management. In 2000 Tony moved to Transco, ﬁrst
as Director of Asset Management, then as National
Operations Director, before being appointed to implement
the merger integration of Lattice (Transco) and National
Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA (53) 
Martin joined the board in November 1994. He is the
Managing Director of Biffa Plc, Severn Trent’s waste
management business. Martin was previously employed by
BET Plc, Biffa’s former holding company. He holds an MBA
from Manchester Business School.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta FCCA (46)
Rachel joined the board in September 2004. She is
President and CEO of Severn Trent’s US and UK
laboratories businesses. A Fellow of the Chartered
Association of Certiﬁed Accountants, Rachel qualiﬁed as an
accountant in 1984 with Gerber Landa and Gee, an
accounting ﬁrm based in Glasgow. She then spent eight
years in retail management, latterly with an Asda Plc group
company, before joining Severn Trent in 1993 as Managing
Director of its UK laboratories operation. She is also a
director of WaterAid America, the US arm of the WaterAid
charity.
Martin Flower BA (59)* 
Martin joined the board in June 1996 and was appointed
Deputy Chairman in July 2004. He is the senior
independent non-executive director. He is also Chairman 
of Croda International Plc and has been a director of 
The Morgan Crucible Company Plc since December 2004.
Martin retired as Chairman of Coats Ltd in May 2004,
where he had previously been Group Chief Executive.
Martin retires from the board on 10 June 2006.
John Smith FCCA Hon. FRIBA (48)*
John joined the board in November 2003. He is Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer of the BBC and Chief Executive of its
trading arm, BBC Worldwide. He is also Vice President of
the Royal Television Society. John has held a non-executive
directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the
advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and 
served for three years on the Accounting Standards 
Board until November 2004. 
Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA (54)*
Marisa joined the board in September 2001. Until recently
she was Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Group plc
and on 26 June 2006 will be appointed Finance Director
of the John Lewis Partnership. She is a non-executive
director of GFI Group Inc, a company listed on the
NASDAQ, and WSP Group Plc. Marisa is also a member of
the CBI Economic Affairs Committee and a member of the
Financial Reporting Council’s Accounting Standards Board.
She qualiﬁed as an accountant with Deloitte, Haskins &
Sells, rising to Corporate Finance Manager. She moved to
the Prudential Corporation and later became Group
Finance Director at Britannic Assurance plc. 
Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC (48)*
Martin joined the board in September 2003. He is
Executive Vice President and Managing Director of BG
Group’s North American, Caribbean and Global Liqueﬁed
Natural Gas business and a member of the Group
Executive Committee. He joined BG Group in 1983 and
has held a number of technical and commercial roles with
a predominantly international focus. He is a fellow of the
Geological Society of London.
Richard Davey (57)*
Richard joined the board on 1 January 2006 and becomes
senior independent non-executive director on 11 June
2006. He is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building
Society and Amlin Plc. He also served as a non-executive
director of Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of
Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society from
1996 to 2000. The majority of Richard’s executive career
was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild &
Sons where he served in various roles including Head of
Investment Banking. Prior to that, he worked at various
organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited
and Exco International Plc.
Bernard Bulkin, BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE (64)*
Bernard joined the board on 1 January 2006. He is
Chairman of AEA Technology Plc and a non-executive
director of Accelergy Corporation in California. He is 
also a venture partner at Vantage Point, an international
venture capital ﬁrm. Bernard is a commissioner on the 
UK Sustainable Development Commission and a board
member of the UK Centre for Economic and Environmental
Development. He is also a member of the DTI Sustainable
Energy Policy Advisory Board. In 2003 he retired as Chief
Scientist at BP Plc, where he had worked for eighteen years. 
*Non-executive director
Membership of board and operating
committees is as detailed below:
Board committees
Audit Committee
J B Smith (Chairman)
B Bulkin
M L Cassoni
R H Davey
F B Smith (Secretary)
Remuneration Committee
M C Flower 
(Chairman until 10 June 2006)
R H Davey 
(Chairman from 11 June 2006)
M L Cassoni
M J Houston
F B Smith (Secretary)
Nominations Committee
Sir John Egan (Chairman) 
B Bulkin (c)
M L Cassoni
R H Davey
M C Flower (c)
M J Houston
C S Matthews
J B Smith (c)
F B Smith (Secretary)
(c) = Core Members
Corporate Responsibility Committee
C S Matthews (Chairman)
M J Bettington
R S Brydon Jannetta
B Bulkin
Sir John Egan
P J Gavan
L F Graziano
A P Smith
A P Wray
F B Smith (Secretary)
Operating committee
Executive Committee
C S Matthews (Chairman) 
M J Bettington
R S Brydon Jannetta
P J Gavan
L F Graziano
M J E McKeon
A P Smith
F B Smith (and Secretary)
P K Tandon
J van den Arend Schmidt
A P Wray
Senior independent non-executive
director
M C Flower (until 10 June 2006)
R H Davey (from 11 June 2006)
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
F B Smith
Governance
30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  31
Left to right
Sir John Egan* 
Colin Matthews 
Michael McKeon
Tony Wray 
Martin Bettington
Rachel Brydon Jannetta
Martin Flower*
John Smith*
Marisa Cassoni*
Martin Houston*
Richard Davey*
Bernard Bulkin*
*Non-executive director Directors’ report
The directors present their report, together with 
the audited ﬁnancial statements of the group for
the year ended 31 March 2006.
Principal activities 
The principal activities of the group are the supply
of water and sewerage services, waste management
and the provision of environmental services. 
Details of the principal joint venture, associated 
and subsidiary undertakings of the group at 
31 March 2006 appear in notes 17, 18 and 40 to
the ﬁnancial statements on pages 76, 77 and 96.
Business review
The Chairman’s statement, the Group Chief
Executive’s review, the Business focuses for 
the group’s main businesses and the review 
of operations on pages 4 to 29 provide detailed
information relating to the group and its strategy,
the operation of its businesses, and the results and
ﬁnancial position for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing
the group are set out in the Corporate governance
report on page 39.
Research and development
Expenditure on research and development
including amounts capitalised as tangible ﬁxed
assets related to research and development,
amounted to £5.4 million (2005: £5.3 million).
Treasury management
The disclosures required under the EU Fair 
Value Directive in relation to the use of ﬁnancial
instruments by the company are set out in 
note 19 (j) to the accounts on page 81.
Post balance sheet events
On 4 April 2006 the company announced its
intention to de-merge Biffa, its UK integrated 
waste management business.
On 7 April 2006 the company announced it was
giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting 
of customer relations data by Severn Trent Water.
On 12 May 2006 the company announced it 
had agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for 
€45 million.
On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms
to sell its interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish
Government for approximately £30 million.
Dividends 
An interim dividend of 19.16 pence per ordinary
share was paid on 25 January 2006. The directors
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 31.97 pence per
ordinary share to be paid on 2 August 2006 to
shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006. 
This would bring the total dividend for 2005/06 
to 51.13 pence per ordinary share (2005: 48.51p).
The payment of the ﬁnal dividend is subject to
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting. 
Directors and their interests
Details of changes to the board during the 
year and of the directors offering themselves 
for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting
are set out on page 35.
Details of directors’ service contracts are set out 
in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 46.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the
company are shown on page 50.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on
the board are set out on page 30. 
Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the
ﬁnancial statements. The directors have chosen to
prepare the ﬁnancial statements for the group in
accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and for the company in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (UK GAAP). 
In the case of UK GAAP ﬁnancial statements, 
the directors are required to prepare ﬁnancial
statements for each ﬁnancial year that give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company
and of the proﬁt or loss of the company for that
period. In preparing the ﬁnancial statements, the
directors are required to: select suitable accounting
policies and then apply them consistently; make
judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; state whether applicable accounting
standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in 
the ﬁnancial statements; and prepare the ﬁnancial
statements on a going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the group will
continue in business.
In the case of IFRS ﬁnancial statements,
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that
the ﬁnancial statements present fairly for each
ﬁnancial year the company’s ﬁnancial position,
ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows. Directors 
are also required to: properly select and apply
accounting policies; present information, including
accounting policies, in a manner that provides
relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable
information; provide additional disclosures when
compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in
International Financial Reporting Standards is
insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the
impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the entity’s performance; 
and prepare the ﬁnancial statements on a going
concern basis unless, having assessed the ability 
of the company to continue as a going concern,
management either intends to liquidate the entity
or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative
but to do so.
Governance
32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the
company keeps proper accounting records which
disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the
ﬁnancial position of the company. The directors are
also responsible for: safeguarding the assets of the
company and the group; taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities; the preparation of the report of the
directors and the directors’ remuneration report
which comply with the requirements of the
Companies Act 1985; and ensuring the
maintenance and integrity of the company’s
corporate website.
Directors indemnities
The company’s Articles of Association provide that
directors of the company shall be indemniﬁed by
the company against any costs incurred by them 
in carrying out their duties including defending 
any proceedings brought against them arising 
out of their positions as directors in which they 
are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour
or relief from any liability is granted to them by 
the court.
Supplier payment policy 
Individual operating companies within the group
are responsible for establishing appropriate policies
with regard to the payment of their suppliers. 
The companies agree terms and conditions under
which business transactions with suppliers are
conducted. It is group policy that provided a
supplier is complying with the relevant terms and
conditions, including the prompt and complete
submission of all speciﬁed documentation,
payment will be made in accordance with agreed
terms. It is also group policy to ensure that
suppliers know the terms on which payment will
take place when business is agreed. Details of
supplier payment policies can be obtained from 
the individual companies at the addresses shown 
in note 40 to the ﬁnancial statements on page 96. 
Trade creditors for the group at the year-end are
estimated as representing no greater than 30 days’
purchases (2005: no greater than 30 days). Trade
creditors for the company at the year-end are
estimated as representing nil days’ purchases
(2005: 34 days). 
Contributions for political and charitable purposes 
Donations to charitable organisations during the
year amounted to £487,422 (2005: £378,825). The
company focuses on the development of long term
partnerships with charities close to its major sites
and which reﬂect the company’s value of
environmental leadership. The work focuses on
environmental education, the preservation and
enhancement of the natural environment or
addressing social exclusion issues in the built
environment. The company is also committed to
supporting WaterAid, the UK’s only major charity
dedicated to providing safe domestic water and
sanitation to the world’s poorest people.
The company’s policy is not to make any donations
to political parties. However, the Political Parties
Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (the relevant
provisions of which are now contained in Part XA of
the Companies Act 1985) requires certain types of
expenditure on political events to be pre-approved
by shareholders. At the 2005 Annual General
Meeting, shareholders gave the company authority
to cover such expenditure. Pursuant to that
authority, during the year ended 31 March 2006
the group incurred costs of £6,000 (2005: £2,500)
as follows:
> Biffa Waste Services Limited paid a subscription
fee of £1,000 to the Socialist Environment and
Resources Association (SERA), an organisation
which aims to promote sustainable
environmental policies within the Labour
movement and Labour Party to ensure
sustainable development is central to the work
of the government; and
> Biffa Waste Services Limited paid a subscription
fee of £5,000 to the Fabian Society, a left of
centre think tank, which is afﬁliated to the
Labour Party but is editorially and
organisationally independent.
As in previous years, resolutions to renew the
authority will be proposed at this year’s Annual
General Meeting for the company and its principal
subsidiaries.
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 2 June 2006 the company had been notiﬁed
of the following substantial shareholdings: 
Number of ordinary 
shares of 65 
5
⁄ 19p each %
Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26
Investment Management 
Limited 
Barclays plc 10,762,602 3.10
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  33 Directors’ report continued
Share capital
The company was given authority at its Annual
General Meeting in 2005 to make market
purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum
number of 34,749,599 shares. Similar authority will
again be sought from shareholders at this year’s
Annual General Meeting. No market purchases
were made by the company during the year ended
31 March 2006.
Details of movements in share capital are shown in
note 29 to the ﬁnancial statements on page 88.
Employees 
The average number of employees within the group
is shown in note 8 to the ﬁnancial statements on
page 68.
Details of arrangements relating to employee
involvement are described in the Corporate
responsibility report on page 25.
Auditors
In the case of each of the persons who are
directors of the company at the date when this
report was approved:
> so far as each of the directors is aware, there is
no relevant audit information (as deﬁned in the
Companies Act 1985) of which the company’s
auditors are unaware; and
> each of the directors has taken all the steps 
that he/she ought to have taken as a director 
to make himself/herself aware of any relevant
audit information (as deﬁned) and to establish
that the company’s auditors are aware of that
information.
This conﬁrmation is given and should be
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness
to continue as auditors, accordingly a resolution 
to reappoint them will be proposed at this year’s
Annual General Meeting. 
The reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP has
been approved by the Audit Committee, who will
also be responsible for determining their audit fee
on behalf of the directors.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited 
Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited
are prepared and sent to the Director General of
Water Services. A copy of these accounts will be
available from the website of Severn Trent Water
Limited (www.stwater.co.uk) or on written request to
the Company Secretary (at the address given on
the back cover). There is no charge for this
publication.
Going concern 
The Board has a reasonable expectation that 
the group and the company have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for
the foreseeable future. Accordingly the ﬁnancial
statements set out on pages 53 to 101 and 103 
to 114 have been prepared on the going concern
basis.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the company 
will be held at the International Convention Centre,
Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am 
on Tuesday 25 July 2006. The notice convening 
the meeting, together with details of the business
to be considered and explanatory notes for each
resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the company’s website:
www.severntrent.com
By order of the Board 
Fiona Smith 
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 
5 June 2006 
Governance
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate governance report
Governance
Corporate governance
The company attaches great signiﬁcance to the
maintenance of good corporate governance
procedures and adherence to best practice
recognising that they play their part in creating 
a framework which can provide increased 
beneﬁts for shareholders.
Compliance statement
The report set out on pages 35 to 39 describes
how the company has applied the principles of
good corporate governance as set out in Section 1
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July
2003 (the “Combined Code”). In respect of the
year ended 31 March 2006, and the period up 
to the date of approving the accounts, the board
considers that the company has complied with 
the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
The board 
Board structure
The board consists of a non-executive Chairman,
ﬁve executive directors and six non-executive
directors. In accordance with the Combined Code,
separate individuals, Sir John Egan and Colin
Matthews, are appointed to the positions of
Chairman and Group Chief Executive respectively.
Martin Flower is the senior independent non-
executive director. He retires from the board on 
10 June 2006 and will be replaced in that role by
Richard Davey.
The board has reviewed the status of the non-
executive directors and considers them all to be
independent in character and judgement and
within the deﬁnition of this term in the Combined
Code. The test of independence is not appropriate
in relation to the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors
contribute external expertise and experience in
areas of importance to the group such as corporate
ﬁnance, general ﬁnance, corporate strategy,
environmental matters, general management 
and corporate governance. They also provide
independent challenge and rigour to the board’s
deliberations.
Collectively, the board is satisﬁed it has all of the
necessary skills, experience and qualities to lead
the company 
Directors and their interests
Michael McKeon was appointed as an executive
director on 13 December 2005.
Bernard Bulkin and Richard Davey were appointed
as non-executive directors on 1 January 2006.
John McAdam, Mark Wilson and Derek Osborn 
retired from the board on 1 September 2005, 
13 December 2005 and 31 March 2006 respectively.
Martin Flower will retire from the board on 
10 June 2006. 
Biographies of the directors currently serving 
on the board are set out on page 30.
All directors who joined the board during the year
have undertaken induction training. Furthermore,
the training needs of all directors are kept under
review and appropriate training identiﬁed as part 
of a continuing process.
Details of the directors’ service agreements,
emoluments, the interests of directors and their
immediate families in the shares of the company
and in awards or options over such shares granted
under the company’s Long Term Incentive Plans
and Sharesave Scheme are shown in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 40 to 51.
Operation of the board
The board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring
that the company is properly managed and
achieves the strategic objectives it sets. It has an
agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which
includes setting long term strategic and business
objectives, overseeing the company’s internal
control systems and ensuring that appropriate
resources are in place to enable the company to
meet its objectives. 
The board meets at least ten times in each
calendar year and convenes additional meetings as
and when required. Details of the number of board
and committee meetings and the attendance of the
directors at those meetings are shown on page 37.
The Chairman has prime responsibility for the
effective workings of the board and agrees the
agenda in consultation with the Group Chief
Executive and Company Secretary. Papers,
including minutes of board committees held since
the previous board meeting and reports from each
of the executive directors responsible for the
group’s operating businesses or key central
functions, are circulated in advance of each
meeting. In addition to the board meetings, the
Chairman meets with the non-executive directors
without the executive directors present. The non-
executive directors also have an annual meeting
where there is an opportunity for them to meet
without the Chairman. 
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the
executive management of all of the group’s
businesses and for implementing board strategy
and policy within approved budgets and
timescales. The Group Chief Executive is supported
by the Executive Committee. Membership of the
Executive Committee is shown on page 30 and
comprises the executive directors and senior
managers responsible for key central functions.  
Procedures are in place which allow directors to
take independent professional advice in the course
of their duties and all directors have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where a director has a concern over any
unresolved business he/she is entitled to require
the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should he/she later resign over this issue, the
Chairman will bring it to the attention of the board.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  35 Corporate governance report
The company purchases directors and ofﬁcers
liability and indemnity insurance to cover its
directors and ofﬁcers against the costs of defending
themselves in civil proceedings taken against them
in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting
from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Board committees
The board has established an effective 
committee structure to assist in the discharge 
of its responsibilities. The terms of reference 
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations
Committees (the “Principal Committees”) comply
with the provisions of the Combined Code and 
are available for inspection on the company’s
website (www.severntrent.com) or may be 
obtained on written request from the Company
Secretary at the address given on the back cover. 
Each of the Principal Committees has reviewed 
its effectiveness and terms of reference during 
the year and any necessary actions have been
identiﬁed and reported to the board.
The membership of all board committees is set out
on page 30.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee is chaired by John Smith. 
Its membership comprises Bernard Bulkin, Marisa
Cassoni and Richard Davey. Only independent non-
executive directors may serve on the committee.
John Smith and Marisa Cassoni have been
identiﬁed by the board as having recent and
relevant ﬁnancial experience. 
The committee meets with the group’s external
auditors (the “Auditors”) at least four times a year.
By invitation of the committee other individuals
such as the Chairman, Group Chief Executive,
Group Finance Director and Group Director of
Internal Audit will normally be in attendance for all
or part of those meetings. The committee and the
Auditors also hold separate meetings without the
attendance of executive management.
In their assessment of the independence of the
Auditors, the committee receives annually in writing
details of relationships between the Auditors and
the group, which may bear on the Auditors’
independence and receives conﬁrmation that 
they are independent of the group as required 
by International Auditing Standard 260.
The committee annually reviews the level of 
the Auditors’ fees in respect of the audit of 
the ﬁnancial statements of the group and its
subsidiaries at the same time as considering the
adequacy of the Auditors’ proposed audit plan. 
A formal policy, which includes fee limits, has 
been adopted for non-audit services. Any material
project work where fees payable to the Auditors 
are likely to exceed £100,000 must be approved by
the Audit Committee. Where fees are expected to
exceed £500,000 the project work would normally
be the subject of a competitive selection process.
The level of non-audit services provided by the
Auditors and the associated fees are considered
annually by the committee, in the context of the 
Auditors’ independence, as part of the committee’s
review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit
process. An analysis of fees payable to the Auditors
in respect of audit and non-audit services is
provided on page 67. 
It is the group’s policy to seek rotation of the
Auditors’ principal engagement partner as a matter
of course every ﬁve years and of other key
members of the audit team, where deemed
appropriate by the Audit Committee. 
The Audit Committee has reviewed risk
management and the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control during the year 
ended 31 March 2006 and has reported 
to the board on the outcome of this review. 
The effectiveness of the group’s internal audit
function has been reviewed by the Audit
Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews annually the group’s
formal whistle blowing policy that deals with
allegations from employees relating to breaches 
of the group’s Code of Business Principles and
Conduct.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Martin
Flower. He retires from the Board on 10 June 2006
and will be replaced in that role by Richard Davey.
The other members of the Committee are Marisa
Cassoni, and Martin Houston. Only independent,
non-executive directors may serve on the
committee. The Chairman and the Group Chief
Executive attend Remuneration Committee
meetings at the invitation of the Remuneration
Committee Chairman. The committee will normally
meet at least four times a year. 
The Remuneration Committee determines, on
behalf of the Board, the company’s policy on the
remuneration of executive directors and the
Chairman of the board, and is consulted by the
Group Chief Executive regarding remuneration for a
number of the company’s senior executives. 
Further information on the activities of the
Remuneration Committee is given in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 40 to 51. 
The Directors’ remuneration report also describes
how the principles of the Combined Code are
applied in respect of remuneration matters and
includes a statement on the company’s policy on
directors’ and senior executives’ remuneration,
beneﬁts, share scheme entitlements and pension
arrangements.
A resolution to approve the Directors’ remuneration
report will be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting.
Governance
36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
Nominations Committee 
The Nominations Committee is chaired by 
Sir John Egan and its members are the Group
Chief Executive and all non-executive directors. 
The committee’s core members are Bernard
Bulkin, Martin Flower and John Smith. All other
non-executive directors will attend meetings subject
to their availability. Other executive directors, senior
management and external advisors may be invited
to attend meetings as considered appropriate. 
The Nominations Committee has responsibility 
for considering the size, structure and composition 
of the board of the company, retirements and
appointments of additional and replacement
directors, succession planning and making
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate
balance of skills and experience on the board. The
committee meets at least three times a year.
The board appointments made during the year in
respect of Michael McKeon, Bernard Bulkin and
Richard Davey were undertaken using an external
search consultancy. 
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired
by the Group Chief Executive. Its main responsibility
is to develop, review and promote policies to further
the group’s environmental values in its business,
workplace and community engagement activities.
The committee’s terms of reference may be viewed
on the company’s website (www.severntrent.com).
Details of the group’s corporate responsibility
activities may be found on pages 23 to 25. 
Meetings
Details of the board and principal committees
meetings attended by each director during the 
year are as follows: 
Plc board Audit Remun- Nomi-
eration nations
Number 13689
of meetings
Sir John Egan 13 – – 9
M J Bettington 13–––
R S Brydon 13–––
Jannetta
B Bulkin
2
4–– 2
M L Cassoni 12 6 6 –
R H Davey
3
3– 1–
M C Flower 12 – 8 8
M J Houston 12 – 5 –
J D G McAdam
4
5 –33
M J E McKeon
1
4–––
C S Matthews 13–––
F A Osborn
5
13 6 – 8
J B Smith
7
96 –1
M R Wilson
6
8–––
A P Wray 13–––
1 – Appointed 13/12/05 5 – Resigned 31/03/06
2 – Appointed 01/01/06 6 – Resigned 13/12/05
3 – Appointed 01/01/06 7 – Appointed Nominations
4 – Resigned 01/09/05 Committee 01/12/05
Directors’ interests in contracts
No director had a material interest at any time
during the year in any contract of signiﬁcance,
other than a service contract as shown in the
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 40 to 51,
with the company or any of its subsidiary
undertakings. 
Remuneration
The Directors’ remuneration report, which includes
a statement on the company’s policy on directors’
and senior executives’ remuneration, is set out 
on pages 40 to 51. 
Reappointment
The company’s Articles of Association require all
directors to submit themselves for reappointment
at least every three years. This provision also
ensures that, as a minimum, one third of the board
of directors, together with any director appointed
since the last Annual General Meeting, retires each
year and, if eligible and so desires, stands for
reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
directors retire on the basis of their length of
service since their last election.
Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and John Smith
retire by rotation. Bernard Bulkin, Richard Davey
and Mike McKeon have been appointed since the
last Annual General Meeting. All six directors offer
themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination Committee has formally reviewed
the performance, contribution and commitment of
each of the retiring directors and has recommended
their reappointment to the board.
Performance and effectiveness reviews 
During the year the board, with the help of an
outside facilitator, carried out a formal evaluation of
its performance and that of its committees. Since
the board has undergone a number of changes
with three new directors joining the board and a
new Company Secretary being appointed in the
latter part of the year a review of individual
performance was not done. Each director and the
Company Secretary answered a questionnaire on
his/her perception of the composition, operation
and effectiveness of the board and its committees
and on the performance of the Chairmen of the
board and principal committees. In addition they
were interviewed by the facilitator to explore 
certain issues in greater depth and to identify 
areas requiring improvement. Finally, the 
process reviewed progress against actions
identiﬁed in last year’s review.
Shareholders
Relations with shareholders
The board recognises the importance of representing
and promoting the interests of its shareholders and
that it is accountable to shareholders for the
performance and activities of the company.
The annual report and accounts is the principal
means of communicating with shareholders. The
company’s website (www.severntrent.com) contains
complete versions of such reports along with other
information relevant to shareholders.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  37 Corporate governance report
continued
In respect of the company’s Annual General
Meeting the board encourages shareholders 
to attend and exercise their right to vote. The 
notice of meeting and related papers are sent to
shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting. Separate resolutions are proposed on
each substantially separate issue. Details of the
proxy votes for and against each resolution and 
the number of abstentions are indicated after 
the result of the vote on a show of hands.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet
with the board before and after the Annual
Generally Meeting. Presentations are made on the
group’s activities and performance prior to the
formal business of the meeting. Shareholders have
the opportunity to ask questions of the board and
present their views. The chairmen of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nominations Committees,
together with all other directors will normally
attend the Annual General Meeting. 
The company announces its results on a half yearly
basis. Presentations are made to analysts and
shareholders following the release of the interim
and year-end results. The Group Chief Executive
and Group Finance Director meet shareholders
during the year. The Chairman and, if appropriate,
the senior independent non-executive director are
available to meet shareholders if required. The
board receives written feedback following meetings
with institutional shareholders.
Internal control 
Internal control and risk management 
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s
system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. The board has formally established
policies and processes for identifying and
evaluating the signiﬁcant risks faced by the group.
The policies and processes are designed to manage
risks rather than eliminate them and can only
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance
against material errors, losses or fraud or breaches
of laws or regulations. 
There are procedures for managing these
signiﬁcant risks, of which the key elements are: 
an organisation structure with clear lines of
accountability; regular, structured reviews of
business risk by senior management; a scheme of
delegated authority; pre-approval of plans, budgets
and signiﬁcant investments; monthly reporting 
and monitoring of ﬁnancial results and other key
business measures and independent assurance
provided by both internal and external auditors.
The senior management teams of each of the
principal business units have identiﬁed the risks
facing their businesses and have made an
assessment of the impact and likelihood of those
risks. They also have a process to identify changes
to the risk proﬁle and to identify weaknesses in
internal control. The controls that are in place to
manage each of the more signiﬁcant risks in each
unit have been identiﬁed and an assessment has
been made of the effectiveness of these controls.
Each business unit reports regularly to the Group
Chief Executive on its risks and controls. The
Executive Committee reviews these risks as well 
as carrying out a process to identify any other
signiﬁcant risks affecting the group, considers the
controls in place to mitigate the risks faced by the
group and ensures that its focus is on managing
the most important risks and meeting any changes
in the risk proﬁle. 
The board reviews risk management and the
effectiveness of the system of internal control
through the Audit Committee. They also keep
under review ways in which to enhance the control
and audit arrangements in the group. The Audit
Committee receives reports every six months from
the Group Chief Executive on the signiﬁcant risks
faced by the group, an assessment of the
effectiveness of controls over each of those risks
and an action plan to improve controls where this
has been assessed as necessary. Any signiﬁcant
control weaknesses that have been identiﬁed are
also reported to the Audit Committee. The Auditors
also report on signiﬁcant control issues to this
committee. The internal audit department provides
objective assurance and advice on risk
management and control and monitors the risk
management process. The group’s internal audit
department has been reorganised with a dedicated
Group Director of Internal Audit appointed and
more resources made available to it. In addition its
reporting lines have been changed and its
processes strengthened to provide an independent
review of Severn Trent Water’s controls and
reporting. New external auditors were appointed at
the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
During the year the Audit Committee and the
Board considered certain weaknesses in controls. 
In particular, on 31 October 2005 the group
announced that the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce was
undertaking a criminal investigation into alleged
false reporting of leakage ﬁgures to Ofwat by
Severn Trent Water and that it is co-operating fully
with the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce. On 7 March 2006 the
conclusions of Ofwat’s interim report concerning
allegations of false reporting made against Severn
Trent Water in 2004 were accepted and on 7 April
2006 it was announced that the company was
giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting 
of customer relations data. To address these issues
a thorough review of control processes in Severn
Trent Water was embarked upon and substantial
action has already been taken to implement its
recommendations. This work continues to improve
processes and behaviour. As part of this Deloitte
and Touche conducted a review of key controls 
in the Water company and substantially all their
recommendations have now been implemented.
The remainder will be completed during this year.
The directors conﬁrm that there is an ongoing
process for the identiﬁcation, evaluation and
management of the signiﬁcant risks faced by the
group. This process has been in place throughout
the year ended 31 March 2006 and up to the date
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. It
accords with the guidance in the report on Guidance
on Internal Control (The Turnbull Guidance). 
Governance
38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
Principal risks
Through its business operations the group is
exposed to a number of commercial risks and
uncertainties, which could have a material impact
on our businesses, ﬁnancial condition, operations
and reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of
our securities. Not all of these factors are within our
control and, in addition, other factors besides those
listed below may have an adverse effect on the group. 
In 2006/07, one of the most signiﬁcant risks that the
group faces will be to deliver the new comprehensive
strategy for the group, which has at its core a
focused water company and, therefore, includes 
the demerger of Biffa from the Severn Trent group.
The delivery of this strategy will be a key focus 
of our risk management process. In this context 
the following speciﬁc risks have been identiﬁed:
Changes in law or regulation in the areas in which
we operate could have an adverse effect on our
business and operations
Regulatory decisions in relation to our businesses,
eg on whether licences or approvals to operate are
renewed, whether market developments have been
satisfactorily implemented, on the level of
permitted revenues for our businesses, whether
there has been any breach of the terms of a licence
or an approval, could have an adverse impact on
the results of our operations, cash ﬂows, ﬁnancial
condition of our businesses and the ability to
develop those businesses in the future.
The results of our operations depend on a number
of factors relating to business performance, including
the ability to outperform regulatory targets and
deliver anticipated cost and efﬁciency savings
Earnings from our regulated water business 
will be affected by our ability to meet or better 
our regulatory targets set by Ofwat, Environment
Agency, Drinking Water Inspectorate and other
regulators. To meet these targets, we must 
continue to improve management and operational
performance. In addition, earnings from a regulated
business also depend on meeting service quality
standards set by regulators. To meet these standards
we must improve service reliability and customer
service. If we do not meet these targets and
standards, both our results and our reputation 
may be adversely affected.
Various government environmental protection and
health and safety laws and regulations govern our
businesses
These laws and regulations establish, amongst other
things, standards for drinking water and discharges
into the environment which affect our operations. 
In addition, our businesses are required to obtain
various environmental permissions from regulatory
agencies for their operation. Environmental laws
and regulations are complex and change
frequently. These laws and their enforcement have
tended to become more stringent over time both in
relation to their requirements and in the levels of
proof required to demonstrate compliance and,
while we believe we have taken account of the
future capital and operating expenditure necessary
to achieve and maintain compliance with current
and foreseeable changes in laws and regulations, it
is possible that new or stricter standards could be
imposed or current interpretation of existing
legislation amended, which will increase the
group’s operating costs or capital expenditure by
requiring changes and modiﬁcations to its
operations in order to comply with any new
environmental laws and regulations.
The failure of our assets or our inability to carry
out critical operations could have a signiﬁcant
impact on our ﬁnancial position and our reputation
We may suffer a major failure in our assets which
could arise from a failure to deliver the capital
investment programme for our businesses or to
maintain the health of our systems. Any failure
could cause us to be in breach of a licence or
approval and even incidents that do not amount to
a breach could result in adverse regulatory action
and ﬁnancial consequences, as well as harming our
reputation. Severn Trent Water’s regulated business
controls and operates water and sewerage networks
and undertakes maintenance of the associated
assets with the objective of providing a continuous
service. The failure of a key asset could cause a
signiﬁcant interruption to the supply of services,
which may have an adverse effect on the group’s
operating results or ﬁnancial position. In addition
water supplies may, inter alia, be subject to
contamination, including contamination from the
development of naturally occurring compounds
and pollution from man-made sources and these
may have an adverse effect on our operating
results or ﬁnancial position. The group could also
be held liable for human exposure to hazardous
substances or other environmental damage.
In addition, we are subject to other risks which are
largely outside our control, such as the energy costs,
impact of climate change, weather or unlawful acts
of third parties, including terrorist attacks, sabotage
or other intentional acts which may also physically
damage our business or otherwise signiﬁcantly
affect corporate activities and, as a consequence,
affect the results of our operations.
External factors could affect the group’s pension
schemes and adversely impact on our ﬁnancial
position
Pension assets and liabilities (pre tax) of £1,403
million and £1,625 million are held in the group’s
balance sheet as at 31 March 2006. Movements in
equity markets, interest rates and life expectancy
could materially affect the level of surpluses and
deﬁcits in the schemes and could prompt the 
need for the group to make additional pension
contributions in the future. The key assumptions
used to value our pension liabilities are set out in
Note 27 on page 85.
The group’s ﬁnancial position and business results
could be adversely affected if its existing funding
arrangements are materially altered
The main risks faced by the group in its treasury
operations relate to material external changes to
current arrangements. In the debt markets, factors
such as borrowing restrictions or changes to credit
ratings could mean we were unable to ﬁnance
ourselves or be forced to pay too high a price for
that ﬁnance. In terms of our borrowings a signiﬁcant
proportion is subject to variable interest rates and
any increase in those rates could substantially
increase our borrowing costs. In addition we
undertake ﬁnancial transactions with a number of
institutions and we could suffer a ﬁnancial loss if
any of those counterparties were to fail. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  39 Group Chief 
Executive
Finance 
Director
MD 
ST Water
MD 
Biffa
President  
ST Laboratories
Directors’ remuneration report
This report provides the information required by
the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations
2002. It also describes how the principles of the
Financial Services Authority’s Combined Code on
Corporate Governance (the ‘Combined Code’) are
applied by the company in relation to directors’
remuneration and sets out the remuneration policy
for the year ended 31 March 2006 and the current
and forthcoming ﬁnancial years. 
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines, 
on behalf of the board, the company’s policy on
the remuneration of executive directors and the
Chairman of the board. The committee determines
the total remuneration packages and contractual
terms and conditions for these individuals. The
committee is also consulted on the remuneration
policy for the next band of seven senior executives.
The policy framework for remunerating all senior
executives is consistent with the approach taken 
for executive directors.
The committee is comprised exclusively of
independent non-executive directors of the
company. The members of the committee 
during the year were:
> Martin Flower (Chairman)
> Marisa Cassoni
> Richard Davey (from 03/03/06)
> Martin Houston (from 01/09/05)
> John McAdam (until 01/09/05)
Richard Davey will become Chairman of the
committee when Martin Flower retires from 
the board on 10 June 2006.
The committee members have no personal
ﬁnancial interest, other than as shareholders, in the
matters to be decided. The constitution and operation
of the committee comply with the Combined Code.
In setting performance related remuneration, the
committee has regard to the provisions set out in
Schedule A to the Combined Code. 
Advisers
To ensure that the company’s remuneration
practices are market competitive, the committee has
access to detailed external research on market data
and trends from experienced specialist consultants. 
The committee has received material advice 
from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, Hay
Management Consultants, Watson Wyatt Ltd and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP which have been
appointed by the committee for the purpose 
of providing this advice. In relation to other 
services provided to the group, Watson Wyatt 
Ltd and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP provided
pensions related advice. Each of Watson Wyatt Ltd,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Hay Management
Consultants provides employee beneﬁts services
and/or remuneration advice to the group below
board level. New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, 
the principal adviser to the committee, has not
provided any other services to the company.
The Chairman of the board, Sir John Egan, the
Group Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, the Group
Human Resources Director, Andy Smith, and the
Group Director of Internal Audit, Pramod Tandon,
also attended some meetings to provide advice and
respond to speciﬁc questions. Such attendances
speciﬁcally exclude any matter concerning their
own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts 
as secretary to the committee. 
The committee’s terms of reference can be viewed
on the company’s website at www.severntrent.com
or requested from the Company Secretary (at the
address on the back cover). The terms of
appointment for New Bridge Street Consultants
LLP are also available on request from the
Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy
The company’s continuing remuneration policy 
for executive directors is to provide remuneration 
in a form and amount which will attract, retain,
motivate and reward high calibre individuals. The
remuneration package is based on the following
principles:
> Incentives are aligned with the interests of
shareholders and seek to reward the creation 
of long term value;
> Reward elements are designed to reinforce the
link between performance and reward.
Performance related elements should form a
signiﬁcant proportion of the total remuneration
package and typically comprise at least 50% of
total remuneration, if paid at the maximum;
> The total remuneration package for on target
performance should be fully competitive, 
but not excessive, in the relevant market;
> Packages are structured ﬂexibly to meet critical
resource needs and retain key executives.
Total remuneration package
The chart below shows the expected values of
salary, bonus and long-term incentives for target
performance for the executive directors. 
The committee considers the mix between 
ﬁxed and performance pay to be appropriate. 
In respect of the Managing Director of Biffa, 
given the announced plan to demerge that
business, and the President of ST Laboratories, 
in view of the need to focus on a short-term
turnaround of the US laboratories business, all 
of their performance pay will be delivered through
annual bonus in 2006/07 although the overall 
split of ﬁxed to performance pay has not altered
materially.
Governance
40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Salary Target Bonus Expected value of long-term incentives Governance
Personal shareholdings
The company operates shareholding guidelines
under which executive directors are expected to
build and maintain a minimum holding of shares 
in the company. The Group Chief Executive is
expected to build and maintain a holding of shares
to the value of 1.5 x base salary and other executive
directors 1 x base salary. Executive directors are
expected to retain at least half of the shares they
receive through the Long Term Incentive Plans 
or other share based plans to enable them to 
meet the guideline holdings within ﬁve years. 
If insufﬁcient shares are awarded within ﬁve 
years then this timescale will be extended. 
Through a variety of share schemes, all employees
are encouraged to hold shares in the company. 
External directorships
Executive directors are encouraged to take on
external non-executive directorships, though
normally only one other FTSE 100 appointment. 
In order to avoid any conﬂicts of interest, all such
appointments are subject to the approval of the
Nominations Committee. Executive directors are
normally only permitted to retain the fees arising
from one such appointment. 
Chairman and other non-executive directors
The remuneration policy for non-executive
directors, other than the Chairman, is determined
by the board, within the limits set out in the
Articles of Association.
A review of the fees for the Chairman and non-
executive directors took place in March 2006 and
the fees that apply from 1 April 2006 are shown 
in the table above.
During the year, Sir John Egan was paid fees of
£215,000 for his role as Chairman. This included
£16,125 paid in the form of shares. Sir John is
provided with a company car, but does not
participate in any of the company’s pension
arrangements, share or bonus schemes.
During the year, Martin Flower was paid fees 
of £100,000 for his role as Deputy Chairman. 
This included £5,000 paid in the form of shares.
He does not participate in any of the company’s
pension arrangements, share or bonus schemes 
or receive beneﬁts in kind. His fees include 
the premiums for chairing the Remuneration
Committee and being senior independent 
non-executive director.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate
in incentive plans nor is any pension provision made.
Save for John Smith, whose total fees are paid
directly to his employer, non-executive directors
receive payment of part of their fees in the form 
of shares in the company which are expected to 
be retained for the duration of their appointment. 
The non-executive directors do not have service
contracts or consultancy agreements with any group
company, but they do have letters of appointment.
Remuneration arrangements for executive directors
The remuneration arrangements for executive
directors comprise the following elements:
> Base salary and beneﬁts;
> Annual bonus plan;
> Long Term Incentive Plans;
> Post retirement beneﬁts.
Details of each of the above elements are as follows:
Base salaries and beneﬁts
Base salaries are a ﬁxed cash sum payable monthly.
The company’s policy is to set the salary for each
executive director having regard to the market median
for similar roles in publicly quoted companies of a
comparable size and, so far as practical, undertaking
similar activities. Salaries for individual directors
are reviewed annually by the committee and
generally take effect on 1 April. Salaries are set with
reference to individual performance, experience and
contribution, together with developments in the
relevant employment market and internal relativities.
Executive directors’ salaries have recently been
reviewed for the ﬁnancial year 2006/07 other 
than in respect of Martin Bettington where, given
the decision to demerge Biffa, the committee
concluded it was more appropriate to defer any
review until the terms of the demerger are ﬁnalised,
with any new salary taking effect on demerger.
They are as follows:
Director Salary wef Increase
April 06
Martin Bettington £325,000 0%
Rachel Brydon Jannetta $385,000 0%
Colin Matthews £560,000 7.7%
Michael McKeon £370,000 0%
(appointed December 2005)
Tony Wray £275,000 11%
Role Fee 2005/06 Fee 2006/07
Chairman £215,000 per annum £230,000 per annum
Deputy Chairman £100,000 per annum £100,000 per annum
Senior independent non-executive director n/a £10,000 per annum
Non-executive director – base fee £30,000 per annum £40,000 per annum
Chairman of board committee
– Audit and Remuneration Committees £10,000 per committee £15,000 per committee
– Other board committees £7,500 per committee n/a
Member of board committee
1
£3,000 per committee £3,000 per committee 
1
From 1 April 2006 no fees are paid for membership of the Nominations Committee.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  41 Directors’ remuneration report
continued
It should be noted that only two of the ﬁve
executive directors received an increase. It is not
the committee’s policy to award increases in the
year of joining as an executive settles into their role
so Michael McKeon received no increase while Tony
Wray received a slightly higher than normal level of
increase reﬂecting the time elapsed since joining
the company. Colin Matthews’ increase largely
reﬂected the outcome of the review to position him
at the relevant market level given he has now held
the position of Group Chief Executive for just over a
year. Rachel Brydon Jannetta’s salary was reviewed
but not increased in view of the ﬁnancial
performance of the Laboratories business.
In 2005/06 there were seven executives
immediately below board level who were paid
between £150,000 and £250,000 per annum. 
Salary £000 Number of Executives
150-175 1
176-200 4
201-225 1
226-250 1
The non salary beneﬁts for executive directors
comprise the use of company car or allowance,
fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and
an incapacity beneﬁts scheme. Private medical
insurance and some other beneﬁts may be ﬂexed
under the company’s ﬂexible beneﬁts scheme. 
As they are ﬂexing within the same value of overall
package, their individual choices are not reﬂected
in the table of Directors’ emoluments on page 48.
Michael McKeon
As referred to above, Michael McKeon’s salary was
set at £370,000 on joining the company and is 
not due to be reviewed again before April 2007.
The other terms of his package are as follows:
> His annual bonus opportunity was originally 
set at 60% of salary (with the bonus for the
2005/06 ﬁnancial year being pro-rated to the
period employed). He has no entitlement to 
any guaranteed bonus amount.
> Michael was entitled to an LTIP award over
36,405 shares on joining and to participate 
in the normal 2006 award. However, as the
company has been in a prohibited period 
since his date of joining, it has not been
possible to make the initial award and it is
currently envisaged that he will receive the
initial award when the 2006 LTIP awards are
made reﬂecting both commitments. The terms
of that award will be consistent with the awards
to all other participants. In next year’s Directors’
remuneration report, a detailed description of
the terms of the award will be included as it 
will exceed the normal limit under the LTIP 
of 125% of salary. 
> The company is also meeting the direct costs
associated with Michael’s relocation and an
amount in respect of tax arising on the beneﬁt.
£38,137 in respect of this is included within the
table of Directors’ emoluments on page 48. 
Having taken advice from New Bridge Street
Consultants LLP in structuring the package, the
committee considers the package to be appropriate.
Annual bonus plan
Executive directors are eligible for annual bonuses
to encourage improved performance, measured by
reference to both ﬁnancial and non ﬁnancial
factors. Performance targets are established by the
committee to align executive directors’ interests
with shareholders and comprise proﬁtability (plus
return on capital employed for Martin Bettington),
the achievement of personal objectives and speciﬁc
targets relating to health and safety performance.
Annual bonus payments are not taken into account in
calculating executive directors’ pension entitlements. 
Given the outcome of the strategic review detailed
in the Chairman’s statement on page 4 and the
demands the execution of the strategy will place
upon executives, the committee has concluded that
it is appropriate to increase bonus opportunity to,
broadly, the mid point between FTSE 100 and pure
water companies.
The committee is also conscious that it may be
appropriate to modify the remuneration
arrangements again once the strategy review has
been fully implemented and it has notiﬁed
executives accordingly.
In addition, given the decision to demerge Biffa,
and the decision that US Laboratories is non core,
the committee does not consider it appropriate to
include the Managing Director of Biffa and the
President of ST Laboratories within the annual
award of long term incentives. Accordingly, in
respect of 2006/07 only, their annual bonus
potential will be set at 150% of base salary. The
committee considers that this has approximately
the same expected value as the combination of
historic annual bonus and LTIP awards. The
additional bonus potential will be focused on the
delivery of superior proﬁt growth which is
considered to be the most demonstrable way of
measuring the enhancement of shareholder value
in the forthcoming year and in the lead up to the
demerger.
The maximum bonus potential for executive
directors is shown below: 
2005/06 2006/07
Martin Bettington 75% 150%
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 75% 150%
Colin Matthews 60% 80%
Michael McKeon 60% 70%
Mark Wilson 50% –
Tony Wray 50% 70%
Governance
42 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
It is not the committee’s policy to award transaction
related bonuses and there is no current intention 
to pay transaction related bonuses to any executive
director linked to the successful demerger of Biffa.
Annual bonus – maximum value of bonus
elements as % of base salary
2005/06
Max 
Non      bonus 
Director Financial  ﬁnancial value
Martin Bettington 50% 25% 75%
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 50% 25% 75%
Colin Matthews 40% 20% 60%
Michael McKeon 40% 20% 60%
Mark Wilson 30% 20% 50%
Tony Wray 33% 17% 50%
2006/07
Max 
Non      bonus 
Director Financial  ﬁnancial value
Martin Bettington 100% 50% 150%
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 100% 50% 150%
Colin Matthews 53% 27% 80%
Michael McKeon 47% 23% 70%
Tony Wray 47% 23% 70%
Given the prime importance which the board and
the committee place on health and safety issues,
the indicative bonus is then adjusted by a multiplier
based on health and safety performance but, in all
cases, subject to the overall bonus maximum.
The maximum bonus payable to executives below
board level differs according to the businesses in
which they operate but, in all cases, are generally
no higher than the bonus opportunity enjoyed by
the executive director to whom they report.
The committee considers that the performance
requirements are stretching. The actual bonuses
awarded by the committee for the year ended 
31 March 2006 are shown in the table of Directors’
emoluments on page 48. The following table shows
how the split of the bonuses paid in respect of the
year ended 31 March 2006 related to the targets
set at the start of the year (as disclosed in last
year’s Remuneration Report):
% 
% salary
salary paid in
paid in respect Health & %
respect of of non- safety overall
ﬁnancial ﬁnancial multiplier salary
Director targets targets achieved achieved
Martin Bettington 9.5 14 0.75
1
17.63
Rachel Brydon 
Jannetta 0 9 1.5 13.5
Colin Matthews 32 18 1
1
50
Michael McKeon 32 20 1.31 60
Mark Wilson
2
n/a n/a n/a 50
Tony Wray 15 8 1.5 35
1
The Remuneration Committee reduced the multiplier from
1.5 to 0.75 for Martin Bettington as a result of their
assessment of Biffa’s overall safety performance. Similarly,
Colin Matthews was restricted from 1.31 to 1 given 
his ultimate responsibility for safety across the group.
2
Mark Wilson’s bonus was paid based upon delivery of key
objectives agreed with him as part of his termination package.
Long term incentives
At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders
approved the introduction of the Long Term
Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP 2005), which replaced
the 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan. Under the LTIP
2005, annual conditional awards of performance
shares may be made to executive directors and
senior staff, up to an annual maximum limit of
shares worth 125% of base salary. In 2005, the
Group Chief Executive received an award over
shares worth 100% of salary with other executive
directors and senior staff receiving lower awards. 
In 2006, it is proposed that the Group Chief
Executive receives an award of shares worth 
125% of base salary with other executive directors
receiving up to 100% (other than the Managing
Director of Biffa and President of ST Laboratories
who, as explained in the section headed Annual
bonus plan, will not receive any award in 2006.) 
The number of shares subject to an award will
increase to reﬂect dividends paid through the
performance period on the basis of such notional
dividends being reinvested at the then prevailing
share price. Awards will normally vest as soon 
as the committee determines that the performance
conditions have been met provided that the
participant remains in employment at the end 
of the performance period. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  43 220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index
Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Governance
44 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Value (£)
2005 LTIP awards
In respect of awards made to executive directors 
in 2005, the vesting of 50% is dependent on
performance against group economic proﬁt (EP)
targets, and the remaining 50% is dependent on 
a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target, both over
a ﬁxed three year period beginning on the ﬁrst day
of the ﬁnancial year in which the award was made.
There is no retesting of either condition. The EP
targets relate, in the case of below board level
executives in the operating businesses, to the EP 
of their speciﬁc business. 
These conditions were chosen because the
committee considered EP to be a key driver of
Severn Trent’s ﬁnancial performance, whilst TSR
was considered to be the most appropriate means
of aligning the interests of the executives with
investors through generating superior shareholder
returns. 
For median TSR/threshold EP levels of
performance, 25% of that part of the award will
vest and, for upper quartile TSR/ stretch EP levels
of performance, 100% of that part of the award will
vest. Vesting between 25% and 100% will be on a
straight-line basis between ranking points for both
parts of the award. In addition, for awards to vest,
the committee must verify that the company’s 
TSR is reﬂective of the company’s underlying
performance.
For the half of the award which is dependent 
on EP targets, the approach for setting the
performance conditions was discussed with key
institutional investors who acknowledged that, 
due to the commercially sensitive nature of the 
EP performance conditions, it was not appropriate
for them to be publicly disseminated. 
The committee has conﬁrmed that the minimum
threshold level of vesting in respect of the water
business over the ﬁve year cycle will not be lower
than that implied in the most recently published
Ofwat Determination. The maximum level of vesting
was set at a level which is, in the view of the
committee, comparably stretching to the upper
quartile TSR condition.
For those executives below board level in the 
non-water core subsidiaries, 75% of their 
awards were set by reference to EP targets. 
The extent to which the EP performance condition
is satisﬁed will be calculated internally but, as with
the previous LTIP, independently reviewed.
The TSR comparator group comprises water 
and waste companies and FTSE 100 high 
yield companies (excluding ﬁnancial and retail
companies or other sectors which might result 
in an undue bias in the sample). ‘High yield’ was
deﬁned as companies which had an average gross
yield that was greater than base rate minus 0.75%
in the calendar month preceding the start of the
performance period and their use as comparators
recognises the fact that, at least in part,
shareholders choose to invest in the company 
for the dividend income it produces. 
After the end of the performance period, the TSR
performance condition will be measured and
independently veriﬁed by New Bridge Street
Consultants LLP on behalf of the committee.
The constituents of the TSR comparator group for
the 2005 award are:
AWG Pennon Group
BOC Group Rentokil Initial
BT Group Scottish & Newcastle
Diageo Scot. & Southern Energy
Kelda Group Scottish Power
National Grid Shanks Group
Northumbrian Water Unilever
Pearson United Utilities
2006 LTIP awards
The committee considers that, given the outcome
of the strategic review of the group’s operations, 
TSR will more clearly represent an alignment of
executives’ interests with those of shareholders. 
The awards to be made in 2006, therefore, 
will be based exclusively on TSR.
The committee intends to use a similar methodology
for selecting the comparator group as it did for 
the 2005 awards. Again, the committee will review
the proposed constituents before making any
award to ensure that, overall, they are appropriate.
Calculation of EP performance during transition to
International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS)
For unvested awards made prior to 2006, the basis
for measuring the proﬁts that underpin the EP
calculation was set under UK GAAP, whereas the
end of the performance period will be reported
under IFRS. The committee has restated the 
base conditions for the 2005 awards under 
IFRS to ensure that the targets are measured 
on a consistent basis and as originally intended.
The 2003 and 2004 awards will continue to be
measured and set on a UK GAAP basis given the
difﬁculty in restating the base ﬁgures and the
committee will ensure that the end ﬁgures are
measured consistently.
Performance graph
This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2006, 
of £100 invested in Severn Trent Plc on 31 March
2001 compared with the value of £100 invested 
in the FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE 100 was chosen
as the comparator because the company is a
constituent of that index. 
Total shareholder return
31-03-01     31-03-02     31-03-03     31-03-04     31-03-05     31-03-06 Governance
Hedging policy for employee share incentive
schemes
Details of the company’s shares that are held in
trust on behalf of participants of certain of the
employee share schemes are given on page 89. In
respect of the LTIPs, the company’s hedging policy
is to purchase, and hold in trust, 50% of the total
number of shares that could potentially vest from
all outstanding LTIP awards. The requirement to
purchase shares to maintain the 50% hedge is
calculated, and carried out, shortly after each
annual award. 
Awards made under the company’s Share Incentive
Plan have no attached performance condition and
all of the shares taken up by employees at each
invitation are purchased and placed in trust
immediately. 
The committee is satisﬁed that the overall dilution
limits provide sufﬁcient headroom for all the
company’s share schemes.
Post retirement beneﬁts
Of the current executive directors, Martin Bettington,
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate in the
Senior Staff Pension Scheme (as did Mark Wilson
prior to his departure). The Scheme is a funded
Inland Revenue approved ﬁnal salary occupational
pension scheme which provides:
> A normal retirement age of 60 years;
> An overall pension at normal retirement age 
of two-thirds of ﬁnal pensionable salary, which
for executive directors is deﬁned as base salary
only, subject to the completion of 20 years’
pensionable service;
> Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings;
> A pension payable in the event of retirement on
grounds of ill health;
> A dependant’s pension on death of two thirds of
the member’s pension.
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate up to
the level of the Inland Revenue earnings cap (“the
Cap”) which in 2005/06 was £105,600. In 2006/07
a scheme speciﬁc cap of £108,600 will apply. 
Members’ contributions are payable at the rate 
of 6% of pensionable earnings. Early retirement 
is available after the age of 50 with the consent of
the company. Any pension would be subject to a
reduction that the Trustee considers appropriate,
acting on actuarial advice, to reﬂect the expected
longer payment of the pension. In the event of
incapacity, early retirement is available on an
unreduced basis allowing for pensionable service 
to age 60.
Under the Trust Deed and Rules, pensions in
payment in excess of any Guaranteed Minimum
Pension are guaranteed to increase in line with
price inﬂation subject to a maximum of 5% each
year. In the calculation of individual cash equivalent
transfer values, allowance is made for such
increases.
The company has a future obligation in respect of
Mark Wilson who joined the Scheme after 1 June
1989 and was, therefore, subject to the Cap, to pay
the difference between his pension entitlement
based upon the relevant portion of his salary 
and the maximum amount payable had the Cap
not been in place. The obligation is unfunded. 
Having taken account of the new tax regime, the
Remuneration Committee allowed partial roll in of
unfunded arrangements into the funded scheme.
There is no additional cost to the company.
The current service cost charged to the income
statement in the year for the future unfunded
obligation was £325,000.
As disclosed in last year’s Remuneration Report, 
the company has reviewed its pension policy for
directors and employees as a result of the Pensions
Act 2004, Finance Act 2004 and the results of 
the triennial valuation of two of its main schemes
during 2004. As a result of this review, new
executives are offered an allowance, expressed 
as a percentage of base salary, to fund their own
pension provision. The individual is able to choose
whether the allowance is paid to the company’s
registered deﬁned contribution (DC) scheme, taken
as cash or paid to a personal pension arrangement.
This reﬂects the wish of the committee to remove
future exposure to deﬁned beneﬁt schemes for
senior executives.
The new arrangements were applied for Michael
McKeon’s appointment at 40% of base salary. 
In addition, in order to align executive director
pension provision, Rachel Brydon Jannetta chose 
to become a deferred member of the Severn Trent
Pension scheme from 1 December 2005 and was
provided with a cash allowance in lieu of pension
scheme membership applied at 40% of base salary.
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray are also provided 
with a cash supplement in lieu of the unfunded
arrangement at 40% of their respective salaries
above the Cap.
Forward looking statement
The committee will keep the existing remuneration
arrangements, as detailed in this report, under
review during the next year to ensure that the
company’s reward programmes remain competitive
and provide appropriate incentives. No signiﬁcant
changes to the reward arrangements for executive
directors are anticipated prior to the completion
and implementation of the strategic review and the
committee proposes to review the arrangements
again at that time.
However, there will be the normal individual reviews
of base salary, annual bonus and LTIP award levels.
The performance targets for incentive arrangements
will continue to be reviewed to ensure alignment
with group strategy and will maintain a signiﬁcant
emphasis on the achievement of health and safety
performance targets. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  45 Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Governance
46 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Directors’ service agreements and letters of engagement
A new model service contract was approved by the committee in 2004. All current executive directors have
signed the model contract and, accordingly, service agreements for all executive directors have notice
periods of 12 months. They also provide for a maximum damages payment in the case of redundancy 
or termination in breach of the agreement by the company of up to 175% of base salary which was
calculated as a conservative pre-estimate of the value of salary, ﬁxed beneﬁts and on target bonus.
The reference to 175% is a cap and any damages payments will not be made automatically but will 
be subject to both phasing and mitigation unless, in the circumstances, the committee considers it
appropriate to achieve a clean break through payment of a lump sum in which case it will require some
discount for early payment. Contracts also permit the committee to take into account a view of the extent
of poor performance on the part of the executive director. Any payment will not include amounts in
respect of awards which have been made under the company’s LTIPs over which the committee retains
discretion. There are no speciﬁc contractual payments or beneﬁts which would be triggered in the event 
of a change in control of the company. The committee believes that the contracts provide as much scope
as is feasible to protect the interests of shareholders when negotiating a termination, at which time it
would address the duty of mitigation.
The service contract for Rachel Brydon Jannetta, who is based in the US and employed by a US
subsidiary, is in the same format as for other executive directors but modiﬁed to reﬂect prevailing 
US employment legislation.
The dates of the current executive directors’ agreements, the dates on which their appointments 
became effective and the current expiry dates of their agreements are as follows:
Executive directors Date of agreement Effective date Expiry date
Martin Bettington 10 June 2004 10 June 2004 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 30 June 2004 1 September 2004 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Colin Matthews 3 June 2004 6 September 2004 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Michael McKeon 6 December 2005 13 December 2005 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Tony Wray 19 January 2005 7 March 2005 Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Colin Matthews and Michael McKeon are the subject of reappointment as executive directors at the
forthcoming AGM.
Details for the executive director who retired from the board during the year are as follows:
Executive director Date of agreement Effective date Expiry date
Mark Wilson 5 May 2004 1 September 2004 Terminated on 31 December 2005
Mark Wilson retired from the board on 13 December 2005 and his employment was terminated, 
by mutual consent, on 31 December 2005, with the original decision to terminate having been announced
in July 2005. Mark agreed to remain actively employed while a successor was found and he remained 
in full time employment until 31 December 2005 and received a bonus pro-rated for the period employed.  His termination package, therefore, reﬂected loss of earnings under the contract for the balance of the
notice period (approximately ﬁve months). In view of his continued commitment over this period, the
committee agreed to pay his termination payment on a lump sum basis rather than on a phased monthly
basis but reduced the payment by 10% to reﬂect mitigation. Further, given that Mark worked for a majority
of his notice period, the committee concluded, in the circumstances, that it should treat him as a good
leaver under the LTIP in respect of the 2003 and 2004 awards so the awards would continue to normal
maturity with the performance conditions assessed at that time, although the committee may conclude
that it is not necessary to then reduce the 2004 award on a pro-rata basis. There will be no pro-rating 
of the 2003 award in any event. However, given the period between his departure and the making of 
the 2005 award, the committee did not exercise its discretion and that award lapsed on his departure. 
Payments to Mark, are detailed in the table of Directors’ emoluments on page 48. He received a total
termination payment of £299,095 as disclosed in that table. No cash contribution to his pension scheme
was required. No further payments in terms of salary, pay in lieu of notice, bonus or beneﬁts in kind were
or will be made. He has no further contractual or consultancy arrangements with the company and has no
personal interest in the company other than as a deferred pension scheme member and as a shareholder.
In respect of the Chairman and current non-executive directors, the dates on which their appointments
took effect and the current expiry dates are as follows:
Chairman and 
non-executive directors Initial appointment Current appointment Current expiry date*
Sir John Egan 1 October 2004 1 October 2004 31 December 2007
Bernard Bulkin 1 January 2006 1 January 2006 31 December 2008
Marisa Cassoni 1 September 2001 1 September 2004 31 August 2007
Richard Davey 1 January 2006 1 January 2006 31 December 2008
Martin Flower 11 June 1996 11 June 2005 10 June 2006
Martin Houston 1 September 2003 1 September 2003 31 August 2006
John Smith 3 November 2003 3 November 2003 2 November 2006
*Subject to the requirements of the company’s Articles of Association for the reappointment of directors at 
Annual General Meetings.
Details for the non-executive directors who retired from the board during the year are as follows:
Non-executive directors Initial appointment Last appointment Date retired
John McAdam 18 September 2000 18 September 2003 1 September 2005
Derek Osborn 21 September 1998 21 September 2005 31 March 2006
It is the normal practice of the company for non-executive directors to serve three three-year terms. 
Non-executive directors have no right to compensation on the early termination of their appointments.
The text and tables that follow comprise the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report, 
being the information required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Governance
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  47 Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Directors’ emoluments
Basic salary and fees
1
Beneﬁts Annual Total Total 
Cash Shares Total in kind
2
bonus Other
3
2005/06 2004/05
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman and other 
non-executive directors
David Arculus ––––––– 142.2
(Chairman – retired 31.12.04)
Sir John Egan 198.9 16.1 215.0 2.6 – – 217.6 62.1
(Chairman – appointed 01.10.04)
4
Marisa Cassoni 36.4 1.9 38.3 – – 0.8 39.1 42.4
Martin Flower 95.0 5.0 100.0 – – 1.2 101.2 90.2
Martin Houston 32.4 1.6 34.0––– 34.0 30.8
Colin Matthews
5
––––––– 13.4
John McAdam (retired 01.09.05) 15.1 – 15.1 – – 0.6 15.7 35.5
Derek Osborn (retired 31.03.06) 41.3 2.2 43.5––– 43.5 52.8
John Smith
6
40.0 – 40.0––– 40.0 43.8
Bernard Bulkin (appointed 01.01.06) 8.3 – 8.3––– 8.3 –
Richard Davey (appointed 01.01.06) 8.3 – 8.3––– 8.3 –
Executive directors
John Banyard (retired 30.12.04) ––––––– 251.0
Martin Bettington 325.0 – 325.0 27.2 57.3 0.2 409.7 519.6
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 215.5 – 215.5 9.0 29.4 76.8 330.7 137.6
Brian Duckworth (retired 31.08.04) ––––––– 182.3
Colin Matthews
5
520.0 – 520.0 10.0 260.0 183.8 973.8 534.1
Alan Perelman (retired 31.08.04) ––––––– 248.6
Robert Walker (retired 02.02.05) ––––––– 708.2
Mark Wilson (retired 13.12.05) 206.3 – 206.3 17.1 103.6 323.4 650.4 203.3
Tony Wray 250.0 – 250.0 16.6 87.5 61.2 415.3 23.1
Michael McKeon 112.1 – 112.1 0.7 64.8 87.3 264.9 –
(appointed 13.12.05)
Total emoluments 2,104.6 26.8 2,131.4 83.2 602.6 735.3 3,552.5 3,321.0
1
Included within fees for the non-executive directors are amounts to be received by way of shares rather than emoluments, 
to encourage participation in line with corporate governance best practice. The gross value of shares is recorded in the table
above. Non-executive directors who were either appointed or retired during the year received a time apportioned award. 
The number of shares received by each non-executive director was: 
> Sir John Egan – 1,253; Marisa Cassoni – 106; Martin Flower – 290; Martin Houston – 90; Derek Osborn – 163.
2
Beneﬁts in kind for Sir John Egan comprise the use of a company car. Beneﬁts in kind for executive directors comprise 
the use of a company car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity beneﬁts scheme.
3
Other emoluments represent expenses chargeable to UK income tax, car allowances, ﬂexible beneﬁts and amounts in lieu 
of pension contributions or in lieu of entry into the supplementary pension scheme (for those earning earning above the 
pension cap limit). Included in other emoluments are:
> Rachel Brydon Jannetta – cash allowance of £76,752 in lieu of pension contributions
> Colin Matthews – cash payment of £165,760 in lieu of entry to supplementary pension scheme
> Michael McKeon – relocation expenses of £38,137 and a cash allowance in lieu of pension allowance of £44,594
> Mark Wilson – £299,095 of termination payments and £24,327 for holiday not taken 
> Tony Wray – cash payment of £57,760 in lieu of entry to the supplementary pension scheme. 
4
Sir John Egan was appointed Chairman from 1 January 2005.
5
Colin Matthews was appointed Group Chief Executive Designate on 6 September 2004 and Group Chief Executive on 
1 February 2005.
6
John Smith’s total fees are paid directly to his employer.
Governance
48 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
Directors’ pension provisions
The disclosure of pension beneﬁts is made under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing
Authority (the “Rules”) and also the requirements of the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002
(the “Regulations”). These are shown in separate tables below.
The Rules require information to cover the period during which a director was a board member, whilst the
Regulations require information to cover the ﬁnancial year. The information below sets out the disclosures
required by the Regulations:
Increase/
Increase (decrease)
Service in accrued in transfer 
completed Increase pension Transfer Transfer value
in years in accrued during value of  value of over the 
(including Accrued pension the year accrued accrued year, net 
transferred pension at during (net of pension at pension at of directors’
in service 31.03.06 the year inﬂation)
1
31.03.06
2
31.03.05
2
contributions
credits) £pa £pa £pa £000 £000 £000
Martin Bettington 24 166,715 15,193 11,102 2,381.3 1,917.3 444.5
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 14 25,107 2,155 1,536 145.0 184.4 (40.3)
Colin Matthews 1 5,503 3,575 3,523 62.3 19.4 36.5
Mark Wilson 10 92,590 24,219 22,373 967.3 641.2 319.8
Tony Wray 1 3,749 3,525 3,519 31.2 1.7 23.1
The information below sets out the disclosures required by the Rules:
Transfer 
Increase in value of increase 
Increase in accrued pension in accrued beneﬁts 
Accrued pension accrued pension during the year net of directors’ 
at 31.03.06 during the year (net of inﬂation)
1
contributions
2
£pa £pa £pa £000
Martin Bettington 166,715 15,193 11,102 197.5
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 25,107 2,155 1,536 11.6
Colin Matthews 5,503 3,575 3,523 34.1
Mark Wilson 92,590 24,219 22,373 246.7
Tony Wray 3,749 3,525 3,519 23.0
1
Inﬂation over the year is measured by reference to the increase in the retail price index between March 2005, or the month 
prior to appointment, and March 2006, or the earlier date of leaving.
2
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 published by the Institute of 
Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The pensions shown above will be provided through the Severn Trent Senior Staff Pension Scheme, 
the Severn Trent Supplemental Pension Scheme and the Severn Trent Pension Scheme. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  49 Directors’ remuneration report
continued
Beneﬁcial holdings
The directors of the company at 31 March 2006 and their beneﬁcial interests in the shares of the
company were as follows:
i) Beneﬁcial holdings
At 1 April 2005
or subsequent
date of appointment At 31 March 2006 At 5 June 2006
Number of Number of Number of
ordinary shares of ordinary shares of ordinary shares of 
65 5/19p each 65 5/19p each 65 5/19p each
Chairman and other non-executive directors
Sir John Egan (Chairman) 6,035 7,288 7,288
Bernard Bulkin – – –
Marisa Cassoni 814 920 920
Richard Davey – – –
Martin Flower 2,073 2,363 2,363
Martin Houston 1,313 1,403 1,403
John Smith – – –
Executive directors
Martin Bettington 24,405 40,883 40,883
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 20,032 36,114 36,114
Colin Matthews 1,034 1,059 1,059
Michael McKeon – – –
Tony Wray – – –
Rachel Brydon Jannetta, Martin Bettington, Colin Matthews and Tony Wray have further interests in the
company’s ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p each by virtue of having received contingent awards of shares under
the Severn Trent Plc Long Term Incentive Plans (the ‘LTIPs’) on 13 August 2003, 15 December 2004 and 
5 September 2005. 
The LTIPs operate on a three year rolling basis. The Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust is
operated in conjunction with the LTIPs. Awards do not vest until they have been held in trust for three
years and speciﬁc performance criteria have been satisﬁed. 
The performance criteria are speciﬁc to each award. The details of performance criteria for the 2005 
and 2006 awards are explained on page 44. For the 2003 award the comparator group consists of: 
AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon Group Plc, Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc, Northumbrian Water Plc and 
Waste Recycling Group Plc. The same comparator group, minus Waste Recycling Group Plc was used 
for the 2004 award.
The 2003 and 2004 LTIP awards will be triggered if the company’s TSR performance is at the median 
or above and the EP meets the scaled targets set. EP is calculated by reference to a post tax rate of 
return of 7.5%.
Governance
50 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Governance
The individual interests, for the named directors and for the directors who left during the year, which
represent the maximum aggregate number of shares to which each individual could become entitled, 
are as follows:
At 1 April 2005 At 31 March
or subsequent 2006 or
date of earlier date
appointment of leaving
Number Market Number 
of ordinary Awards Market price Awards of ordinary
shares of vested price Gain on Awarded at time lapsed shares of 
65 5/19p during at time of vesting during of 2005   during 65 5/19p 
each year vesting (p) (£,000) year award (p) year each
Martin Bettington 82,020 (27,888) 1029.75 287.2 23,333 1017 – 77,465
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 54,369 (16,282) 1029.75 167.7 7,935 1017 – 46,022
Colin Matthews 52,600 – – – 53,333 1017 – 105,933
Mark Wilson 43,339 (11,952) 1029.75 123.1 19,743 1017 (19,743) 31,387
Tony Wray – – – – 17,948 1017 – 17,948
The awards that vested during the year were awarded on 24 September 2002 at a market price of 598.5p.
No further awards have been made under the LTIPs as at 5 June 2006.
The performance period for allocations of shares made in 2003 ended on 31 March 2006. The
Remuneration Committee has subsequently determined, based on the company’s Total Shareholder
Return over the three year performance period, that participants are not entitled to an award. 
There has been no change in directors’ interests between 31 March 2006 and the date of this report.
ii) Options over ordinary shares
At 
the start
of the
year or At the 
subsequent end of the 
date of Exercised Cancelled Granted year or
appoint- during during during earlier date
ment the year the year the year of leaving Year Date 
(No. of (No. of (No. of (No. of (No. of of grant Exercise from which
shares) shares) shares) shares) shares) of option price (p) exercisable Expiry date
Sharesave
1
Martin Bettington 1,248 – – – 1,248 2005 759 May 2008 Oct 2008
Mark Wilson 3,020 – – – 3,020 2002 548 Jan 2006 Jun 2006
1
The executive directors, in common with all eligible UK employees of the group, are entitled to participate in the company’s
Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme. The terms and conditions applicable to these options are those provided in that
scheme. The options have no performance conditions as such conditions are not permitted by legislation.
2
No executive share options in respect of executive directors were granted or lapsed during the year. 
At 31 March 2006 there were 145 other executives participating in the group’s Share Option Scheme (2005: 181).
3
At the close of business on 31 March 2006 the mid-market price of the company’s shares was 1117p (31 March 2005: 915p)
and the range during the year was 916
1
⁄ 2p to 1183p.
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the Directors’ remuneration report on 5 June 2006.
Martin Flower
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  51 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Severn Trent Plc
We have audited the group ﬁnancial statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the consolidated
income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and
expense and the related notes 1 to 41. These group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We
have also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited. 
We have reported separately on the individual company ﬁnancial statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the group ﬁnancial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted for use in the European Union are set out
in the directors’ responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been
audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the relevant ﬁnancial
reporting framework, and whether the group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you
whether in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the group ﬁnancial statements. We also report to you if
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’
transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not complied with any of the four directors’ remuneration disclosure requirements
speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. These comprise the amount of each element in the
remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and money purchase and deﬁned beneﬁt
schemes. We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reﬂects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the board’s statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of
the group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited
part of the directors’ remuneration report and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements
or material inconsistencies with the group ﬁnancial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group ﬁnancial statements and the part
of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report
described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the
directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of
the group’s affairs as at 31 March 2006 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended; and
> the group ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
> the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the group ﬁnancial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
United Kingdom
5 June 2006
Group ﬁnancial statements
52 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
Group ﬁnancial statements
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Turnover 4, 5 2,295.0 2,014.4
Operating costs before exceptional items (1,806.8) (1,615.6)
Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations 7 (7.9) (14.2)
Exceptional demerger costs 7 (7.8) –
Exceptional proﬁt on disposal of property and investments 7 – 11.9 
Total operating costs 6 (1,822.5) (1,617.9) 
Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional items 488.2 398.8
Exceptional items 7 (15.7) (2.3) 
Operating proﬁt 4 472.5 396.5 
Finance income 9 7.9 3.5 
Finance costs 9 (175.8) (173.0) 
Net ﬁnance costs before fair value movements on treasury instruments 9 (167.9) (169.5) 
Fair value movements on treasury instruments 9 (36.7) – 
Total net ﬁnance costs 9 (204.6) (169.5) 
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 4,17,18 2.1 1.8 
Proﬁt before tax, fair value movements on treasury instruments and exceptional items 322.4 231.1
Exceptional items 7 (15.7) (2.3) 
Fair value movements on treasury instruments 9 (36.7) –
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 270.0 228.8 
Taxation on proﬁt on ordinary activities – current tax 10 (48.7) (37.9) 
– deferred tax 10 6.0 (33.6) 
Total taxation 10 (42.7) (71.5) 
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 227.3 157.3 
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/proﬁt for the period from discontinued operations 11 (4.3) 0.8
Proﬁt for the period 223.0 158.1 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the company 221.6 157.4 
Equity minority interests 1.4 0.7 
223.0 158.1 
Earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations
Basic 13 65.2 45.4 
Diluted 13 64.7 45.1 
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 13 63.9 45.7 
Diluted 13 63.5 45.3 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  53 Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 March 2006
Notes 2006 2005
£m £m
Non current assets
Goodwill 14 506.3 499.1 
Other intangible assets 15 112.4 125.8 
Property, plant and equipment 16 5,743.1 5,639.4 
Interests in joint ventures 17 9.7 9.5 
Interests in associates 18 19.6 16.3 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 3.7 –   
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets 20 0.5 0.7 
6,395.3 6,290.8 
Current assets
Inventory 21 54.4 66.0 
Trade and other receivables 22 481.5 492.5 
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 10.8 –   
Cash and cash equivalents 23 142.6 90.8
689.3 649.3 
Assets held for sale 11 41.5 –
Total assets 7,126.1 6,940.1 
Current liabilities
Borrowings 24 (808.2) (486.5)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 (114.4) –   
Trade and other payables 25 (540.6) (578.0)
Current income tax liabilities (48.8) (69.6)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 27 (30.1) (32.2)
Liabilities directly associated with assets classiﬁed as held for sale 11 (28.5) –
(1,570.6) (1,166.3)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 24 (2,295.5) (2,498.9)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 19 (30.1) –   
Trade and other payables 25 (158.7) (129.2)
Deferred tax liabilities 26 (870.2) (888.1)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations 27 (221.9) (317.5)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 28 (80.1) (90.6)
(3,656.5) (3,924.3)
Total liabilities (5,227.1) (5,090.6)
Net assets 1,899.0 1,849.5 
Capital and reserves attributable to the company’s equity shareholders
Called up share capital 29 227.2 225.8
Share premium account 30 48.6 38.4
Other reserves 31 432.4 467.3
Retained earnings 32 1,188.2 1,116.1
Equity attributable to the company’s equity shareholders 32 1,896.4 1,847.6 
Minority interests 32 2.6 1.9 
Total equity 32 1,899.0 1,849.5 
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the accounts on 5 June 2006.
Sir John Egan Michael McKeon
Chairman Group Finance Director
Group ﬁnancial statements
54 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  55
Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Cash generated from operations 35 758.9 623.3 
Interest paid (139.4) (136.3)
Interest element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (45.1) (16.8)
Tax paid (68.3) (36.5)
Net cash generated from operating activities 506.1 433.7 
Investing activities
Interest received 4.4 2.0 
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 2.7 3.5 
Net loans advanced to associates and joint ventures (2.3) (1.8)
Net cash inﬂow from available for sale ﬁxed asset investments 0.2 1.4 
Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired (0.3) (3.1)
Proceeds on disposal of subsidiary 1.6 –
Proceeds on disposal of associate – 6.5 
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8.4 15.6 
Purchases of intangible assets (29.6) (34.2)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (407.5) (417.8)
Contributions and grants received 32.8 30.0 
Net cash used in investing activities (389.6) (397.9) 
Financing activities
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent (234.3) (162.0)
Dividends paid to minority interests (0.8) (0.6)
Repayments of borrowings (500.2) (442.4)
Receipts from sale and lease back transactions 170.2 –
Repayment of obligations under ﬁnance leases (167.7) (8.1)
New loans raised 648.8 556.6
Purchases of own shares – (4.1)
Issue of shares 11.6 5.5 
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (72.4) (55.1) 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 44.1 (19.3) 
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 64.4 83.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 1.9 0.5 
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 35 110.4 64.4
Net cash and cash equivalents comprise
Cash and cash equivalents 35 142.6 90.8 
Bank overdrafts 35 (32.2) (26.4)
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 35 110.4 64.4 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Losses on cash ﬂow hedges taken to equity 0.3 –    
Exchange movement on translation of overseas results and net assets 21.6 (3.6)
Exchange differences on hedges of net investment (5.3) 0.8 
Tax on exchange differences on foreign currency hedging 1.8 (0.2)
Actuarial gains on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 26.3 43.2 
Deferred tax on items posted directly to equity (8.0) (13.0)
Net income recognised directly in equity 30,31 36.7 27.2 
Transfers
Transfers to income statement on cashﬂow hedge 4.5 –
Deferred tax on transfers to income statement (1.4) –
Proﬁt for the period 223.0 158.1
Total recognised income and expense for the period 262.8 185.3 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 261.4 184.6 
Minority interest 1.4 0.7 
Total recognised income and expense for the period 262.8 185.3 
Change in accounting policy on adoption of IAS32 and IAS39 
all attributable to equity holders of the parent 31,32 (57.8) –   
Group ﬁnancial statements
56 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  57
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
1 General information
The Severn Trent group has a number of operations. These are described in the segmental analysis in note 4.
Severn Trent Plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. The address of its registered ofﬁce is shown on the back
of the cover of the annual report and accounts.
Severn Trent Plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
2 Accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective and ratiﬁed by the European Union as at 31 March 2006 
and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted by the European Union. 
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets and
liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through proﬁt and loss.
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the ﬁnancial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses for the
reporting period. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results 
may ultimately differ from those estimates.
b) First time adoption of IFRS
The group’s date of transition to IFRS is 1 April 2004 and all comparative information in the ﬁnancial statements has been restated to
reﬂect the group’s adoption of IFRS, except where otherwise required or permitted by International Financial Reporting Standard 1 – 
‘First Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’ (IFRS 1). Details of this transition are given in note 41.
IFRS 1 requires an entity to comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date for its ﬁrst IFRS ﬁnancial statements. As a general principle,
IFRS 1 requires the standards effective at the reporting date to be applied retrospectively, however, retrospective application is prohibited in
some areas. In addition, there are a number of optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRSs within IFRS 1.
Group policy on optional IFRS 1 exemptions is as follows:
> Not to apply International Financial Reporting Standard 3 – ‘Business Combinations’ (IFRS 3) retrospectively to past business
combinations;
> To establish a deemed cost for the opening balance sheet carrying value of the water and wastewater infrastructure ﬁxed assets by
reference to the fair value of these assets at the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004;
> To recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses relating to deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes at the date of transition;
> To deem cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations to be zero at the date of transition;
> Not to apply the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard 2 – ‘Share Based Payments’ (IFRS 2) to options granted
under the group’s Save As You Earn schemes prior to 7 November 2002. The requirements of IFRS 2 have been applied to shares
conditionally awarded under the group’s Long Term Incentive Plan schemes before 7 November 2002 but not vested or lapsed before 
1 April 2004 since the fair values of these awards has been publicly disclosed previously.
c) Basis of consolidation
The ﬁnancial statements include the results of Severn Trent Plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identiﬁed separately from the group’s equity therein. Minority interests
consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minority’s share of changes in equity
since that date. Losses attributable to the minority in excess of the minority’s interest in the subsidiary’s equity are allocated against the
interests of the group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover
the losses.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and
excluded from the date of disposal. The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the group has the power to control a subsidiary. The
results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the company exercised joint control under a contractual
arrangement. The results of associates are accounted for on an equity basis where the company holding is 20% or more and the company
has the power to exercise signiﬁcant inﬂuence. d) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter-company sales, 
in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is not recognised until the service has been provided to the customer, or the goods to which the sale relates have either been
despatched to the customer or, where they are held on the customer’s behalf, title has passed to the customer.
In respect of long term contracts, revenue is recognised based on the value of work carried out during the year with reference to the total
sales value and the stage of completion of these contracts.
Turnover includes an estimate of the amount of mains water and wastewater charges unbilled at the year end. The accrual is estimated
using a deﬁned methodology based upon a measure of unbilled water consumed by tariff, which is calculated from historical billing
information.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. Dividend
income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established. Interest and dividend
income are included in ﬁnance income.
e) Segmental reporting
Each of the group’s business and geographical segments provide services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those
of the other business segments.
f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprises:
i) Infrastructure assets
Infrastructure assets are included at cost (or deemed cost on transition to IFRS) less accumulated depreciation. The costs of day to day
servicing of infrastructure components are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account as they arise. Where it is probable that the money
spent will cause future economic beneﬁts to ﬂow to the group, then costs are capitalised. Infrastructure assets are depreciated over their
useful economic lives, which are as follows:
Years
Impounding reservoirs 250
Raw water aqueducts 250
Mains 80-150
Sewers 150-200
ii) Landﬁll sites
Landﬁll sites are included within Land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of landﬁll sites includes the cost of acquiring, developing and engineering sites, but does not include interest. The cost of the
asset is depreciated over the estimated life of the site on the basis of the usage of void space.
iii) Other assets
Other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other assets are depreciated over
their estimated economic lives to their residual value, which are principally as follows:
Years
Buildings 30-60
Operational structures 40-80
Fixed plant 20-40
Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 2-15
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Interest costs of debt raised to ﬁnance new property, plant and equipment are not included within the cost of those ﬁxed assets, 
but are expensed to the income statement as they arise.
Group ﬁnancial statements
58 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  59
g) Leased assets
Where assets are ﬁnanced by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the
lessee (ﬁnance leases), the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments is capitalised as
an asset with a corresponding liability representing the obligation to the lessor. Lease payments are treated as consisting of a capital
element and a ﬁnance charge, the capital element reducing the obligation to the lessor and the ﬁnance charge being written off to the
income statement at a constant rate over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding. Depreciation is charged
over the shorter of the estimated useful life and the lease period.
Where assets are ﬁnanced by leasing arrangements where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the lessor, these
are classiﬁed as operating leases. Rental costs arising under operating leases are expensed on a straight line basis over the term of the
lease. Leases of land are normally treated as operating leases, unless ownership is transferred at the end of the lease.
h) Grants and contributions
Grants and contributions received in respect of non-current assets, including charges made for new connections to the water and sewerage
networks, are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful economic life of those assets. 
Where grants and contributions are given for the purpose of compensation for expenses incurred with no future related costs, then these
are recognised in the income statement in the period that they become receivable.
i) Impairment of non-current assets
If the recoverable amount of goodwill, an item of property, plant and equipment, or any other non-current asset is estimated to be less 
than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Where the asset does not generate cash
ﬂows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset
belongs. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell or estimated value in use at the date the impairment review is
undertaken. Fair value less costs to sell represents the amount obtainable from the sale of the assets in an arm’s length transaction
between knowledgeable and willing third parties, less costs of disposal. Value in use represents the present value of future cash ﬂows
expected to be derived from a cash generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments 
of the cost of capital of the cash generating unit or asset.
The discount rate used is based on the group’s cost of capital adjusted for the risk proﬁles of individual businesses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis. Impairment reviews are also carried out if there is some indication that an
impairment may have occurred, or, where otherwise required, to ensure that non-current assets are not carried above their estimated
recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in the income statement.
j) Investments
The group followed the transitional provisions of IFRS and adopted International Accounting Standard 39 – ‘Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement’ (IAS 39) and International Accounting Standard 32 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’ 
(IAS 32) from 1 April 2005.
After initial recognition at cost (being the fair value of the consideration paid), investments which are classiﬁed as held for trading or
available for sale are measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognised in income or equity respectively. When an available for sale
investment is disposed of, or impaired, the gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement.
Other investments are classiﬁed as held to maturity when the group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. Investments
held for an undeﬁned period are excluded from this classiﬁcation. Such investments (and those held to maturity) are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with any gains or losses being recognised in the income statement.
Prior to 1 April 2005, the group held investments at historical cost less any provision for impairment. k) Inventory
Inventory and work in progress is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes labour, materials, transport and
attributable overheads.
Development land and properties are included at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes the cost of acquiring and
developing the sites.
The net realisable value of development land is based upon its value as a serviced site, after taking account of the cost of providing
infrastructure services.
Income and attributable proﬁts on properties under development are determined by reference to valuation of work carried out to date.
l) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to
known amounts of, cash and which are subject to an insigniﬁcant risk of change in value. Such investments are normally those with less
than three months’ maturity  from the date of acquisition, and include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible
bills, loans and certiﬁcates of deposit. Cash and cash equivalents also include overdrafts repayable on demand.
m) Provisions
Provisions are made where there is a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that there will be an outﬂow of
economic beneﬁts to settle this obligation and a reliable estimate of this amount can be made. The group’s policy on provisions for speciﬁc
areas is as follows:
> Landﬁll restoration costs: Provision for the cost of restoring landﬁll sites is made over the operational life of each landﬁll site and
charged to the income statement on the basis of the usage of void space.
> Environmental control and aftercare costs: Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred over the operational life of each
landﬁll site and may be incurred for a considerable period thereafter. Provision for all such costs is made over the operational life of the
site and charged to the proﬁt and loss account on the basis of the usage of void space. Material environmental control and aftercare
costs are discounted by applying an appropriate discount rate.
> Insurance: Provision is made for claims notiﬁed and for claims incurred but which have not yet been notiﬁed, based on advice from the
group’s independent insurance advisers.
n) Pension costs
The group operates both deﬁned beneﬁt and deﬁned contribution pension schemes.
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme assets are measured using bid price. Deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme liabilities are measured at the
balance sheet date by an independent actuary using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on high quality
corporate bonds of equivalent term and currency to the liability. The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the group’s deﬁned
beneﬁt pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating proﬁt. The expected return on the
scheme’s assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, arising from the passage of time, are
included in other ﬁnance income or cost.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and amendments to pension plans are
charged or credited to equity and recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Costs of deﬁned contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
o) Foreign currency
The results of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated into the presentational currency of the group, sterling, using
average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
The net investments in overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the
year-end. Exchange differences thus arising are treated as movements in equity. On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary,
the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity (since 1 April 2004 under the transitional rule of IFRS 1 – see note 2b) relating to
that entity is recognised in the income statement
Exchange differences arising in respect of foreign exchange instruments taken out as hedges of overseas investments are also treated as
movements in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective (see note 2u).
All other foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of the company and its United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are 
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year-end. Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through 
the income statement. Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling 
on the date of the transaction. All proﬁts and losses on exchange arising during the year are dealt with through the income statement.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
60 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  61
p) Research and development
Research expenditure is expensed when it is incurred. Development expenditure is capitalised and written off over its expected useful
economic life where the following criteria are met:
> An asset is created that can be identiﬁed;
> It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic beneﬁts; and
> The development cost can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment relating to research and development projects is capitalised and written off over the
expected useful life of those assets.
q) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on taxable temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the ﬁnancial statements. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent it is probable that
sufﬁcient taxable proﬁts will be available in the future to utilise it. Deferred taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax
rates and laws that have then been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related
deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
r) Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill arising on
acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets, whilst goodwill arising on acquisition of associates is included in investments in
associates. If an acquisition gives rise to negative goodwill this is credited directly to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 was written off to reserves under UK GAAP and remains eliminated against
reserves. Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions after 31 March 1998 is treated as an intangible ﬁxed asset.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy set out above and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to the cash generating unit that derives beneﬁt from the goodwill for impairment testing purposes.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions. Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended
within one year of the acquisition, if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the
carrying amount of that operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
s) Intangible non-current assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at
the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, the historical cost model is applied to intangible assets. Amortisation charged on assets
with ﬁnite lines is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
Finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows:
Years
Software 3-10
Other assets 2-20
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
t) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at fair value on initial recognition and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method unless there there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired where it is written down to is recoverable amount
and the irrecoverable amount is recognised as an expense.
Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation is
not charged on such assets.
u) Financial instruments
The group has taken advantage of the IFRS 1 exemption from application of IAS 32 and IAS 39 has applied these standards from 1 April 2005.
Comparative information for ﬁnancial instruments has been presented in accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Standard 13 – ‘Financial
Instruments’. Under this Standard derivative ﬁnancial instruments were recognised at historical cost and were not remeasured at fair value
except that, where currency swaps were used to hedge foreign currency investments, the future currency exchange in such contracts was
revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the related gain or loss was taken directly to equity.
The accounting policy after 1 April 2005 is as follows:
i) Debt instruments
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the net fair value of the consideration received. After initial recognition,
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Where a loan 
or borrowing is in a fair value hedging relationship it is remeasured for changes in fair value of the hedged risk at the balance sheet
date with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement (see below).
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the
amortisation process. u) Financial instruments continued
ii) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities
The group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as cross currency swaps, forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations. Such derivative instruments are initially recorded at cost
and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet. The fair value of cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps
and forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is taken to
the income statement where the effective portion of the hedge will offset the gain or loss on the hedged item (see above).
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging
instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income
statement. The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the
hedged underlying transaction or ﬁrm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
Forward currency contracts and foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge net investments in foreign currency denominated
operations and to the extent that they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against changes in
value of the related assets. Any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge
accounting. At that date any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast
transaction occurs, or transferred to the income statement if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value with gains and losses
reported in the income statement.
The accounting policy prior to 1 April 2005 is as follows:
iii) Debt instruments
The ﬁnancial costs of debt instruments are charged to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the
carrying amount. Such costs include the cost of issue and any discount to face value arising on issue, or any premium arising on
maturity.
Differences arising from the movement in exchange rates during the year on translation into sterling of the foreign currency borrowings
and similar instruments used to ﬁnance long-term equity investments, are taken directly to equity and reported in the statement of
recognised income and expense.
iv) Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and to a lesser extent currency swaps, are used to manage the ﬁnancial risks
arising from the business activities of the group and the ﬁnancing of those activities. There is no trading activity in ﬁnancial instruments.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows:
> interest rate swaps are used to hedge the group’s exposure to movements in interest rates. The interest payable or receivable on
such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair
value prior to maturity.
> currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency investments. The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued 
to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset 
or liability in reserves. The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
v) Share-based payments
The group operates a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans for employees. The fair value of the employee services
received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
The fair value of employee services is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards granted calculated using an appropriate
pricing model, excluding the impact of any non market vesting conditions. The number of awards that are expected to vest takes into
account non market vesting conditions including, where appropriate, continuing employment by the group. The change is adjusted to
reﬂect shares that do not vest as a result of failing to meet a non-market condition.
w) Pre-contract costs
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred, except where it is virtually certain that the contract will be awarded, in which case they are
recognised as an asset which is written off to the income statement over the life of the contract.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
62 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  63
x) Discontinued operations and assets held for sale
Where an asset or group of assets (a disposal group) is available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable and expected to occur
within one year, then the disposal group is deemed as held for sale. The disposal group is measured at the lower of the carrying amount
and fair value less costs to sell.
Where a group of assets (a component), which comprises operations that can be clearly distinguished operationally and for ﬁnancial
reporting purposes from the rest of the group, has been disposed of or classiﬁed as held for sale, and
> represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or
> is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or
> is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale 
then the component is classiﬁed as a discontinued operation.
y) Purchase of own shares
The group balance sheet incorporates the shares held by the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust (the Trust) and which have not
vested unconditionally by the balance sheet date. These are shown as a deduction from shareholders’ funds until such time as they vest.
z) Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement
because it excludes items of income and expenses that are taxable in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or
deductible. The group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance
sheet date.
aa)Trade payables
Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate
method.
ab)Exceptional items
Exceptional items are income or expenditure, which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate need to be disclosed by virtue of their
size or nature if the ﬁnancial statements are to give a true and fair view.
3 New accounting policies and future requirements
The following statements have been issued by the International Accounting Standard Board and are likely to affect future ﬁnancial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standard 7 – ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’ (IFRS 7) was issued in August 2005 and is required to
be implemented by Severn Trent from 1 April 2007. The standard incorporates the disclosure requirements of IAS 32, which it supersedes,
and adds further quantitative and qualitative disclosures in relation to ﬁnancial instruments.
International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee/Interpretation 4 – ‘Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease’ 
(IFRIC 4) was issued in December 2004 and is required to be implemented by Severn Trent from 1 April 2006. The interpretation requires
arrangements that may have the nature, but not the legal form, of a lease to be accounted for in accordance with International Accounting
Standard 17 – ‘Leases’. This interpretation is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
The directors assess that the other standards issued but not yet effective are not applicable to the group.
4 Segmental analysis
The group is organised into four main business segments:
Water and Sewerage
Provides water and sewerage services to domestic and commercial customers in England and Wales.
Waste Management
Provides collection, landﬁll and special waste services to industrial and commercial customers and local authorities in the UK.
Laboratories
Provides environmental testing services in the US and UK.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Provides services and products associated with water, waste water and contaminated land principally in the US, UK and Europe.
Other Businesses Include IT Services and Solutions, Engineering Consultancy, Severn Trent Property and Derwent Insurance. The external IT
services and Engineering Consultancy activities were sold or terminated during the year.
The group is also organised into geographical regions, UK, US and Europe. Geographical information is classiﬁed by the location of the
principal operations of each business unit. a) Primary reporting format – business segment
Turnover United Kingdom United States Europe Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing Operations
Water and Sewerage 1,150.9 1,015.1 –   –   –  –   1,150.9 1,015.1 
Waste Management 712.3 629.5 –   –   –  –   712.3 629.5 
Laboratories 32.3 30.0 134.7 132.6 –  –   167.0 162.6 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 71.7 34.2 163.9 148.9 32.2 25.0 267.8 208.1 
Other Businesses 50.6 80.1 9.1 6.7 –  – 59.7 86.8 
Eliminations (60.7) (86.9) (2.0) (0.8) –  – (62.7) (87.7)
Group – continuing operations 1,957.1 1,702.0 305.7 287.4 32.2 25.0 2,295.0 2,014.4 
Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional items United Kingdom United States Europe Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing Operations
Water and Sewerage 400.4 307.5 –  –   –   –   400.4 307.5 
Waste Management 89.2 78.9 –  –   –   –   89.2 78.9 
Laboratories 5.2 4.8 5.9 10.4 –   –   11.1 15.2 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 5.0 0.7 5.2 6.7 1.8 1.5 12.0 8.9 
Other Businesses (2.7) 10.0 (0.8) (3.0) –   –   (3.5) 7.0 
Corporate (22.2) (17.8) –  –   –   –   (22.2) (17.8)
Eliminations 1.2 (0.9) –  –   –   – 1.2 (0.9)
Group – continuing operations 476.1 383.2 10.3 14.1 1.8 1.5 488.2 398.8 
Exceptional items (note 7) United Kingdom United States Europe Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing Operations
Water and Sewerage (4.8) (2.8) –   –   –   –   (4.8) (2.8)
Waste Management –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   
Laboratories –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services –   –   –   –   –   4.3 –   4.3 
Other Businesses (5.9) (3.4) 2.8 (0.4) –   –   (3.1) (3.8)
Corporate (7.8) –   –   –   –   –   (7.8) –   
Eliminations –   –   –   –   –   –   –   –   
Group – continuing operations (18.5) (6.2) 2.8 (0.4) – 4.3 (15.7) (2.3)
Proﬁt before interest and tax United Kingdom United States Europe Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing Operations
Water and Sewerage 395.6 304.7 –   –   –   –   395.6 304.7
Waste Management 89.2 78.9 –   –   –   –   89.2 78.9 
Laboratories 5.2 4.8 5.9 10.4 –   –   11.1 15.2 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 5.0 0.7 5.2 6.7 1.8 5.8 12.0 13.2 
Other Businesses (8.6) 6.6 2.0 (3.4) –   –   (6.6) 3.2 
Corporate (30.0) (17.8) –   –   –   –   (30.0) (17.8)
Eliminations 1.2 (0.9) –   –   –   –   1.2 (0.9)
Group – continuing operations 457.6 377.0 13.1 13.7 1.8 5.8 472.5 396.5 
Total net ﬁnance costs (204.6) (169.5)
Share of post tax results of associates and joint ventures
Waste Management 1.0 1.1 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 1.6 1.7 
Other Businesses (0.5) (1.0)
2.1 1.8 
Proﬁt before tax 270.0 228.8 
Tax (42.7) (71.5)
Proﬁt from continuing operations 227.3 157.3 
(Loss)/proﬁt from discontinued operations (4.3) 0.8 
Proﬁt for the period 223.0 158.1 
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
64 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  65
Other segment items are:
Capital expenditure Depreciation 
and amortisation
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Water and Sewerage 335.6 369.9 219.7 207.4
Waste Management 79.5 69.4 58.2 63.6
Laboratories 9.2 8.2 9.0 8.2
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 5.6 18.7 5.1 4.6
Other Businesses 0.2 1.0 3.4 1.9 
Corporate – 0.1 0.6 0.8 
Eliminations (3.3) (4.7) (4.3) (3.9)
426.8 462.6 291.7 282.6 
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to
unrelated third parties.
The segment assets and liabilities are as follows:
Investments in associates 
Assets Segment assets and joint ventures Total
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Water and Sewerage 5,677.4 5,565.4 0.4 0.4 5,677.8 5,565.8 
Waste Management 884.1 907.8 0.6 0.8 884.7 908.6 
Laboratories 162.6 150.3 – –  162.6 150.3 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 234.0 198.4 19.7 16.4 253.7 214.8 
Other Businesses 24.9 86.4 8.6 8.2 33.5 94.6 
6,983.0 6,908.3 29.3 25.8 7,012.3 6,934.1 
Assets held for sale 41.5 –
Unallocated corporate assets 72.3 6.0 
Group total assets 7,126.1 6,940.1
Liabilities Segment liabilities 
2006 2005
£m £m
Water and Sewerage (682.3) (632.9)
Waste Management (207.1) (242.1)
Laboratories (18.5) (18.1)
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services (65.8) (53.8)
Other Businesses (47.7) (72.5)
(1,021.4) (1,019.4)
Assets held for sale (28.5) –
Unallocated corporate liabilities (4,177.2) (4,071.2)
Group total liabilities (5,227.1) (5,090.6)
Segment assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges 
for future transactions, receivables and operating cash. They exclude deferred taxation, investments and derivatives designated as hedges 
of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, but exclude items such as taxation and corporate borrowings and related hedging
derivatives. Discontinued operations comprises the Belgian Waste Management activities. The total revenue, results assets and liabilities of the Waste
Management segment are set out below. Further details are given in note 11.
Gross turnover Inter-segment sales Total turnover
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations 712.3 629.5 –  –  712.3 629.5 
Discontinued operations 58.4 66.7 –  –  58.4 66.7 
Total 770.7 696.2 – – 770.7 696.2 
Segment result before Segment result after 
exceptional items Exceptional items exceptional items
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations 89.2 78.9 - –  89.2 78.9 
Discontinued operations (4.1) 3.3 - –  (4.1) 3.3 
Total 85.1 82.2 – – 85.1 82.2 
Secondary reporting format - geographical segments
The group’s revenue analysed by geographical market (by destination) was as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Turnover
UK 1,958.9 1,696.7 
US 274.2 262.1 
Europe 36.8 30.8 
Other 25.1 24.8 
2,295.0 2,014.4
The carrying amount of the group’s assets and additions to property plant and equipment analysed by the geographical area in which the
assets are located was as follows: 
Total assets – based on location Capital expenditure
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
UK 6,757.7 6,576.4 411.1 450.3 
US 271.1 254.6 12.4 10.2 
Europe 55.8 109.1 3.3 2.1 
7,084.6 6,940.1 426.8 462.6 
Assets held for sale (Europe) 41.5 – 
7,126.1 6,940.1 
5 Revenue
2006 2005
£m £m
Water and sewerage services 1,137.7 999.3
Other services 1,091.2 982.2
Sales of goods 62.9 49.3
Revenue from long term contracts 65.9 71.3
Eliminations (62.7) (87.7)
Total turnover 2,295.0 2,014.4
Interest receivable (note 9) 4.1 3.5
Sales from discontinued operations (note 11) 58.4 66.7
Total revenue 2,357.5 2,084.6
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
66 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  67
6 Operating costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 442.0 427.6
Social security costs 36.5 33.3
Pension costs 43.7 47.9
Total employee costs 522.2 508.8
Power 43.9 41.3
Raw materials and consumables 179.0 151.9
Rates 64.8 58.3
Impairment of trade debtors 26.3 22.1
Service charges 27.5 25.7
Waste disposal costs 90.7 83.6
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 262.4 253.9
Amortisation of intangible ﬁxed assets 29.3 22.3
Hired and contracted services 154.3 121.8
Environmental and landﬁll restoration costs 9.2 8.4
Operating lease rentals
– land and buildings 12.8 12.2
– other 11.9 10.6
Hire of plant and machinery 20.3 19.4
Research and development expenditure 3.9 2.7
Proﬁt on disposal of ﬁxed assets (3.3) (7.5)
Foreign exchange losses (0.1) 0.4
Water and Sewerage infrastructure maintenance expenditure 94.5 77.2
Other operating costs 344.8 305.6
1,894.4 1,718.7
Government grants released from deferred income (0.6) (0.6)
Own work capitalised (71.3) (100.2)
Total operating costs 1,822.5 1,617.9
Operating costs include £15.7 million (2005: £2.3 million) of exceptional costs. Further details are given in note 7. The pension costs shown
above are included in operating costs. Pension costs reported elsewhere (interest costs, expected returns on assets and actuarial gains and
losses) are excluded.
During the year the following fees were charged by the auditors:
2006 2005
£m £m
Audit related
Group statutory 1.0 0.9
Regulatory 0.1 0.1
1.1 1.0
Taxation Services
Compliance – 0.1
Advisory 0.2 0.1
0.2 0.2
Other Services 0.9 2.0
Total fees 2.2 3.2
The amounts charged in the year ended 31 March 2006 relate to Deloitte & Touche LLP and its afﬁliates and in the year ended 31 March
2005 relate to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its afﬁliates.
Taxation services include compliance services, such as tax return preparation, and advisory services.
In 2006, other services primarily include a controls review within Severn Trent Water and an investigation into environmental taxes in Biffa
Belgium. In 2005, other services primarily included forensic accounting services and provision of advice related to transition to IFRS.
Included in auditors’ remuneration above is £135,000 (2005: £105,000) in respect of the audit of the company.
Details of directors’ remuneration are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 51. 7 Exceptional items
An exceptional charge of £15.7 million arose in the year ending 31 March 2006. This comprises:
An exceptional restructuring charge of £7.9 million arose comprising:
> £4.8 million arising in Severn Trent Water as a result of costs associated with a redundancy programme undertaken to meet 
AMP4 efﬁciency targets
> a net £3.1 million arising in Systems relating to the cessation of trading with external customers and disposal of the Worksuite 
and CIS operations.
£7.8 million of costs arose relating to the demerger of Biffa and other strategic reviews undertaken.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, restructuring costs and termination of operations of £14.2 million comprised: a charge of £10.4 million
relating to restructuring of Severn Trent Water; and losses on termination of operations amounting to £3.8 million. The loss on termination 
of operations arose from decisions to close one of the group’s US Systems businesses and to cease trading with external customers 
for the group’s UK IT Services and Engineering Consultancy businesses.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, a proﬁt of £11.9 million on the disposal of properties and investments arose. This comprised £6.1 million
on the sale of land and buildings by Severn Trent Water, £4.3 million on the disposal of the group’s interest in its associated undertaking,
Indaqua Industria e Gestao de Aguas and £1.5 million on disposal of a non-current asset investment by Severn Trent Water.
8 Employee numbers
Average number of employees (including executive directors) during the year (full time equivalent):
2006 2005
Number Number
By type of business:
Water and Sewerage 5,188 5,106
Waste Management 5,552 5,353
Laboratories 2,797 2,756
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 2,425 2,343
Other Businesses and Corporate 350 816
16,312 16,374
By geographical location:
UK 11,522 11,569
Other – principally US and Europe 4,790 4,805
16,312 16,374
9 Net ﬁnance costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Investment income
Interest receivable on bank deposits 4.1 3.5
Net ﬁnance income on deﬁned beneﬁt pension share 3.8 –
7.9 3.5
Finance costs
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (24.5) (29.4)
Interest on other loans (121.0) (113.5)
Interest on ﬁnance leases (26.0) (24.0)
Total borrowing costs (171.5) (166.9)
Interest cost on discounted provisions (2.3) (2.3)
Net ﬁnance cost on deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme – (1.2)
Other ﬁnancial expenses (2.0) (2.6)
Total ﬁnance costs (175.8) (173.0)
Fair value movements on treasury instruments (36.7) –
Net ﬁnance costs (204.6) (169.5)
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
68 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  69
10 Taxation
a) Analysis of tax charge in the year
2006 2005
£m £m
Current tax
Continuing operations
Current year at 30% 87.8 49.4
Prior year at 30% (39.1) (11.5)
Total current tax relating to continuing operations 48.7 37.9
Current tax relating to discontinued operations 0.1 1.8
Total current tax 48.8 39.7
Deferred tax
Continuing operations
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – current year 5.1 19.4
Origination and reversal of temporary differences – prior year (11.1) 14.2
Total deferred tax relating to continuing operations (6.0) 33.6
Deferred tax relating to discontinued operations 0.2 0.9
Total deferred tax (5.8) 34.5
Total tax charge relating to continuing operations 42.7 71.5
Total tax charge relating to discontinued operations 0.3 2.7
Total tax charge 43.0 74.2
b) Factors affecting the tax charge in the year
The tax expense for the current year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (2006 and 2005: 30%). The differences
are explained below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax:
Continuing operations 270.0 228.8
Discontinued operations (4.0) 3.5
266.0 232.3
Proﬁt on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (2006 and 2005: 30%) 79.8 69.7
Effects of:
Tax effect of share of results of associates and joint ventures 0.3 0.3
Tax effect of expenditure not deductible in determining taxable proﬁt 14.9 1.2
Effect of different rates of tax in overseas jurisdictions (1.3) 0.3
Adjustments in respect of prior years (50.7) 2.7
Total tax charge 43.0 74.2
c) Tax charged directly to equity
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the following amounts of tax have been charged directly to equity
2006 2005
£m £m
Current tax
Tax on exchange differences on foreign currency hedging (1.8) 0.2
Total current tax charged directly to equity (1.8) 0.2
Deferred tax
Tax on actuarial gains/losses 8.0 13.0
Tax on cash ﬂow hedging 1.4 –
Tax on share based payments (0.8) 0.4
8.6 13.4
Deferred tax asset arising on adoption of IAS 39 credited directly to equity (21.2) – 11 Discontinued operations
On 12 May 2006, the group agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for €45 million. It is expected that this transaction will be completed
before the end of June 2006. The transaction is conditional upon clearance from the Belgian competition authorities.
a) Proﬁt from discontinued operations
2006 2005
£m £m
Turnover 58.4 66.7
Expenses (62.5) (63.4)
(Loss)/proﬁt before interest and tax (4.1) 3.3
Net ﬁnancing income 0.1 0.2
Tax (0.3) (2.7)
Post tax results (4.3) 0.8
b) Assets and liabilities of disposal group
Goodwill 2.1
Property, plant and equipment 22.7
Intangible assets 0.2
Current assets 14.8
Current income tax 0.7
Deferred tax assets 1.0
Total assets 41.5
Trade and other payables (18.5)
Current income tax –
Provisions (10.0)
Total liabilities (28.5)
c) Cash ﬂows from discontinued operations
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 6.7 7.3
Net cash ﬂows from investing activities (2.9) (1.8)
Net cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities – –
3.8 5.5
d) Earnings per share from discontinued operations
Weighted Weighted
average 2006 average 2005
number Per share number Per share
Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
£ m m pence £ m m pence
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations (4.3) 346.6 (1.3) 0.8 344.7 0.3
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations (4.3) 348.9 (1.2) 0.8 347.2 0.3
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
70 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  71
12 Dividends
Pence 2006 Pence 2005
per share £m per share £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005/2004 30.30 104.8 29.27 100.9
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006/2005 19.16 66.5 18.21 62.8
49.46 171.3 47.48 163.7
Proposed ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 March 2006 31.97 111.3
The proposed ﬁnal dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability
in these ﬁnancial statements.
13 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust, which are treated 
as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially
dilutive ordinary shares. These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price
of the company’s shares during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are calculated on the basis of proﬁt from continuing operations
attributable to the equity holders of the company.
From continuing operations
Weighted Weighted
average 2006 average 2005
number Per share number Per share
Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
£ m m pence £ m m pence
Basic earnings per share 225.9 346.6 65.2 156.6 344.7 45.4
Effect of dilutive options – 2.3 (0.5) – 2.5 (0.3)
Diluted earnings per share 225.9 348.9 64.7 156.6 347.2 45.1
From continuing and discontinued operations
2006 2005
Earnings Weighted Per share Earnings Weighted Per share
average amount average amount
number number
of shares of shares
£ m m pence £ m m pence
Basic earnings per share 221.6 346.6 63.9 157.4 344.7 45.7
Effect of dilutive options – 2.3 (0.4) – 2.5 (0.4)
Diluted earnings per share 221.6 348.9 63.5 157.4 347.2 45.3 Supplementary earnings per share
Supplementary adjusted earnings per share ﬁgures are presented. These exclude the effects of deferred tax, fair value movements on
treasury instruments and exceptional items in both 2006 and 2005. The directors consider that the supplementary ﬁgures provide a 
useful additional indicator of performance.
Weighted Weighted
average 2006 average 2005
number Per share number Per share
Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount
£m m pence £m m pence
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 225.9 346.6 65.2 156.6 344.7 45.4
Effect of:
Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations 7.9 – 2.3 14.2 – 4.1
Exceptional demerger and related costs 7.8 – 2.3 –––
Exceptional proﬁt on disposal of property and investments ––– (11.9) – (3.5)
Tax related to exceptional items at 30% (4.7) – (1.4) 1.0 – 0.3
Fair value movements on treasury instruments 36.7 – 10.6 –––
Deferred tax (6.0) – (1.8) 33.6 – 9.8
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 
before exceptional items, fair value movements on
treasury instruments and deferred tax 267.6 346.6 77.2 193.5 344.7 56.1
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 225.9 348.9 64.7 156.6 347.2 45.1
Effect of:
Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations 7.9 – 2.3 14.2 – 4.1
Exceptional demerger and related costs 7.8 – 2.3 –––
Exceptional proﬁt on disposal of property and investments ––– (11.9) – (3.4)
Tax related to exceptional items at 30% (4.7) – (1.3) 1.0 – 0.3
Fair value movements on treasury instruments 36.7 – 10.5 –––
Deferred tax (6.0) – (1.8) 33.6 – 9.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing 
operations before exceptional items, fair value movements 
on treasury instruments and deferred tax 267.6 348.9 76.7 193.5 347.2 55.7
14 Goodwill
2006 2005
£m £m
Cost and net book value
At 1 April 499.1 497.6
Acquisition of businesses 0.1 2.8
Fair value adjustments (prior year acquisitions) – (0.4)
Disposal of business (0.1) –
Additions 1.4 1.3
Classiﬁed as held for sale (2.1) –
Exchange adjustments 7.9 (2.2)
At 31 March 506.3 499.1
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
72 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  73
Goodwill impairment tests
Goodwill is allocated to the group’s cash generating units (CGUs) identiﬁed according to country of operation and business segment.
A segment level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below:
UK US Europe
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Water and Sewerage – – – – – –
Waste Management 390.5 390.5 – – – –
Laboratories 12.3 12.3 62.3 55.8 – –
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 0.2 0.2 34.6 31.8 6.4 8.5
Other Businesses – – – – – –
403.0 403.0 96.9 87.6 6.4 8.5
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined using value in use calculations. These calculations use cash ﬂow projections based on 
ﬁnancial budgets approved by management covering a ﬁve year period. Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve year period are extrapolated using 
an estimated nominal growth rate stated below. The growth rate does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the economy in
which the CGU operates.
Nominal growth rate Discount rate
2006 2005 2006 2005 
% % % %
Waste Management 2.3 2.3 8.1 8.6
Laboratories 3.0 1.5 11.0 9.3
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 3.0 2.0 11.0 9.3
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU within the business segment. The weighted average growth rates used are
consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rates used are pre-tax and reﬂect speciﬁc risks relating to the
relevant segments. 15 Intangible assets
Computer Other
software assets Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 187.4 11.1 198.5
Disposal of business (3.1) (0.1) (3.2)
Additions 19.7 14.5 34.2
Reclassiﬁcations and transfer 0.2 3.9 4.1
Exchange adjustments – (0.2) (0.2)
At 1 April 2005 204.2 29.2 233.4
Disposals (14.6) (1.5) (16.1)
Additions 27.8 1.2 29.0
Acquired in business combination – 0.1 0.1
Classiﬁed as held for sale (1.3) (0.3) (1.6)
Reclassiﬁcation and transfers (3.7) (9.4) (13.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.6 0.7
At 31 March 2006 212.5 19.9 232.4
Amortisation
At 1 April 2004 (80.0) (5.5) (85.5)
Amortisation for year (21.2) (1.1) (22.3)
Disposals 3.1 0.1 3.2
Reclassiﬁcations and transfer – (3.0) (3.0)
At 1 April 2005 (98.1) (9.5) (107.6)
Amortisation for year (27.5) (1.8) (29.3)
Disposals 14.0 1.3 15.3
Classiﬁed as held for sale 1.2 0.2 1.4
Reclassiﬁcations and transfer 2.0 (1.4) 0.6
Exchange adjustments (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 31 March 2006 (108.5) (11.5) (120.0)
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 104.0 8.4 112.4
At 31 March 2005 106.1 19.7 125.8
Other asset primarily comprise capitalised development costs, brands and patents.
Intangible assets include internally generated software of £112.4 million (2005: £128.2 million). Additions during the year totalled 
£25.4 million (2005: £17.8 million).
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
74 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  75
16 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2004 2,142.7 6,174.4 8,317.1
Acquisition of businesses (0.8) 0.8 –
Fair value adjustments (prior year acquisitions) (0.2) – (0.2)
Disposal of business – (0.1) (0.1)
Additions 118.3 310.1 428.4
Disposals (9.6) (130.9) (140.5)
Reclassiﬁcations and transfers (3.9) (1.7) (5.6)
Exchange adjustments (0.2) (0.3) (0.5)
At 1 April 2005 2,246.3 6,352.3 8,598.6
Acquisition of businesses – 0.1 0.1
Additions 101.1 296.7 397.8
Disposals (5.7) (82.4) (88.1)
Reclassiﬁcations and transfers 23.1 (19.8) 3.3
Classiﬁed as held for sale (18.2) (62.8) (81.0)
Exchange adjustments 2.4 7.6 10.0
At 31 March 2006 2,349.0 6,491.7 8,840.7
Depreciation
At 1 April 2004 (673.5) (2,158.8) (2,832.3)
Charge for the year (62.6) (197.7) (260.3)
Disposals 6.9 124.2 131.1
Reclassiﬁcations and transfers (2.3) 4.6 2.3
Exchange adjustments (0.1) 0.1 –
At 1 April 2005 (731.6) (2,227.6) (2,959.2)
Charge for year (63.7) (204.2) (267.9)
Disposals 5.6 80.4 86.0
Reclassiﬁcations and transfers (10.0) 2.4 (7.6)
Classiﬁed as held for sale 14.3 44.0 58.3
Exchange adjustments (1.0) (6.2) (7.2)
At 31 March 2006 (786.4) (2,311.2) (3,097.6)
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 1,562.6 4,180.5 5,743.1
At 31 March 2005 1,514.7 4,124.7 5,639.4
The carrying amount of property plant and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of assets held under ﬁnance leases.
Land and Plant and Total
buildings equipment
£m £m £m
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 19.3 360.1 379.4
At 31 March 2005 18.0 228.8 246.8
Plant and equipment includes £225.3 million (2005: £259.6 million) in respect of assets in the course of construction for which no
depreciation is charged.
At 31 March 2006 the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £148.5 million (2005: £174.2 million). 17 Interests in joint ventures
2006 2005
£m £m
Group’s share of:
Long term assets 0.9 0.9
Current assets 4.2 4.9
Current liabilities (7.1) (7.0)
Long term liabilities – –
Amounts due from joint ventures 11.7 10.7
9.7 9.5
Group’s share of:
Turnover 2.9 3.0
Operating costs (1.9) (2.4)
Operating proﬁt 1.0 0.6
Finance costs (0.4) (0.3)
Proﬁt before tax 0.6 0.3
Tax (0.1) (0.2)
Proﬁt after tax 0.5 0.1
The joint ventures have no signiﬁcant contingent liabilities to which the group is exposed and the group does not have any signiﬁcant
contingent liabilities in relation to its interests in the joint ventures. The group has no capital commitments in relation to its interests in the
joint ventures.
Particulars of the group’s principal joint venture undertakings at 31 March 2006 are:
Percentage
Nature of share A ordinary B ordinary
of business capital held shares of £1 shares of £1
Biogeneration Limited Power Generation 50% 500* 500
GMI Rovinian Limited Property Development 50% 25,000 25,000*
Cognica Limited Asset Management 50% 100,000* 100,000
East Leeds Development Company Limited Property Development 50% 500* 500
East Leeds (Holdings) Limited Property Development 50% 500* 500
*Held by the group
The country of incorporation and main operation of the joint ventures is Great Britain and they are registered in England and Wales.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
76 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  77
18 Interests in associates
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 16.3 17.7
Additions 3.0 –
Disposals – 1.0
Loans repaid – (3.2)
Share of proﬁts 1.6 1.7
Dividends receivable (1.5) (1.5)
Other movements 0.2 0.6
At 31 March 19.6 16.3
Group’s share of:
Total assets 330.9 313.1
Total liabilities (311.3) (296.8)
19.6 16.3
Turnover 41.9 42.3
Proﬁt before tax 1.6 1.7
The year end of Aquaﬁn NV, one of the group’s associated companies, is 31 December and the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2005 have been used in applying the equity method of accounting for this associate since this is the most reliable ﬁnancial
information available.
On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms to sell its interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish Government for approximately 
£30 million.
The associates have no signiﬁcant contingent liabilities to which the group is exposed and the group does not have any signiﬁcant contingent
liabilities in relation to its interest in the associates. The group has no capital commitments in relation to its interests in the associates.
Percentage
of share Nature of
Equity interest capital held business
ELDC (Triangle) Limited 760 B ordinary shares of £1* 38% Property Development
Aquaﬁn NV 160,000 shares of €124 20% Sewerage Undertaking
* Held by East Leeds (Holdings) Limited
The country of incorporation and main operation is Great Britain and of registration is England and Wales, with the exception of 
Aquaﬁn NV (Belgium).
19 Financial instruments
The group’s policies in respect of foreign currency and interest rate risk management and the related use of ﬁnancial instruments, 
which form part of these ﬁnancial statements, are set out below. 
a) Financial liabilities analysed by currency and interest rate after taking account of various currency and interest rate swaps entered
into by the group
At 31 March 2006
Fixed borrowings
Weighted
average
Weighted period for
Non-interest Floating Fixed average which
2006 bearing interest interest interest interest 
Total liabilities rate rate rate is ﬁxed
Currency £m £m £m £m % Years
Sterling 3,112.9 43.7 941.6 2,127.6 5.7 14.6
Euro 36.4 6.7 29.7 –
US dollar 13.8 9.1 4.7 –
Total ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2006 3,163.1 59.5 976.0 2,127.6 At 31 March 2005
Fixed borrowings
Weighted
average
Weighted period for
Non-interest Floating Fixed average which
2005 bearing interest interest interest interest 
Total liabilities rate rate rate is ﬁxed
Currency £m £m £m £m % Years
Sterling 2,944.3 40.9 1,005.3 1,898.1 6.0 17.4
Euro 41.9 15.5 26.4 –
US dollar 63.7 8.1 55.6 –
Total ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2005 3,049.9 64.5 1,087.3 1,898.1
Non-interest bearing liabilities relate to onerous contracts and trade payables. The weighted average period to maturity of the onerous
contracts is 1.5 years (2.0 years). Trade payables are all due in under 1 year.
In addition to the ﬁxed debt above, the group has entered into a number of forward start accruing interest rate swaps. These had an initial
notional value of £17 million and commence accreting notional value between 31 March 2005 and 2032. The maximum notional value of
these swaps is £135 million. These swaps are ﬂoating to ﬁxed and bear ﬁxed interest at between 5.26% and 5.52%.
The group has also entered into £318 million of forward start interest rate swaps (ﬂoating to ﬁxed) that commence between May 2006 and
May 2009. These swaps all terminate in 2010 and 2011. These interest rate swaps bear interest between 4.53% and 4.87%.
Floating rate sterling denominated borrowings bear interest based on LIBOR, whilst euro denominated borrowings bear interest based on
EURIBOR and dollar borrowings bear interest based on dollar LIBOR.
b) Investments in interest earning assets analysed by currency after taking account of various currency swaps entered into by the group
2006 2005
Currency £m £m
Sterling deposits 87.8 40.4
Sterling cash at bank 54.8 50.4
142.6 90.8
Investments in interest earning assets comprise short-term deposits placed on money markets and certiﬁcates of deposit with a
maturity date not exceeding one year.
Financial assets comprise £54.8 million of cash and £87.8 million of cash held on short term deposit. Sterling assets receive interest
based on LIBID.
Of the total £142.6 million interest earning assets, there is £34.1 million of cash held on short term deposit as security for external
insurance, as part of Derwent’s reinsurance obligations. In addition, Severn Trent Water and Biffa have a total of £4.0 million on short
term deposit (£2.1 million for Severn Trent Water and £1.9 million for Biffa) as security for self insurance obligations.
c) Monetary assets and liabilities by currency, excluding the functional currency
At 31 March 2006
Net foreign currency monetary assets
US dollar Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Functional currency of operation
Sterling 5.7 0.7 – 6.4
At 31 March 2005
Net foreign currency monetary assets
US dollar Euro Other Total
£m £m £m £m
Functional currency of operation
Sterling 1.6 0.7 0.2 2.5
Net currency gains/(losses) arising from monetary assets/(liabilities) not in the functional currency of an operation are recognised in its
income statement. Those arising from the translation of US dollar and euro functional currency ﬁnancial statements into sterling are
recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
78 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  79
d) Financial liabilities analysed by maturity date
Loans
payable by
instalments
any of which
are payable Other Other
after ﬁve repayment Finance ﬁnancial 2006 2005
Overdrafts years terms leases liabilities Total Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Current ﬁnancial liabilities 32.2 3.3 727.5 45.2 58.4 866.6 548.2
Borrowings due after one year:
Between one and two years – – 121.4 42.2 0.9 164.5 139.9
Between two and ﬁve years – – 406.8 147.4 0.1 554.3 640.6
After more than ﬁve years – 22.2 1,301.5 254.0 – 1,577.7 1,721.2
Non current ﬁnancial liabilities – 22.2 1,829.7 443.6 1.0 2,296.5 2,501.7
32.2 25.5 2,557.2 488.8 59.4 3,163.1 3,049.9
£345 million of funding instruments contain certain ﬁnancial covenants, breach of which can trigger early repayment.
e) Borrowing facilities
The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available (all at ﬂoating rates).
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring within one year – –
Expiring in more than one, but not more than two years – 200.0
Expiring in more than two, but not more than ﬁve years 500.0 500.0
500.0 700.0
In addition, the group also has overdraft facilities of £80.0 million (2005: £87.0 million), of which nil (2005: £56.8 million) remains
undrawn at the year end.
f) Derivative contracts
2006
Assets Liabilities
£m £m
Cross currency swaps – hedges of net investment ––
Cross currency swaps – fair value hedges 3.1 (37.0)
Cross currency swaps – not qualifying for hedge accounting 3.9 –
Interest rate swaps – cash ﬂow hedges 0.6 (3.0)
Interest rate swaps – not qualifying for hedge accounting 6.9 (104.5)
Total 14.5 (144.5)
Less non-current portion
Cross currency swap – fair value hedges 3.1 (27.1)
Interest rate swap – cashﬂow hedges 0.6 (3.0)
Total 3.7 (30.1)
Current portion 10.8 (114.4) Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swaps contracts at 31 March 2006 was £1,232 million. The ﬁxed interest
rates vary from 4.37% to 6.45%. The main ﬂoating rate is LIBOR.
Included within this are interest rate swaps with a notional value of £850 million which do not qualify for hedge accounting. The group has
an ongoing debt requirement and these swaps aim to ﬁx the interest rates paid on a portfolio of variable debt of various terms. As it is not
possible to speciﬁcally match these swaps to individual debt instruments, they do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
Cross currency swaps
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding cross currency swap contracts at 31 March 2006 was £467.6 million. These swap a
variety of currencies into sterling.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities
The group’s US dollar cross currency swap is designated as a hedge of net investment in the group’s US subsidiaries. The fair value of the
swap at 31 March 2006 was £nil (2005: £0.2 million liability). The foreign exchange loss of £5.2 million was recognised in retained
earnings reserves in shareholders’ equity.
g) Fair values of ﬁnancial instruments
Financial instruments by category:
Asset/(liability)
2006 2005
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Primary ﬁnancial instruments held or issued to ﬁnance the group’s operations
Short-term deposits 87.8 87.8 40.4 40.4
Cash at bank and in hand 54.8 54.8 50.4 50.4
Borrowings falling due within one year (808.2) (791.2) (480.1) (481.3)
Borrowings falling due after more than one year (2,295.5) (2,468.6) (2,472.5) (2,616.5)
Provisions for onerous contracts (2.2) (2.2) (3.7) (3.7)
Other non-interest bearing liabilities (57.3) (57.3) (60.8) (60.8)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held to manage the currency and interest rate proﬁle
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments (100.0) (100.0) – (63.7)
Currency instrument – cross currency swaps (30.0) (30.0) (32.5) (37.4)
Currency instrument – investment hedge –– (0.3) (0.2)
Total net ﬁnancial liabilities (3,150.6) (3,306.7) (2,959.1) (3,172.8)
Other long-term assets 
Other ﬁxed asset investments 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7
Where available, market rates have been used to determine fair values. When market prices are not available, fair values have been
calculated by discounting cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates.
h) Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 March 2005
Total net
gains/
Gains Losses (losses)
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 1 April 2004 6.1 (71.1) (65.0)
Arising in previous years that were recognised in the year 2.1 (5.2) (3.1)
Arising before 1 April 2004 that were not recognised in the ﬁnancial year 8.2 (76.3) (68.1)
Unrecognised gains and losses arising during the ﬁnancial year (6.4) 6.0 (0.4)
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 March 2005 1.8 (70.3) (68.5)
Expected to be recognised
In one year or less – (0.4) (0.4)
In later years 1.8 (69.9) (68.1)
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
80 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  81
i) Financial risk factors
The group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks: market risk (including currency risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and interest
rate risk. The group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of ﬁnancial markets and seeks to minimise
potential adverse effects on the group’s ﬁnancial performance. The group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments to hedge certain risk
exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the board of directors.
Group Treasury identiﬁes, evaluates and hedges ﬁnancial risks in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. The board provides
written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering speciﬁc areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative ﬁnancial instruments and non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments, and the investment of surplus funds.
(i) Market risk
The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in foreign operations,
primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro. In addition, the group has a signiﬁcant value of foreign currency debt, 
primarily in US dollars, yen and euros.
Foreign exchange risk arises when transactions are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. To manage
the foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency debt the group enters into cross currency swaps with external parties.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated at group level and company level as hedges of foreign exchange risk on speciﬁc
assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The group’s risk management policy is to hedge 100% of all foreign currency denominated debt.
The group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. Currency
exposure arising from the net assets of the group’s foreign operations is managed through borrowings and forward foreign exchange
contracts denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
(ii) Credit risk
Operationally, the group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products are
made to customers with an appropriate credit history, other than in Severn Trent Water Limited, whose operating licence obliges it 
to continue to supply domestic customers even in cases where bills are not paid. 
For ﬁnancing purposes, derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited to high credit quality ﬁnancial institutions. 
The group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one ﬁnancial institution.
(iii)Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufﬁcient cash balances and the availability of funding through an adequate
amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying
businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain ﬂexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
(iv)Cash ﬂow and fair value interest rate risk
The group’s income and operating cash ﬂows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the group to cash ﬂow
interest rate risk. Borrowings issued at ﬁxed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk. Group policy is to maintain over
50% of its borrowings in ﬁxed rate instruments. Currently some 72% of the group’s net debt is ﬁxed.
The group manages its cash ﬂow interest rate risk by using ﬂoating to ﬁxed interest rate swaps. Such interest rate swaps have the
economic effect of converting borrowings from ﬂoating rates to ﬁxed rates. Under the terms of the interest rate swaps, the group
agrees with other parties to exchange, at speciﬁed intervals (mainly semi-annually), the difference between ﬁxed contract and ﬂoating
rate interest rates calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts. The group has entered into a series of long
dated interest rate swaps to hedge future debt. Economically these act to ﬁx ﬂoating rate debt within the group, but do not achieve
hedge accounting under the strict criteria of IAS 39. This has led to a charge of £36.7 million in the income statement 
in 2005/06.
j) Fair value estimation
The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments traded in active markets (such as trading and available-for-sale securities) is based on quoted
market prices at the balance sheet date. The quoted market price used for ﬁnancial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
The fair value of ﬁnancial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over the counter derivatives) is determined
by using valuation techniques. The group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions
existing at each balance sheet date. Estimated discounted cash ﬂows are used to determine fair value for the debt. The fair value of
interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows. The fair value of forward foreign exchange
contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair
value of ﬁnancial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ﬂows at the current market
interest rate that is available to the group for similar ﬁnancial instruments. 20 Available for sale investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Investments in unquoted equity instruments 0.5 0.7
The fair values of the unquoted equity instruments cannot be measured reliably since there is no active market in the instruments. Hence
the investments are held at cost. It is not possible to determine a range of estimates within which the fair values are highly likely to lie.
21 Inventory
2006 2005
£m £m
Inventory and work in progress 34.1 33.2
Development land and properties 20.3 32.8
54.4 66.0
22 Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 372.7 339.8
Less provision for impairment of receivables (70.1) (63.7)
Trade receivables – net 302.6 276.1
Receivables from related parties 0.3 0.3
Corporation tax recoverable 0.1 0.5
Other amounts receivable 12.1 33.0
Prepayments and accrued income 166.4 182.6
Current trade and other receivables 481.5 492.5
The carrying values of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of their fair values.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
Prepayments includes £4.2 million in respect of amounts due from customers for contract work.
The amount of contract costs plus recognised proﬁts was £51.7 million.
23 Cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 54.8 50.4
Short term bank deposits 87.8 40.4
142.6 90.8
Of the £87.8 million of short term bank deposits, £34.1 million is not available for use by the group. Further details are given in note 19b.
Cash and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash ﬂow statement:
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 142.6 90.8
Bank overdrafts (note 24) (32.2) (26.4)
110.4 64.4
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
82 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  83
24 Borrowings
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 32.2 26.4
Bank loans 381.4 448.5
Other loans 2,201.3 2,005.8
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 488.8 504.7
Borrowings 3,103.7 2,985.4
2006 2005
£m £m
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year (included in current liabilities) 808.2 486.5
In the second year 163.6 138.9
In the third to ﬁfth years inclusive 554.2 638.7
After ﬁve years 1,577.7 1,721.3
Included in non-current liabilities 2,295.5 2,498.9
3,103.7 2,985.4
The group’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies after taking account of cross currency swaps:
2006 2005
£m £m
Sterling 3,069.4 2,903.4
Euro 29.6 26.4
US dollar 4.7 55.6
3,103.7 2,985.4
The fair values of the group’s borrowings were:
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 32.2 26.4
Bank loans 358.7 459.0
Other loans 2,380.1 2,107.7
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 488.8 504.7
3,259.8 3,097.8
Fair values are based on expected future cash ﬂows discounted using LIBOR forward interest rates related to the expected timing of
payments.
After taking into account interest and cross currency swaps, 72% of the group’s net debt is at ﬁxed interest rates (2005: 64%). 
The remainder of the group’s debt is held at ﬂoating rate. Sterling debt bears LIBOR interest, US dollar debt bears interest at US dollar
LIBOR, whilst Euro debt bears interest at EURIBOR.
Fixed debt has a weighted average interest rate of 5.7% (2005: 6.0%) for a weighted average period of 14.6 years (2005: 17.4 years).
Further details of bank facilities are given in note 19.
Obligations under ﬁnance leases are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Gross obligations under ﬁnance leases 721.6 847.4
Less future ﬁnance charges (232.8) (342.7)
Present value of lease obligations 488.8 504.7 25 Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Current liabilities
Trade payables 57.3 60.8
Dividends payable – 63.0
Social security and other taxes 47.9 29.4
Other payables 39.3 34.9
Accruals and deferred income 396.1 389.9
540.6 578.0
Non-current liabilities
Deferred income 151.5 124.7
Other payables 2.7 4.5
Accrued expenses 4.5 –
158.7 129.2
The directors consider that the carrying value of trade payables is not materially different from their fair values.
Accruals and deferred income includes £0.7 million in respect of amounts due to customers for contract work.
26 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the group and movements thereon during the current and prior
reporting period.
Fair 
Retirement value of
Accelerated tax beneﬁt ﬁnancial
depreciation obligation Tax losses instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 878.2 (112.9) (2.2) -  76.9 840.0 
Charge/(credit) to income 43.0 4.4 1.0 -  (13.9) 34.5 
Charge/(credit) to equity -  13.0 -  -  0.4 13.4 
Exchange differences 0.1 -  -  -  0.1 0.2 
At 31 March 2005 921.3 (95.5) (1.2) -  63.5 888.1 
Restatement on adoption of IAS 39 -  -  -  (21.2) -  (21.2)
At 1 April 2005 921.3 (95.5) (1.2) (21.2) 63.5 866.9 
Charge/(credit) to income 10.2 20.9 0.1 (11.0) (26.2) (6.0)
Charge/(credit) to equity -  8.0 -  1.4 (0.8) 8.6 
Acquisitions/disposals 0.1 -  -  -  -  0.1 
Assets held for sale -  -  1.0 -  -  1.0 
Exchange differences -  -  -  -  (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 March 2006 931.6 (66.6) (0.1) (30.8) 36.1 870.2
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.  The offset amounts are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months (68.9) (31.8)
Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months (3.0) (7.1)
(71.9) (38.9)
Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 932.8 927.0 
Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 9.3 -  
942.1 927.0 
870.2 888.1 
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, at the balance sheet date the group had unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of 
unused tax losses of £10.3 million (2005: £9.1 million) available for off-set against future proﬁts.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
84 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  85
27 Retirement beneﬁt schemes
Deﬁned beneﬁt schemes
The group operates a number of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the UK, covering the majority of UK employees. The deﬁned beneﬁt
schemes are funded to cover future salary and pension increases and their assets are held in separate funds administered by trustees. 
A formal actuarial valuation of each scheme is carried out at regular intervals by an independent professionally qualiﬁed actuary. Under 
the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, members are entitled to retirement beneﬁts calculated as a proportion (varying between one thirtieth and 
one eightieth for each year of service) of their salary for the ﬁnal year of employment with the group or, if higher, the average of the 
highest three consecutive years salary in the last ten years of employment. The ﬁnal salary sections of all four of the pension schemes
listed below are closed to new entrants and the age proﬁle of scheme participants is expected to rise and hence service costs are also
expected to rise in the future.
The UK deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and the date of their last formal actuarial valuation are as follows:
UK deﬁned beneﬁt scheme Date of last formal actuarial valuation
Severn Trent Pension Scheme (“STPS”) * 31 March 2004
Severn Trent Senior Staff Pension Scheme 31 March 2004
UK Waste Pension Scheme 6 April 2003
Severn Trent Water Mirror Image Pension Scheme 31 March 2003
* The STPS is by far the largest of the group’s UK deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
Beneﬁts are also provided by the group on an unfunded, unapproved basis to a number of senior staff recruited since June 1989, whose
beneﬁts would otherwise have been restricted by the Finance Act 1989 earnings cap. Provision is made for such beneﬁts by annual charge
against the group’s earnings totalling in the current year £1.2 million (2005: £1.6 million).
The major assumptions used in the valuation of the STPS (also the approximate weighted average of assumptions used for the valuations of
all group schemes) were as follows:
Valuation at
2006 2005
Price inﬂation 2.70% 2.75%
Salary increases 4.20% 4.25%
Pension increases in payment and deferment 2.70% 2.75%
Discount rate 4.90% 5.50%
Longevity at age 70 for current pensioners
– men 14.5 14.5
– women 16.7 16.7
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners
– men 18.9 18.9
– women 21.8 21.8
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of these deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts charged to operating costs
Current service cost (38.9) (41.3)
Past service cost (0.8) –
Settlements – (4.0)
(39.7) (45.3)
Amounts charged to net ﬁnance costs
Interest cost (75.4) (71.0)
Expected return on scheme assets 79.2 69.8
3.8 (1.2)
Total amount charged to the income statement (35.9) (46.5)
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense. The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the group’s obligations under deﬁned beneﬁt schemes is as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations – funded schemes (1,613.3) (1,384.9)
Total fair value of assets 1,402.9 1,076.9
(210.4) (308.0)
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations – unfunded schemes (11.5) (9.5)
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (221.9) (317.5)
Movements in the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 1,394.4 1,310.9
Service cost 39.7 41.3
Loss on settlements and curtailments – 4.0
Interest cost 75.4 71.0
Contributions from scheme members 10.6 11.5
Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 152.8 (5.7)
Beneﬁts paid (48.1) (38.6)
At 31 March 1,624.8 1,394.4 
Movements in the fair value of the scheme assets were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 1,076.9 934.4
Expected return on scheme assets 79.2 69.8
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 105.2 62.3
Contributions from scheme members 10.6 11.5
Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense 179.1 37.5
Beneﬁts paid (48.1) (38.6)
At 31 March 1,402.9 1,076.9
The analysis of the assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
2006 2005
Expected Fair value Expected Fair value 
return of assets return of assets
£m £m
Equities 8.00% 907.5 8.25% 742.3
Gilts 4.17% 261.7 4.60% 185.9
Corporate bonds 4.40% 63.5 5.50% 55.0
Property 6.20% 81.4 6.46% 63.1
Cash 3.70% 88.8 3.75% 30.6
Total fair value of assets 1,402.9 1,076.9
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the period for returns over the life of 
the beneﬁt obligation. For gilts and corporate bonds the expected rates of return are based on market yields at the balance sheet date. 
For equities, an equity risk premium has been added to the gilt rate.
The actual return on scheme assets was £258.3 million (2005: £107.3 million).
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the schemes in the normal course during the year ending 31 March 2007 is
£65.0 million.
The history of actual and expected performance of pension scheme assets and liabilities is:
2006 2005
£m £m
Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets 179.1 37.5
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (152.8) 5.7
Total fair value of assets 26.3 43.2
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
86 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  87
Deﬁned contribution schemes
The group also operates deﬁned contribution arrangements for certain of its UK and overseas employees. In September 2001, the Severn
Trent Group Pension Scheme (an occupational deﬁned contribution scheme) was established to ensure compliance with stakeholder
legislation and to provide the group with an alternative pension arrangement. This was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2005 and
replaced by the Severn Trent Stakeholder Pension Scheme.
The total cost charged to operating costs of £4.0 million (2005: £2.6 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the
group at rates speciﬁed in the rules of the schemes. As at 31 March 2006, no contributions (2005: £nil) due in respect of the current
reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
28 Provisions
Environmental and Onerous 
landﬁll restoration Restructuring Insurance contracts Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 77.1 2.1 22.3 6.8 0.8 109.1
Charged to income statement 9.5 13.8 12.5 0.4 0.4 36.6
Utilisation of provision (9.6) (2.4) (8.6) (3.4) (0.5) (24.5)
Unwinding of discount 2.3 – – – – 2.3
Reclassiﬁcation (2.7) – 1.3 – – (1.4)
Prior year fair value adjustment 0.5 – – (0.1) – 0.4
Exchange differences 0.3 – – – – 0.3
At 1 April 2005 77.4 13.5 27.5 3.7 0.7 122.8
Charged to income statement 9.8 4.0 10.5 – 5.5 29.8
Utilisation of provision (12.2) (9.9) (9.3) (1.5) (1.7) (34.6)
Unwinding of discount 2.3 – – – – 2.3
Reclassiﬁcation (0.8) – – – 0.4 (0.4)
Amounts classiﬁed as held for sale (10.0) – – – – (10.0)
Exchange differences 0.3 – – – – 0.3
At 31 March 2006 66.8 7.6 28.7 2.2 4.9 110.2
2006 2005
£m £m
Included in
Current liabilities 30.1 32.2
Non-current liabilities 80.1 90.6
110.2 122.8
As more fully explained in note 2m, environmental and landﬁll restoration provisions reﬂect costs to be incurred over the operational life of
individual landﬁll sites and in the case of aftercare costs, for up to 30 years thereafter. Discounting is applied.
The restructuring provision reﬂects costs to be incurred in respect of committed programmes. All of the associated outﬂows are estimated
to occur within one year of the balance sheet date.
Derwent Insurance Limited, a captive insurance company, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the group. Provisions for claims are made
as set out in note 2m. The associated outﬂows are estimated to arise over a period of up to ﬁve years from the balance sheet date.
The onerous or loss making contract provision relates to speciﬁc contractual liabilities either assumed with businesses acquired or arising
in existing group businesses, where estimated future costs are not expected to be recovered in revenues. The associated outﬂows are
estimated. 29 Share capital
2006 2005
£m £m
Total authorised share capital:
520,175,751 ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p 339.5 339.5
Total issued and fully paid share capital:
348,093,283 (2005: 346,002,393) ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p 227.2 225.8
1,652,278 ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p were issued at 473p, 536p, 548p, 568p, 592p, 759p, 799p or 831p under the group’s 
Employee Sharesave Scheme and 438,612 ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p were issued at 680.5p, 688p, 720p, 738p, 934p or 
1005p under the group’s Share Option Scheme (formerly Executive Share Option Scheme). The aggregate consideration in 
respect of these allotments was £11.6 million.
Changes in share capital were as follows:
At 1 April 225.8 225.2
Employee share option schemes 1.4 0.6
At 31 March 227.2 225.8
30 Share premium
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 38.4 33.5
Employee share option scheme 10.2 4.9
At 31 March 48.6 38.4
31 Other reserves
Capital Translation Total
redemptionInfrastructure exchange Hedging other 
reserve reserves reserve reserves reserves  
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 156.1 314.2 – – 470.3 
Exchange adjustments net of tax – – (3.8) 0.8 (3.0)
At 31 March 2005 156.1 314.2 (3.8) 0.8 467.3 
IAS 39 transition (79.0) (79.0)
Deferred tax on IAS 39 adjustments 21.2 21.2 
Change of accounting policy on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 (57.8) (57.8)
At 1 April 2005 156.1 314.2 (3.8) (57.0) 409.5 
Exchange adjustments net of tax – – 21.6 (3.5) 18.1 
Cash ﬂow hedges
– Fair value gains in the period – – – 0.3 0.3 
– Transfers to net proﬁt – – – 4.5 4.5 
At 31 March 2006 156.1 314.2 17.8 (55.7) 432.4 
The translation reserve arises from exchange differences on translation of the results and ﬁnancial position of foreign subsidiaries as well as
foreign exchange differences arising from hedges of net investment.
The hedging reserve arises from gains or losses on hedging instruments taken directly to equity under the hedge accounting provisions of
IAS 39 and the transition rules of IFRS 1.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares. It is not distributable.
The infrastructure reserve arose on restating infrastructure assets to fair value as deemed cost on transition to IFRS and is not distributable.
The translation reserve arises from exchange differences on translation of the results and ﬁnancial position of foreign subsidiaries as well as
foreign exchange differences arising from hedges of net investment.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
88 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  89
32 Movement in shareholders’ equity
Equity 
attributable
to the 
equity holders 
Share Share Other Retained of Severn Minority 
capital premium reserves earnings Trent Plc interests Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 225.2 33.5 470.3 1,092.6 1,821.6 2.4 1,824.0
Exchange adjustments net of tax – – (3.0) – (3.0) – (3.0)
Purchase of shares for ESOP trust – – – (4.1) (4.1) – (4.1)
Share options and LTIPs
– proceeds from shares issued 0.6 4.9 – – 5.5 – 5.5 
– value of employees’ services – – – 4.1 4.1 – 4.1 
Net proﬁt for the year – – – 157.4 157.4 0.7 158.1 
Dividends – – – (163.7) (163.7) (1.2) (164.9)
Actuarial gain on pension schemes – – – 43.2 43.2 – 43.2 
Deferred tax on items posted directly to equity – – – (13.4) (13.4) – (13.4)
At 31 March 2005 225.8 38.4 467.3 1,116.1 1,847.6 1.9 1,849.5 
IAS 39 transition – – (79.0) – (79.0) – (79.0)
Deferred tax on IAS 39 adjustments – – 21.2 – 21.2 – 21.2
Change of accounting policy on adoption 
of IAS 32 and IAS 39 – – (57.8) – (57.8) – (57.8) 
At 1 April 2005 225.8 38.4 409.5 1,116.1 1,789.8 1.9 1,791.7 
Exchange adjustments net of tax – – 18.1 – 18.1 – 18.1 
Cash ﬂow hedges
– Fair value gains in the period – – 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.3 
– Transfers to net proﬁt – – 4.5 – 4.5 – 4.5 
Share options and LTIPs
– proceeds from shares issued 1.4 10.2 – – 11.6 – 11.6 
– value of employees’ services – – – 4.1 4.1 – 4.1 
Net proﬁt for the year – – – 221.6 221.6 1.4 223.0 
Dividends – – – (171.3) (171.3) (0.7) (172.0) 
Actuarial gain on pension schemes – – – 26.3 26.3 – 26.3
Deferred tax on items posted directly to equity – – – (8.6) (8.6) – (8.6) 
At 31 March 2006 227.2 48.6 432.4 1,188.2 1,896.4 2.6 1,899.0 
Purchase of own shares represents ordinary shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p each purchased by the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust for
certain senior employees under the Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs). The main features of the LTIPs are set out in the Directors’
remuneration report on pages 43 and 44. At 31 March 2006, the trust held 914,894 shares (2005: 1,369,984 shares).
The market value of these shares at 31 March 2006 was £10.2 million (2005: £12.5 million). 33 Share based payment
The group operates a number of share based remuneration schemes for employees and details of the share awards outstanding during the
year are as follows:
Employee Approved Share Unapproved Share 
Sharesave Scheme Option Scheme Option Scheme
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number average Number average Number average
of share exercise of share exercise of share exercise 
options price options price options price
Outstanding at 1 April 2004 6,493,057 558p 549,633 763p 1,300,403 732p
Granted during the year 1,199,884 759p – – – –
Forfeited during the year (131,074) 533p (31,024) 816p (37,239) 790p
Cancelled during the year (256,946) 663p – – – –
Exercised during the year (593,696) 607p (94,027) 730p (198,844) 724p
Expired during the year (32,952) 561p – – – –
Outstanding at 1 April 2005 6,678,273 579p 424,582 766p 1,064,320 731p
Granted during the year 1,017,512 823p – – – –
Forfeited during the year (169,511) 534p (15,528) 892p (23,450) 784p
Cancelled during the year (142,669) 587p – – – –
Exercised during the year (1,652,278) 490p (155,617) 755p (295,786) 744p
Expired during the year (16,252) 623p – – – –
Outstanding at 1 April 2006 5,715,075 641p 253,437 768p 745,084 724p
The weighted average share price during the period was £10.29 (2005: £8.69).
Share option schemes
The options outstanding at the end of the period are exercisable as shown below:
i) Employee Sharesave Scheme
Under the terms of the Sharesave Scheme, the board may grant those employees who have entered into an Inland Revenue approved
Save As You Earn contract for a period of three, ﬁve or seven years, the right to purchase ordinary shares in the company. Options
outstanding at 31 March 2006 were as follows:
Normal date 
Number of shares
Date of grant of exercise Option price 2006 2005
January 1998 2005 799p – 43,755
January 1999 2004 or 2006 831p 28,683 29,169
January 2000 2003, 2005 or 2007 473p 301,455 1,428,973
January 2001 2004, 2006 or 2008 568p 448,188 481,508
January 2002 2005, 2007 or 2009 548p 500,388 926,533
January 2003 2006, 2008 or 2010 536p 1,277,674 1,402,330
January 2004 2007, 2009 or 2011 592p 1,061,142 1,174,622
January 2005 2008, 2010 or 2012 759p 1,086,938 1,191,383
January 2006 2009, 2011 or 2013 823p 1,010,607 –
ii) Approved Share Option Scheme
Under the terms of the Share Option Scheme (formerly Executive Share Option Scheme), the board has granted directors and other
executives options to purchase ordinary shares in the company. Options outstanding under this scheme at 31 March 2006 were as
follows:
Normal date 
Number of shares
Date of grant of exercise Option price 2006 2005
June 1998 2001-2008 1005p 34,459 49,052
June 1999 2002-2009 934p 35,005 53,720
June 2000 2003-2010 688p 54,335 58,725
July 2001 2004-2011 738p 12,770 27,555
June 2002 2005-2012 720p 22,916 119,431
July 2003 2006-2013 680.5p 93,952 116,099
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
90 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  91
iii) Unapproved Share Option Scheme
The board has granted executives options to purchase ordinary shares in the company under an unapproved share option scheme.
Options outstanding under this scheme at 31 March 2006 were as follows:
Normal date 
Number of shares
Date of grant of exercise Option price 2006 2005
June 1998 2001-2008 1005p 21,271 34,655
June 1999 2002-2009 934p 50,989 76,255
June 2000 2003-2010 688p 181,249 200,125
July 2001 2004-2011 738p 107,665 158,077
June 2002 2005-2012 720p 127,459 313,803
July 2003 2006-2013 680.5p 256,451 281,405
iv) Fair values of awards
2006 2005
Number Fair value Number Fair value
(£m) (£m)
LTIP awards 704,790 5.6 980,591 4.7
Sharesave options 1,017,512 1.8 1,199,884 2.8
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) 131,475 1.3 163,680 1.3
The fair value of the LTIP awards was calculated using the Monte Carlo method. The principal assumptions were as follows:
LTIP award year 2005/06 2004/05 2003/04
Share price at grant date 1017p 903p 661p
Number of shares awarded 704,790 980,591 932,481
Number of employees 190 231 153
Vesting period (years) 333
Expected volatility 17% 20% 25%
Expected life (years) 333
Expected dividend yield n/a 6.5% 7.0%
Proportion of employees expected to cease employment before vesting 0% 0% 0%
Expectation of meeting economic proﬁt performance criteria 100% 100% 100%
Fair value per share (EP scheme/TSR scheme) 1017p/468p 484p 365p
Details of the basis of the LTIP schemes are set out in the remuneration report on pages 43 to 44.
The fair value of the Sharesave options was calculated using the Black Scholes model. The principal assumptions were as follows:
Scheme year 2005/06 2004/05 2003/04
Scheme type 3 year 5 year 7 year 3 year 5 year 7 year 3 year 5 year 7 year
Share price at grant date 1069p 1069p 1069p 979p 979p 979p 736p 736p 736p
Number of options granted 605,633 346,668 65,211 619,784 461,680 118,420 749,803 395,829 121,681 
Number of employees 1775 676 111 1,826 756 175 1,824 689 169 
Vesting period (years) 3 5 7 3 5 7 3 5 7
Expected volatility 17% 17% 17% 30% 30% 30% 25% 25% 25%
Option life (years) 3.5 5.5 7.5 3.5 5.5 7.5 3.5 5.5 7.5 
Expected life (years) 3.25 5.25 7.25 3.25 5.25 7.25 3.25 5.25 7.25 
Risk free rate 4.31% 4.28% 4.24% 4.52% 4.54% 4.56% 4.60% 4.76% 4.82%
Expected dividend yield 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 6.5% 7.0% 7.0% 7.0%
Proportion of employees expected to 
cease employment before vesting 15.0% 17.0% 13.0% 15.0% 17.0% 13.0% 15.0% 13.0% 17.0%
Fair value per share – sharesave 189p 168p 149p 232p 227p 216p 140p 135p 127p
The SIP shares are purchased on the open market and vest with the employees immediately and hence the value of the shares purchased
is charged straight to the income statement.
During the period, the group recognised total expenses of £4.1 million (2005: £4.1 million) related to equity settled share-based payment
transactions.
Volatility is based on historical observations as adjusted for unusual market ﬂuctuations. 34 Disposal of subsidiaries
On 31 January 2006 the group sold its interests in Worksuite Limited and Worksuite LLC and sold certain assets and liabilities of Severn
Trent Systems Limited to LogicaCMG Plc
The net assets at the date of sale were:
31 January 
2006
£m
Property, plant and equipment 0.3
Intangible assets 0.9 
Trade and other receivables 2.5 
Trade and other payables (3.4)
0.3 
Foreign exchange movements recycled from reserves 1.7 
Loss on disposal (0.4)
Total consideration 1.6 
Satisﬁed by:
Cash 1.6 
Deferred consideration –  
1.6 
Net cash inﬂow arising on disposal
Cash consideration 1.6 
Cash and cash equivalents disposed of –  
1.6 
This loss on disposal is included in the exceptional costs analysed in note 7.
35 Cash ﬂow statement
2006 2005
£m £m
a) Reconciliation of operating proﬁt to operating cash ﬂows
Operating proﬁt from continuing operations 472.5 396.5
Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations (4.1) 3.3
468.4 399.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 267.9 260.3
Amortisation of intangible assets 29.3 22.3
Proﬁt on sale of property, plant and equipment (4.3) (7.5)
Proﬁt on sale of investments – (4.3)
Deferred income movement (3.5) (1.4)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 29.8 36.6
Utilisation of provisions for liabilities and charges (34.6) (24.5)
Decrease in stocks 13.4 14.0
Increase in debtors (10.8) (36.4)
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 3.3 (35.6)
Cash generated from operations 758.9 623.3
Interest paid (139.4) (136.3)
Interest element of ﬁnance lease rental payments (45.1) (16.8)
Tax paid (68.3) (36.5)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 506.1 433.7
b) Analysis of net cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 142.6 90.8
Bank overdrafts (32.2) (26.4)
110.4 64.4
c) Non-cash transactions
Additions to property plant and equipment during the year amounting to £0.3 million were ﬁnanced by new ﬁnance leases.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
92 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  93
36 Contingent liabilities
a) Bonds and guarantees
Group undertakings have entered into bonds in the normal course of business. No liability is expected to arise in respect of either bonds
or guarantees.
b) Regulatory matters
In May 2004 an employee of Severn Trent Water raised a number of allegations relating, in particular, to alleged accounting inaccuracies
and regulatory returns. 
On 31 October 2005, as a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce (SFO) informed the Company that it was undertaking a
criminal investigation into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat by Severn Trent Water Limited between 2000 and 2003. Ofwat
had been conducting its own investigation following the allegations made by the employee of Severn Trent Water. Ofwat began its
investigation into the allegations in January 2005. The matter reported to the SFO concerned data on leakage.
On 7 March 2006 Ofwat published its interim report concerning the allegations of false reporting made against Severn Trent Water 
in 2004. 
The Company’s internal investigation and Ofwat’s investigation were thorough and lengthy, requiring complex judgements. Severn
Trent’s judgements have not been identical to Ofwat’s in every aspect, but in the interests of making amends as soon as possible, 
the board believed it was sensible to proceed by agreement.
Having considered Ofwat’s ﬁndings, the board of Severn Trent Plc agreed that customer accounts should be credited as soon as
possible. In 2006/07, on average, this credit will be around £4 per customer in addition to the £2 to £3 already rebated. In the following
three years the rebate will be £2 to £3 per customer. A provision of £10.6 million has been included in these ﬁnancial statements in
respect of amounts relating to 2005/06 and prior.
The Company also acknowledged that Ofwat may expect further amends to be made to customers. Ofwat has stated that this penalty
will be discussed with Severn Trent Water on completion of the SFO investigation into leakage.
On 7 April 2006 the Company announced that as a result of an ongoing comprehensive review of Severn Trent Water by its managing
director, Tony Wray, and his new management team, the board believed there was prima facia evidence of customer relations data being
misstated by Severn Trent Water in submissions to Ofwat. The data concerned the handling of customer billing queries and telephone
contacts over several years. 
Ofwat is carrying out an independent veriﬁcation of the internal Severn Trent investigation and report relating to customer relations data
submitted to it using forensic accountants who will report to both Severn Trent Water and Ofwat on their conclusions.
No reliable estimate can currently be made of the amounts that might become payable as a result of the SFO enquiry, Ofwat’s ﬁnal
conclusion in respect of the allegations of false reporting or its review of customer relations data. Consequently, except as noted above,
no provision has been included in these ﬁnancial statements in respect of these matters. 
c) Belgian environmental tax
In June 2005 The Flemish Waste Agency “OVAM” instigated an investigation by the Antwerp Examining Magistrate into Biffa Belgium’s
waste recycling operations in connection with the payment of environmental taxes. A provision of £4.0 million, the amount currently
assessed by OVAM, has been made in these ﬁnancial statements for potential additional environmental taxes, related penalties and
interest for prior periods.
No provision has been made for any criminal penalties that might result from this investigation since no reliable estimate can be made
of the amount that might become payable.
d) Disposal of subsidiaries
The group has entered into agreements to dispose of its interests in Worksuite LLC, the assets and certain liabilities of its CIS business
and Biffa Belgium. The group has given certain guarantees and indemnities to the purchasers of these businesses. The group is not
aware of any liability that is likely to result from these guarantees and indemnities that has not been provided for in these ﬁnancial
statements. 37 Financial and other commitments
2006 2005
£m £m
Investment expenditure commitments
Contracted for but not provided in the ﬁnancial statements 148.5 174.2
In addition to these contractual commitments, Severn Trent Water Limited has longer term expenditure plans which include investments to
achieve improvements in performance mandated by the Director General of Water Services and to provide for growth in demand for water
and sewerage services.
At the balance sheet date the group had outstanding commitments for future minimum operating lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Within one year 19.3 17.5
In the second to ﬁfth years inclusive 33.6 32.5
After more than ﬁve years 54.0 54.4
106.9 104.4
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the group for certain of its ofﬁce properties, plant and equipment.
38 Post balance sheet events
Following the year-end the Board of Directors has proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 31.97 pence per share. Further details of this are shown 
in note 12.
On 4 April 2006 the board of Severn Trent Plc announced that it intends to demerge its UK integrated waste management business, Biffa.
The board believes that the creation of two separately listed companies, Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated boards and
experienced management teams focused on continued strategic and operational development with access to their own capital will deliver
greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers and employees.
Following the demerger Severn Trent is expected to remain the UK’s second largest listed water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100,
continuing to focus on delivering investment programmes, improving efﬁciencies and customer service levels.
Biffa is one of the UK’s leading integrated waste management companies. It was acquired by Severn Trent in 1991 and since then it has
grown both organically and through the acquisitions of UK Waste and Hales. Following the demerger it is expected to be a constituent of the
FTSE 250.
The decision to demerge Biffa remains subject to shareholder and other approvals and to further detailed due diligence. The Board expects
the demerger to be completed by the end of October 2006.
On 12 May 2006 the group agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for €45 million. It is expected that this transaction will be completed before
the end of June 2006. The transaction is conditional upon the clearance form the Belgian competition authorities.
On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms to sell its interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish Government for approximately £30 million.
The sale is expected to complete in July 2006.
The ﬁnancial effect of these cannot currently be determined.
Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
94 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  95
39 Related party transactions
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not
included in this note. Transactions between the group and its associates and joint ventures are disclosed below.
Trading transactions
Amounts due Amounts due 
Sale of goods Purchase of goods from related parties to related parties
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cognice – – 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 – –
Detroit Water 0.2 0.2 – – 0.1 0.2 – –
SII 9.1 6.2 – – 11.7 5.8 – –
Severn Trent De Nora – – 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 – –
9.3 6.4 0.3 0.2 12.1 6.3 – –
The related parties are associated and joint ventures in which the group has a participating interest.
Remuneration of key management personnel
Key management personnel comprise the executive directors and senior management of Severn Trent Plc, Severn Trent Water, Biffa and
Severn Trent Services.
The remuneration of the directors is included within the amounts disclosed below. Further information about the remuneration of individual
directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 48 to 51.
2006 2005
£m £m
Short term employee beneﬁts 8.7 8.0
Post employment beneﬁts 1.6 2.2
Termination beneﬁts 0.3 –
Share based payments 1.1 1.4
11.7 11.6 Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
96 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
40 Principal subsidiary undertakings 
and their Directors
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries
are given below. A complete list of subsidiary
undertakings is available on request to the
company and will be ﬁled with the next
Annual Return.
Water and Sewerage
Severn Trent Water Limited
2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU
Telephone 0121 722 4000
Directors
C S Matthews M W Keogh
R S S Martin G C Messham
S H Reilly P F Stephenson
S Stubbs A P Wray
Waste Management
Biffa Plc
2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU
Telephone 0121 722 4000
(Holding company)
Directors
C S Matthews
M J Bettington
R H Davies
W R A De Jonghe
D R Knott
T W J Lowth
R B Tate
Biffa Waste Services Limited
Coronation Road, Cressex
High Wycombe HP12 3TZ
Telephone 01494 521221
Directors
M J Bettington R Chivers
B J Grifﬁths P T Jones
D R Knott T W J Lowth
M D Prosser M L Saville
D Savory R B Tate
Biffa Treatment NV
Robert Schumanplein 6, bus 5
1040 Brussels, Belgium
Telephone 0032 2 257 92 00
(Incorporated and operational in Belgium)
Directors
M J Bettington P Canivet
T W J Lowth W Tytgat
N V Retema 
(represented by W R A De Jonghe)
Laboratories
Severn Trent Laboratories Limited
STL Business Centre, Torrington Avenue
Coventry CV4 9GU
Telephone 024 764 21213
Directors
R S Brydon Jannetta R A Henton
Severn Trent Laboratories Inc.
Suite 300, 580 Virginia Drive, Ft Washington
Pennsylvania 19034 2707, USA
Telephone 001 215 646 9201
(Incorporated and operational in the United
States of America)
Directors
R S Brydon Jannetta H Collins Villemaire
K J Kelly K C Wheatstone
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Severn Trent Services Inc.
Suite 300, 580 Virginia Drive, Ft Washington
Pennsylvania 19034 2707, USA
Telephone 001 215 646 9201
(Incorporated and operational in the United
States of America)
Directors
C S Matthews R S Brydon Jannetta
D L Chester L F Graziano
H Collins Villemaire
Severn Trent Environmental Services Inc.
Park 10, 16337 Park Row
Houston, Texas 77084, USA
Telephone 001 281 578 4200
(Incorporated and operational in the United
States of America)
Directors
D L Chester L F Graziano
J A Graziose (Jr) K J Kelly
Severn Trent Services Limited
Park Lane, Minworth, Sutton Coldﬁeld 
West Midlands B76 9BL
Telephone 0121 313 2300
Directors
R A Lloyd R G Piper
Severn Trent Water Puriﬁcation Inc.
3000 Advance Lane, Colmar
Pennsylvania 18915, USA
Telephone 001 215 997 4000
(Incorporated and operational in the United
States of America)
Directors
D L Chester L F Graziano
K J Kelly
Severn Trent Metering Services Limited
Smeckley Wood Close
Chesterﬁeld Trading Estate
Chesterﬁeld S41 9PZ
Telephone 01246 456658
Directors
A R Elder L F Graziano
R G Piper
Severn Trent Water International Limited
2308 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3JZ
Telephone 0121 722 6000
Directors
L F Graziano W F Earp
B M Horner A Norman
W G Weatherdon
C2C Services Limited
(80% owned)
2308 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3JZ
Telephone 0121 722 6000
Directors
W F Earp A J Handford
B M Horner R J Phillips
W G Weatherdon E A Wilson
Other Businesses
Severn Trent Property Limited
2308 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3JZ
Telephone 0121 722 6000
(Property development)
Directors
G P F Inge J S R Haynes
P A Ludlow C S Matthews
V J O’Connell
Derwent Insurance Limited
6A Queensway, PO Box 64, Gibraltar
Telephone 00 350 47529
(Insurance company – incorporated and
operational in Gibraltar)
Directors
N Feetham F B Smith
P K Tandon F White
Country of incorporation, and main operation
is Great Britain and registration is England
and Wales unless otherwise stated.
All subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned
unless otherwise indicated. All shareholdings
are in ordinary shares.
All subsidiary undertakings have been
included in the consolidation.
As at 5 June 2006 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  97
41 Explanation of transition to IFRS
This is the ﬁrst year that the group has presented its ﬁnancial statements under IFRS. The last ﬁnancial statements under UK GAAP 
were for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the date of transition to IFRS was therefore 1 April 2004.
Reconciliation of equity at 1 April 2004
Effect of 
transition to
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
£m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5,278.0 207.1 5,485.1
Intangible assets
Goodwill 497.6 – 497.6
Other intangible assets – 112.6 112.6
Investments in joint ventures 9.6 – 9.6
Investments in associates 17.7 – 17.7
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets 1.0 – 1.0
Non-current assets 5,803.9 319.7 6,123.6
Current assets
Inventories 80.4 – 80.4
Trade and other receivables 452.8 (7.8) 445.0
Cash and cash equivalents 115.3 – 115.3
Current assets 648.5 (7.8) 640.7
Total assets 6,452.4 311.9 6,764.3
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (671.0) 92.1 (578.9)
Borrowings (486.9) (4.0) (490.9)
Current income tax liabilities (65.8) – (65.8)
Current liabilities (1,223.7) 88.1 (1,135.6)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (17.4) 11.1 (6.3)
Borrowings (2,377.5) (0.4) (2,377.9)
Deferred tax liabilities (462.9) (377.8) (840.7)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations – (376.5) (376.5)
Provisions (109.1) – (109.1)
Deferred income (45.7) (48.5) (94.2)
Non-current liabilities (3,012.6) (792.1) (3,804.7)
Total liabilities (4,236.3) (704.0) (4,940.3)
Net assets 2,216.1 (392.1) 1,824.0
Equity
Share capital 258.7 – 258.7
Other reserves 156.1 314.2 470.3
Retained earnings 1,798.9 (706.3) 1,092.6
2,213.7 (392.1) 1,821.6
Minority interests 2.4 – 2.4
Total equity 2,216.1 (392.1) 1,824.0  Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
98 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
41 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of equity at 31 March 2005
Effect of
transition to
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
£m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5,440.6 198.8 5,639.4
Intangible assets
Goodwill 469.5 29.6 499.1
Other intangible assets 14.2 111.6 125.8
Investments in joint ventures 9.5 – 9.5
Investments in associates 16.3 – 16.3
Available for sale ﬁnancial assets 0.7 – 0.7
Non-current assets 5,950.8 340.0 6,290.8
Current assets
Inventories 66.0 – 66.0
Trade and other receivables 499.4 (6.9) 492.5
Cash and cash equivalents 90.8 – 90.8
Current assets 656.2 (6.9) 649.3
Total assets 6,607.0 333.1 6,940.1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (669.4) 91.4 (578.0)
Borrowings (486.5) – (486.5)
Current income tax liabilities (69.6) – (69.6)
Current liabilities (1,225.5) 91.4 (1,134.1)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (17.9) 13.4 (4.5)
Borrowings (2,494.3) (4.6) (2,498.9)
Deferred tax liabilities (499.8) (388.3) (888.1)
Retirement beneﬁt obligations – (317.5) (317.5)
Provisions (124.4) 1.6 (122.8)
Deferred income (45.1) (79.6) (124.7)
Non-current liabilities (3,181.5) (775.0) (3,956.5)
Total liabilities (4,407.0) (683.6) (5,090.6)
Net assets 2,200.0 (350.5) 1,849.5
Equity
Share capital 264.2 – 264.2
Other reserves 156.1 314.2 470.3
Retained earnings 1,777.8 (664.7) 1,113.1
2,198.1 (350.5) 1,847.6
Minority interests 1.9 – 1.9
Total equity 2,200.0 (350.5) 1,849.5 Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  99
41 Explanation of transition to IFRS (continued)
Reconciliation of proﬁt for the year ended 31 March 2005
Effect of
transition to
UK GAAP IFRS IFRS
£m £m £m
Turnover 2,081.2 (0.1) 2,081.1
Operating costs (1,699.2) 17.9 (1,681.3)
Operating proﬁt 382.0 17.8 399.8
Share of operating proﬁt of joint ventures and associates 11.7 (11.7) –
Proﬁt before ﬁnance costs 393.7 6.1 399.8
Net ﬁnance costs (176.4) 7.1 (169.3)
Share of proﬁt of associates and joint ventures – 1.8 1.8
Proﬁt before taxation 217.3 15.0 232.3
Tax expense (77.8) 3.6 (74.2)
Proﬁt for the period 139.5 18.6 158.1
Summary of signiﬁcant differences between IFRS and UK GAAP that affect the group
The signiﬁcant differences between UK GAAP and IFRS that affect the group and the impact on the group’s reported results and ﬁnancial
position are shown above.
The key areas of difference are:
Property, plant and equipment
Under UK GAAP, the water and wastewater infrastructure assets within Severn Trent Water were accounted for in accordance with the
renewals accounting provisions of Financial Reporting Standard 15 ‘Tangible Fixed Assets’. Such provisions are not present within
International Accounting Standard 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’ (IAS 16) and it is therefore necessary to change the accounting
policies for these assets on transition to IFRS. The accounting policies applied under UK GAAP in respect of all other ﬁxed assets are
compliant with IFRS and remain appropriate.
Under renewals accounting the water and wastewater infrastructure networks are assumed to be single assets. Expenditure on infrastructure
assets relating to increases in capacity or enhancements to the networks and on maintaining the operating capability of the networks in
accordance with deﬁned standards of service are capitalised. The depreciation charged is the estimated anticipated level of annual
expenditure required to maintain the operating capability of the networks. Grants and contributions relating to the maintenance of the
operating capability of the infrastructure network were taken into account in determining this charge.
Grants and contributions relating to enhancement of the infrastructure network are deducted from the cost of ﬁxed assets.
Under IAS 16 this treatment may not be applied. Therefore, the signiﬁcant parts within the infrastructure networks have been identiﬁed and
useful lives and residual values determined so that each signiﬁcant part may be depreciated individually.
As the UK GAAP net book value of the infrastructure networks was determined using an accounting policy not compliant with IFRS, a
deemed cost has been established for the opening balance sheet carrying value of the infrastructure networks by reference to the fair value
at the date of transition, 1 April 2004 (as permitted by IFRS 1).
The election to record the carrying value of the water and wastewater infrastructure networks at fair value, and to use that fair value as the
deemed cost in the opening IFRS balance sheet, increases net assets by £275.5 million as at 31 March 2005 compared with UK GAAP.
The segments recognised within the water and wastewater networks have been based upon asset class since no single pipe or section of
sewer is signiﬁcant compared with the total value of the networks. This has led to the identiﬁcation of 6 segments (impounding reservoirs,
raw water aqueducts, large water mains, other water mains and pipes, strategic sewers and other sewers) which have been assigned zero
residual values at the end of their useful lives. The lives allocated to these segments range from 80 – 250 years. The depreciation on these
assets results in an additional charge of £19.8 million in the 2005 IFRS income statement compared with UK GAAP.
Since the classiﬁcation of expenditure incurred in maintaining the networks between operating expenditure and capital expenditure has not
changed there is no change to the repairs and maintenance expenditure charged to the income statement over the long term. However,
under UK GAAP such expenditure was included in the calculation of the infrastructure renewals charge and was therefore smoothed over an
Asset Management Period (“AMP”). Under IAS 16, repairs and maintenance expenditure will be charged to the income statement in the
period in which it is incurred. This will introduce an element of volatility into the income statement since the level of such expenditure can
ﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly from one reporting period to the next, within a single AMP.
All grants and contributions are credited to deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful economic lives of the
related assets. Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
continued
Group ﬁnancial statements
100 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Retirement beneﬁts
The group prepared its 2005 UK GAAP results in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 ‘Accounting for Pension
Costs’ (SSAP 24). Under SSAP 24, any pension scheme surplus or deﬁcit identiﬁed at the most recent actuarial valuation is recognised
through the proﬁt and loss account over the average expected remaining service lives of current employees. The net pension cost under
SSAP 24 therefore includes both the cost of providing an additional year of pension beneﬁts to employees (regular cost) and an element of
the surplus or deﬁcit relating to previous years (variation). The difference between employer’s contributions paid and the SSAP 24 net
pension cost is recognised as a prepayment or accrual, which does not necessarily reﬂect the actuarial position. Interest is calculated on
this balance sheet entry and is included in the net pension cost.
Under International Accounting Standard 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ (IAS 19), deﬁned beneﬁt scheme assets and liabilities have been valued at
each balance sheet date and the resulting asset or liability is immediately recognised on the balance sheet. At the start of each year,
assumptions are made to enable the current service cost, the expected return on assets and the interest cost to be calculated. These
amounts are charged to the income statement for the year. Where actual experience differs from the assumptions made at the start of a
ﬁnancial year, actuarial gains and losses are recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense.
The expected return on assets and the interest on the liabilities are recognised within ﬁnance costs under IAS 19. Under SSAP 24 all
pension costs are recognised within operating proﬁts.
The adoption of International Accounting Standard 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts’ (IAS19) increases the 2005 proﬁt before tax by £18.1 million
compared with UK GAAP, representing increased operating proﬁts of £19.4 million and increased ﬁnance costs of £1.3 million. Actuarial
gains amounting to £43.2 million have been recognised in reserves.
At 31 March 2005, the derecognition of the UK GAAP SSAP 24 liability increases net assets by £5.6 million. Net assets are then reduced by
the recognition of the IAS 19 deﬁcit of £317.5 million.
Goodwill
Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS, but is subject to annual impairment reviews. The reviews carried out at the transition date and 
31 March 2005 indicated that no impairment had arisen.
Since goodwill is no longer being amortised, the 2005 amortisation charge of £30.1 million is eliminated.
Restructuring costs and termination of operations for 2005 are reduced by £9.9 million. IFRS does not allow the UK GAAP requirement to
charge goodwill previously written off directly to reserves as part of the loss on termination.
Deferred tax
The most signiﬁcant impact of International Accounting Standard ‘Income Taxes’ (IAS 12) for the group is that IAS 12 does not permit
deferred tax balances to be discounted whereas Financial Reporting Standard 19 ‘Deferred Tax’ (FRS 19) permits, but does not require,
discounting of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The group’s policy has been to apply discounting to its deferred tax liability. This is of particular signiﬁcance to a utility business where any
reversal of timing differences is likely to be deferred long into the future due to the long asset lives of network assets.
The impact of eliminating discounting from the accounting for deferred tax is to increase the deferred tax charge in the year ended 
31 March 2005 by £0.8 million and to increase the deferred tax liability at that date by £396.6 million.
IAS 12 takes a different conceptual approach to deferred tax than that applied by FRS 19. Under IAS 12 deferred tax must be provided for
on all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base whereas UK GAAP
requires deferred tax to be provided for on timing differences between the treatment of items in the tax computation and the income
statement. This change in approach results in deferred tax provisions under IFRS for items which under UK GAAP would be permanent
differences and hence would not be provided for. The impact on the group’s IFRS ﬁnancial statements is to decrease the deferred tax
charge in the year ended 31 March 2005 by £0.2 million and to increase the deferred tax liability at that date by £20.4 million.
The other IFRS adjustments result in a deferred tax credit of £3.1 million in the year ended 31 March 2005 and a decrease in the deferred
tax liability at that date of £14.2 million.
Dividends payable
Under International Accounting Standard 10 ‘Events after the Balance Sheet date’ dividends payable are not recognised as liabilities until
they have been appropriately authorised and are unconditional obligations of the group. Historically, under UK GAAP dividends declared for
a particular period have been recognised in that period’s ﬁnancial statements, irrespective of the date that they are declared or approved
by shareholders.
In practice this means that interim dividends will now be recognised in the second half of the ﬁnancial year and ﬁnal dividends will be
recognised in the ﬁrst half of the following year.
The impact on the group’s IFRS ﬁnancial statements is to reduce the amount of dividends appropriated in the year ended 31 March 2005
by £3.7 million and to increase net assets at 31 March 2005 by £104.6 million. Group ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  101
Other differences
The other main adjustments are:
> The impact of fair valuing shares awarded under LTIP schemes that had not vested before 1 April 2004 and share options granted
under the group’s SAYE schemes after 7 November 2002 in accordance with IFRS 2; and
> A change in the classiﬁcation of the buildings element of certain property leases from operating to ﬁnance leases arising from the
requirement in International Accounting Standard 17 ‘Leases’ (IAS 17) to consider the land and buildings elements of such leases
separately;
The impact of these adjustments on proﬁt before tax and net assets, both individually and in aggregate, is not considered to be material
although the impact of IFRS 2 will increase going forward as more SAYE options fall within its scope.
Financial instruments
IFRS 1 permits the group to continue to apply UK GAAP in respect of ﬁnancial instruments for the year ended 31 March 2005 and to 
apply IAS 32 and 39 with effect from 1 April 2005. The comparative information for 2004/05 within these ﬁnancial statements therefore
reﬂects ﬁnancial instruments accounted for under the group’s UK GAAP accounting policies.
The signiﬁcant transition adjustments required to implement IAS 32 and 39 on 1 April 2005 are described below. The most signiﬁcant
impact of IAS 39 is in relation to ﬁnancial instruments, principally interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps, that are held to hedge the
group’s exposure to changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
Under UK GAAP, debt is initially recorded at the net proceeds of issue. In subsequent periods this is adjusted for accrued ﬁnance costs and
payments made. The fair values of derivatives are not recognised in the balance sheet hence the balance sheet values and charges in the
proﬁt and loss account are relatively stable.
Under IAS 39, the default treatment is for debt to be carried at amortised cost, whilst derivatives are recognised separately on the balance
sheet at fair value with movements in those fair values reﬂected through the income statement. This has the potential to introduce
considerable volatility both to the income statement and to the balance sheet. Therefore, for fair value hedges, IAS 39 allows changes in the
recognised value of hedged debt that are attributable to the hedged risk to be adjusted through the income statement. In the case of cash
ﬂow hedges, movements in the fair value of derivatives are deferred within reserves until they can be recycled through the income
statement to offset the future income statement effect of changes in the hedged risk.
However, in order to apply this treatment, it must be demonstrated that the derivative has been, and will continue to be, an effective hedge
of the hedged risk in the underlying debt within the strict criteria set out in IAS 39. Any hedge ineffectiveness, provided it is within the
range deemed acceptable by IAS 39, is recognised immediately within the income statement. At 1 April 2005, the group held interest rate
swaps as hedges against its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations for periods up to 2030. The swap portfolio is designed to hedge the debt
portfolio and provide an overall effective economic hedge. However, these swaps are not individually designated to particular liabilities and
so do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of applying IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 net assets were reduced by £57.8 million.
Explanation of material adjustments to the cash ﬂow statement for 2005
Cash ﬂows under IFRS include these in respect of cash equivalents. An adjustment was therefore made to include cash ﬂows in respect of
cash held on deposit.
Cash ﬂows arising from taxes on income were reclassiﬁed as cash ﬂows from operating activities as it was not possible to identify elements
associated with ﬁnancing and investment activities.
Cash ﬂows arising from interest payments were reclassiﬁed as cash ﬂows from operating activities on the basis that they enter into the
determination of proﬁt. Group ﬁnancial statements
102 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Severn Trent Plc
We have audited the individual company ﬁnancial statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2006 which comprise the
company balance sheet and company statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 11. These individual company
ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The corporate governance statement and the directors’ remuneration report are included in the group annual report of Severn Trent Plc for the
year ended 31 March 2006. We have reported separately on the group ﬁnancial statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March
2006 and on the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the individual company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the directors’
responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the individual company ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the
relevant ﬁnancial reporting framework, and whether the individual company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the
individual company ﬁnancial statements. We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we
have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual company
ﬁnancial statements. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the individual company ﬁnancial
statements. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
individual company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the individual company ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the individual company ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the individual company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2006; 
> the individual company ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
> the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
United Kingdom
5 June 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  103
Company balance sheet
Year ended 31 March 2006
2005
2006 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible ﬁxed assets 2 5.8 6.3
Investments in subsidiaries 3 3,670.5 3,613.8
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 0.7 –
3,677.0 3,620.1
Current assets
Debtors 4 54.4 84.0
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 3.9 –
Short term deposits 40.0 –
Cash at bank and in hand 330.2 172.3
428.5 256.3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (873.5) (556.1)
Net current liabilities (445.0) (299.8)
Total assets less current liabilities 3,232.0 3,320.3
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 6 (269.9) (329.1)
Net assets 2,962.1 2,991.2
Capital and reserves attributable to the company’s equity shareholders
Called up share capital 11 227.2 225.8
Share premium account 12 48.6 38.4
Other reserves 13 137.6 156.1
Retained earnings 14 2,548.7 2,570.9
Equity attributable to the company’s equity shareholders 2,962.1 2,991.2
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the accounts on 5 June 2006.
Sir John Egan Michael McKeon
Chairman Group Finance Director
2005
(restated)
£m
2006
£m Notes Company statement of total recognised gains and losses
2006 2005
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Net income recognised directly in equity – –
Transfers
Transfers to income on cashﬂow hedges 3.2 –
Deferred tax on transfers to income statement (0.8) –
Proﬁt for the period 145.4 147.8
Total recognised income and expense for the period 147.8 147.8
Prior year adjustment for adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 21 (104.0) –
Change in accounting policy on adoption of FRS 25 and FRS 26 13 (21.7) – 
Company ﬁnancial statements
104 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  105
Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
1 Accounting policies
a) Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modiﬁed by the revaluation of ﬁnancial assets 
and liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through proﬁt and loss and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
Accounting Standards and comply with the requirements of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 (‘the Act’). The company has
adopted the following accounting standards during the year:
FRS 20 – ‘Share based payments’
FRS 21 – ‘Events after the balance sheet date’
FRS 23 – ‘The effects of foreign exchange rates’
FRS 24 – ‘Financial reporting in hyperinﬂationary economies’
FRS 25 – ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure and presentation’
FRS 26 – ‘Financial Instruments: Measurement’
The adoption of FRS 20 has decreased current assets by £0.3 million, decreased creditors due within one year by £5.6 million, increased
investments by £1.5 million and increased retained earnings by £6.8 million for year ended 31 March 2005.
The adoption of FRS 21 has decreased creditors due within the year and increased retained earnings by £104.6 million for year ended
31 March 2005 due to the deferral of the ﬁnal dividend for 04/05 until it is approved at the Annual General Meeting.
FRS 25 and FRS 26 were adopted from 1 April 2005.  There is no restatement of the prior year ﬁgures.  Further details of the changes in
accounting policies are given below. Details of the impact of this are given in note 14.
Further details as to the adjustments on adoption are given in note 14.
The remaining standards have no material effects on the ﬁnancial statements.
b) Tangible ﬁxed assets and depreciation
Tangible ﬁxed assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation. Freehold land is not depreciated. Other assets are depreciated
on a straight line basis over their estimated economic lives, which are principally as follows:
Years
Buildings 30-60
Vehicles, computers and software 2-15
c) Leased assets
Where assets are ﬁnanced by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the
lessee (ﬁnance leases), the assets are accounted for as if they had been purchased and the fair values of minimum lease payments are
shown as an obligation to the lessor. Lease payments are treated as consisting of a capital element and a ﬁnance charge, the capital
element reducing the obligation to the lessor and the ﬁnance charge being written off to the proﬁt and loss account over the period of
the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding. Depreciation is charged over the shorter of the estimated useful life and the
lease period. All other leases are accounted for as operating leases. Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged to the proﬁt
and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
d) Impairment of ﬁxed assets and investments
Impairments of ﬁxed assets and investments are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of net assets of income
generating units, including where appropriate investments and goodwill, and their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amount is deﬁned
as the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at the date the impairment review is undertaken. Net realisable value
represents the net amount that can be generated through sale of assets. Value in use represents the present value of expected future
cash ﬂows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit. Impairment reviews are
carried out if there is some indication that an impairment may have occurred, or, where otherwise required, to ensure that goodwill and
ﬁxed assets are not carried above their estimated recoverable amounts. Impairments are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account and,
where material, are disclosed as exceptional.
e) Financial instruments
The group has adopted FRS 25 and FRS 26 during the year.
The accounting policy after 1 April 2005 is as follows:
Debt instruments
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the net fair value of the consideration received. After initial recognition,
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Where a loan or
borrowing is in a fair value hedging relationship it is remeasured for changes in fair value of the hedged risk at the balance sheet date
with gains or losses being recognised in the income statement (see below).
Gains and losses are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the
amortisation process. Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
continued
Company ﬁnancial statements
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities
The group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as cross currency swaps, forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate ﬂuctuations. Such derivative instruments are initially recorded at cost
and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet. The fair value of cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps
and forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to market exchange rates and interest rates at the period end.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is taken to
the proﬁt and loss account where the effective portion of the hedge will offset the gain or loss on the hedged item (see above).
In relation to cash ﬂow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging
instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in reserves, and the ineffective portion in the proﬁt and
loss account. The gains or losses deferred in reserves in this way are recycled through the proﬁt and loss account in the same period in
which the hedged underlying transaction or ﬁrm commitment is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the proﬁt and loss account in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge
accounting. At that date any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in reserves is kept in reserves until the
forecast transaction occurs, or transferred to the proﬁt and loss account if the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
Derivatives embedded in other ﬁnancial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract or the host contract is not carried at fair value with gains and losses
reported in the proﬁt and loss account.
The accounting policy prior to 1 April 2005 is as follows:
Debt instruments
The ﬁnancial costs of debt instruments are charged to the proﬁt and loss account over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the
carrying amount. Such costs include the cost of issue and any discount to face value arising on issue, or any premium arising on
maturity.
Differences arising from the movement in exchange rates during the year on translation into sterling of the foreign currency borrowings
and similar instruments used to ﬁnance long-term equity investments, are taken directly to reserves and reported in the statement of
total recognised gains and losses.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments
Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and to a lesser extent currency swaps, are used to manage the ﬁnancial risks
arising from the business activities of the company and the ﬁnancing of those activities. There is no trading activity in ﬁnancial
instruments. A review of how the ﬁnancial risks are managed is included in note 19 of the group ﬁnancial statements. Financial
instruments are accounted for as follows:
> interest rate swaps are used to hedge the company’s exposure to movements in interest rates. The interest payable or receivable on
such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair
value prior to maturity.
> currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency borrowings. The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to
the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on
borrowings and deposits.
f) Investments 
After initial recognition at cost (being the fair value of the consideration paid), investments which are classiﬁed as held for trading or
available for sale are measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognised in income or equity respectively. When an available for sale
investment is disposed of, or impaired, the gain or loss previously recognised in reserves is taken to the proﬁt and loss account.
Other investments are classiﬁed as held to maturity when the group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments held for an undeﬁned period are excluded from this classiﬁcation. Such investments (and those held to maturity) are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with any gains or losses being recognised in the proﬁt
and loss account.
Prior to 1 April 2005, the company held investments at historical cost less any provision for impairment.
106 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  107
g) Share-based payments
The company operates a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans for employees. The fair value of the employee
services received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
The fair value of employee services is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards granted calculated using a pricing model,
excluding the impact of any non-market conditions. The number of awards expected to vest takes into account non-market vesting
conditions including, where appropriate, continuing employment by the group. The charge is adjusted to reﬂect shares that do not vest
as a result of failing to meet a non-market based condition.
h) Cash ﬂow statement
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under Financial Reporting Statement 1 ‘Cash ﬂow statements’ and not produced a
cash ﬂow statement.
i) Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation is fully provided for in respect of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting
purposes only to the extent that the group has an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that taxable proﬁts are expected to arise in the future. Material deferred taxation
balances arising are discounted by applying an appropriate risk free discount rate.
2 Tangible ﬁxed assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006 6.7 6.2 12.9
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 2.1 4.5 6.6
Charge for year – 0.5 0.5
At 31 March 2006 2.1 5.0 7.1
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 4.6 1.2 5.8
At 31 March 2005 4.6 1.7 6.3
3 Investments
Subsidiary undertakings
Shares Loans Total
(restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2005 1,021.1 2,592.7 3,613.8
Additions/loans advanced 2.9 2,465.1 2,468.0
Loans repaid – (2,422.2) (2,422.2)
Shares exchanged for loans 267.5 (267.5) –
Foreign exchange movement – 10.9 10.9
At 31 March 2006 1,291.5 2,379.0 3,670.5
Investments are held at historic cost as it is not possible to reliably estimate their fair value.
Details of the principal subsidiaries of the company are given in note 40 of the group ﬁnancial statements.
4 Debtors
2006 2005
(restated)
£m £m
Trade debtors – –
Amounts owed by group undertakings 14.2 77.5
Corporation tax receivable 14.2 –
Deferred tax 17.4 2.2
Other debtors 0.8 3.5
Prepayments and accrued income 7.8 0.8
Total debtors 54.4 84.0 5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2005
2006 (restated)
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 25.9 26.0
Other loans 671.8 340.9
Borrowings 697.7 366.9
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 40.3 –
Trade creditors – 0.6
Amounts due to group undertakings 108.4 66.1
Other creditors 7.7 7.8
Taxation and social security 0.8 0.5
Corporation tax payable – 41.6
Dividends payable – 63.0
Accrued expenses 18.6 9.6
873.5 556.1
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2006 2005
£m £m
Other loans 244.5 316.9
Borrowings 244.5 316.9
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 11.7 –
Other creditors 13.7 12.2
269.9 329.1
7 Employee Costs
2006 2005
Wages and salaries 10.8 8.5
Social security costs 1.0 1.7
Pension costs 4.2 5.4
Total employee costs 16.0 15.6
For details of directors’ remuneration see pages 48 to 51.
Auditors fees in respect of the company were £135,000 (2005: £105,000). For full details of the fees paid to the auditors by the group, 
see note 6 of the group ﬁnancial statements.
8 Employee numbers
Average number of employees of the company (including executive directors) during the year (full time equivalent) was 88 (2005: 81).
All were based in the United Kingdom.
Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
continued
Company ﬁnancial statements
108 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  109
9 Financial instruments
a) Borrowings analysed by currency and interest rate after taking account of various currency and interest rate swaps entered 
into by the group
At 31 March 2006
Fixed borrowings
Weighted
average
Weighted period for
Floating Fixed average which
2006 interest interest interest interest
Total rate rate rate is ﬁxed
Currency £m £m £m % Years
Sterling 916.3 616.3 300.0 6.4 8.2
Euro 25.9 25.9
Total borrowings at 31 March 2006 942.2 642.2 300.0
At 31 March 2005
Fixed borrowings
Weighted
average
Weighted period for
Floating Fixed average which
2005 interest interest interest interest
Total rate rate rate is ﬁxed
Currency £m £m £m % Years
Sterling 602.2 302.2 300.0 6.4 9.2
Euro 26.0 26.0 –
US dollar 55.6 55.6 –
Total borrowings at 31 March 2006 683.8 383.8 300.0
Sterling ﬂoating rate borrowings bear interest based on LIBOR, whilst euro denominated borrowings bear interest based on EURIBOR
and dollar borrowings bear interest based on US dollar LIBOR.
b) Investments in interest earning assets analysed by currency after taking account of various currency swaps entered into by the group
2006 2005
Currency £m £m
Sterling deposits 40.0 –
Cash at bank 330.2 172.3
370.2 172.3
Investments in interest earning assets comprise short-term deposits placed on money markets and certiﬁcates of deposit with a
maturity date not exceeding one year.
Financial assets comprise £330.2 million of cash and £40.0 million of cash held on short term deposit. Sterling assets receive interest
based on LIBID. c) Monetary assets and liabilities by currency, excluding the functional currency
At 31 March 2006
Net foreign currency monetary assets
US dollar Total
£m £m
Functional currency of operation
Sterling 1.9 1.9
At 31 March 2005
Net foreign currency monetary assets
US dollar Total
£m £m
Functional currency of operation
Sterling 1.2 1.2
Net currency gains/(losses) arising from monetary assets/(liabilities) not in sterling are recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
d) Borrowings analysed by maturity date
Loans
repayable by
instalments
any of which
are payable Other
after ﬁve repayment 2006 2005
Overdrafts years terms Total Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Borrowings due within one year 25.9 – 671.8 697.7 366.9
Borrowings due after one year:
Between one and two years – – 17.4 17.4 69.6
Between two and ﬁve years – – 192.0 192.0 200.6
After more than ﬁve years – – 35.1 35.1 46.7
Total borrowings due after one year – – 244.5 244.5 316.9
25.9 – 916.3 942.2 683.8
Loans repayable partly or wholly after ﬁve years comprise:
2006 2005
£m £m
Euro Medium Term Notes 35.1 46.7
35.1 46.7
Loans payable partly or wholly after ﬁve years are all at ﬂoating rates.
e) Borrowing facilities
The company has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March 2006:
2006 2005
£m £m
Expiring within one year – –
Expiring in more than one, but not more than two years – 200.0
Expiring in more than two, but not more than ﬁve years 500.0 500.0
500.0 700.0
In addition, the company also has overdraft facilities of £80.0 million (2005: £87.0 million), of which nil (2005: £56.8 million) remains
undrawn at the year end.
Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
continued
Company ﬁnancial statements
110 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  111
f) Fair values of ﬁnancial instruments
Financial instruments by category:
Asset/(liability)
2006 2005
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Primary ﬁnancial instruments held or issued to ﬁnance the company’s operations
Short-term deposits 40.0 40.0 ––
Cash at bank and in hand 330.2 330.2 172.3 172.3
Borrowings falling due within one year (697.7) (682.5) (299.6) (359.9)
Borrowings falling due after more than one year (244.5) (262.8) (360.8) (312.1)
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments held to manage the currency and interest rate proﬁle
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments (15.9) (15.9) – (29.7)
Currency instrument – cross currency swaps (31.5) (31.5) (23.4) (26.1)
Total net ﬁnancial liabilities (619.4) (622.5) (511.5) (555.5)
Where available, market rates have been used to determine fair values. When market prices are not available, fair values have been
calculated by discounting cash ﬂows at prevailing interest rates.
Details of the company’s ﬁnancial risk policies are given in note 19i of the group ﬁnancial statements.
10 Borrowings
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 25.9 26.0
Other loans 916.3 657.8
Borrowings 942.2 683.8
2006 2005
£m £m
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year (included in creditors due in under one year) 697.7 366.9
In the second year 17.4 69.6
In the third to ﬁfth years inclusive 192.0 200.6
After ﬁve years 35.1 46.7
Included in creditors due after more than one year 244.5 316.9
942.2 683.8
The company’s borrowings are denominated in the following currencies after taking account of cross currency swaps the company has 
entered into:
2006 2005
£m £m
Sterling 916.3 602.2
US dollar – 55.6
Euro 25.9 26.0
942.2 683.8
The fair values of the company’s borrowings were:
2006 2005
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 25.9 26.0
Other loans 919.4 646.0
945.3 672.0
Fair values are based on expected future cash ﬂows discounted using LIBOR forward interest rates related to the expected timing of payments.
After taking into account interest and cross currency swaps, 32% of the company’s borrowings are at ﬁxed interest rates (2005: 44%). 
The remainder of the company’s debt is held at ﬂoating rate. Sterling debt bears interest at LIBOR, US dollar debt bears interest at 
US dollar LIBOR, whilst euro debt bears interest at EURIBOR.
Fixed rate debt has a weighted average interest rate of 6.4% (2005: 6.4%) for a weighted average period of 8.2 years (2005: 9.2 years). 11 Share capital
2006 2005
£m £m
Total authorised share capital
520,175,751 ordinary shares of 65 
5
⁄ 19p 339.5 339.5
Totally issued and fully paid share capital
348,093,283 (2005: 346,002,393) ordinary shares of 65 
5
⁄ 19p 227.2 225.8
At 1 April 225.8 225.2
Employee share option schemes 1.4 0.6
At 31 March 227.2 225.8
12 Share premium
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 April 38.4 33.5
Employee share option schemes 10.2 4.9
At 31 March 48.6 38.4
Employee share schemes
For details of employee share schemes and options granted over the shares of the company, see note 33 of the consolidated ﬁnancial
statements.
During the period the following LTIP awards, SIP awards and share options have been granted to company employees:
2006 2005
Fair value Fair value 
Number £m Number £m
LTIP awards 203,450 1.5 281,745 1.4
Sharesave options 17,041 0.1 17,851 0.1
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) 1,900 – 2,356 –
Details of the calculation of the fair value of share awards is given in note 33 of the group ﬁnancial statements.
The company has charged £1.1 million (2005: £1.0 million) to the proﬁt and loss account in respect of share based payments.
13 Other reserves
Capital Total 
redemption Hedging other
reserve reserves reserves
£m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 156.1 – 156.1
At 31 March 2005 156.1 – 156.1
FRS 26 transition – (31.0) (31.0)
Deferred tax on FRS 26 adjustments – 9.3 9.3
Change of accounting policy on adoption of FRS 26 – (21.7) (21.7)
At April 2005 156.1 (21.7) 134.4
Cash ﬂow hedges
– Transfer to net proﬁt – 3.2 3.2
At 31 March 2006 156.1 (18.5) 137.6
Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
continued
Company ﬁnancial statements
112 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Company ﬁnancial statements
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  113
14 Reconciliation of shareholders’ equity
Equity
attributable
to the equity 
holders
Share Share Other Retained of Severn 
capital premium reserves earnings Trent Plc 
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2004 as previously stated 225.2 33.5 156.1 2,481,0 2,895.8
Prior year adjustment for adoption of FRS 20 and FRS 21 – – – 104.0 104.0
At 1 April 2004 as restated for change in accounting policy 225.2 33.5 156.1 2,585.0 2,999.8
Purchase of shares for ESOP trust – – – (4.1) (4.1)
Share options and LTIPs
– proceeds from shares issued 0.6 4.9 – – 5.5
– value of employees’ services – – – 4.9 4.9
Net proﬁt for the year – – – 147.8 147.8
Dividends – – – (163.7) (163.7)
Deferred tax on share based payments – – – 1.0 1.0
At 31 March 2005 225.8 38.4 156.1 2,570.9 2,991.2
FRS 26 transition – – (31.0) – (31.0)
Deferred tax on FRS 26 adjustments – – 9.3 – 9.3
Change of accounting policy on adoption of FRS 26 – – (21.7) – (21.7)
At April 2005 225.8 38.4 134.4 2,570.9 2,969.5
Cash ﬂow hedges
– Transfers to net proﬁt – – 3.2 – 3.2
Share options and LTIPs
– proceeds from shares issued 1.4 10.2 – – 11.6
– value of employees’ services – – – 4.1 4.1
Net proﬁt for the year – – – 145.4 145.4
Dividends – – – (171.3) (171.3)
Deferred tax on items posted directly to equity – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 March 2006 227.2 48.6 137.6 2,548.7 2,962.1
The capital redemption reserve arose on the repurchase of B shares. This is not distributable.
In previous years £1,221.2 million of the company’s retained proﬁt arose as a result of group restructuring exercises, and is not considered
likely to be distributable. As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no proﬁt or loss account is presented for the company.
The company operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust (the Trust). The details of the operation of the Trust are given in note 32 of the
group ﬁnancial statements. 15 Pensions
The company operates a number of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes (being the Severn Trent Pension Scheme, the Severn Trent Water Mirror Image
Pension Scheme and the Severn Trent Senior Staff Pension Scheme). In addition, the group operates an unfunded arrangement for certain
employees whose earnings are above the pension cap.
Further details regarding the operation of these schemes is given in note 28 of the group ﬁnancial statements.
The company is currently unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities from the group’s deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, 
and hence it continues to account for the cost of contributions as if the scheme was a deﬁned contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year was £4.2 million (2005: £5.4 million).
16 Related party transactions
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 and not disclosed details of transactions with other undertakings within
Severn Trent group of companies.
17 Contingent liabilities
a) Bonds and guarantees
The company has entered into bonds and guarantees in the normal course of business. No liabilities are expected to arise in respect of
either the bonds or guarantees.
b) Bank offset arrangements
The banking arrangements of the company operate on a pooled basis with certain of its subsidiaries undertakings. Under 
these arrangements participating companies guarantee each others’ overdrawn balances to the extent of their credit balances, 
which can be offset against balances of participating companies.
18 Post balance sheet events
On 5 June 2006 the board of directors proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 31.97 pence per share.
19 Dividends
For details of the dividends paid and proposed in 2005/06 and 2004/05 see note 12 in the group ﬁnancial statements.
Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
continued
Company ﬁnancial statements
114 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Five year summary of group ﬁnancial information
Other information
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  115
IFRS IFRS UKGAAP UKGAAP UKGAAP
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
(restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 2,295.0 2,014.4 2,015.1 1,852.0 1,794.3
Proﬁt before interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 488.2 398.8 440.6 409.8 418.8
Goodwill amortisation – – (29.8) (25.2) (26.5)
Proﬁt before interest and exceptional items 488.2 398.8 410.8 384.6 392.3
Net exceptional items (15.7) (2.3) 11.6 (40.8) (17.0)
Net interest payable before fair value movements on treasury instruments (167.9) (169.5) (168.0) (159.4) (159.0)
Fair value movements on treasury instruments (36.7) ––––
Results of associates and joint ventures 2.1 1.8 – – –
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 270.0 228.8 254.4 184.4 216.3
Current taxation on proﬁt on ordinary activities (48.7) (37.9) (33.3) (24.8) (16.1)
Deferred taxation 6.0 (33.6) (36.3) (59.5) (42.3)
Proﬁt on ordinary activities after taxation 227.3 157.3 184.8 100.1 157.9
Net assets employed
Fixed assets 6,391.6 6,290.8 5,803.9 5,480.6 5,395.7
Other net liabilities excluding net debt, retirement beneﬁt 
obligation and provisions (212.2) (218.3) (266.7) (232.1) (208.2)
Financial instruments (130.0) ––––
Retirement beneﬁt obligation (221.9) (317.5) – – –
Provisions for liabilities and charges and deferred tax (980.4) (1,010.9) (572.0) (523.1) (480.4)
Net assets held for sale 13.0 ––––
4,860.1 4,744.1 4,965.2 4,725.4 4,707.1
Financed by
Called up share capital 227.2 225.8 225.2 224.4 224.0
Reserves 1,669.2 1,621.8 1,988.5 1,993.2 2,070.0
Total shareholders’ funds 1,896.4 1,847.6 2,213.7 2,217.6 2,294.0
Minority shareholders’ interests 2.6 1.9 2.4 2.2 1.4
Net debt 2,961.1 2,894.6 2,749.1 2,505.6 2,411.7
4,860.1 4,744.1 4,965.2 4,725.4 4,707.1
Statistics
Earnings per share (continuing) 65.2p 45.4p 53.5p 28.9p 45.9p
Adjusted earnings per share (see note 13) 77.2p 53.3p 61.4p 58.1p 63.2p
Dividends per share 51.13 48.51p 47.04p 45.9p 45.9p
Dividend cover (before exceptional items and before deferred tax) 1.5 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.4
Gearing 60.9% 61.0% 55.4% 53.0% 51.3%
Ordinary share price at 31 March 1,117p 915p 761p 716p 738p
Average number of employees – Water and Sewerage 5,188 5,106 4,998 4,780 4,662
– other 11,124 11,268 10,795 9,867 9,710
Following the implementation of UITF 38 – ‘Accounting for ESOP Trusts’, the 2004 balance sheet was restated to reﬂect shares held by the
Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust which have not vested unconditionally at the balance sheet date. Other prior year comparatives
have not been restated in the above table.
Gearing has been calculated as net debt divided by the sum of net equity and net debt. Information for shareholders
Cautionary statement
This document contains certain ‘forward looking statements’ with
respect to Severn Trent’s ﬁnancial condition, results of operations
and business and certain of Severn Trent’s plans and objectives with
respect to these items.
Forward looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identiﬁed
by their use of a date in the future or such words as ‘anticipates’,
‘aims’, ‘due’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’,
‘plans’, ‘targets’, ‘goal’ or ‘estimates’. By their very nature forward-
looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and
depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied
by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are
not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the
group operates; changes in the regulatory and competition
Other information
116 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2006
Number
Number of % of of shares % 
Category shareholders shareholders (millions) of shares
Individual and joint accounts 81,631 92.84 42.37 12.17
Other* 6,292 7.16 305.72 87.83
Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00
Number 
Number of % of of shares %
Size of Holding shareholders shareholders (millions) of shares
1-499 52,844 60.10 10.32 2.97
500-999 20,194 22.97 13.79 3.96
1,000-4,999 13,498 15.35 21.15 6.08
5,000-9,999 475 0.54 3.11 0.89
10,000-49,999 432 0.49 9.84 2.82
50,000-99,999 140 0.16 9.85 2.83
Over 100,000 340 0.39 280.03 80.45
Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00
*Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited
companies
Financial calendar and results announcements
Annual General Meeting
25 July 2006, at 11.00am
at the International Convention Centre, 
Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA
Dividend payments in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2006:
Interim dividend – paid 25 January 2006
Proposed ﬁnal dividend – payable 2 August 2006
The results of the group will normally be
published at the following times:
Interim results for the six months 
to 30 September December
Preliminary results for the year 
to 31 March June
Report and accounts for the year 
to 31 March June
Shareholder enquiries
If you have a question about your shareholding in
the company you should contact our registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible for
making dividend payments and updating the
register of shareholders, including details of
changes to addresses and names. You should also
contact the registrars if you would like to have your
dividends paid directly into your bank or building
society account.
The registrar’s contact details are:
Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967
E-mail: severntrent@lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing,
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
Online communication
Shareview, is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars
and gives you access to services over the internet
that enable you to check details of your
shareholding at any time. 
You can also elect to receive communications 
from the company electronically. You will receive 
an e-mail notiﬁcation when the Annual Report and
Notice of Annual General Meeting become available
on our website. 
You can register for both of these services at
www.shareview.co.uk.
Company information
The company’s website at www.severntrent.com
provides news and details of the company’s
activities, latest results, information on the share
price and links to our businesses’ websites.
frameworks in which the group operates; the impact of legal or 
other proceedings against or which affect the group; and changes 
in interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward looking statements, made in this
document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn
Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their
behalf are expressly qualiﬁed in their entirety by the factors referred
to above. Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward
looking statements.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any
securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not
soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities
in any jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred
in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption
from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933
(as amended). Contents
Governance
30 Board of directors
Biographical details of the directors
32 Directors’ report
35 Corporate governance report
Role of the board, board committees,
internal control and risk management
40 Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ emoluments, pensions and 
service agreements
Group ﬁnancial statements
52 Independent auditors’ report 
53 Consolidated income statement
54 Consolidated balance sheet
55 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement
56 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense
57 Notes to the group ﬁnancial statements
Company ﬁnancial statements
102 Independent auditors’ report
103 Company balance sheet
104 Company statement of total recognised
gains and losses
105 Notes to the company ﬁnancial statements
Other information
115 Five year summary
Comparisons on proﬁt and loss, 
net assets, dividends and share price
116 Information for shareholders
Financial calendar, shareholder analysis 
and company information
Quick read
1 Financial highlights
Group ﬁnancial highlights for 2005/06
2 At a glance
Overview and facts about our businesses
Direction
4 Chairman’s statement
Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trent’s
results, performance and outlook and
corporate responsibility
6 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview, Biffa demerger and
operational performance
8 Business focuses
Focus, highlights and outlook for each of
Severn Trent’s main businesses
Performance review
16 Water and Sewerage
Performance information for Severn Trent
Water in 2005/06, and progress on its Ofwat
targets for 2005-10
18 Waste Management
Performance information for Biffa, a review
of its market position and a summary of 
its Collection, Landﬁll, Special Waste and
Power Generation activities
20 Laboratories
Performance information for STL in the US
and UK and overviews of market conditions,
outlook and the businesses’ market strategies
21 Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Performance information for Water
Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
and an overview of its increasing 
presence in growth markets
22 Other Businesses
Performance information for Severn Trent’s
systems and property businesses
23 Corporate responsibility
Overview of our corporate responsibility
programme, business ethics, environmental
impacts and health and safety
26 Financial review
Overview of Severn Trent’s results, 
ﬁnancial position and cash ﬂows
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
This document is printed by CTD Sage Print on Mohawk Options 100% PC. The paper is manufactured 
in accordance with FSC standards from 100% post-consumer recycled waste and is 100% process
chlorine free. Only wind energy is used during the papermaking. Both the paper mill and printing 
involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Tayburn. Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Severn Trent Plc
Severn Trent Plc
Registered ofﬁce:
2297 Coventry Road
Birmingham B26 3PU
Telephone: +44 (0)121 722 4000
www.severntrent.com
Registered number: 2366619 Severn Trent Plc
Registered ofﬁce:
2297 Coventry Road
Birmingham B26 3PU
Telephone: +44 (0)121 722 4000
www.severntrent.com
Registered number: 2366619 Contents
d Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Governance
30 Board of directors
32 Summary directors’ report
33 Summary directors’ remuneration report
Summary ﬁnancial statement
37 Independent auditors’ report 
38 Summary consolidated income statement
39 Summary group balance sheet
39 Summary group cash ﬂow statement
Other information
40 Information for shareholders
Financial calendar, shareholder analysis 
and company information
Quick read
1 Financial highlights
Group ﬁnancial highlights for 2005/06
2 At a glance
Overview and facts about our businesses
Direction
4 Chairman’s statement
Sir John Egan comments on Severn Trent’s
results, performance and outlook, and
corporate responsibility
6 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview, Biffa demerger and
operational performance
8 Business focuses
Focus, highlights and outlook for each of
Severn Trent’s main businesses
Performance review
16 Water and Sewerage
Performance information for Severn Trent
Water in 2005/06, and progress on its Ofwat
targets for 2005-10
18 Waste Management
Performance information for Biffa, a review
of its market position, and a summary of 
its Collection, Landﬁll, Special Waste and
Power Generation activities
20 Laboratories
Performance information for STL in the US
and UK and overviews of market conditions,
outlook and the businesses’ market strategies
21 Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Performance information for Water
Puriﬁcation and Operating Services 
and an overview of its increasing presence 
in growth markets
22 Other Businesses
Performance information for Severn Trent’s
systems and property businesses
23 Corporate responsibility
Overview of our corporate responsibility
programme, business ethics, environmental
impacts and health and safety
26 Financial review
Overview of Severn Trent’s results, 
ﬁnancial position and cash ﬂows Financial highlights
Quick read
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  1
Group turnover
up 13.9% to
£2,295.0m
2005: £2,014.4m
Group proﬁt before tax
up 18.0% to
£270.0m
2005: £228.8m
Group proﬁt*
up 39.5% to
£322.4m
2005: £231.1m
> Encouraging group
results
> New strategy
> Dividend raised
> Intention to return capital
Earnings per share*
up 37.6% to
77.2p
2005: 56.1p
Final dividend
31.97p
Total for the year 51.13p
Total shareholder return
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31-03-01 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06
Severn Trent Plc
Value (£)
FTSE 100 Index
This graph shows the value, at 31 March 2006, of £100 invested in Severn Trent
on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 100
Index. The other points plotted are the values at intervening ﬁnancial year ends.
* before tax, exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value 
adjustments (see income statement)
* from continuing operations before exceptional items, 
IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax (see note 13) At a glance
Severn Trent is a leading 
FTSE 100 water group, with
revenues of £2.3 billion.
We intend to create value 
through a strategy that will 
focus on water. We intend to
demerge Biffa by the end of
October, increase gearing and
return capital to shareholders. 
By concentrating our efforts 
on raising standards, customers
will receive the beneﬁts of
reliable, high quality and 
cost effective services for 
clean water and sewerage.
You can ﬁnd out more about
Severn Trent Plc and the
businesses within our group 
at www.severntrent.com
Group
Turnover
£2,295.0m
16,312 employees
Quick read
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Water and Sewerage
Turnover
£1,150.9m
48.8%
of group turnover*
5,188 employees
Waste Management
Turnover
£712.3m
30.2%
of group turnover*
5,552 employees
Laboratories
Turnover
£167.0m
7.1%
of group turnover*
2,797 employees
Water Puriﬁcation and
Operating Services
Turnover
£267.8m
11.4%
of group turnover*
2,425 employees
Severn Trent Water provides
water and sewerage services to
around 3.7 million household
and business properties in
England and Wales.
Biffa is one of the largest
integrated waste management
companies in the UK. It provides
collection, recycling, landﬁll and
hazardous waste services to
commercial, industrial and 
local authority customers.
Severn Trent Laboratories
provides environmental testing
services in the UK and the US.
From service centres and
laboratories across the US and
UK, it serves a client portfolio of
blue-chip companies.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating
Services is one of the world’s
largest water and wastewater
treatment companies. Its
operational efﬁciency and
investment in technology and
product development have
delivered an excellent track
record of organic growth.
Key strengths
> Strong and sustained track
record in Ofwat efﬁciency and
performance assessments
> Drinking and wastewater
quality consistently above
average
> Leadership role in its sector
and region on climate change
adaptation
> Excellent record in
biodiversity, community
investment, and education.
Key strengths
> Competitive advantage 
in commercial and 
industrial collections
> Modern, specialist ﬂeet 
with high levels of fuel 
and operational efﬁciency
> 35 landﬁll sites throughout
the UK, all with ISO14001
certiﬁcation
> Excellent special waste
capabilities covering
hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste.
Key strengths
> Market leaders in the US 
and UK, with strong brand
recognition
> Reputation for technical
excellence and responsive
customer service
> Record of innovation and
being at the forefront of 
new markets, such as 
vapour intrusion 
> Good progress on major IT
projects which will further
improve customer service 
and help us exploit scale.
Key strengths
> Strong market position and
brand recognition
> Strategy of focusing on high
margin business opportunities
> Continually expanding
product and technology base
> Emphasis on cost control and
operational efﬁciency
> Strong product and
technology base in growing
markets such as arsenic
removal and global metering
products.
For further information please visit
www.stwater.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.biffa.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.stl-inc.com
www.stl-ltd.co.uk
For further information please visit
www.severntrentservices.com
www.stwaterinternational.com
* before elimination of intra-group sales
Quick read
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  3 Chairman’s statement
We have unveiled a new comprehensive strategy 
for the Severn Trent group of companies which 
will have at its heart a focus on water.
Our UK integrated waste management business,
Biffa, is to be demerged from the Severn Trent group
of companies, subject to shareholder approval.
The board of Severn Trent Plc ﬁrmly believes 
that the creation of two separate listed companies,
Severn Trent Plc and Biffa Plc, each with dedicated
boards and experienced management teams
focused on continued strategic and operational
development with access to their own capital, will
deliver greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers
and employees.
Following the proposed demerger Severn Trent Plc
is expected to remain the UK’s second largest listed
water company and a constituent of the FTSE 100,
continuing to focus on delivering investment
programmes, improving efﬁciencies and customer
service levels.
Our strategy also means that Severn Trent 
Laboratories US is no longer considered a 
core activity so we shall look to improve its
business performance while we consider how to
best realise its value for shareholders. Severn Trent
Laboratories UK will remain in the group as it plays 
an important role working with Severn Trent Water.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, while a small proportion of the group, 
is proﬁtable and growing and has synergy with our
water business so will be allowed to develop under
close management and tight budgetary control.
Our new strategy also allows us to become more
ﬁnancially efﬁcient by increasing our debt to
regulated capital value ratio to 60% by 2010, 
the start of the next regulatory review period.
We also expect to return cash to shareholders, 
the amount and timing of which is still to be
determined.
Our Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, outlines in the
next two pages the reasons behind our new strategy.
Group results
Overall, the Severn Trent group has delivered 
an encouraging performance in 2005/06, with
group proﬁt from continuing operations before 
tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional
items at £322.4 million, an increase of 39.5% 
and group proﬁt from continuing operations 
before tax was £270.0 million (£228.8 million), 
an increase of 18%.
The board is proposing a ﬁnal dividend of 
31.97 pence (30.30 pence) to be paid on 
2 August 2006. This would give a total dividend 
for the year of 51.13 pence, an increase of 5.4%.
Corporate responsibility
Our ambition is to make Severn Trent the best
water company in the UK and restore the trust 
of our customers and Ofwat. We are determined 
that the unacceptable mistakes of 2000-2004,
however caused, will not be repeated.
We have accepted the conclusions of Ofwat’s interim
report concerning allegations of false reporting
made against Severn Trent Water in 2004.
Ofwat’s interim report found that we had
overcharged our customers during 2004/05 
and had set prices too high for 2005/10.
Our internal investigations and Ofwat’s
investigations have been thorough and lengthy,
requiring complex judgements. Our judgements
have not been identical to Ofwat’s in every aspect,
but in the interests of making amends as soon as
possible, we concluded it was sensible to proceed
by agreement, and have apologised unreservedly.
Having considered Ofwat’s ﬁndings, we agreed 
that customer accounts should be credited as 
soon as possible and bills altered appropriately 
in subsequent years.
As the Ofwat report acknowledges, the board of
Severn Trent Plc and the new senior management
team started in 2004 to make major changes to
organisation structure, to people and to processes
and controls. The intense drive to improve Severn
Trent Water will continue to be a top priority 
for its new Managing Director, Tony Wray, and 
his management team as well as for myself, 
Colin Matthews and the rest of the Severn 
Trent Plc board.
Direction
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Sir John Egan
Chairman Direction
As a result of a referral by Ofwat, the Serious 
Fraud Ofﬁce is undertaking a criminal investigation
into alleged reporting irregularities made to Ofwat
by Severn Trent Water between 2000 and 2003
concerning leakage. Severn Trent is supporting
Ofwat in its review of these allegations and will 
co-operate fully with the Serious Fraud Ofﬁce.
We acknowledge that Ofwat may expect further
amends to be made to customers. Ofwat has stated
that this penalty will be discussed with Severn
Trent Water on completion of the Serious Fraud
Ofﬁce investigation into leakage.
The board has also provided Ofwat with an interim
report into the misreporting of customer relations
data over several years.
We will co-operate fully with Ofwat to restore
conﬁdence in Severn Trent Water going forward.
We have taken, and will continue to take, all actions
we think appropriate to ensure the maintenance of
both high ethical and professional standards and
resilient and effective controls throughout all group
companies.
Board, management and staff
John McAdam, a non-executive director, stepped
down from the board in September 2005 after ﬁve
years of valued service for which I thank him.
Derek Osborn, a non-executive director, retired 
from the board in March 2006, after seven years 
of valuable contributions, particularly concerning
environmental issues and I wish him well.
Martin Flower, senior independent non-executive
director and Deputy Chairman, stood down from
the board in June after ten years’ service. I am
extremely grateful for his support, particularly in
ensuring continuity on the board and support for
our new management team.
Mark Wilson, Group Finance Director, stood 
down from the board in December 2005 after 
ten years at the heart of three regulatory reviews. 
I am grateful to Mark for his contribution to the
group’s success.
Mark’s successor as Group Finance Director, 
Mike McKeon, joined us in December 2005.
Formerly Group Finance Director of Novar Plc, 
the building materials group, Mike worked with
Rolls Royce Plc and has had extensive international
business experience for CarnaudMetalbox, 
Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse.
We also welcomed two new non-executive 
directors, Richard Davey and Bernard Bulkin, 
from January 2006.
Richard, a former Head of Investment Banking for
NM Rothschild & Sons, is a non-executive director
of Yorkshire Building Society and Amlin Plc. He 
was appointed senior independent non-executive
director and chairman of the Remuneration
Committee with effect from 11 June 2006.
Bernard is chairman of AEA Technology Plc 
and is a Commissioner on the UK Sustainable
Development Commission. He retired from 
BP Plc as Chief Scientist in 2003.
Fiona Smith joined as General Counsel and
Company Secretary in February 2006, having been
General Counsel for Transport for London and
previously the National Grid Group. She replaced
Peter Davies who retired with our best wishes.
We again carried out rigorous board effectiveness
reviews with the help of independent consultants,
which have generated a number of actions to
secure improvements to board performance.
I would also thank our dedicated and hard working
staff whose commitment during a particularly
intense year has ensured we continue to achieve
our business objectives.
Outlook
Our objective over the next four years is to ensure
customers in our water businesses get the beneﬁts
of high quality and cost effective services while
ensuring investors receive an appropriate return.
We believe that the newly focused water group 
will be able to pay a progressive dividend as a
consequence.
Our dividend policy will therefore be to increase
dividends by 3% above RPI inﬂation until 2010.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  5 Group Chief Executive’s review
Strategic overview
When I took over as Group Chief Executive in
February 2005 I said I would concentrate on
operational improvements for all our businesses,
but particularly Severn Trent Water and Biffa as
they account for some 96% of group proﬁt.
Since then my new team and I have undertaken
the most detailed examination of all aspects of 
our activities to understand the business drivers 
so we can be certain of the foundations of our
future direction.
Focus on water
Severn Trent Water is one of the country’s largest
water and sewerage companies. The company 
has great experience and strengths, along with
important plans for improvement. By concentrating
our efforts on raising standards across the entire
business, customers will receive the beneﬁts of
reliable, high quality and cost effective services 
for clean water and sewerage. 
In addition these strategic changes, particularly 
the demerger of Biffa, will support a more efﬁcient
balance sheet allowing a return of capital to
shareholders. We intend to increase group debt 
to 60% of regulated capital value as soon as
practicable after the demerger. The amount,
mechanism and timing of any returns will be
communicated in due course and will depend on
future decisions around the debt structure of the
demerged Biffa, pension fund contributions and
ﬁnal costs of the demerger. 
Moreover, these improvements should lead to strong
ﬁnancial returns. We believe the group will be able
to deliver enhanced growth in dividends, and our
new policy will therefore be to increase dividends
by 3% above RPI inﬂation through the remainder
of the current AMP4 period, that is until 2010.
Biffa
The most signiﬁcant transaction required to achieve
this group transformation is the demerger of Biffa,
which was separately announced on 4 April 2006.
Biffa is itself a leading business in an attractive
market, and we believe that greater shareholder
value will be realised by the creation of a separately
listed company, focusing all its attention on
developing the waste management business. 
In 2005/06, organic growth within Biffa has been
re-ignited and we believe the prospects for the
business are strong. We have recently announced
Bob Davies as the new chairman for Biffa and we
expect the demerger to be completed by the end of
October 2006. We will provide further details in
due course. 
Other businesses
US Laboratories is no longer regarded as being 
a core business for the future. US Laboratories 
is a strong, market leading company engaged in
environmental testing. The long term prospects for
market growth are good, although the last 2 years
have been challenging. We are conﬁdent that the
ﬁrm actions already in hand will lead to a recovery
in margins, and as we see these results being
achieved we will consider the appropriate actions
to realise shareholder value.
The group announced on 12 May that Biffa Belgium
has been sold to Veolia for €45 million. Completion
of this sale is expected by the end of June and is
subject to Belgian competition clearance.
Certain other smaller activities have either 
already been closed to new business (Haswell), 
sold (Aseriti) or are being prepared for sale 
(Severn Trent Property).
Being closely associated with water, UK Laboratories
and Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services will
remain part of the group. Together these business
account for some 3% of group proﬁt.
Severn Trent post demerger
After the demerger Severn Trent will be a focused
water group, generating more than 95% of group
proﬁts, compared with less than 80% today.
It will be the second largest listed UK player in the
water industry whose investment proﬁle will generate
expectations of growth and attractive returns.
Severn Trent management will be able to focus on
the regulated water and sewerage business.
There will still be other businesses in the group which
do have synergies with our core water operations.
We shall keep Severn Trent Laboratories UK. There
are few competitors capable of supplying Severn
Trent Water with the necessary high quality testing
service so it is felt appropriate to retain the business.
Our Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business, which includes a UK contract for managing
Ministry of Defence sites, is proﬁtable, growing and
improving, and has signiﬁcant synergy with the
water business and, as it is relatively small, it will
not distract management from a focus on water.
The creation of a new strategy will allow us to
increase our gearing to a more ﬁnancially efﬁcient
level while still remaining prudent with an eye on
regulatory developments into the next AMP period
in 2010 and beyond.
Direction
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Colin Matthews
Group Chief Executive Direction
Health and safety
I deeply regret to report two fatalities; a Biffa
contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and a Biffa
employee was struck by a car. Biffa management
has implemented the most rigorous investigation
across all its operations as a result, with an
independent audit, and has made signiﬁcant
changes to reduce the possibility of such 
incidents happening again.
Overall the Severn Trent group reported a 27.5%
reduction in the RIDDOR reportable incident rate
per 1,000 employees.
Not only is safety important in its own right but it
is also important as a broad indication of quality
across the group. We will continue to concentrate
heavily on improving our safety performance.
Water and Sewerage
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water began the ﬁrst 
year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the period
2005-10. Ofwat has set us exacting efﬁciency
targets for this period, and during the year we
began to implement the organisational changes
necessary to achieve them.
Progress was good. We reduced employee numbers;
removed management layers in order to improve
information ﬂow; reviewed and consolidated ofﬁce
accommodation in order to control overheads; and
began a programme to streamline our procurement
process. 
We aimed to meet the Ofwat determination overall,
getting our costs down to the Ofwat proﬁle in two
years. Excluding energy costs we have done rather
better than that. However, the current outlook for
energy has more than offset that advantage. We will
be striving to get back in line with the Ofwat proﬁle.
Capital expenditure is more positive. Capex and
infrastructure renewals amounted to £434 million.
Adjusting for changes agreed with Ofwat, and
timing differences, we have generated
approximately 6% efﬁciency over and above the
determination. We plan to maintain similar out-
performance over the rest of AMP4.
Waste Management
Biffa worked in 2005/06 on a major review of how
the UK waste market is developing and Biffa’s
position within it, as part of the demerger preparation.
We have a competitive advantage in the industrial
and commercial collection market, a good position
in landﬁll, and excellent special waste capabilities
through our treatment centres. Biffa has the
potential to develop recycling revenues signiﬁcantly.
Biffa enjoys a leading position in a dynamic market
place. I suggested a target of 8% for renewed
organic growth six months ago, I am pleased 
that the result, 11%, comfortably beats that.
Biffa has a sustainable strong position within the
waste industry. We shall use our scale in Collection
to deliver improving service and efﬁciencies. We
can develop recycling opportunities as the market
evolves while carefully managing our pricing and
capacity in Landﬁll.
Having spent more time in Biffa than when I ﬁrst
reported last year, I am convinced that there is a
great opportunity to bring about the same ‘process
improvement’ revolution that worked through
factory environments over recent decades and is
now revolutionising service industries.
Laboratories
Severn Trent Laboratories provides environmental
testing services in the US and the UK. In the US,
market conditions were challenging in 2005/06.
Federal funding for environmental projects
continued to be impacted by the diversion of funds
to military activities in Iraq and to hurricane relief. 
In the UK, market conditions were more favourable,
with legislation like the Landﬁll Directive creating
new business opportunities.
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
The business produced good results in 2005/06,
increasing turnover and proﬁts. We maintained our
strategy of concentrating on higher margin business
and growth markets.
Environment
I am pleased that the group’s climate change
programme has continued to develop over the 
last 12 months. We have continued to expand
renewable energy generation within both Severn
Trent Water and Biffa and in July 2005, working
with the Carbon Trust, we published a Carbon
Management Report which investigated the 
long term challenges and opportunities that 
climate change presents for the UK water 
and waste industries.
Outlook
Performance at Severn Trent Water has been 
good in the ﬁrst year of AMP4, with operating 
costs reduced to within £4 million of the Ofwat
determination. The outlook for the coming year is
for continuing progress in meeting and improving
on the AMP4 contract for operating costs across
most areas of performance, with an additional 
£5 million to £10 million of savings identiﬁed.
However, the industry faces a signiﬁcant challenge
with rising energy prices. At present, the outlook 
for energy prices in 2006/07 mean that increased
costs in this area are expected to impact Severn
Trent Water by around £25 million. In relation to
capital expenditure, we aim to maintain around 
6% efﬁciency out performance over the remaining
AMP4 period.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  7 Water and Sewerage
Severn Trent Water
Direction
8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Focus
2005/06 was the ﬁrst year of the AMP4 contract.
We began work to deliver our ﬁve year £2.6 billion
capital investment programme, to maintain and
improve water supply and quality, sewage
treatment and to meet our other regulatory
targets for 2005-10. Highlights
> Turnover up 13.4% to £1,150.9 million 
> We implemented organisational changes that
will cut overheads and increase efﬁciency
> We appeared in the top category in the 
DWI’s water quality tables for the eighth
successive year
Outlook
After good progress on the ﬁrst year of the 
AMP4 programme, we are on track to meet 
our regulatory obligations for 2005-10. 
The organisational changes, cost controls 
and improved procurement procedures we
introduced during 2005/06 will help us deliver
those obligations and achieve our targets.
Laying the groundwork to 
improve efﬁciencies and make
investments necessary to 
achieve ambitious targets
Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  9 Waste Management
Biffa
Direction
10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Focus
Biffa undertook a major review of the UK 
market and its market position in 2005/06. 
This conﬁrmed its strengths in commercial/
industrial collection, landﬁll, and special 
waste treatment. It also showed good scope 
for developing recycling revenues.
Strength and scale to 
take advantage of emerging
opportunities in a growing
marketplace Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  11
Highlights
> Turnover up 13.2% to £712.3 million
>  New national accounts in Collection 
with well known brands and chains
>  Rising unit revenues in Landﬁll
>  Increased renewable energy generation
capacity
Outlook
Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to
demerge Biffa in 2006. A dedicated board and
access to its own capital will provide Biffa with 
a strong platform for maintaining its record of
solid organic growth and serving customers. Laboratories
STL
Direction
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Focus
Severn Trent Laboratories continued to focus on
service standards, cost controls and operating
efﬁciency in 2005/06 in the US and the UK. 
We also continued to seek out and maximise 
new opportunities and markets in 
environmental testing.
Highlights
> Turnover up 7.7% to £32.3 million 
in the UK business
> Strong activity in air testing in the US 
and contaminated soils testing in the UK
> New laboratory project in Ecuador and an
acquisition in New Orleans in 2005/06
Developing a competitive 
edge and improving standards 
for a challenging environment  Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  13
Outlook
Good market conditions in the UK look likely to
continue, and we expect growth in some market
sectors in the US. Severn Trent Laboratories’
reputation for service and innovation should 
help it compete strongly in those areas. Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Direction
14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Focus
Both divisions of the Water Puriﬁcation and
Operating Services business have produced good
results in 2005/06. Strong market position and
brand recognition combined with an emphasis on
cost control and operational efﬁciency puts the
business at the forefront of emerging markets.
Delivering good results 
with a clear focus on 
higher margin business 
in growth markets Direction
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  15
Highlights
> Turnover up 28.7% to £267.8 million
> Large contracts in the Middle East to supply
domestic water meters
> 2005/06 was the ﬁrst year of the 25 year, 
£1 billion PFI contract with the UK’s Ministry 
of Defence
Outlook
There are good growth prospects across the
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
business. Positive market conditions are 
expected to continue and we believe we have 
the reputation, expertise and technology base 
to capitalise on those opportunities. Review of operations
Water and Sewerage
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 1,150.9 1,015.1 13.4
Proﬁt* 400.4 307.5 30.2
*Before interest, tax and exceptional items (see note 4)
Health and safety
23% improvement in RIDDOR
*
reportable injuries
2005/06 36
2004/05 47
*RIDDOR – Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations
Water quality
Overall compliance with
drinking water quality 99.96%
2004/05 99.94%
Severn Trent Water met its ﬁnancial targets for 
the year 2005/06. Turnover increased by 13.4% 
to £1,150.9 million. The allowed increase in charges
for 2005/06, including inﬂation, was 15.2%.
In reviewing our prices, Ofwat takes account of:
> The need to maintain existing standards 
of our products and services
> Our levels of compliance with standards
achieved over the last ﬁve years
> The need to secure our water resources in 
the event of prolonged dry weather conditions
> Areas of concern identiﬁed by customers 
as being of highest priority
> All new legislation affecting drinking water 
and environmental improvements
> The need to provide a reasonable return 
for our investors
> The affordability of our proposed plans
Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional items 
was up 30.2% to £400.4 million. This was after 
a provision for £10.6 million, the expected cost
relating to 2005/06 and prior years of the
agreement made with Ofwat to credit each
customer account during 2006/07, following 
the regulator’s interim report of 7 March 2006.
Improving the efﬁciency of the business
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water began the ﬁrst 
year of the AMP4 contract, which covers the 
period 2005-10. 
Ofwat has set us exacting efﬁciency targets for 
this period, and during the year we began to
implement the organisational changes necessary 
to achieve them. 
Progress was good. We reduced employee numbers;
removed management layers in order to improve
information ﬂow; reviewed and consolidated ofﬁce
accommodation in order to control overheads; and
began a programme to streamline our procurement
processes. The last of those measures involves
establishing long term relationships with a reduced
number of suppliers, incentivising them to make
continuous improvements, and standardising
designs where possible. 
We also carried out two major in-sourcing projects.
At the end of 2004/05, Severn Trent Plc announced
that the Haswell engineering consultancy business
would cease bidding for external work, and
engineers working on our AMP4 programme would
be absorbed into Severn Trent Water. In addition,
some 270 staff from Aseriti transferred to Severn
Trent Water, bringing our IT systems activities in-
house. In both cases, the transitions progressed
smoothly, and we are seeing beneﬁts from bringing
engineering and IT expertise back into the business.
Working towards AMP4 targets
Our contract for 2005-10 includes a capital
investment programme of approximately 
£2.6 billion. This includes:
> more than £400 million on maintaining 
water supplies
> £150 million on improving drinking 
water quality
> around £850 million on maintaining and
improving river quality
> more than £350 million improving sewers 
and dealing with sewer ﬂooding
Our focus in the ﬁrst year was to implement the
new procurement and supply chain processes that
we will use in the programme, and to mobilise the
900 projects that we are due to manage. Net capital 
expenditure, excluding spending on infrastructure
maintenance, was £305 million for the year.
Performance review
16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Tony Wray
Managing Director, 
Severn Trent Water Performance review
The one area of the AMP4 contract where our
2005/06 results were disappointing was leakage.
The dry summer of 2005 contributed to this
performance, causing higher than average levels of
burst pipes. Reported actual leakage has increased
by approximately 17 Megalitres per day, 3%
greater than 2004/05. We have now increased the
resources dedicated to detection and reduction of
leakage, and we believe that, by the end of the
AMP4 period, we can reduce our leakage ﬁgures to
below the target level set by Ofwat.
We own and operate over 1,000 sewage treatment
works treating the wastewater from the equivalent
of over 10 million people. The discharges from all
except the very smallest of these works are the
subject of stringent quality testing. During 2005/06
99.86% of those works complied with the important
regulatory sanitary standards. This is, and has
always been, at or close to the best level of
compliance in the industry.
Serving our customers
Customers’ views gathered in market research have
been used extensively in the development of our
strategy. This research has been in place for over a
decade and includes regular tracking of customers’
attitudes and opinions every six months. 
Our customers tell us that their top priority is the
safety and reliability of their drinking water. In July
2005, the Drinking Water Inspectorate’s (DWI)
league table on water quality again showed that
Severn Trent Water is achieving a quality level above
the industry average. This is the eighth successive
year that we have appeared in the top category.
The DWI also praised the accessibility of water
quality information on Severn Trent Water’s website.
Despite a dry summer, we maintained water supply
to our customers across the whole of our region,
and did not need to impose hosepipe bans. Water
levels in our reservoirs were good at the year-end.
We continued to promote water efﬁciency among
domestic and business customers. Since evidence
suggests that dry years are likely to become more
frequent, our AMP4 programme includes measures
to improve security of water supply, and to make
sure that we have sufﬁcient water resources to
meet customers’ future needs. 
We also understand that customers feel that
improvements to drainage, in order to prevent
ﬂooding of properties by our sewers, are important.
Our commitment for the AMP4 period is to achieve
a net reduction of 158 in the number of properties
at risk of ﬂooding from our sewers more than 
once in ten years. Our programme of works 
to permanently reduce the risk of internal 
and external ﬂooding will beneﬁt an estimated
1,300 properties.
In 2005/06 we continued to implement our new
customer service technologies: the TARGET billing
system and ICE (Improving Customer Experience).
The roll-out of the systems coincided with the price
rises introduced at the start of the AMP4 period,
and this increased the levels of customer contacts
and complaints we received. This proved
challenging at times, but we did succeed in
transferring all our customers to the new system
and we are satisﬁed that it is serving them well.
In March 2006, the Ofwat interim report into
allegations of false reporting found that we had
overcharged our customers during 2004/05 and
had set prices too high for 2005-10. Immediately
following the report, we apologised unreservedly to
all our customers. We have agreed with Ofwat a
mechanism for rebating them, and we had already
voluntarily proposed to raise prices by £7 million
less than allowed under the 2006/07 price limits.
Ofwat measures the service that we provide to
customers by a series of indicators known as DG2
to DG9. These cover: water supply pressure,
interruptions and restrictions; sewer ﬂooding
problems; speed of response to three types of
contact with customers; and the proportion of
metered customers who receive a bill based on an
actual meter reading. Further details, along with the
levels of service for the water industry can be found
in the Ofwat annual report on www.ofwat.gov.uk. 
At the end of February 2006, we also began an
investigation into misreporting of customer
relations data to Ofwat. The data concerns the
handling of customer billing queries and telephone
contacts over several years. We have kept Ofwat
fully informed on the progress of the investigation.
Corporate responsibility
There is a strong focus on corporate responsibility
(CR) in Severn Trent Water, and the tangible 
results of this in 2005/06 included energy
management and generation programmes; 
support for community and education projects;
progress on our Biodiversity Action Plan; and
improvements to our health and safety performance. 
More details on Severn Trent Water’s CR programme
can be found in the corporate responsibility section
of this report.
Outlook
In 2005/06 Severn Trent Water made a good start
to AMP4. Although it is too early, after just one year
of the ﬁve year period, to forecast our eventual
performance on the contract, we are conﬁdent
about our ability to control operating costs and
deliver our ﬁve year capital programme. We believe
we are on track to deliver the AMP programme and
meet our regulatory obligations. 
Severn Trent Water
management have
focused on improving
quality of operations
and strengthening and
streamlining internal
controls
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  17 Review of operations 
Waste Management
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 712.3 629.5 13.2
Proﬁt* 89.2 78.9 13.1
*Before interest and tax 
Power generation
Turnover up 32.2%
to £18.9 million
Biffa had another year of good organic growth in
2005/06. Turnover in the UK was £712.3 million,
up 13.2%. 
In the UK, proﬁt before interest, tax and 
exceptional items was 13.1% higher than 
2004/05, at £89.2 million. 
Collection
Biffa has one of the largest waste collection
networks in the UK, with over 65 depots and more
than 1,600 vehicles. We collect 3.5 million tonnes 
of waste each year from about 80,000 industrial
and commercial customers and from over 1 million
households, which include two fully integrated
waste management contracts under the Private
Finance Initiative with Isle of Wight and Leicester
City Councils.
The industrial and commercial collection business
grew strongly in 2005/06, and the division secured
a number of new national accounts across various
market sectors including retail, leisure and ﬁnance.
New accounts included well known high-street
names such as Sainsbury’s, DSG International plc
(Currys, PC World, The Link and Dixons) and Boots.
Our ability to provide nationwide coverage and
bespoke recycling services was instrumental in
several of these contract wins. 
There were new contract wins in the municipal
sector too. Biffa won a recycling contract 
for 56,000 properties in Bridgend, Wales; and 
a three year contract with Vale of Glamorgan,
covering the managing and processing of
recyclable materials and servicing ‘bring banks’.
Biffa’s contract with South Staffordshire was
extended for a further six years.
Biffa worked with its local authority customers to
help them meet their targets on value, efﬁciency
and recycling. For example, in Burnley, Mole Valley,
South Shropshire, South Staffordshire and Woking,
this took the form of introducing alternative weekly
and fortnightly collections incorporating green
waste and dry waste collection services.
Gross turnover in the Collection division was
£429.0 million, up 14.8%. Proﬁt before interest 
and tax was £60.1 million, up 16.5%. Industrial 
and commercial margins remained ﬁrm, and
absorbed cost increases arising from the Road
Transport Directive, which came into force in 2005.
This restricted the number of hours that drivers
can work, and led us to renegotiate pay structures
with our drivers.
Landﬁll
Government targets on diversion from landﬁll are
reducing the amount of waste going to landﬁll, 
and landﬁll volumes were down 8.2% in 2005/06.
However, unit revenues from landﬁll rose, with the
result that turnover in the Landﬁll division was up
14.3% to £302.8 million. Proﬁt before interest and
tax was up 2.8% to £40.8 million.
The Landﬁll division continued to take advantage of
new market opportunities in 2005/06. In 2004/05
Biffa formed a strategic alliance with Biogenie Site
Remediation to remove and treat contaminated soil
from brownﬁeld construction sites. Following that
alliance, we opened our ﬁrst soil facility at Risley,
Warrington in November 2005, and we plan to open
two further facilities in the south-east of England.
Initial tonnages at Risley were encouraging. 
In addition, during 2005/06 Biffa’s composting
sites accepted approximately 47,000 tonnes of
green waste. 
Biffa won its ﬁrst signiﬁcant landﬁll contract 
in Northern Ireland in early 2006. The new
Cottonmount II landﬁll site will receive over
700,000 tonnes of waste over an initial 29 
month period from the Arc21 partnership, a 
group of 11 Northern Irish councils. We also 
won a four year disposal contract with
Warwickshire County Council.
Performance review
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Martin Bettington
Managing Director, Biffa Performance review
Special Waste
Biffa’s Special Waste division provides a range of
services and technologies for managing hazardous
waste streams. 
One of the biggest changes affecting the Special
Waste division in 2005/06 was the entry into force
of the EU Hazardous Waste Regulations in July 2005.
As a result of the legislation, many companies had
to register as hazardous waste producers for the
ﬁrst time, and our Special Waste division set up a
helpline and registration service to assist them. 
Turnover in Special Waste was up 5.1% in 2005/06,
to £49.2 million. Proﬁt before interest and tax was
£1.9 million, up 18.8%.
Power Generation
Gross turnover from power generation was up
32.2% to £18.9 million and proﬁt before interest
and tax was up 47.1% to £7.5 million.
The division, which uses landﬁll gas to generate
electricity, is a signiﬁcant provider of renewable
energy in the UK. During 2005/06 we added new
power generation capacity at a number of sites,
bringing total generation capacity up to 108MW,
compared with 101MW at March 2005.
Belgium
On 12 May 2006 the group agreed to sell Biffa
Belgium to Veolia for €45 million. The transaction
is conditional upon clearance from the Belgian
competition authorities and is expected to
complete before the end of June 2006.
Biffa Belgium has been classiﬁed as a discontinued
operation. Its turnover in 2005/06 was £58.4
million (£66.7 million) and its loss before interest
and tax was £4.1 million (proﬁt £3.3 million).
Corporate responsibility
I deeply regret to report two fatalities; a Biffa
contractor was hit by a Biffa vehicle and in a
separate incident a Biffa employee died after 
being struck by a car. We have implemented 
the most rigorous investigations and made
signiﬁcant changes to reduce the possibility 
of such incidents happening again. 
An awareness of Biffa’s duty towards the
environment, our workforce and the communities
around our sites is embedded in our operations
and culture. Evidence of that awareness in 2005/06
included renewable energy generation activities; an
energy efﬁciency programme in ﬂeet; and
community and education activities.
As in 2004/05, we have continued to run a
company wide health and safety culture change
programme, involving all employees. The
importance of health and safety initiatives was
recognised with the introduction this year of the
Biffa health and safety awards scheme, which
acknowledged employees’ contributions to making
their working environment a safer place. We have
also improved communication of health and safety
issues including the distribution of several new
videos and DVDs covering alcohol and drugs misuse
awareness, manual handling and employees talking
about the effect an incident has made on their lives. 
Several Biffa employees were also recognised
through the group Health and Safety Champions
Awards, with a Biffa employee winning the Overall
Champion award. His idea for developing a simpler
and safer operating technique has been applied
across the business.
More details on Biffa’s CR programme can be found
in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
Outlook
At the end of the 2005/06 ﬁnancial year, the board
of Severn Trent Plc announced its intention to
demerge Biffa in the UK by the end of 2006. This
was based on the belief that the creation of a
separately listed company, Biffa Plc, would deliver
greater beneﬁts to shareholders, customers and
employees. 
Biffa will continue to guide our customers through
the requirements of new EU and UK legislation. 
As one of the UK’s leading waste management
businesses, we will also continue to beneﬁt from
scale and development opportunities. 
During 2005/06 the business undertook a major
review of how the UK waste market is developing
and Biffa’s position within it. The review indicated
that we have a competitive advantage in the
industrial and commercial collection market, a
good position in landﬁll, and excellent special waste
capabilities through our treatment centres. It also
showed that Biffa can develop recycling revenues
signiﬁcantly. 
Our strengths in collection, landﬁll and special
waste are a strong basis for delivering our strategy
of organic growth, both before and after the
demerger. 
Biffa is well positioned
in the largest and 
most attractive market
segments
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  19 Review of operations 
Laboratories
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 167.0 162.6 2.7
Proﬁt* 11.1 15.2 (27.0)
*Before interest and tax 
In 2005/06, market conditions in the US were 
very difﬁcult for Severn Trent Laboratories (STL).
Federal funding for environmental projects was
impacted by the continued rise in the federal
deﬁcit as well as the diversion of funds to 
military activities outside of the US, whilst the 
worst hurricane season on record took STL’s
environmental consulting clients away from their
normal scope of work to engage in hurricane 
relief and repair efforts. These factors led to serious
price erosion which impacted proﬁt margins.
In the UK, market conditions were more favourable,
exempliﬁed by the Landﬁll Directive legislation
which created new business opportunities.
Around 81% of Severn Trent Laboratories’ turnover
derives from the US, so the 2005/06 results were
affected by the challenging market conditions
described above. Turnover in the US increased by
1.6% to £134.7 million, and proﬁt before interest
and tax was down 43.3% to £5.9 million. 
Market strategy
In the US STL continues to pursue a long term
strategy centred around service excellence. Coupled
with tight cost controls and continued operating
efﬁciency improvements, STL will work to rebuild
the margin shortfall. A programme of cost
reductions took place in 2005/06 and this will
beneﬁt performance in 2006/07 and beyond.
STL continued to implement a new Information
Management System in the US, which will bring 
all locations onto a single IT platform. This will help
exploit STL’s unmatched scale in the US market,
further improve service by reducing project turn-
around times, and improve the delivery of complex
electronic data. The system has been rolled out to
more than half of the US laboratories.
In 2005 STL set up a new laboratory for a major
US client in Ecuador. This facility will enable STL to
address local testing needs, and also gives STL the
potential to expand activities in South America if
suitable opportunities are identiﬁed.
US markets
Whilst the general market picture in the US is
challenging, speciﬁc areas remain vibrant. There 
is strong activity in the air testing market, and,
within that, there are good opportunities in 
vapour intrusion testing. There are also good
growth prospects in sediment testing related 
to harbour/port clean-up and transportation
infrastructure. In 2005/06 STL started work on a
large $2.5 million sediment testing project on the
New Orleans Harbour, and though work on this was
interrupted by Hurricane Katrina, it is expected to
resume in 2006/07.
The New Orleans Harbour project was not the only
aspect of STL work affected by the severe hurricane
season of 2005. STL has six laboratories within the
hurricane belt of the southern US, and all
experienced problems related to hurricane activity
such as disruptions to power supply and reduced
sample collection and delivery activity. However,
following the experience of the previous year, STL
had contingency plans in place, and these did help
to address the impact of the hurricanes on STL
business activities.
STL also decided to expand its base in New
Orleans, by acquiring the business of
Environmental Analytical Services Inc. This facility
will enable STL to better support clients affected by
last year’s hurricanes in the gulf coast region.
In the UK market conditions were more favourable.
Turnover was up by 7.7% to £32.3 million and proﬁt
before interest and tax was up 8.3% to £5.2 million.
The UK business is strongly focused on the testing 
of samples from UK water clients including Severn
Trent Water but STL also saw strong demand for
contaminated soils testing, arising from the
provisions of the Landﬁll Directive. STL created a
dedicated Waste Acceptance Criteria laboratory at
its site in the Midlands. This helps waste producers
comply with the UK’s Waste Acceptance Criteria,
which also arise from the Landﬁll Directive.
Outlook
We do not expect any major increase in US federal
environmental budgets in 2006/07, nor do we
expect signiﬁcant growth in sectors that are driven
by regulation. However, we have positive
expectations about continuing growth in certain
segments of the market including air testing and
vapour intrusion, as well as testing for sediments
and endocrine disrupters. We also have positive
expectations for continued growth in the sale of
groundwater sampling equipment and remediation
pumps through STL’s US subsidiary QED
Environmental Systems and expect strong market
conditions in the UK soils testing market to
continue.
Performance review
20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Signiﬁcant progress on
laboratory IT systems
standardisation
Rachel Brydon Jannetta
President and CEO, STL Len Graziano
President and CEO, 
Water Puriﬁcation 
and Operating Services
The Water Puriﬁcation
market will continue to
grow, both in the US
and UK, and in the
developing world
Review of operations 
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services
Performance review
Performance
2006 2005
£m £m %
Turnover 267.8 208.1 28.7
Proﬁt* 12.0 8.9 34.8
*Before interest, tax and exceptional items (see note 4)
Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’ divisions
both produced good results in 2005/06, increasing
turnover and proﬁts. Both divisions maintained
their strategy of concentrating on higher margin
business and growth markets.
Turnover in Water Puriﬁcation and Operating
Services was up by 28.7% to £267.8 million.
Around 62% of that arose in the US. Proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items increased to
£12.0 million, a rise of 34.8%. The impact of
exchange rates on the ﬁgures was immaterial.
Alongside the business concentration on achieving
organic growth in 2005/06 was an intense focus 
on health and safety performance.
Water Puriﬁcation
The Water Puriﬁcation division’s turnover rose by
14.7% in 2005/06 to £104.1 million. Proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items was up 11.2%.
These ﬁgures now include turnover and proﬁt from
the Metering Services business, formerly part of 
the Operating Services division.
Metering Services performed well in 2005/06. 
Two trends made a major contribution to this: 
in the UK we saw rising demand for domestic
meter installation; and in the Middle East we 
won large contracts in Abu Dhabi and Qatar to
supply our SmartMeter™ domestic meters.
Performance in the other businesses within the
Water Puriﬁcation division was slightly down on 
the previous year although they had some success,
in particular the ﬁltration and electro-chlorination
business. Arsenic removal is a growing market for
Severn Trent Services, and our partnership with
Lanxess on SORB 33® arsenic removal technology
and Bayoxide® E33 arsenic removal media gives
us a strong market position. In 2005/06 we were
delighted to have reached agreement on the
extension of our partnership with Lanxess on
arsenic removal in the industrial and municipal
water sector for another ﬁve years. We expect to
see further opportunities in arsenic removal, not
just in our existing markets in the US and Europe,
but in new markets like India.
In parts of the US, new regulations on ballast water
will come into force in 2006/07, and there are
good commercial opportunities ahead. In January
2006, Severn Trent De Nora’s BalPure system was
the ﬁrst commercial product to be selected by the
US Coast Guard and the US Environmental
Protection Agency for validation at the Naval
Research Laboratory Ballast Water Treatment
Testing Facilities in Florida.
Operating Services
This division comprises our Contract Operations
business, which carries out operating and
maintenance contracts in the US; our Pipeline
Services business; and Severn Trent Water
International (STWI), which provides management
and consultancy services in Europe and the
developing world.
Turnover in this division was up 39.6% to £163.8
million. Proﬁt before interest, tax and exceptional
items was up 67.2%. These ﬁgures include Coast 
to Coast Water (C2C), the 25-year, £1 billion PFI
contract with the UK Ministry of Defence, which
commenced on 30 March 2005. 
In the Contract Operations business in the US, we
saw some signiﬁcant contract wins and extensions.
We also secured a three year contract in Jordan, 
in the Middle East, our ﬁrst contract in the region.
Contract Operations continues to beneﬁt from
market conditions in the US, where tight ﬁscal
constraints mean that states and municipalities 
are looking to outsourcing and public private
partnership solutions for improving operational
performance.
On 2 June 2006 we signed heads of terms 
to sell our interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish
Government for approximately £30 million. The
sale is expected to be completed in July 2006.
Outlook
There are good growth prospects across all 
of Water Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’
businesses. The Water Puriﬁcation market will
continue to grow, both in the US and UK, and in
the developing world. Our product technologies 
and strong brand recognition will help us compete
vigorously in that market. We also plan to increase
our direct presence in the global marketplace,
expanding our sales and distribution channels.
In Operating Services, we expect the positive
market conditions to continue. We have a strong
position in the operating and maintenance
contracts market, and we intend to capitalise 
on that position and grow our business further. 
We also expect to see good results coming from 
the Coast to Coast contract in the UK, which will
grow in terms of both importance and size.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  21 Review of operations 
Other Businesses
Performance review
The group has
continued to rationalise
its other activities 
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Other Businesses’ turnover was down 31.2% to
£59.7 million (£86.8 million). They incurred a 
loss before interest, tax and exceptional items of
£3.5 million (proﬁt of £7.0 million). There were 
no signiﬁcant property transactions contributing to
proﬁt in 2005/06. After exceptional restructuring
costs of £3.1 million (£3.8 million) Other
Businesses incurred a loss before interest 
and tax of £6.6 million (proﬁt of £3.2 million).
Systems 
The termination of external sales of the UK IT
service business, which was announced in last
year’s preliminary announcement, was completed
and this business is now refocused entirely to
provide solutions to internal group companies. 
The group’s remaining Systems businesses 
were sold to Logica in February 2006.
Property
During the year, Severn Trent Property sold its
interest in the Tournament Fields ofﬁce scheme at
Warwick and the remaining land at the Direct 2,
Oldbury, West Midlands, both realising an
acceptable proﬁt.
At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal,
where planning permission has been granted 
for a further 2 million sq ft, work continues on
infrastructure design and costing. Marketing of 
the site will begin shortly, with the aim of securing
substantial pre-lettings before construction work
commences.
At Midpoint Park in Birmingham, a site of 
90 acres owned by Severn Trent Water, a resolution
to grant planning permission has been issued by
Birmingham City Council. Formal consent should
be issued shortly and initial infrastructure works
will then commence.
Following a strategic review it has been decided
that Severn Trent’s Property business is a non-core
business and a sale process has recently
commenced.
Engineering Consultancy
The group’s Engineering Consultancy business has
ceased taking on new external business but will
complete existing contracts. Its expertise has been
transferred to Severn Trent Water to support that
company’s capital programme.
Insurance
Derwent Insurance, Severn Trent’s captive insurer
provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group
companies. Severn Trent was named
as the utilities sector
leader in the Dow Jones
Sustainability World
Index for the ﬁfth
consecutive year
Review of operations 
Corporate responsibility
Performance review
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  23
Severn Trent Plc’s corporate responsibility (CR)
programme focuses on delivering environmental
improvements, and making a positive difference to
the social and economic welfare of our communities.
The programme is steered by Severn Trent’s
Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the
Group Chief Executive. A set of detailed policies
and targets deﬁnes how the group’s CR vision and
values are incorporated into our business activities.
The vision, values and current targets are set out 
in detail on Severn Trent’s website.
In 2005 Severn Trent was named as the utilities
sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index for the ﬁfth consecutive year. The
ranking acknowledges Severn Trent’s sustainability
leadership and our determination to deliver 
high-quality environmental services in a responsible
manner. 
The key performance indicators presented in the
graphs and tables in this CR section have been
independently veriﬁed by Acona as part of our 
CR veriﬁcation programme.
Business ethics
Corporate responsibility starts with getting core
business standards right. In this regard we faced 
a signiﬁcant challenge in 2005 in the form of our
own, and Ofwat’s investigations, into allegations
made against Severn Trent Water in 2004 of false
reporting of regulated data. The investigations
found evidence of a limited number of staff who
became aware of wrong behaviour but did not raise
any concerns, and we accept that this was partly
due to weaknesses in Severn Trent Water’s system
of controls, culture and business ethics at that time.
With the arrival of the new management team at
Severn Trent Water in 2004 and 2005, we have
been strengthening internal processes, controls,
ethics and culture. As a result of a comprehensive
review of all Severn Trent Water’s business activities
we are undertaking a further investigation into 
misreporting of customer relations data to Ofwat.
The ongoing change programme within Severn
Trent Water includes promoting a culture based 
on openness and evaluation of all aspects of
performance, bad as well as good, where every
member of staff practises proper business ethics.
We have developed a new group policy on ethical
behaviour at work, which includes mechanisms 
and safeguards for whistle blowing, to support 
the revised Code of Conduct. 
We will continue our efforts to review and improve
Severn Trent’s culture and ethics in 2006/07 and
beyond.
Environment
Severn Trent’s greatest environmental impacts are
related to climate change and resource
management. In 2005/06 we continued to drive
forward our responsible management of those
impacts. Targets for each of these areas are
detailed on our website.
The waste and water sectors are signiﬁcant
emitters of greenhouse gases. The majority of
Severn Trent’s greenhouse gas emissions,
measured as carbon dioxide (CO
2
) equivalent, arise
from methane emissions from landﬁlls, indirect
emissions from purchased electricity and emissions
from transport. Our work to control these includes
improving landﬁll gas capture, a comprehensive
review of energy efﬁciency within Severn Trent
Water, and the introduction of biodiesel to Biffa’s
transport ﬂeet. We reduce net emissions by
generating renewable energy, and in 2005/06 we
continued to expand generation capacity. At the
end of March 2006, installed generating capacity 
at Biffa’s sites was 108MW, compared to 101MW 
at March 2005. Severn Trent Water also increased
its energy generation capacity, from 27MW at
March 2005, to 28MW a year later. 
Group renewable energy generation 
increased by 13.6%
2005/06 691,668 MWh
2004/05 608,779 MWh
Data is for sites under group control. 2004/05 data is restated.
Severn Trent aims to lead the policy debate on
climate change in the waste and water industries.
In 2005 we published the Carbon Management
Report, describing the results of the carbon
management study we undertook with the support
of the Carbon Trust. The study developed a set of
projections for our greenhouse gas emissions
through to 2020, with the aim of improving our
understanding of future emissions trends, and
priority areas we need to address. We face a
challenge to control emissions in the future due 
to the requirements of environmental legislation
such as recycling targets and the Water Framework
Directive. The full Carbon Management Report
appears on our website.
In 2005/06 we subsequently worked on two further
studies to improve our control of net emissions,
again with the support of the Carbon Trust. The
ﬁrst looked at how Severn Trent might explore
other renewables technologies in order to reduce
net emissions, and this has fed into our business
planning processes.  Review of operations 
Corporate responsibility continued
Performance review
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Key sources of greenhouse gas emissions
(CO
2
equivalent)
The second investigated the potential greenhouse
gas emissions and related energy cost implications
of different technology choices for water and waste
treatment. In analysing our long term investment
choices in the context of greenhouse gas emissions,
we aim to put climate change at the very heart of
our business.
Adaptation is the other theme of Severn Trent’s
climate change programme. Severn Trent Water
took a leading role in Sustainability West Midlands’
Climate Change Partnership, helping the West
Midlands to understand and adapt to the potential
impacts arising from climate change. Biffa
completed a series of adaptation workshops in
2005/06, assessing how climate change could
affect key areas of the business. 
Our work on resource management focuses on two
principal elements: reducing our own consumption
of natural resources and helping our customers
manage resources, through activities like recycling.
Reducing leakage is an important part of both our
own and our customers’ management of resources.
In our corporate responsibility report published
later this year and following the June Return to
Ofwat, we will provide a breakdown of demand and
leakage for Severn Trent Water. We will also outline
our work with domestic and industrial customers
and our education programme to improve water
conservation. 
Biffa handled 1.12 million tonnes of solid waste for
recycling and recovery, 12.2% of the total amount
of solid waste directly disposed of. Developments in
2005/06 included extending commercial glass
collections nationwide, and increasing composting
activities. 
Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa continued to
expand their Biodiversity Action Plans in 2005/06. 
Proportion of waste recycled or recovered 
by Biffa was 12.2% in 2005/06
Workplace
As described earlier, we devoted considerable
management time to workplace ethics in 2005/06,
working to entrench a culture of openness and
honesty. Alongside that, we continued a rigorous
programme to improve health and safety
performance across the group. Tragically, the
importance of health and safety was underlined by
two fatalities; a Biffa contractor was hit by a Biffa
vehicle and a Biffa employee was struck by a car.
Biffa management has implemented the most
rigorous investigation and made signiﬁcant
changes to reduce the possibility of such incidents
happening again.
Among a wide range of measures implemented
during 2005/06 were: restructuring the businesses’
health and safety departments to align them 
more closely with divisional structures; introducing
a health and safety multiplier in directors’
performance bonuses; and launching group-wide
‘Champion of Safety’ awards.
Our strong focus on health and safety in 2004/05
and 2005/06 led to a great improvement in our
performance in 2005/06. The RIDDOR reportable
incident rate for the group as a whole was 
17.3 per 1,000 employees, a reduction of 
27.6% compared to the previous year. 
Severn Trent believes that a diverse workforce is
important to the success of the company. We
regularly review our working practices to ensure
equality of opportunity, and we promote the
importance of good working relations based on
fairness, equality and inclusiveness. We are aware
that we must do more to improve our diversity
performance over the coming months. Our work to
achieve this includes: monitoring diversity proﬁles
across the group; targeted recruitment initiatives;
diversity awareness training for staff and managers;
and benchmarking our policies and practices
against best practice organisations.
2004/2005 2005/2006 2005/2006 2004/2005
1.63
1.53
0.37 0.36
0.12 0.13
-0.26
-0.30
Offset by 
energy generation
(group)
Waste recycled 
or recovered by Biffa
Total waste 
Landﬁlled at Biffa’s sites
1.13 1.12
8.05
8.77
10
8
6
4
2
0
Million tonnes Million tonnes CO
2 e
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
-0.5
Methane from
landﬁll (Biffa)
Electricity use
(Severn Trent
Water)
Transport
(Biffa) Performance review
Full details of our 
CR programme can be
found on our website
www.severntrent.com
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  25
Health and safety performance
27.6% reduction in RIDDOR
reportable incident rate 
Per 1,000 
employees
2005/06 17.3
2004/05 23.9
2004/05 data is restated.
Most group companies have their own intranets
and magazines which form a major communication
channel with their employees. Employee opinion
surveys are used to provide feedback on a range 
of issues. 
Group companies continue to maintain positive
relationships with the recognised trade unions and
with other elected representatives. The group’s
meeting of its European Consultative Council 
is an annual opportunity to promote dialogue 
with employee representatives and enhance 
their understanding of the issues facing our
businesses in Europe.
Training is also essential to the continuing success
of the group. We are continually expanding our
staff development programmes and tools, which
include learning resource centres, e-learning,
audiovisual materials, and programmes with leading
business schools such as Warwick and Aston.
We continued to encourage share ownership 
in 2005/06, and we offer a number of plans
including a Save As You Earn Scheme, and 
a Share Incentive Plan.
Community
We maintained our commitment to community
investment and community liaison in 2005/06. 
Our community investment programme continued
to focus on three main areas: environmental
education, the built environment, and the natural
environment. We worked with nine partner
charities: WaterAid, Birmingham Cares, Leicester
Cares, Cromford Venture Centre, Bridlegate,
Stonebridge City Farm, VSO, Crash-IT, and Ackers. 
Biffa’s landﬁll tax credit scheme, Biffaward,
distributed almost £8.6 million in 2005/06 to over
200 individual projects. They included, for example,
urban regeneration projects, a project to double 
the population of the brown hare, and a grant 
for the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre.
Education remained a priority of Severn Trent’s
community activities. Severn Trent Water continued
the BeSmart initiative, which encourages school
children to learn about water and the important
role it plays in our lives. Biffa’s interactive
educational CD on waste won two prestigious
communications awards. 
Marketplace
Supply chain assessment has been the object 
of increasing public attention in recent years as
companies seek to understand their responsibilities
and improve performance within their sphere 
of inﬂuence. We intensiﬁed our focus on supply
chain assessment after we expressed support 
for the UN Global Compact Principles in 2004. 
Severn Trent agreed group supply chain
assessment objectives and targets in May 2005,
and these are published on our website. Later in
the ﬁnancial year, we conducted a comprehensive
review of the different businesses’ supply chain
assessment processes. The review covered ﬁve
areas of CR concern: environment, human rights,
health and safety, bribery and corruption, and
working with minority or small and medium-sized
enterprises. 
The review was completed in February 2006 and 
in 2006/07 we will use its ﬁndings to build on
existing good practice within the group, and to
identify priority areas for improvement in the
individual businesses.
Severn Trent is sensitive to issues of affordability
and the needs of vulnerable customers, especially
given the price increases scheduled for 2005-10.
One of the ways in which we provide for those
customers is a substantial annual grant to the
Severn Trent Trust Fund, an independent charity
established in 1997 to help customers in genuine
economic difﬁculty.
Each year around 8,000 people in Severn Trent
Water’s region apply for the Trust’s help with
paying water and other utility bills, and over 70%
of those applicants receive ﬁnancial assistance.  Financial review
Group turnover from continuing operations was
£2,295.0 million (£2,014.4 million), an increase of
13.9% over last year. The growth in turnover was
mainly due to the price increases in Severn Trent
Water; strong growth in Landﬁll and Collection at
Biffa and the new Ministry of Defence contract in
Operating Services, which were partially offset 
by the reduction in activity in the Other Businesses.
Group proﬁt from continuing operations before
interest, tax and exceptional items was up 22.4% 
to £488.2 million (£398.8 million). There was 
a net exceptional charge of £15.7 million 
(£2.3 million) – see below. Group proﬁt from
continuing operations before interest and tax 
was £472.5 million (£396.5 million).
After net interest charges of £167.9 million (£169.5
million) and share of results of associates and joint
ventures of £2.1 million (£1.8 million), group proﬁt
from continuing operations before tax, exceptional
items and IAS 39 fair value adjustments was up
39.5% to £322.4 million (£231.1 million). Group
proﬁt from continuing operations before tax was
£270.0 million (£228.8 million).
The total tax charge for the year was £42.7 million
(£71.5 million) of which current tax represented
£48.8 million (£33.8 million) and deferred tax was
a credit of £6.0 million (charge of £29.4 million).
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations
was £227.3 million (£157.3 million).
Basic earnings per share from continuing
operations were 65.2 pence (45.4 pence). Adjusted
basic earnings per share (before exceptional items,
IAS 39 fair value adjustments and deferred tax)
were 77.2 pence (56.1 pence), an increase of 37.6%.
Biffa Belgium, the sale of which was announced on
12 May 2006 and was classiﬁed as a discontinued
operation, incurred a loss of £4.3 million (proﬁt of
£0.8 million).
Exceptional items
There was an exceptional charge in the year of
£15.7 million, which comprised:
> a charge of £7.9 million for restructuring costs,
including £4.8 million in Water and Sewerage
and £3.1 million in Other Businesses; and 
demerger and related costs of £7.8 million 
in Corporate;
In 2004/05 there was a net exceptional charge of
£2.3 million which comprised:
> a charge of £10.4 million relating to
restructuring costs in Water and Sewerage;
> a charge of £3.8 million, resulting from the
closure of Systems’ US CIS business and the
termination of external sales from Systems’ UK
IT Services business and Engineering
Consultancy;
> a £4.3 million credit from the disposal of Water
Puriﬁcation and Operating Services’ investment
in an associated company in Portugal; and
> a £7.6 million credit from the proﬁt on sale of
ﬁxed assets in Water and Sewerage.
Performance review
26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Group results 
Financial highlights
2006 2005 % change
Turnover* (£m) 2,295 2,014 13.9
Proﬁt* before interest and exceptionals (£m) 488 399 22.4
Proﬁt* before interest (£m) 473 397 19.2
Proﬁt* before tax, exceptionals and IAS 39 (£m) 322 231 39.5
Proﬁt* before tax (£m) 270 229 18.0
Earnings* per share before exceptionals, IAS 39 and deferred tax (p) 77.2 56.1 37.6
Earnings per share (p) 63.9 45.7 39.8
Gearing (%) 60.9 61.0
Final dividend (p) 31.97 30.30 5.5
Interim dividend (p) 19.16 18.21 5.2
Total dividend for the year (p) 51.13 48.51 5.4
*From continuing operations (see notes 4 and 13)
Michael McKeon
Group Finance Director Performance review
Taxation
The charge for current tax on continuing operations
was £48.7 million (£37.9 million). The current tax
charge has beneﬁted from a release of £39.1
million charged in prior years following the
agreement of the corporation tax computations for
years up to and including 2002/03 (2004/05:
release of £11.5 million). The effective rate of
current tax calculated on proﬁt before tax,
exceptional items and IAS 39 fair value
adjustments was 28.7% (21.0%). Tax Bulletin 53,
which changes the tax treatment of deferred
revenue expenditure in Severn Trent Water,
increased the effective rate of tax by approximately
3.4% and permanent differences increased the
effective rate by a further 6.4%. These impacts
were partially offset by lump sum pension
contributions which reduced the effective rate of
current tax in the year by 4.5%.
Going forward we would expect the effective rate 
of tax for the current group structure to be in the
range of 30% to 35%. The planned demerger of
Biffa along with other announced changes will
impact this expectation.
Cash ﬂow
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash generated from 
operations 758.9 623.3
Net capital expenditure (395.9) (406.4)
Net interest paid (180.1) (151.1)
Tax paid (68.3) (36.5)
Other cash ﬂows (0.2) 2.5
Free cash ﬂow 114.4 31.8
Dividends (234.3) (162.0)
Acquisitions and disposals 1.3 3.4
Financing 11.6 1.4
Change in net debt from 
cash ﬂows 107.0 (125.4)
Cash generated from operations was £758.9 
million (£623.3 million). Capital expenditure 
net of grants and proceeds of sales of ﬁxed assets 
was £395.9 million (£406.4 million) including
capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water of 
£305.3 million (£319.1 million). Interest paid
increased to £180.1 million (£151.1 million) 
due to additional payments of interest on ﬁnance
leases. Tax payments increased as a result of the
higher underlying effective rate of tax. 
The acceleration of dividend payments resulted in
an additional dividend payment of £66.5 million 
in 2005/06.
Net debt at 31 March 2006 was £2,961.1 million
(£2,894.6 million). Year end balance sheet gearing
is 60.9% (61.0%), and the group net debt to RCV 
is 57.4% (57.7%). The group’s net interest charge,
excluding IAS 39 fair value adjustments, was
covered 4.6 times (4.0 times) by proﬁt before
interest, tax, depreciation and exceptional items, 
and 2.9 times (2.4 times) by proﬁt before interest
tax and exceptionals.
Accounting policies
These are the ﬁrst full year results that the 
group has reported under International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS). The impacts of IFRS 
on the group’s results and balance sheet were 
set out in a presentation on 19 September 2005,
which is available on the group’s website. The
group has taken advantage of the exemption
available in IAS 32 and IAS 39 not to restate
comparative information for the impact of those
standards. The opening reserves at 1 April 2005
have been restated to reﬂect the impact of
adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39. 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  27 Financial review continued
Earnings per share and dividend
Earning per share from continuing operations,
adjusted to exclude exceptional items, IAS 39 fair
value adjustments and deferred tax, increased by
37.6% to 77.2p (56.1p). Basic earnings per share
from continuing operations were 65.2p (45.4p).
An interim dividend of 19.16p (18.21p), up 5.2%
was paid on 25 January 2006. The board is
recommending the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of
31.97p (30.30p) up 5.5% to make a total dividend
of 51.13p (48.51p).
Treasury management 
The group’s treasury affairs are managed centrally
and in accordance with its Treasury Procedures
Manual and Policy Statement. The treasury
operation’s primary role is to manage liquidity,
funding, investment and the group’s ﬁnancial risk,
including risk from volatility in interest and, to a
lesser extent, currency rates and counterparty
credit risk. Its activities are subject to a set of
controls commensurate with the magnitude of the
borrowings and investments under its
management. The board determines matters of
treasury policy and its approval is required for
certain treasury transactions.
It is the group’s strategy to access a broad range 
of sources of ﬁnance to obtain both the quantum
required and the lowest cost compatible with the
need for continued availability.
The group uses ﬁnancial derivatives solely for the
purposes of managing risk associated with
ﬁnancing its normal business activities. The group
does not hold or issue derivative ﬁnancial
instruments for ﬁnancial trading purposes. The
group uses a limited number of currency swaps
and interest rate swaps to redenominate external
borrowings into the currencies and interest rate
coupon required for group purposes.
The group’s policy for the management of interest
rate risk requires that no less than 50% of the
group’s borrowings should be at ﬁxed interest
rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate
swaps or forward rate agreements. At 31 March
2006, interest rates for some 72% of the group’s
net debt of £2,961 million were so ﬁxed, at a
weighted average interest rate of 5.7% for a
weighted average period of 14.6 years. This policy
has been implemented by entering into a portfolio
of long dated interest rate swaps that hedge the
group’s economic exposure to changes in interest
rates. However, these swaps are not designated to
particular liabilities and hence do not meet the
criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39. 
Performance review
28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Pensions
The group has four deﬁned beneﬁt pension
schemes, of which the Severn Trent Pension
Scheme (STPS) is by far the largest. Formal
actuarial valuations were undertaken for the STPS
and another scheme, the Severn Trent Senior Staff
Pension Scheme, as at 31 March 2004.
On an IAS 19 basis, the estimated net position
(before deferred tax) of all of the group’s deﬁned
beneﬁt pension schemes and the group’s unfunded
pension liabilities for senior staff was a deﬁcit of
£221.9 million as at 31 March 2006. This compares
with a deﬁcit of £317.5 million as at 31 March
2005. The reduction in the deﬁcit arose because
the increase in assets, from higher than expected
investment returns and increased contributions,
exceeded the increase in liabilities from a reduction
in the discount rate. Total cash contributions to the
schemes in the year was £105.2 million (£62.3
million). This included a payment of £44.4 million
relating to the year 2006/07.
The key actuarial assumptions were:
2006 2005
Discount rate 4.9% 5.5%
Inﬂation 2.7% 2.75%
Expected return on equities 8.0% 8.25%
Life expectancy at age 65* (years)
Men 18.9 18.9
Women 21.8 21.8
*for future pensioners
Net of deferred tax, the estimated net deﬁcit on an
IAS 19 basis as at 31 March 2006 was approximately
£155 million. On an IAS 19 basis, the funding level
has improved from around 77% at 31 March 2005
to around 86% at 31 March 2006.
As at 31 March 2006 the group’s deﬁned beneﬁt
pension schemes had total assets of approximately
£1,403 million, of which around 65% was invested
in equities.
Further details of the group’s pension position are
contained in note 27 to the accounts. Performance review
Consequently the swaps are revalued at each
balance sheet date and the change in fair value is
taken to the income statement as a ﬁnance cost. 
In the year ended 31 March 2006 £36.7 million
was charged to ﬁnance costs in respect of such 
fair value movements.
The group’s business does not involve signiﬁcant
exposure to foreign exchange transactions. Cross
currency swaps are employed to exchange foreign
currency borrowings for sterling. The group also
has investments in various assets denominated in
foreign currencies, principally the US dollar and the
euro. The group’s current policy is to hedge an
element of the currency translation risk associated
with certain foreign currency denominated assets.
The long term credit ratings of Severn Trent Plc
and Severn Trent Water Limited are:
Long term credit ratings
Severn Trent Severn Trent
Water Limited Plc 
Moody’s A2A3 
Standard & Poor’s A A– 
Further details of the group’s borrowings,
investments and ﬁnancial instruments are
contained in note 19 to the accounts.
Exchange rates
Approximately 2% of the group’s proﬁt before
interest, tax and exceptional items and 4% of 
its net operating assets are denominated in 
US dollars and approximately 0.5% of its proﬁt
before interest, tax, and exceptional items and 
1% of its net operating assets are denominated in
euros. The trading results of overseas subsidiaries
are translated to sterling at the average rate of
exchange ruling during the year and their net
assets are translated at the closing rate on the
balance sheet date. 
Supplementary information 
For supplementary information, including the
group’s preliminary results presentation, see the
Severn Trent website (www.severntrent.com).
Michael McKeon 
Group Finance Director 
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  29 Board of directors
Sir John Egan KBE MSc BEng (66)*
Sir John joined the board in October 2004 and became
Chairman on 1 January 2005. He is a director of Warwick
Castle Park Trust Ltd and was, until recently, Chairman of
Inchcape plc and Harrison Lovegrove & Co Ltd. Sir John
worked in the motor industry until 1990 at General
Motors, Massey Ferguson and British Leyland, rising to
become Chairman and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc. He
was Chief Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to 1999 and
Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000. He was also
President of the Confederation of British Industry from
2002 to 2004. Sir John was knighted in the Queen’s
Birthday Honours List in 1986 and is a deputy lieutenant
of the County of Warwickshire.
Colin Matthews MA CEng MBA (50)
Colin joined the board in October 2003, becoming Group
Chief Executive on 1 February 2005. He is a Chartered
Engineer and worked for the (American) General Electric
Company and then for British Airways, ﬁrst as Director 
of Engineering, then as Director of Technical Operations,
responsible for all aircraft maintenance, IT and procurement.
Colin was Group Managing Director of Transco from 2001
to 2002 and CEO of Hays Plc from 2002 to 2004.
Michael McKeon MA CA (49)
Michael joined the board on 13 December 2005 as Group
Finance Director. Prior to that, he was Group Finance
Director of the buildings materials group Novar Plc. He
worked for Rolls Royce Plc from 1997 to 2000 in various
senior roles including Finance Director of the Aerospace
Group. Michael has extensive international business
experience, having worked overseas for CarnaudMetalbox,
Elf Atochem and Price Waterhouse. He is a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Tony Wray BSc (Hons) (44)
Tony joined the board in March 2005. He is Managing
Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd. Prior to that, he was
Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic of Ireland’s
telephone operator. He joined British Gas in 1983 and held
various managerial positions before becoming Head of
Asset Management. In 2000 Tony moved to Transco, ﬁrst
as Director of Asset Management, then as National
Operations Director, before being appointed to implement
the merger integration of Lattice (Transco) and National
Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
Martin Bettington BSc MechEng MBA (53) 
Martin joined the board in November 1994. He is the
Managing Director of Biffa Plc, Severn Trent’s waste
management business. Martin was previously employed by
BET Plc, Biffa’s former holding company. He holds an MBA
from Manchester Business School.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta FCCA (46)
Rachel joined the board in September 2004. She is
President and CEO of Severn Trent’s US and UK
laboratories businesses. A Fellow of the Chartered
Association of Certiﬁed Accountants, Rachel qualiﬁed as an
accountant in 1984 with Gerber Landa and Gee, an
accounting ﬁrm based in Glasgow. She then spent eight
years in retail management, latterly with an Asda Plc group
company, before joining Severn Trent in 1993 as Managing
Director of its UK laboratories operation. She is also a
director of WaterAid America, the US arm of the WaterAid
charity.
Martin Flower BA (59)* 
Martin joined the board in June 1996 and was appointed
Deputy Chairman in July 2004. He is the senior
independent non-executive director. He is also Chairman 
of Croda International Plc and has been a director of 
The Morgan Crucible Company Plc since December 2004.
Martin retired as Chairman of Coats Ltd in May 2004,
where he had previously been Group Chief Executive.
Martin retires from the board on 10 June 2006.
John Smith FCCA Hon. FRIBA (48)*
John joined the board in November 2003. He is Chief
Operating Ofﬁcer of the BBC and Chief Executive of its
trading arm, BBC Worldwide. He is also Vice President of
the Royal Television Society. John has held a non-executive
directorship with Vickers Plc, was a member of the
advisory board of Zurich Financial Services UK and 
served for three years on the Accounting Standards 
Board until November 2004. 
Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA (54)*
Marisa joined the board in September 2001. Until recently
she was Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Group plc
and on 26 June 2006 will be appointed Finance Director
of the John Lewis Partnership. She is a non-executive
director of GFI Group Inc, a company listed on the
NASDAQ, and WSP Group Plc. Marisa is also a member of
the CBI Economic Affairs Committee and a member of the
Financial Reporting Council’s Accounting Standards Board.
She qualiﬁed as an accountant with Deloitte, Haskins &
Sells, rising to Corporate Finance Manager. She moved to
the Prudential Corporation and later became Group
Finance Director at Britannic Assurance plc. 
Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC (48)*
Martin joined the board in September 2003. He is
Executive Vice President and Managing Director of BG
Group’s North American, Caribbean and Global Liqueﬁed
Natural Gas business and a member of the Group
Executive Committee. He joined BG Group in 1983 and
has held a number of technical and commercial roles with
a predominantly international focus. He is a fellow of the
Geological Society of London.
Richard Davey (57)*
Richard joined the board on 1 January 2006 and becomes
senior independent non-executive director on 11 June
2006. He is a non-executive director of Yorkshire Building
Society and Amlin Plc. He also served as a non-executive
director of Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of
Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society from
1996 to 2000. The majority of Richard’s executive career
was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild &
Sons where he served in various roles including Head of
Investment Banking. Prior to that, he worked at various
organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited
and Exco International Plc.
Bernard Bulkin, BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE (64)*
Bernard joined the board on 1 January 2006. He is
Chairman of AEA Technology Plc and a non-executive
director of Accelergy Corporation in California. He is 
also a venture partner at Vantage Point, an international
venture capital ﬁrm. Bernard is a commissioner on the 
UK Sustainable Development Commission and a board
member of the UK Centre for Economic and Environmental
Development. He is also a member of the DTI Sustainable
Energy Policy Advisory Board. In 2003 he retired as Chief
Scientist at BP Plc, where he had worked for eighteen years. 
*Non-executive director
Membership of board and operating
committees is as detailed below:
Board committees
Audit Committee
J B Smith (Chairman)
B Bulkin
M L Cassoni
R H Davey
F B Smith (Secretary)
Remuneration Committee
M C Flower 
(Chairman until 10 June 2006)
R H Davey 
(Chairman from 11 June 2006)
M L Cassoni
M J Houston
F B Smith (Secretary)
Nominations Committee
Sir John Egan (Chairman) 
B Bulkin (c)
M L Cassoni
R H Davey
M C Flower (c)
M J Houston
C S Matthews
J B Smith (c)
F B Smith (Secretary)
(c) = Core Members
Corporate Responsibility Committee
C S Matthews (Chairman)
M J Bettington
R S Brydon Jannetta
B Bulkin
Sir John Egan
P J Gavan
L F Graziano
A P Smith
A P Wray
F B Smith (Secretary)
Operating committee
Executive Committee
C S Matthews (Chairman) 
M J Bettington
R S Brydon Jannetta
P J Gavan
L F Graziano
M J E McKeon
A P Smith
F B Smith (and Secretary)
P K Tandon
J van den Arend Schmidt
A P Wray
Senior independent non-executive
director
M C Flower (until 10 June 2006)
R H Davey (from 11 June 2006)
Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
F B Smith
Governance
30 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Governance
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  31
Left to right
Sir John Egan* 
Colin Matthews 
Michael McKeon
Tony Wray 
Martin Bettington
Rachel Brydon Jannetta
Martin Flower*
John Smith*
Marisa Cassoni*
Martin Houston*
Richard Davey*
Bernard Bulkin*
*Non-executive director Summary directors’ report
Governance
Principal activities and business review
The principal activities of the group are the 
supply of water and sewerage services, waste
management and the provision of environmental
services. A review of the results for the year ended
31 March 2006 and information relating to the
group, its strategy and the operation of its
businesses appear on pages 4 to 29.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 19.16 pence per ordinary
share was paid on 25 January 2006. The directors
recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 31.97 pence per
ordinary share to be paid on 2 August 2006 to
shareholders on the register on 30 June 2006. 
This would bring the total dividend for 2005/06 
to 51.13 pence per ordinary share (2005: 48.51p).
The payment of the ﬁnal dividend is subject to
shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors
Details of the directors currently serving on 
the board are set out on page 30. Michael 
McKeon was appointed as an executive director 
on 13 December 2005. Bernard Bulkin and
Richard Davey joined as non-executive directors 
on 1 January 2006. As the appointments have
been made since the last Annual General Meeting,
each director will retire in accordance with the
company’s Articles of Association and resolutions
for their re-appointment will be proposed at this
year’s Annual General Meeting. The directors
retiring by rotation at this year’s Annual General
Meeting are Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and
John Smith and, each being eligible, offer
themselves for re-appointment.
John McAdam, Mark Wilson and Derek Osborn
retired from the board on 1 September 2005, 
13 December 2005 and 31 March 2006
respectively. Martin Flower will retire from 
the board on 10 June 2006. 
Corporate governance
The company attaches great signiﬁcance to the
maintenance of good corporate procedures and
adherence to best practice recognising that they
play their part in creating a framework which 
can provide increased beneﬁts for shareholders. 
For the year ended 31 March 2006 and the period
up to the date of approving the accounts, the board
considers that the company has complied with 
the provisions set out in the Combined Code. 
A statement of how the company has applied 
the main and supporting principles of the
Combined Code is set out in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2006.
Post balance sheet events
On 4 April 2006 the company announced its
intention to demerge Biffa, its UK integrated 
waste management business.
On 7 April 2006 the company announced it was
giving Ofwat an interim report into misreporting 
of customer relations data by Severn Trent Water.
On 12 May 2006 the company announced it had
agreed to sell Biffa Belgium to Veolia for €45m.
On 2 June 2006 the group signed heads of terms
to sell its interest in Aquaﬁn NV to the Flemish
Government for approximately £30 million.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 2 June 2006 the company had been notiﬁed
of the following substantial shareholdings: 
Number of ordinary 
shares of 65
5
⁄ 19p each %
Legal & General 11,259,833 3.26
Investment Management 
Limited 
Barclays plc 10,762,602 3.10
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the company 
will be held at the International Convention Centre,
Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am 
on Tuesday 25 July 2006. The notice convening 
the meeting, together with details of the business
to be considered and explanatory notes for each
resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the company’s website:
www.severntrent.com
By order of the board 
Fiona Smith
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
5 June 2006
32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Group Chief 
Executive
Finance 
Director
MD  
ST Water
MD 
Biffa
President  
ST Laboratories
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Governance
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  33
Summary directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines, 
on behalf of the board, the company’s policy on
the remuneration of executive directors and the
Chairman of the board. The committee is also
consulted on the remuneration policy for the 
next band of seven senior executives. 
The committee is comprised exclusively of
independent non-executive directors of the
company. The members of the committee during
the year were:
> Martin Flower (Chairman)
> Marisa Cassoni
> Richard Davey (from 03/03/06)
> Martin Houston (from 01/09/05)
> John McAdam (until 01/09/05)
Richard Davey will become Chairman of the
committee when Martin Flower retires from the
board on 10 June 2006.
The committee members have no personal
ﬁnancial interest, other than as shareholders, in the
matters to be decided. The constitution and operation
of the committee comply with the Combined Code.
In setting performance related remuneration, the
committee has regard to the provisions set out in
Schedule A to the Combined Code. 
Advisers
To ensure that the company’s remuneration
practices are market competitive, the committee has
access to detailed external research on market data
and trends from experienced specialist consultants. 
The Chairman of the board, Sir John Egan, the
Group Chief Executive, Colin Matthews, the Group
Human Resources Director, Andy Smith, and the
Group Director of Internal Audit, Pramod Tandon,
also attended some meetings to provide advice and
respond to speciﬁc questions. Such attendances
speciﬁcally exclude any matter concerning their
own remuneration. The Company Secretary acts 
as secretary to the committee. 
Remuneration policy
The company’s continuing remuneration policy for
executive directors is to provide remuneration in a
form and amount which will attract, retain, motivate
and reward high calibre individuals. The
remuneration package is based on the following
principles:
> Incentives are aligned with the interests of
shareholders and seek to reward the creation of
long-term value;
> Reward elements are designed to reinforce the
link between performance and reward.
Performance related elements should form a
signiﬁcant proportion of the total remuneration
package and typically comprise at least 50% of
total remuneration, if paid at the maximum;
> The total remuneration package for on target
performance should be fully competitive, 
but not excessive, in the relevant market;
> Packages are structured ﬂexibly to meet critical
resource needs and retain key executives.
Total remuneration package
The chart below shows the expected values of
salary, bonus and long-term incentives for target
performance for the executive directors. 
The committee considers the mix between ﬁxed
and performance pay to be appropriate. 
Personal shareholdings
The company operates shareholding guidelines
under which executive directors are expected to
build and maintain a minimum holding of shares 
in the company. The Group Chief Executive is
expected to build and maintain a holding of shares
to the value of 1.5 x base salary and other executive
directors 1 x base salary. 
Through a variety of share schemes, all employees
are encouraged to hold shares in the company. 
External directorships
Executive directors are encouraged to take on
external non-executive directorships, though
normally only one other FTSE 100 appointment. 
In order to avoid any conﬂicts of interest, all such
appointments are subject to the approval of the
Nominations Committee. Executive directors are
normally only permitted to retain the fees arising
from one such appointment. 
Chairman and other non-executive directors
The remuneration policy for non-executive
directors, other than the Chairman, is determined
by the board, within the limits set out in the
Articles of Association.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate
in incentive plans nor is any pension provision made.
Save for John Smith, whose total fees are paid
directly to his employer, non-executive directors
receive payment of part of their fees in the form 
of shares in the company which are expected to 
be retained for the duration of their appointment. 
The non-executive directors do not have service
contracts or consultancy agreements with any group
company, but they do have letters of appointment.
Salary Target Bonus Expected value of long-term incentives Remuneration arrangements for executive
directors
The remuneration arrangements for executive
directors comprise the following elements:
> Base salary and beneﬁts;
> Annual bonus plan;
> Long Term Incentive Plans;
> Post retirement beneﬁts.
Details of each of the above elements are as follows:
Base salaries and beneﬁts
Base salaries are a ﬁxed cash sum payable monthly.
The company’s policy is to set the salary for each
executive director having regard to the market median
for similar roles in publicly quoted companies of a
comparable size and, so far as practical, undertaking
similar activities. Salaries for individual directors
are reviewed annually by the committee and
generally take effect on 1 April. Salaries are set 
with reference to individual performance, experience
and contribution, together with developments in the
relevant employment market and internal relativities.
The non-salary beneﬁts for executive directors
comprise the use of company car or allowance,
fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and
an incapacity beneﬁts scheme. 
Annual bonus plan
Executive directors are eligible for annual bonuses
to encourage improved performance, measured 
by reference to both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial
factors. Performance targets are established by 
the committee to align executive directors’ interests
with shareholders and comprise proﬁtability (plus
return on capital employed for Martin Bettington),
the achievement of personal objectives and speciﬁc
targets relating to health and safety performance.
Annual bonus payments are not taken into account in
calculating executive directors’ pension entitlements. 
Long term incentives
At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders
approved the introduction of the Long Term
Incentive Plan 2005 (LTIP 2005), which replaced
the 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan. Under the LTIP
2005, annual conditional awards of performance
shares may be made to executive directors and
senior staff, up to an annual maximum limit of
shares worth 125% of base salary. In 2005, the
Group Chief Executive received an award over
shares worth 100% of salary with other executive
directors and senior staff receiving lower awards.
The number of shares subject to an award will
increase to reﬂect dividends paid through the
performance period on the basis of such notional
dividends being reinvested at the then prevailing
share price. Awards will normally vest as soon 
as the committee determines that the performance
conditions have been met provided that the
participant remains in employment at the 
end of the performance period. 
2005 LTIP awards
In respect of awards made to executive directors 
in 2005, the vesting of 50% is dependent on
performance against group economic proﬁt (EP)
targets, and the remaining 50% is dependent on 
a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) target, both over
a ﬁxed three year period beginning on the ﬁrst day
of the ﬁnancial year in which the award was made. 
The 2003 and 2004 LTIP awards will be triggered 
if the company’s TSR performance is at the median 
or above and the EP meets the scaled targets set.
EP is calculated by reference to a post tax rate of 
return of 7.5%.
The constituents of the TSR comparator group for
the 2005 award are:
AWG Pennon Group
BOC Group Rentokil Initial
BT Group Scottish & Newcastle
Diageo Scot. & Southern Energy
Kelda Group Scottish Power
National Grid Shanks Group
Northumbrian Water Unilever
Pearson United Utilities
For the 2003 Award the comparator group 
consists of: AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon Group Plc,
Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc, Northumbrian
Water Plc and Waste Recycling Group Plc. The
same comparator group, minus Waste Recycling
Group Plc, was used for the 2004 Award.
2006 LTIP awards
The committee considers that, given the outcome
of the strategic review of the group’s operations 
TSR will more clearly represent an alignment of
executives’ interests with those of shareholders. 
The awards to be made in 2006, therefore, 
will be based exclusively on TSR.
The committee intends to use a similar methodology
for selecting the comparator group as it did for 
the 2005 awards. Again, the committee will again
review the proposed constituents before making
any award to ensure that, overall, they are
appropriate.
Calculation of EP performance during transition to
International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS)
For unvested awards made prior to 2006, the basis
for measuring the proﬁts that underpin the EP
calculation was set under UK GAAP, whereas the
end of the performance period will be reported
under IFRS. The committee has restated the 
base conditions for the 2005 awards under 
IFRS to ensure that the targets are measured 
on a consistent basis and as originally intended.
The 2003 and 2004 awards will continue to be
measured and set on a UK GAAP basis given the
difﬁculty in restating the base ﬁgures and the
committee will ensure that the end ﬁgures are
measured consistently.
Governance
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Summary directors’ remuneration report 
continued Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index
Governance
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  35
Total shareholder return
Post retirement beneﬁts
Of the current executive directors, Martin Bettington,
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate in the
Senior Staff Pension Scheme (as did Mark Wilson
prior to his departure). The scheme is a funded
Inland Revenue approved ﬁnal salary occupational
pension scheme which provides:
> A normal retirement age of 60 years;
> An overall pension at normal retirement age 
of two-thirds of ﬁnal pensionable salary, which
for executive directors is deﬁned as base salary
only, subject to the completion of 20 years’
pensionable service;
> Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings;
> A pension payable in the event of retirement 
on grounds of ill health;
> A dependent’s pension on death of two thirds 
of the member’s pension.
The company has a future obligation in respect of
Mark Wilson who joined the Scheme after 1 June
1989 and was, therefore, subject to the Cap, to pay
the difference between his pension entitlement
based upon the relevant portion of his salary and
the maximum amount payable had the Cap not
been in place. The obligation is unfunded. 
Colin Matthews and Tony Wray participate up to
the level of the Inland Revenue earnings cap (“the
Cap”) which in 2005/06 was £105,600. In 2006/07
a scheme speciﬁc cap of £108,600 will apply. Both
are provided with a cash supplement in lieu of an
unfunded arrangement.
Following a review of the company’s pension policy,
new executives are offered an allowance, expressed
as a percentage of base salary to fund their own
pension provision. The individual is able to choose
whether the allowance is paid to the company's
registered deﬁned contribution (DC) scheme, taken
as cash or paid to a personal pension arrangement. 
Forward looking statement
The committee will keep the existing remuneration
arrangements, as detailed in this report, under
review during the next year to ensure that the
company’s reward programmes remain competitive
and provide appropriate incentives. No signiﬁcant
changes to the reward arrangements for executive
directors are anticipated prior to the completion
and implementation of the strategic review and the
committee proposes to review the arrangements
again at that time.
However, there will be the normal individual reviews
of base salary, annual bonus and LTIP award levels.
The performance targets for incentive arrangements
will continue to be reviewed to ensure alignment 
with group strategy and will maintain a signiﬁcant
emphasis on the achievement of health and safety
performance targets. 
Directors’ service agreements and letters 
of engagement
A new model service contract was approved by the
committee in 2004. All current executive directors
have signed the model contract and, accordingly,
service agreements for all executive directors have
notice periods of 12 months. They also provide 
for a maximum damages payment in the case 
of redundancy or termination in breach of the
agreement by the company of up to 175% of 
base salary which was calculated as a conservative
pre-estimate of the value of salary, ﬁxed beneﬁts
and on target bonus.
The reference to 175% is a cap and any damages
payments will not be made automatically but will 
be subject to both phasing and mitigation unless 
in the circumstances the committee considers 
it appropriate to achieve a clean break through
payment of a lump sum in which case it will
require some discount for early payment. Contracts
also permit the committee to take into account a
view of the extent of poor performance on the part
of the executive director. Any payment will not
include amounts in respect of awards which have
been made under the company’s LTIP over which
the committee retains absolute discretion. There
are no speciﬁc contractual payments or beneﬁts
which would be triggered in the event of a change
in control of the company. 
Value (£)
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
31-03-01 31-03-02 31-03-03 31-03-04 31-03-05 31-03-06 Directors’ emoluments
Basic salary and fees
1
Beneﬁts Annual Total Total 
Cash Shares Total in kind
2
bonus Other
3
2005/06 2004/05
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Chairman and other 
non-executive directors
David Arculus ––––––– 142.2
(Chairman – retired 31.12.04)
Sir John Egan 198.9 16.1 215.0 2.6 – – 217.6 62.1
(Chairman – appointed 01.10.04)
4
Marisa Cassoni 36.4 1.9 38.3 – – 0.8 39.1 42.4
Martin Flower 95.0 5.0 100.0 – – 1.2 101.2 90.2
Martin Houston 32.4 1.6 34.0––– 34.0 30.8
Colin Matthews
5
––––––– 13.4
John McAdam (retired 01.09.05) 15.1 – 15.1 – – 0.6 15.7 35.5
Derek Osborn (retired 31.03.06) 41.3 2.2 43.5––– 43.5 52.8
John Smith
6
40.0 – 40.0––– 40.0 43.8
Bernard Bulkin (appointed 01.01.06) 8.3 – 8.3––– 8.3 –
Richard Davey (appointed 01.01.06) 8.3 – 8.3––– 8.3 –
Executive Directors
John Banyard (retired 30.12.04) ––––––– 251.0
Martin Bettington 325.0 – 325.0 27.2 57.3 0.2 409.7 519.6
Rachel Brydon Jannetta 215.5 – 215.5 9.0 29.4 76.8 330.7 137.6
Brian Duckworth (retired 31.08.04) ––––––– 182.3
Colin Matthews
5
520.0 – 520.0 10.0 260.0 183.8 973.8 534.1
Alan Perelman ––––––– 248.6
(retired 31.08.04)
Robert Walker (retired 02.02.05) ––––––– 708.2
Mark Wilson (retired 13.12.05) 206.3 – 206.3 17.1 103.6 323.4 650.4 203.3
Tony Wray 250.0 – 250.0 16.6 87.5 61.2 415.3 23.1
Michael McKeon 112.1 – 112.1 0.7 64.8 87.3 264.9 –
(appointed 13.12.05)
Total emoluments 2,104.6 26.8 2,131.4 83.2 602.6 735.3 3,552.5 3,321.0
1
Included within fees for the non-executive directors are amounts to be received by way of shares rather than emoluments, 
to encourage participation in line with corporate governance best practice. The gross value of shares is recorded in the table
above. Non-executive directors who were either appointed or retired during the year received a time apportioned award. 
The number of shares received by each non-executive director was: 
> Sir John Egan – 1,253; Marisa Cassoni – 106; Martin Flower – 290; Martin Houston – 90; Derek Osborn – 163.
2
Beneﬁts in kind for Sir John Egan comprise the use of a company car. Beneﬁts in kind for executive directors comprise 
the use of a company car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity beneﬁts scheme.
3
Other emoluments represent expenses chargeable to UK income tax, car allowances, ﬂexible beneﬁts and amounts in lieu 
of pension contributions or in lieu of entry into the supplementary pension scheme (for those earning earning above the 
pension cap limit). Included in other emoluments are:
> Rachel Brydon Jannetta – cash allowance of £76,752 in lieu of pension contributions
> Colin Matthews – cash payment of £165,760 in lieu of entry to supplementary pension scheme
> Michael McKeon – relocation expenses of £38,137 and a cash allowance in lieu of pension allowance of £44,594
> Mark Wilson – £299,095 of termination payments and £24,327 for holiday not taken 
> Tony Wray – cash payment of £57,760 in lieu of entry to the supplementary pension scheme. 
4
Sir John Egan was appointed Chairman from 1 January 2005.
5
Colin Matthews was appointed Group Chief Executive Designate on 6 September 2004 and Group Chief Executive on 
1 February 2005.
6
John Smith’s total fees are paid directly to his employer.
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the Directors’ remuneration report on 5 June 2006.
Martin Flower
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Summary directors’ remuneration report 
continued
Governance
36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Summary ﬁnancial statement
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  37
Summary ﬁnancial statement
The Summary directors’ report on page 32, the
Summary directors’ remuneration report on pages
33 to 36 and the Summary ﬁnancial statement 
on pages 38 and 39 are a summary of information
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006.
This Annual Review and summary ﬁnancial
statement does not contain sufﬁcient information
to allow as full an understanding of the results 
and state of affairs of the company or of the group
nor of the policies and arrangements concerning
directors’ remuneration as would be provided by the
Annual Report and Accounts 2006. Shareholders
requiring more detailed information have the right
to obtain, free of charge a copy of the Annual
Report and Accounts 2006.
A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2006
may be obtained by writing to: The Company
Secretary, Severn Trent Plc, 2297 Coventry Road,
Birmingham B26 3PU. Alternatively it can be
accessed on the website at:
www.severntrent.com/reports2006.
Shareholders can elect to receive the full Annual
Report and Accounts for all future years by
contacting the company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB
Registrars whose details appear on page 40.
The Financial statements, the Directors’ report and
the Directors’ remuneration report are contained 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2006. 
The auditors’ report on the Financial statements
and the auditable part of the Directors’
remuneration report, which is unqualiﬁed, is also
contained within the Annual Report and Accounts
2006. The auditors’ report did not contain a
statement under either section 237(2) of the
Companies Act 1985 (inadequate accounting
records or returns) or section 237(3) (failure to
obtain certain necessary information and
explanations).
contained in the annual review as described in the
contents section, and consider the implications for
our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
summary ﬁnancial statement.
Basis of opinion
We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin
1999/6 The Auditors’ Statement on the Summary
Financial Statement issued by the Auditing
Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom. 
We have not considered the effects of any events
between the date on which we signed our report 
on the ﬁnancial statements, 5 June 2006, and the
date of this statement.
Opinion
In our opinion, the summary ﬁnancial statement 
is consistent with the full annual accounts, the
directors’ report and the directors’ remuneration
report of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 
31 March 2006 and complies with the applicable
requirements of section 251 of the Companies 
Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
The auditors’ report on the company’s annual
accounts was unqualiﬁed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
London
United Kingdom
9 June 2006
Independent auditors’ statement
to the members of Severn Trent Plc
We have examined the summary ﬁnancial
statement which comprises the summary income
statement, balance sheet and cash ﬂow statement
together with the summary directors’ report and
summary directors’ remuneration report.
This report is made solely to the company's
members, as a body, in accordance with section
251 of the Companies Act 1985.  Our work has
been undertaken so that we might state to the
company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work,
for this report, for our audit report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and
auditors
The directors are responsible for preparing the
annual review in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law. Our responsibility is to report to you
our opinion on the consistency of the summary
ﬁnancial statement with the full annual accounts,
the directors’ report and the directors’
remuneration report, and its compliance with the
relevant requirements of section 251 of the
Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made
thereunder. We report whether the auditors’
opinion on the full annual accounts was unqualiﬁed
or qualiﬁed. We also read the other information Summary consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Turnover 2,295.0 2,014.4 
Operating costs before exceptional items (1,806.8) (1,615.6) 
Exceptional restructuring costs and termination of operations (7.9) (14.2) 
Exceptional demerger costs (7.8) – 
Exceptional proﬁt on disposal of property and investments – 11.9 
Total operating costs (1,822.5) (1,617.9) 
Proﬁt before interest tax and exceptional items 488.2 398.8 
Exceptional items (15.7) (2.3) 
Operating proﬁt 472.5 396.5 
Finance income 7.9 3.5 
Finance costs (175.8) (173.0) 
Net ﬁnance costs before fair value movements in treasury instruments (167.9) (169.5) 
Fair value movements on treasury instruments (36.7) – 
Total net ﬁnance costs (204.6) (169.5) 
Share of results of associates and joint ventures 2.1 1.8 
Proﬁt before tax, fair value movements on treasury instruments and exceptional items 322.4 231.1
Exceptional items (15.7) (2.3)
Fair value movements on treasury instruments (36.7) –
Proﬁt on ordinary activities before taxation 270.0 228.8 
Taxation on proﬁt on ordinary activities – current tax (48.7) (37.9) 
– deferred tax 6.0 (33.6) 
Total taxation (42.7) (71.5) 
Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 227.3 157.3 
Discontinued operations
(Loss)/proﬁt for the period from discontinued operations (4.3) 0.8 
Proﬁt for the period 223.0 158.1 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the company 221.6 157.4 
Equity minority interests 1.4 0.7 
223.0 158.1 
Earnings per share (pence)
From continuing operations
Basic 65.2 45.4 
Diluted 64.7 45.1 
From continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 63.9 45.7 
Diluted 63.5 45.3 
Summary ﬁnancial statement
38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006 Summary group balance sheet
At 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Non current assets 6,395.3 6,290.8 
Current assets 689.3 649.3 
Assets held for sale 41.5 –  
Total assets 7,126.1 6,940.1 
Current liabilities (1,570.6) (1,166.3)
Non current liabilities (3,656.5) (3,924.3)
Total liabilities (5,227.1) (5,090.6)
Net assets 1,899.0 1,849.5 
Equity attributable to the company's equity shareholders 1,896.4 1,847.6
Minority interest 2.6 1.9 
Total equity 1,899.0 1,849.5 
Signed on behalf of the board who approved the accounts on 5 June 2006.
Sir John Egan Michael McKeon
Chairman Group Finance Director
Summary group cash ﬂow statement
Year ended 31 March 2006
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash generated from operating activities 506.1 433.7 
Net cash used in investing activities (389.6) (397.9) 
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (72.4) (55.1) 
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 44.1 (19.3) 
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the period 64.4 83.2 
Effect of foreign exchange rates 1.9 0.5 
Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 110.4 64.4
Summary ﬁnancial statement
Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006  39 Information for shareholders
Other information
40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2006
Cautionary statement
This document contains certain ‘forward-looking statements’ with
respect to Severn Trent’s ﬁnancial condition, results of operations
and business and certain of Severn Trent’s plans and objectives with
respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identiﬁed
by their use of a date in the future or such words as ‘anticipates’,
‘aims’, ‘due’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’,
‘plans’, ‘targets’, ‘goal’ or ‘estimates’. By their very nature forward-
looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and
depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied
by these forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are
not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the
group operates; changes in the regulatory and competition
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2006
Number
Number of % of of shares % 
Category shareholders shareholders (millions) of shares
Individual and joint accounts 81,631 92.84 42.37 12.17
Other* 6,292 7.16 305.72 87.83
Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00
Number 
Number of % of of shares %
Size of Holding shareholders shareholders (millions) of shares
1-499 52,844 60.10 10.32 2.97
500-999 20,194 22.97 13.79 3.96
1,000-4,999 13,498 15.35 21.15 6.08
5,000-9,999 475 0.54 3.11 0.89
10,000-49,999 432 0.49 9.84 2.82
50,000-99,999 140 0.16 9.85 2.83
Over 100,000 340 0.39 280.03 80.45
Total 87,923 100.00 348.09 100.00
*Includes insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited
companies
Financial calendar and results announcements
Annual General Meeting
25 July 2006, at 11.00am
at the International Convention Centre, 
Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA
Dividend payments in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2006:
Interim dividend – paid 25 January 2006
Proposed ﬁnal dividend – payable 2 August 2006
The results of the group will normally be
published at the following times:
Interim results for the six months 
to 30 September December
Preliminary results for the year 
to 31 March June
Report and accounts for the year 
to 31 March June
Shareholder enquiries
If you have a question about your shareholding in
the company you should contact our registrars,
Lloyds TSB Registrars, who are responsible for
making dividend payments and updating the
register of shareholders, including details of
changes to addresses and names. You should also
contact the registrars if you would like to have your
dividends paid directly into your bank or building
society account.
The registrar’s contact details are:
Telephone helpline: 0870 600 3967
E-mail: severntrent@lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing,
West Sussex, BN99 6DA
Online communication
Shareview, is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars
and gives you access to services over the internet
that enable you to check details of your
shareholding at any time. 
You can also elect to receive communications 
from the company electronically. You will receive 
an e-mail notiﬁcation when the Annual Report and
Notice of Annual General Meeting become available
on our website. 
You can register for both of these services at
www.shareview.co.uk.
Company information
The company’s website at www.severntrent.com
provides news and details of the company’s
activities, latest results, information on the share
price and links to our businesses’ websites.
frameworks in which the group operates; the impact of legal or other
proceedings against or which affect the group; and changes in
interest and exchange rates.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this
document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn
Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their
behalf are expressly qualiﬁed in their entirety by the factors referred
to above. Severn Trent does not intend to update these forward-
looking statements.
This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any
securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not
soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities
in any jurisdiction. Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred
in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption
from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933
(as amended). This document is printed by CTD Sage Print on Mohawk Options 100% PC. The paper is manufactured 
in accordance with FSC standards from 100% post-consumer recycled waste and is 100% process
chlorine free. Only wind energy is used during the papermaking. Both the paper mill and printing 
involved in this production are environmentally accredited with ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Tayburn. Annual Review 2006
